+1This is the biggest problem I have as well. This will surely tarnish Bitcoin's image. I wonder if any press is going to pick up on this. Hurm. I'll just put this link here. It's not a good bedtime story by any means.http://forums.somethingawful.com/showthread.php?threadid=3413928&userid=0&perpage=40&pagenumber=444 Why are you guys covering for him? It seems desperate and peculiar.  I don't blame you for resigning.Best of luck to you! This is sick shit. I'm talking about the other expresspost you had sent me before to cover late mail. You know what I'm talking about.I don't expect any emails I send someone to remain private. I'm conducting business in public view. Do as you wish.So you are planning on wasting even more of my time? So I'll have to login to the forum each day and argue the meaning of each sentence I previously wrote? No thanks. I really have better things to do with my time. I won't return to this thread.Note: I made the 60-day time limit more clear on Bitcoin4Cash. I am also accepting locked in trades again and my Bitcoin inventory is being replenished. This doesn't make any sense.I insinuated that you were possibly trying to scam me via email due to the fact that this is the 2nd time you've mailed to me late and expected me to honor an old rate. The first time could have been the mail system, but twice? It's definitely suspicious, to say the least.We all know that you are going to do it anyway.What recent surge? I refused 2 pieces of mail in a year's time. The first one was yours - an expired trade. The 2nd one was an letter that was mailed late on purpose. (Bobby)If you knew that your province was having mail troubles when you did your first batch of locked in trades, why did you proceed to do it again?What about the other batch of ancient trades that you emailed me about and then sent them with expresspost?I have a "boiler plate" response for emails regarding delayed mail. I get about 30 emails a day and time constraints don't permit me to investigate each case in depth. I usually have to send those boiler plate emails to save time.Anyway, there is a huge difference between 1-3 weeks and 2 months. Especially when the letter is mailed from within the same country.You are the only person who has ever used expresspost to mail me. The first expresspost you had sent me was for 3 (or 4?) late trades.Boiler plate email. I send out gobs of those. People mail me from Europe all of the time for open rate trades. I've had a few letters in the past (2?) that took a couple of months to arrive. More specifically, from Germany. I don't remember every single person I email. I send too many per day.I told you I didn't want MTGOX credit. I also told you I would accept the recent expresspost at an open rate (by creating a new booking). You refused. I proceeded to tell you that the trade was cancelled and I was even willing to refund your deposit without any penalty. All of this fell upon deaf ears. You mailed me the cash anyway expecting me to just eat it. I RTS'd the expresspost as soon as it arrived and let you know via email. You never gave me a Bitcoin address to refund your deposit to, even when I asked for it.Trade cancellation is automatic, btw. It happens at the 60 day mark. That piece of code has always been there.The emails you were sending me reeked of childish behavior and general time-wasting. I had enough of arguing by that point. My system had already canceled the trade. I am under no obligation to wait around for a "replacement" letter. I refused your business and you proceeded to mail me cash anyway, despite my numerous protests. I have the right to refuse business to anyone. I don't have to take your money.I returned it as I said I would from the beginning. Hardly "scamming".You never did give me an address to send your deposit back to. I'm still waiting.I explained this in email. I would return them as well. The trades are expired. Tell you what: if they arrive with a roughly-accurate postmark on them I'll publically state to everyone that you didn't try to scam me. Until that happens, I really don't believe you.I'm not exposed to risk. I'm exposed to future losses. When I have to hold your coins for months and months while the price skyrockets I'm losing. I could be selling them to someone who actually sends me a letter in a timely fashion.What am I do to? Hold rates forever? Try pulling this with a bullion dealer like Kitco for example. They'd nail your credit card with price difference within 30 days or less. 60 days is more than fair.In summary: I don't hold locked in trades forever. I have the right to refuse business, especially from those who have an established history of jerking me around. This is another "fun" case... allow me to explain:This person claimed he mailed me letters for locked in trades from months ago. But alas, no such letters ever arrived. I'm not going to accuse him of lying, but I will say that he has a history of not mailing in a timely fashion.He has, in the past, booked trades and never mailed anything for several months only to email me promising to send the cash promptly. Eventually he makes good on his word, but it is always extremely late.The last time he pulled this shit the rate hadn't moved much so I just honored an *very* old rate. This time I didn't honor it (it was 2 months overdue!!!), and he threw a fit.He contacted me only after the price skyrocketed to offer to replace the missing (?) cash as long as I honored the rate from 2 months ago.The booking was already 2 months old so I told him "no". The trades were expired. (My system automatically expires locked in trades after 60 days. You can mail a letter from anywhere on the planet to my location in 2 months. It's very lax. Yes, I will add this to my FAQ - before you all ask.)Anyway.. despite my firm answer he didn't listen and mailed me letters for these expired trades and expected me to honor the old rate. I returned the mail to him promptly, as I told him I would.Oh, and yes the changes to Bitcoin4Cash's website are a coincidence. No, I'm not broke. No, I'm not shutting down. No, I'm not scamming.These 2 people are yelling because they tried to scam me and I caught them. I promptly returned their cash and deposits - would a scammer do that?? Oh boy.. where do I begin...Basically this person tried to scam me so I refused his business. I have the right to refuse business don't I? I mean, everyone does. Try starting a fist fight at your local bar and see how willing they are to serve you afterward.He booked a locked in trade and mailed the cash "when he felt like it". Better described as "when he was sure the rate would go up". He mailed a letter from the same country and his post mark and order date were almost 1.5 months apart. I'm sorry, but I can't be expected to hold rates forever. I simply can't do that.I reversed his deposit and mailed his cash back to him. Not once did he email me about it. He decided to wait until I revised my site (a week later) to post here. Tsk tsk.Avoid doing business with this guy. I know I will. Without disclosing too much about my client; the last time we dealt with ACH disputes the following was standard procedure: The customer calls their bank to dispute the withdrawal from their account. The customer is told to go to their branch to sign an affidavit, they sign it, and the funds are returned immediately. It matters not if the merchant has an authorization form with the customer's signature on it. If the customer claims it was fraudulent and signs an affidavit, the merchant loses the funds. The bank will not get involved in the dispute itself. It's up to the merchant to seek remedy in court by way of litigation.I've only have had experiences with merchant-initiated ACH. I can't speak for any other methods.Well, in Canada bill payments are technically not ACH. I'm pretty sure we have a separate facility for that here. I can't speak for the US's bill payment system. It's ok. I have a bunch of people willing to sell to me now. Thanks guys!  Most people in the USA probably don't know this, but in Canada we can do cross-border ACH payment to/from the USA. It costs pennies per transaction, processes the same business day, and it only costs a couple hundred dollars to get it setup.In terms of the money-related statutes of the USA: we just agree to them by signing a contract with our local bank. If you are found to be in breach of it, you are not arrested or fined. Your bank accounts are simply closed.This might be a better option for those who want to provide ACH services to US customers. In the likely event of a US government backlash you'd just find your accounts closed. You wouldn't be in a legal battle or end up sitting in the 'clink. A word of caution: I still wouldn't use ACH to debit from bank accounts. You will have fraud/sore casino losers/etc, and your only remedy is to sue. The banks don't get involved with ACH disputes at all because there is no money in it. (Pennies vs a credit card where the bank charges the merchant $20-$45 to mediate complaints.)Paying people with ACH doesn't seem to be a problem at all. Actually, it is far cheaper and faster than wires.I have software that I had written many years ago for a client of mine that actually produces the specially-formatted CPA (Canadian Payments Association; our equivalent of the ABA) files that are uploaded and parsed by our banks in Canada. If someone in Canada (or a US citizen using a trustee in Canada) needs programming examples I can provide them. For startups you are always better off reselling/licensing content. The only drawback to licensing content is that it isn't exclusive.Thanks! Best of luck with your endeavors. 2600 Magazine - Spring 2011 Issue"How to Accept Payments Anonymously - A Digital Currency Guide"Source: http://store.2600.com/spring2011.htmlI am not a subscriber of this magazine. Are there any subscribers that can confirm or deny a mention of Bitcoin? As a side note: does anyone know what happened to BitPredict (Bitcoin Prediction Market)? How childish. The 3 lowest denominations. One of each. Please email me and we can sort it out/negotiate. The study of commercial law includes the studying of business if you branch out far enough. You seem to know how much law I've studied. I'm in complete awe at your false assumptions.You're assuming that you are, in fact, sued by an 'anonymous' customer. You're also assuming that it isn't some government agency wielding a criminal charge/investigation. If both *highly* unlikely statements are true, you would be right.What plans do you have for your active customers if you opt for a default judgment? Return the cash? Lose it all to lawyers? I'm sure your customers would like to know.Actually, it is educational to everyone who cares to read it. You are thinking only of yourself. Hello,I'm happy to report that the shipping speeds have improved a lot over the last month.Just to reiterate: the goods are shipped directly from China. For items under ~50BTC we use regular mail. For more expensive items we use air mail. The shipping is free and will always be free. Also, I'd like to take this opportunity to explain what the order statuses mean:When you place an order initially your order is "Pending". This means that it is being submitted to the drop shipper for packaging/mailing. Once it has been put into the mail it will move to "Updated" with a comment line that says "Shipped". The status change occurs within 1 business day usually. I don't handle this part personally. My clone does. We used to move the status to "Delivered" and that seemed to cause a lot of confusion. "Delivered", for us, means that we have delivered the details to the drop shipper. I guess customers thought it meant that they should have it in their hands. lol!Anyway, I'm posting this here to cut down on any/all confusion.  He changed the deal in the email. He wanted to trade 5x the amount. "If it's too good to be true, it probably is."He told me that he's not a "geek" so he wouldn't even know how to scam me. When I hear promises like that before a trade even begins I just walk away. I have a lot of experience in dealing with payment fraud. I've heard those promises before. There is a chance he's not a scammer and I am just being overly cautious. In any event; I am not interested.
That rocks!Don't forget to print your Bitcoin address on your company's business cards too. Aye. It's me.  My clone doesn't actually have access to the forum.I've also hit those limits. The stored value explanation that mndrix offered is spot on, in my opinion.After talking to this guy via email I'm starting to get that faint aroma of "scam". I could be wrong.If anyone else wants to take this deal, feel free. I'm not interested anymore.  "curl -k" I run bitcoinxxx.com, bitcoingayxxx.com, and bitcoinsextoys.com. I'm just reselling. All of the content is self-shot, and I don't own a dildo factory. I leave that work to China. I'm sure you've seen them before. I was the first one to start running adult sites. They started off as a proof of concept really, but now I actually do sales on them every day.P.S. I was also the first to demo a signup-less affiliate program that has since been copied by many other sites. It was yet another proof of concept. (No expectation of profit.) Sort of. I don't "own" it, but I do operate it.In case you hadn't guessed, I was joking of course.  If it works with wget and not with curl that's because the CA mtgox used isn't in the certificate bundle that's included with curl. The CA bundle included with curl is notorious for being out of date.If it doesn't work at all, my best guess is a misconfigured load balancer or poisoned DNS. Works fine for me.  My pr0n is profitable. Welcome! They won't come for any of us. I know where all of those bankers live.It turns out that bankers sure like masks and fuzzy handcuffs.  Correct.I need someone to buy 3 PaySafeCards (one of each denomination) and email (don't post them in public) the numbers to me. I'll pay you back in Bitcoins.It's an easy way for you to buy Bitcoins from me.  Thanks keefe! I have ran many large corporations in the past and I've studied law for many years. I'm not a charlatan. An 'anonymous' customer isn't going to sue and reveal who they are. They are going to complain in public.When someone uses your service to purchase drugs from Silk Road, expect the police... eventually. (Investigators always follow the money.) Your LLC will not help you at all in this case.In the highly unlikely event that you do end up in a legal battle, the profits from your service will not cover the legal fees. You'll end up paying them out of pocket anyway. So much for protecting your personal assets, as you'll end up spending them voluntarily.Good. Profit shouldn't be your motive. There isn't any. This only strengthens my point above.Don't be so dramatic. You have been offered suggestions from people who are actually doing large volumes of cash in the mail. We are simply pointing out the pitfalls that you need to be aware of. We want to see Bitcoin successful; just as you do. Getting hostile towards people that are trying to help you is really uncalled for.Anyway, I wish you the best luck and I won't be participating in the betting.With no ill will or vexation,The Madhatter Bump! No offers? An LLC will not protect your personal wealth from a criminal charge/investigation. Ask any lawyer.I don't operate 'in the dark'. I operate as a full liability man, standing on my own two feet. I, personally, have no use for "limited liability".Also, I thought Bitcoin was about freedom. It doesn't make sense to me to intentionally enter unnecessary contracts with the state, tacit or intentional. Hello all,I'm looking for a few PaySafeCards. Please spam my email or this thread with offers.Thanks! Your "hook" is just a way for you to retain your anger towards me. I care not.Debate? There isn't anything left to say. Well, if that's how you have to justify this in your mind to stop this pointless argument and move on, so be it. Are you a linguist? An English teacher, perhaps?Why would I infer that trusted/established members of the forum would collude to "joe job" you? That doesn't make any sense at all. Most of the trusted members of the forum are brilliant and honest people who wouldn't do that. Everyone  knows that.You are "nit picking" over my posts now because you want a reason to be angry with me. Know what? You don't need a reason. Just be angry. I'm fine with that. Wow, what a "nit pick". Those two sentences are two different points. Did you want me to insert some white space there? A few carriage returns perhaps?In the first sentence I was remarking about how easy a deliberate "joe job" would be to detect. In the second sentence I was referring to *real* complaints, not fake ones. That is a deliberate misquote. It is also taken out of context; quite possibly to justify your anger towards me.In that statement I was referring to *real* complaints of lost cashmails from your premises by trusted members on the forum. You somehow munged two of my points together.Again, you misunderstood. Read my post again.
You are taking everything I wrote out of context. I suggest that you re-read what I wrote without getting angry this time.I understand your anger towards me for pointing out these issues with your service. I also understand that you just got your site off of the ground and that you probably put a lot of effort into it. It's not my intention to undermine anything you have accomplished. I thought I had made that clear in my first post. I'll reiterate it here again. Lol! Okay pal. Let's just pretend that you live in a utopia and that nothing will go wrong then.I'm done trying to help you. That's not it at all. I'm warning you in public not only for your sake, but for the sake of others who might be thinking about following in your/my footsteps.Could it be possible that I understand this type of business?When you realize how little profit there is in exchanging, you'll see that my concerns for your safety are genuine. Yes. That is correct.Oh, I know. I'd insist on a bank wire for this trade. I'm not stupid.  I'll just put this here.https://www.bitcoin.org/smf/index.php?topic=5386.msg80015#msg80015If I knew how to move our conversation to this thread, I would. I suspect it is to stop a run or limit exposure to possible exploits. I can swing this trade. Email sent. Well, both sites are already connected to the Bitcoin network. It's just a matter of moving the BTC and crediting an account on the other site. It's not really that complicated. Sure.Also, the forex markets/exchange providers should be careful not to reveal their identity to each other. Yes, yes.. I know what Hawala is.  I already covered that.You are unique if you are mailing cash to your customers. You are accepting responsibility for loss, de facto.If your pockets are deep enough, you'll be ok. If your service is "buyer beware" and you don't mind complaints, you'll be ok. It's just something you should be aware of. You're welcome by the way.There are more statutes on the state and federal level. To say that an individual is bound by the exact same statutes and regulations is just ludicrous.I'm not wasting my time finding all of the statutes for you. I'm sure your lawyer can help you with that.What he was arrested for and what he was convicted of appear to be two different things.Of course. I wasn't implying that you did. I was implying the exact opposite. It's your explanation of Bitcoin to law enforcement and your perceived unwillingness to cooperate with a police investigation that will cause the problem.You assume that your DOJ/whatever wouldn't step on Blizzard and halt their currency if people were avidly dealing drugs with it? I find that laughable.Great. You just answered my next question with this statement. Okay, I should have been more precise. I made an assumption.From my very brief look at the statues during the GoldAge case in New York, it appeared that a money transmitting license was only required if you were a LLC/corp. I assume this varies from state to state and since I don't specifically know which state you are LLC'd in I couldn't say for sure. If I was wrong, you get another "great" response from me.I'm not talking about "legal rights". I'm talking about human rights. There's a huge difference between your constitution and a statute. It would be wise to learn that difference.Great. I can sleep soundly now. I guess you'll be my canary to the south. It will be almost zero losses when customers are sending cash to you. Assuming you don't do anything sloppy like change PO boxes suddenly, etc.You will have losses for sure when mailing cash to customers. I am certain of this.Wrong addresses, customers lying about weather or not they received it, misdirected mail (either on purpose or by accident), postal workers stealing it, theft right from the customer's doorstep, people move and forget to have mail forwarded, etc. I could go on and on.The customer will not care what the excuse is. In their eyes you owe them cash. I realized this very early on and decided to do cash trades in only one direction for this very reason.So you will seriously fill out a USPS claim for cash that was in an envelope? This may actually alert more thieves in the postal system to what you are doing.Oh sure. When you have piles of people with less than 5 posts under their belt complaining all at once it is easy to see that it's a "joe job". The real problem is when you have established/trusted members of the forum complaining, your reputation is toast.That's just plain wrong. Look up the LLC Acts in your state. Do they apply to you as a private citizen if you never registered an LLC? Nope. Are there more Acts that apply only to LLCs? You bet! Keep digging.Protection of personal assets from what? An angry customer that is missing cash? They won't sue you for such small amounts of money. (Talking about dollars). In terms of Bitcoin, since it isn't a recognized currency (not legal tender) you can't be sued or sue for them. No court will honor contracts in Bitcoin.The LLC is a hindrance. You should drop it.I don't think so. An investigator will follow cash to you for a drug purchase and you'll have them at your door at 4am. (Drug dealers sleep in I guess. This is also your warning to remove any/all contraband from your premesis.) They'll likely look for drugs on your premises and find none.You'll begin your long speech about how Bitcoin works and how you don't need to follow any KYC regulations. It will sound fishy. It's hard to say where it will go from there. They are uncharted waters. I'm sure it won't be fun.You don't think that the ruling applies to Bitcoin. Interesting. Are you sure? I guess it all depends on if Bitcoin undermines the US currency or not, right?They can go right to Blizzard (? I don't play games) and demand the data or tell them to stop it. They don't have that option with Bitcoin.Have you looked at the US statutes around 'stored money items'? What about money transmitting without a license? As soon as Bitcoin is determined to be money-like they'll bend those statutes out of shape and upon your LLC. That's if the unique form of domestic terrorism crap isn't slapped upon you first.A private citizen is exempt from the money transmitting license statutes as far as I can tell. Yet another reason not to use an LLC.Human rights don't apply to LLCs. You have less rights in any legal situation. If you are going to try to stand on your constitution you will fail with a LLC. There are many examples floating around.You'd be even better off if you let your customers mail cash to each other with a WoT or similar trust system. Be sure to host your site outside of the USA, drop the LLC, and you'll be far better protected.  I wasn't aware of the other thread. I haven't been on the forums for quite some time.It's easier for customers to trust you ("trust is earned") than for you to trust your many customers.Public complaints of missing cash will eventually 'do you in'. (Fake complaints aka "joe job", or real ones. It doesn't matter.) I hope I'm wrong for Bitcoin's sake. Again, not trying to be abrasive here at all. I'm being realistic. It does more than "draw eyeballs". It encourages theft. No one is blaming you. I also know how bad customers are at following directions. It's not about hiding at all. It's about restricting how many statutes/regulations can be applied to your operation. Registering an LLC implies tacit consent to far more rules than if you just did it without an LLC.That will only work until an investigator follows a drug/*insert bad thing* purchase right to your PO box. Guess what? You are now involved in a "drug ring" or competing lottery or something else they don't like. The end result will be a legal mess.There is a legal precedent. It's called a unique form of terrorism designed to undermine the value of the US currency. Look at the Liberty Dollar court case.Want to know how you win a legal battle? Don't play.  I've been biting my tongue about this for quite a while now. I simply can't hold my words any longer.First off, before I say anything, I'd like to commend Bitcoin2Cash and offer my respect. Running these cash in the mail type services are not easy. I don't see him as competition, nor does this post stem from jealousy. It stems from concern.Does anyone know why my service doesn't *mail out* cash? It's not because I'm keeping it hidden in a secret bunker somewhere or that I particularly like the smell of US money. (Ever notice how rancid it smells? Canadian fiat doesn't smell anything like that. lol!)It has to do with psychology. Let me explain:There is a certain expectation from the receiver of mail (your customer) that the mail will actually get there. Ex: If you mail cash to your customer and it is lost the customer will expect you to replace it. Also, you will encounter dishonest people who will lie to get paid twice.This isn't as problematic in the other direction. (Assuming that you weren't indeed the cause of the lost mail or problem in this example.) If a customer mails cash to your exchange, and it is lost, you'll never have a customer expect that you pay them Bitcoins anyway. They'll just (in most cases) sadly accept that the mail got lost on its way to you.I know what you are thinking: tracked/registered lettermail. Well, this increases the cost per trade and it won't stop the thieves from claiming the envelope had been opened before they had received it.Registered mail gets lost too. It happens. USPS might just refund the price of your stamp or something equally stupid. If you are planning on doing business outside of the USA you will have severe delays. Registered/tracked mail has to clear customs in most jurisdictions.You have a registered LLC. That's also really bad. Why did you do that? You are just asking to be under even more statues/regulations. You are freer as a human being under common law. Trust me on that one.Having the word "Cash" on the envelope in the past was an amateur mistake. It took a lot of will power for me to not say anything there too. I didn't want to come across as some sort of jealous asshole that wanted to see you fail.If you are using PO Boxes you must be absolutely sure that the employees are not snoops. The first time a letter goes missing or is slightly torn open it is time to change POs! I'm serious.Also, you are operating from one of the worst places in the world do be doing this. The DOJ and *insert alphabet soup agency* will come after you eventually because you are 'low hanging fruit'. To get me, there are far more hoops to jump through. Plus, what I'm doing isn't illegal in my country. It appears to be illegal in yours - my condolences.This will certainly be an "up hill" battle for you. I wish you the best of luck. Your "brother in arms",The Madhatter Not only that, but we also need more forex (mtgox/bcm) markets that are outside of the USA's jurisdiction. The recent Liberty Dollar court ruling should make anyone in the USA, who is participating in a Bitcoin exchange service, very nervous.Also, any large exchanger will draw the attention of local law enforcement eventually. I can think of many conditions that would lead an investigator right to the doorstep of a large and successful Bitcoin market.What we need are thousands of little participating exchangers all over the world. It doesn't make sense to have a P2P currency with a few large centralized markets. That's a non-issue.I've been helping a client of mine integrate mybitcoin's SCI for the sale of tangible goods. Your site just has to collect the shipping details before you send the customer to the payment page. You can do all of your fancy shipping calculation stuff, and give the customer a firm price before they proceed.I'm working with yet another client to allow for the payment of 1-month (and trial) website memberships too. His site just asks the user to choose a user/pass before we send the customer to the SCI. He is able to check if the username has been taken already / force the user to select a strong password. It works like a champ.I've actually had a lot of people pay me in BTC lately for mybitcoin integrations. I have the permission from some of my clients to release some of these shopping cart plugins into the public domain. Once they are finished they will appear on bitcoinsoftware.com.  I will routinely post my auctions on this thread so that you all know that the auctions are not some impostor. New auction:Apple Macbook (black, v2.1)http://www.biddingpond.com/item.php?id=342&mode=1 I'll just put this here: https://www.bitcoin.org/smf/index.php?topic=2511.msg55817#msg55817 This might help.https://secure.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/wiki/Smart_contracts Hello all,I don't get a chance to login to the forum as often as I'd like to anymore. I am far to busy running my Bitcoin empire. I have disabled forum PMs for the time being because the PM email notification doesn't seem to work.For questions/support/etc please email me. My email address and PGP key can be found on the Bitcoin4Cash site.Thanks! The Madhatter Thanks. I am finally caught up. I had to hire a "helper".The combination of the Slashdotting on BitcoinGadgets, and the flood of orders to Bitcoin4Cash (due to the Bitcoin hitting USD parity, etc) just totally took me for a tailspin. I've been working 14 hours a day for the last 3 weeks and I totally need a vacation now. I'm finally seeing the finish line. I had to delegate tasks to others. I had no choice. "The Madhatter" is now two people. How's that for an identity crisis? Signed,The Original Madhatter 
Pending = we have your order.Delivered = order has been delivered to drop shipper; it is out of our hands. We sometimes get a tracking number from EMS. If we have it, we will email it. For small orders we don't get tracking numbers. Sorry.We ship from China with China post. It doesn't make sense for us to import the items into Canada and repackage them again.Shipping can take 4-8 weeks. Free shipping is not fast by any means. We got so swamped with orders after being slashdotted that I had to hire someone else to handle all of the orders for me. The shipping and order speeds should improve now. Yes. You repetitively asked to send me a money order. I told you more than once that I didn't accept money orders. You decided to mail one to me anyway. A money order is not cash.A good description of what "cash" is: http://www.nanaimogold.com/define_cash.phpI immediately returned your money order by "RTS"; you were told all of this in private. The Madhatter Well, I can speak for Bitcoin2CC because I operate it. I had 3 broken transactions due to mybitcoin's sci being choked up for ~24h. Once the problem was remedied I saw 3 posts to my SCI Receipt URL so the transaction data and payments were NOT lost. I have all of the data/BTC.So far 2 people have emailed me and I've gotten them their card data. Still waiting for the final mystery guest to send me an email to collect their prize. Of course there will be a few skill testing questions. Cheers!The Madhatter I just saw 3 transactions hit my SCI Receipt URL all at once. Something got backlogged over there or something??? New site (not mine):Title: My Healthy OrganicsLink: http://www.myhealthyorganics.com/Description: Organic Products! Beauty, Baby, Supplements, Cofffee / Teas, Cleaning Supplies, and much more! Found another one:nlnsivjku4x4lu5n.onion:8333 I agree. I wouldn't even touch MtGox if they required those things, or any other business for that matter. *sigh* This again? A bank writes loans and pays interest to depositors.If you buy a bank charter what privileges are you granted? Those privileges are what makes a bank "a bank". That depends on where you are wiring to/from. It also depends on the system that is being used to conduct the wire. The entire world doesn't revolve around the US. Just conduct your business outside of it.Sure. He's running a company in plain sight. Why would he hide?I was talking about insulating MtGox and his customers from a potential Liberty Reserve collapse more than anything else. Replacing Liberty Reserve with direct bank wire (I was under the initial assumption that MtGox's corporation was outside of the US) would be the fastest way to avoid any potential problem. A better/more private solution could be put into place later on, of course. +1This would be ideal, but it wouldn't always work out. :/I'm glad I could be of service.  Oh, well I was under the assumption that Jed had a bank account outside of the US. His corporation isn't a US one.Yes, a US bank account will just get you fisted without lube.This is no longer the case. Ripple is prone to fragmentation.You end up with piles of little "islands" of people that trust and can pay one another. Paying to people on other "islands" is troublesome and sometimes impossible. Imagine hoards of nomadic exchangers with cellphones/pdas/laptops that roam the world doing face-to-face cash exchanges for Bitcoin.Hey.. a man can dream...  It can be solved if we are creative. Actually, it's called money transmitting without a license. MtGox doesn't do any banking. They don't write loans or pay interest.Yes, but you can insulate the customers from privacy breaches by using a network of global exchangers. If we had exchangers in every country in the world that traded GoxUSD/GoxEUR for cash/money orders/wires/etc it would be more robust.Only the exchangers in each country would have to transmit a monthly wire to MtGox for more GoxUSD/GoxEUR markers. MtGox could limit his risk by having more than one bank account that accepts these wires. He could also cash the accounts out as soon as he receives the wires. He'd only be expected to hold enough day to day operating cash in his bank accounts.It could be done with a network of brick and mortar stores around the world that did over the counter trades in cash for Bitcoin. I don't see the cash in the mail for Bitcoin being very scalable because it relies so heavily on trust.I think exchangers should be laptop nomads.  The "Ghost Walkers" described here: https://ffij33ewbnoeqnup.onion.meshmx.com/books/Toward_A_Private_Digital_Economy/index.html#Ghost%20Walker Well, it wasn't e-gold that was under fire directly. It was actually Omni Pay that brought the hammer of the state down on them.Haha! One other thing to consider: when MtGox attracts the attention of Liberty Reserve's operators (and it will eventually, they might see it as money laundering or some other stupid thing), they may disclose MtGox's information to the Costa Rican government under the AML/KYC regulations.Not only will MtGox's information be disclosed, but the information of every account that has ever spent or received money with MtGox. Think about that for a second. Did you think that you had privacy by using Liberty Reserve? You were obviously wrong.Does Liberty Reserve have to tell you that your information was given to the Costa Rican government? NO!Do they have to tell MtGox that his information and account history was given to the Costa Rican government? NO!Will Costa Rica cooperate with any US Government (or other governments) inquiries? YES! Look at the MLAT treaty. Costa Rica's banking secrecy is on its last legs.This whole Liberty Reserve thing just stinks. MtGox should drop it immediately and just accept bank wires. He can sell GoxUSD / GoxEUR or whatever. The exchangers can buy/sell the GoxUSD/GoxEUR directly from MtGox and resell it to the masses.We don't need Liberty Reserve. Sure. That's what I was getting at.I haven't had a chance to try Bitcoin Central out. I'll take a look at it tonight. Cheers! I doubt it. If MtGox can't convert Liberty Reserve into a bank wire to one of their bank accounts (assuming a run/or they go broke) MtGox won't be able to disperse dollars to their clients with other payment methods.He only accepts Liberty Reserve to fund MtGox accounts, so he has to convert Liberty Reserve into a bank wire somewhere along the line. If his account were suddenly frozen by Liberty Reserve he'd go broke. Assuming he left a significant portion of customer's funds in Liberty Reserve, of course.If MtGox accepted bank wires directly that would alleviate the risk of Liberty Reserve going broke. He should also let clients move dollars between accounts for free. He could run his own Liberty Reserve-like system inside of MtGox.Here's an example: Say a bank wire costs $50 to transmit. You wouldn't wire $100 to MtGox. It's not cost effective. If I wired $10,000 (and paid the $50 fee.. it's peanuts on a $10K wire) to MtGox and then sold $100 GoxDollars to you for 0.5% it is a far better option.Anyway, my point is that MtGox could change their system a bit and do away with Liberty Reserve completely. That's a great read. I enjoyed it.
There are blogs out there with piles of people complaining that their Liberty Reserve account was frozen. The outlook isn't good folks.I've noticed that a lot of people are moving their operations to Belize now.I'm not too familiar with HD Money. However, I have heard of it.I hope that Jed doesn't end up with a pile of Liberty Reserve that he can't get back out as dollars. (I PM'd him about this thread already.) If a run happens (I suspect one started on the 1st), Liberty Reserve will collapse. It's unaudited and many suspect it is fractional reserve. The running joke is "NO Liberty NO Reserve" (CR's new bank laws / fractional reserve, unaudited).A run will provoke them into freezing accounts faster and faster to try to stay afloat. That will only piss more and more people off. These pissed off people will spout out on blogs and forums. (Already starting to happen.) The panic will spread and accelerate the run.The Liberty Reserve exchangers will start hiking the rates to exchange into fiat, because the risk of default will rise. Some exchangers will just quit immediately because they'll remember the e-gold panic.... and that's the Madhatter forecast.  This concludes our broadcast day. *click* The destruction of the family unit is an epidemic.I admire the Mormons only for their emphasis of the importance of family. (Perhaps I admire their emergency food preparedness too.)I find the music on the radio here to be corrosive to children. The rap/gangster/"booty"-music stations in particular. They are vulgar, disgusting, sing about sexual situations, and sometimes even include background panting. It is unsuitable for children.The Bisphenol-A estrogen mimicker and phyto-estrogens in soy products (every single processed food item has switched to soy oil in the last few years. Hey, it's cheap!) do concern me. They process a lot of soy products with hexane too. Mmmm hexane!The best thing to do, in my opinion, is to just steer clear of processed foods. When I see a label that says "may contain traces of soy/nuts/whatever" it makes me think that they don't clean their machines.In terms of water fluoridation, it bothers me for different reasons. I see it as force. If we live in a free country, I should be able to choose to not have stuff added to my water. If you want fluoride, you should put it into your own water with tablets or whatever. I don't want fluoride in my drinking water. It's my choice.It is far cheaper/efficient to leave the fluoride out and supply those who want it with tablets. It is far more expensive for each household that doesn't want flouride to buy a $1000 reverse osmosis machine to filter it out. Not to mention the costs at the water treatment plant to put that stuff in.Cheers!The Madhatter Great idea.Buying/selling Bitcoins to private individuals in person would be good too.Perhaps people should start using craigslist/kijiji and advertise that they do trades in person for cash. Why would there be links? Costa Rica's banking laws are published. Use Google.The advertisement you are referring to is an email signature. Bitcoin is mentioned as an alternative too.Have you logged into your LR account lately? See the beginnings of the AML/KYC stuff yet? On the bright side: this is good news for Bitcoin. As more and more of these centralized payment processors fail; people will turn to decentralized systems.  Please read the following:http://article.gmane.org/gmane.comp.finance.gold-silver-crypto/22354http://article.gmane.org/gmane.comp.finance.gold-silver-crypto/22355Entire thread: http://news.gmane.org/gmane.comp.finance.gold-silver-cryptoSubject: "Watch out for changes at LR!"My recommendation is to NOT use Liberty Reserve. If you have funds in it, dump them NOW.I had posted warnings about LR on this forum around a year ago.https://www.bitcoin.org/smf/index.php?topic=39.msg299#msg299I also advised lots of people in PMs to not hold their money with LR. I hope people paid attention.I am also starting to think that the recent demand for Bitcoin in the past few days have to do with the changes that are going on over at Liberty Reserve."Banking secrecy" is an oxymoron. Try a monochrome laser printer with a decent envelope feeder. You can deface stacks of bills rapidly and the ink doesn't smear.... or so I've heard...  *cough* *cough* The windows client needs UPnP. *cough* *cough*   You can't be serious... I found these on IRC:h4kklwodpcmo6cbq.onion:8333vv6kcfscuntybrzm.onion:8333 You're preaching to the choir. Oh sure. Having some protection/obfuscation (to beat DPI stuff) is better than nothing. Wouldn't you agree? There are always other attack vectors that have to be considered. What about physical spying, for example?Right now, a default installation of Bitcoin is so easily detected/blocked from the network layer. Shouldn't we be concerned? I certainly am. I want Bitcoin to be unstoppable. A crazy spray of garbled packets that hide alongside regular HTTPS connections to banks. I want to make it so that blocking Bitcoin also means blocking "their" existing bank infrastructure as well.  That wouldn't work. DPI gear would just pick out the version string and send out some RST packets. The cops would then be dispatched to break some knee caps. :/ I suppose that could be done. I guess the user would also get other benefits from Tor as well, such as pseudo-anonymous browsing, etc.I wonder if the Tor project could be convinced to just include Bitcoin with their bundle. We might be too far away from that. They don't seem to want to even touch Bitcoin. I was instructed to send my donations to the EFF instead of them. It should automatically setup a Tor hidden service with a port forward back to Bitcoin too then. We can leave it up to the user to publish their .onion address/port number. It should also contain a list of "seed" nodes in the torrc. (Public hidden services to bootstrap from.)Also, Bitcoin should at least let the user select a port other than 8333. It should also have UPnP support. Enabled by default on Windows/Mac, disabled by default on Linux/*NIX. Would that make the *NIX geeks happier about UPnP support?  Official client. What good would a fork be? So I can run it between me, myself, and I?  Exactly. I highly doubt the governments of the world will block banks, for example.  +1I'm also an avid user of djb's daemontools. A foreground command line switch would be very nice.   I used to run FidoNet BBSes where I live. Yes. I understand what you are saying here. We should be at least obfuscating Bitcoin connections as FF+Apache connections. China, for example, can easily block Bitcoin at the moment - just filter one port: 8333. How sad.China can't block every SSL connection. Commerce relies on SSL connections too heavily.Check out the newer videos by Roger Dingledine. They explain the lessons they learned about keeping Tor from being blocked in China/Iran.Totally. I think that UPnP should be on by default. Less than 0.25% of the population uses *NIX. If we want mass adoption we need to focus more on the end user operating systems.  It should choose a random port upon install. If you have a port specified in the bitcoin.conf, it will use that explicitly. Us smarter folks would likely specify a port. (I'd use 443). Think about the average Joe. They never toy with the defaults. If we want the network to be resistant to DPI filtering we need this. +1I'd like to run bitcoind on port 443. I want it to look like Apache/SSL.
Ahem.. Key exchange. Generate a cert upon install.I want this bundled with the official client. I'm not looking for a fork.99.99% of average people have no clue how to setup Bitcoin to use Tor.Assuming that other people know as much as you/I/us know will kill this project. If we want mass adoption this software has to be robust, simple to use, and "just work". This includes when China/North Korea/"Insert bad government" blocks it.We need to be proactive here. Not reactive. Telling people to install another program and educate them on how to chain them together is not a fix. It's a giant ugly "hack".Edit: A key cache similar to how SSH handles keys could be added to Bitcoin to prevent MITM attacks. How so? The current build links against openssl already. Preserving the existing port 8333 listener thread would maintain backward compatibility for some time.It's random selection upon install. The user can, of course, change the port. Look at how I2P works upon first install.Uh huh.  Hello all,I am offering a personal bounty of $2K USD $250 USD for the following features to be added into Bitcoin. I'd code them myself, but time restraints won't permit me to. Let me hire you. 1. Bitcoin should run its P2P operations in straight SSL. It should look like FF talking to Apache to any DPI. See the Tor source code. Most of the work is done already. REPEALED - See discussion.2. On first run Bitcoin should select a random high TCP port (>1024) and save it to the bitcoin.conf. (something like "listenerport=8972"). This port should contain the new SSL-only listener. Do we need to keep the old port 8333 listener running for compatibility for a while? REPEALED - The port number should be selectable by the user; not random. See discussion.3. UPnP support. Bitcoin should port forward the chosen high TCP port automatically. (Possibly port 8333/tcp too, if the answer to the question above is "Yes"). The GUI/command line should have a UPnP off/on toggle. It should be "on" by default. $250 Bounty still offered. UPnP should be off by default on the Linux build.It's just a matter of time before Bitcoin is blocked in all of "those" countries that have oppressive regimes. We need to resist stuff now before Bitcoin gains traction. I'm not looking to reinvent the wheel here (Tor). I just want to make it more resistant to DPI blocking-related attacks. Better off with a distribution of Bitcoin with Tor included. Hopefully those under repressive regimes already know about/use Tor. Having Tor installed offers other benefits besides Bitcoin.If these 3 features are implemented in the next 30 days, I'll throw in an additional $500 USD. Payable in Bitcoin or in pre-loaded VISA cards from Bitcoin2CC - your choice.The Madhatter 2 million dollar market cap is really nothing. However, it's a great start. If the US were to implement such a network there would be a lot of people writing software to circumvent it. I also would suspect that the hosting/IT industries in the US would take quite a financial hit as people hosted their sites elsewhere. Does the US economy need another large blow? I know! We should bundle and sell Internet 2 futures!  (sarcasm)Lots of fiber has been setup to purposely bypass the USA in recent years. (Probably due to the NSA/AT&T spying fiasco.) The infrastructure for a large hosting shift is already in place.What about the end users being locked into this Internet 2 control grid? - You may ask. The uber geeks would install satellite internet services purchased from other countries to bypass it and run 802.11s (mesh) to propagate "clean" Internet. They just can't win this one. lol!Does the US government expect every private corporation to replace all of their routers to handle these authenticated packets? At whose expense? This won't happen. (See: IPv6)Some examples of failures that "they" are still trying to implement:- Look at the migration to IPv6. It's a disaster! Unless IPv6 is designed as a backwards-compatible extension to IPv4, migration will never happen.- Look at DNSSEC. It's only a 18 year old project that doesn't work. Collectively all of the DNSSEC-enabled hosts are a giant DDoS amplifier. The host hashes can be inverted easily with GPUs, NXDOMAIN requests are unsigned (so they can still be spoofed). I could go on and on here.Cheers!The Madhatter http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d0nERTFo-Sk "Fear the Boom and Bust" a Hayek vs. Keynes Rap Anthem I can confirm that db4.7 and db4.8 work perfectly on FreeBSD. I have not tried switching db versions on active Bitcoin installations. I had suspected the file formats may be different. *cough* *cough* Usury! *cough* *cough* Every "free" nation on the globe is controlled by the same evil schmucks."Permit me to issue and control the money of a nation, and I care not who makes its laws." - Amschel Mayer Rothschild Hello all,I can confirm that our version of the TSA in Canada (called "CATSA" here) now performs a similar molestation even on domestic flights.My beautiful country is lost too. It saddens me so....  The Madhatter Here is the complete makefile.unix that I used to build Bitcoin 0.3.19 on FreeBSD-8.1-RELEASE/amd64:You'll need to install the following from ports:gmakeboost-alldb47 (you can use db48, but you'll have to change the makefile a bit)openssl (from ports works best)After you drop in this makefile.unix file, just run "gmake -f makefile.unix bitcoind" and you'll have a "bitcoind" binary. Code:# Copyright (c) 2009-2010 Satoshi Nakamoto# Distributed under the MIT/X11 software license, see the accompanying# file license.txt or http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php.INCLUDEPATHS= \ -I"/usr/local/include/wx-2.9" \ -I"/usr/local/lib/wx/include/gtk2-unicode-release-2.9" \ -I"/usr/local/include/db47" \ -I"/usr/local/include"LIBPATHS= \ -L"/usr/local/lib/db47" \ -L"/usr/local/lib" \ -L"/usr/lib"# for wxWidgets 2.9.1, add -l Xxf86vmWXLIBS= \ -Wl,-Bstatic \   -l wx_gtk2ud-2.9 \ -Wl,-Bdynamic \   -l gtk-x11-2.0 \   -l SM# for boost 1.37, add -mt to the boost libraries#LIBS= \# -Wl,-Bstatic \#   -l boost_system \#   -l boost_filesystem \#   -l boost_program_options \#   -l boost_thread \#   -l db_cxx \#   -l crypto \# -Wl,-Bdynamic# for boost 1.37, add -mt to the boost librariesLIBS= \ -Wl,-Bstatic \   -l boost_system \   -l boost_filesystem \   -l boost_program_options \   -l boost_thread \   -l db_cxx \   -l ssl \   -l crypto \ -Wl,-Bdynamic \   -l z \   -l pthreadDEFS=-D__WXGTK__ -DNOPCH -DFOURWAYSSE2 -DUSE_SSL -D__BSD__DEBUGFLAGS=-g -D__WXDEBUG__CFLAGS=-O2 -march=nocona -fstack-protector -Wno-invalid-offsetof -Wformat $(DEBUGFLAGS) $(DEFS) $(INCLUDEPATHS) $(LIBPATHS)HEADERS=headers.h strlcpy.h serialize.h uint256.h util.h key.h bignum.h base58.h \    script.h db.h net.h irc.h main.h rpc.h uibase.h ui.h noui.h init.hOBJS= \    obj/util.o \    obj/script.o \    obj/db.o \    obj/net.o \    obj/irc.o \    obj/main.o \    obj/rpc.o \    obj/init.o \    cryptopp/obj/sha.o \    cryptopp/obj/cpu.oall: bitcoinobj/%.o: %.cpp $(HEADERS)        g++ -c $(CFLAGS) -DGUI -o $@ $<cryptopp/obj/%.o: cryptopp/%.cpp        g++ -c $(CFLAGS) -O3 -o $@ $<obj/sha256.o: sha256.cpp        g++ -c $(CFLAGS) -msse2 -O3 -march=nocona -o $@ $<bitcoin: $(OBJS) obj/ui.o obj/uibase.o obj/sha256.o        g++ $(CFLAGS) -o $@ $^ $(WXLIBS) $(LIBS)obj/nogui/%.o: %.cpp $(HEADERS)        g++ -c $(CFLAGS) -o $@ $<bitcoind: $(OBJS:obj/%=obj/nogui/%) obj/sha256.o        g++ $(CFLAGS) -o $@ $^ $(LIBS)clean:        -rm -f obj/*.o        -rm -f obj/nogui/*.o        -rm -f cryptopp/obj/*.o        -rm -f headers.h.gchEdit: If you want the GUI you'll need to install "x11-toolkits/gtk20" from ports, and install wxwidgets 2.9 from source (it's not in the ports tree). Use the makefile above and run "gmake -f makefile.unix bitcoin". I like the tentacle-covered rothchild thing! Haha Yes, but not very often.My mailboxes are in Canada.I don't accept Interac transfers for the reasons presented by nanaimo gold. Chargebacks, etc.Cheers!The Madhatter Two can play at that game! Booklet of 10 Canada Permanent Stampshttp://www.bitcoingadgets.com/index.php?main_page=product_info&cPath=13&products_id=36 Lol!I should put some 'Canada permanent stamps' on Bitcoin Gadgets.  I have to agree with nanaimogold. Accepting PayPal for Bitcoin is a very bad idea.It is just a matter of time before you are scammed into oblivion.I wish I had better news for you, but I've seen it happen way too many times. The Madhatter Hello all,The title is self-explanatory. I'll just leave this here. Cheers!The MadhatterEdit: For those who don't already know, Bitcoin4Cash is here. Yes, we ship to Mexico. Shipping is free. Ain't that the truth.The police here couldn't find their ass with both hands. They'd likely just have glazed-over eyes if you tried to report a stolen wallet.dat file. If you were really lucky they'd find something to charge you with. Perhaps a burnt out tail light on your car? Buy Bitcoins here: https://www.bitcoin4cash.com/buy.phpI'll accept amounts as low as $5. I'm also in Canada, so the trade will be quick. The site is more or less a partnership. I'm handling the Bitcoins/running the website, and a friend of mine is handling the shipping and updating the catalog.No. Probably a hundred at most. (Not my department so I don't know off hand.) Zen cart is weird. It requires stock. So for now I just went into the database and set all of the quantities to 1000. It wasn't too bad. I ended up just hacking the money order payment module and making it dish out a Bitcoin address at the end of the order. I also had to build a simple script on a crontab that polls the Bitcoin exchange rate and sets it in the zen cart database. My partner insisted on us pricing the goods in US Dollars internally, and displaying the prices in BTC. I had no objections.I know the module and crontab work because the other site (Bitcoin Sex Toys), has had a few successful orders already.  
Hello all,I just discovered a bug with the Bitcoin Gadgets site that was preventing people from completing an order. My hacked shipping module was breaking things, apparently. This has been corrected. My apologies to those who had attempted to place orders over the past couple of days.The site has also been fully themed. It looks way better now.More great LED lights have been added to the site today. Some of the new additions include high efficiency LED strip lighting for homes/offices, and stylish pot lights.Anyone have any suggestions for products I should carry?The Madhatter Yes, of course. Free shipping is available to any country on the list. (Most countries are included.) Hey all,Using some of my many business connections; I got two new stores online. I am running these sites for a good friend of mine who is not very familiar with Bitcoin. Damn that old dollar mentality! After explaining the Bitcoin concept to him for many hours over coffee, he agreed that backing this new currency with more goods is a really good thing. For Bitcoin to be useful we need to back it with more goods and services, after all. Under a simple agreement with him; I will be managing these two new shops, and he will be handling the shipping.Bitcoin Gadgets It's a pre-release. Still has the default ugly zen cart interface. This is being changed as we speak. The holiday season has delayed things with the graphics people a bit.Bitcoin Sex Toy Store Adults only!!! 200 products! Fully themed, and it looks nice in my opinion. Offers great privacy to the buyer. No pesky charges on the credit card statement. (Thanks, Bitcoin!) Items are discretely shipped.Cheers!The Madhatter Sweet! The wiki looks nice so far!A couple of suggestions:1. You should mention that the timestamps returned by mybitcoin are in UTC. This one had me a tad stumped at first. I store all of my date and time fields in my local timezone.2. You may want to document the background URI encryptor. It's a new feature that was implemented in the latest mbc-toolkit. You can post your URI in the background and the SCI will return the encrypted version of the URI. I ended up using it on Bitcoin2CC to stop people who were trying to cheat my price calculator. It works perfectly. I wish other systems like LR had this feature.3. You might want to mention the Bitcoin payment forward feature. Paranoid people (like myself) don't trust others with their coins. Mentioning how to setup forwarding might be a good idea. That's right... for a limited time all Bitcoin4Cash trades are 1.9%! Yee haw! Book your trade today!</salespitch> That's a good idea.Hopefully it will make it easier for existing sites to at least add Bitcoin as an additional payment option. Hahaha!  *thumbs up* I agree. I recently upgraded the 30 nodes I control to 0.3.18 with verbatim IsStandard() code, just to prove my support. Hey! That's a great idea! The source code for FMS might be a good starting point. Huh? The above statements don't make any sense. You are contradicting yourself. You said you didn't receive a domain name - yet you are trying to change the IP of... what exactly?At least once more. You are still not making any sense, and my patience with you and this thread is nearing an end.Unreliable by whose standards? Yours? Obviously not the other few dozen people who have placed orders with them.FYI: An "unreliable" service sold without any guarantees is not fraud.Oh come on. I'm sure they didn't single you out and ignore you for fun. You're being dramatic.You know this because... ? Please provide sources. I have been trying to stay out of this thread, but I am unable to turn a blind eye to it anymore. It is too repugnant.Joe, before you yell fraud (oops, too late), let me ask you one simple question: did you or did you not receive your domain name? Privacy shark claims you did. In the worst case scenario your 'beef' with them is poor customer service, not fraud.Also, on a "hunch", I just ran a whois on all of the domains listed here (Bitcoin domain name land grab thread):https://www.bitcoin.org/smf/index.php?topic=1829.0Around 1/3rd of them seem to be on privacy shark's system. Were all of these people scammed too? Why aren't they all yelling fraud as well?I also vote to rename this thread. Why reinvent the wheel? Mybitcoin's SCI does all of that. I'd just use the local bitcoind to receive the forwarded coins from Mybitcoin.In fact, that's exactly how I handle commerce on my sites. It works flawlessly. Ahh, ok. Thanks for clearing that up.  What is the difference between an address and an account? Are they not the same thing? In version 0.3.13 they seem to perform the same function. Hey,Looks like the "getreceivedbyaccount" rpc display is broken on 0.3.18.* Does a 0.01 BTC spend from another computer to 1Fs5rqB2sXZ3kax1r3HfuYpK2ksSxLYJT8 *(BBE: http://blockexplorer.com/a/7BMcTdZkY3)* Trying some PHP code to talk to the JSON-RPC directly *So I see the 0.01 BTC on my php client, but not on the command line. Yes, "getinfo" and other commands work. Yes, I have proper "allowrpc" command line options. Yes, I've tried waiting for confirmations. I get the exact same result.Seems to be a problem with the display when you use the bitcoind as a client?? Can anyone confirm that they have the same problem?OS: FreeBSD 7.2-RELEASE-p8/amd64Thanks. You think that's bad? Banks in Canada can revoke checks/drafts/money orders (aka "cashiers checks") up to 8 months later. This was pointed out recently in a newspaper when a young couple had cashed a money order for the sale of a large truck.The funds were reversed by the bank 6 months later when the bank discovered the money order was counterfeit.   I use them for my domains and I have not had a problem.I did, however, have a slight problem getting my emails past their spam filter. Yes. Use the Bitcoin Block Explorer (BBE). Search the forums for the URL and its use.  I was browsing I2P today when I stumbled upon this:From http://echelon.i2p.to/ (aka "echelon.i2p" from within the I2P network):Edit: 2011? Man, this guy is from the future or something!  Hahahahaha!  
They could very well modify and improve their "inactive account" algorithms to profile smart/stupid people based on habits, useragent strings (geeks use linux or something lol), etc. It could leave the inactive accounts that belong to smarter clients in the holdings report, and drop the accounts that belong to what the system believes to be stupid people. It would drastically reduce the chances of getting caught.I should clarify. I meant for their own internal statistics. Spends per hour, funded accounts, etc. If they excluded inactive accounts from their statistics (well, they fall off the stats because they are inactive) they could use that as an excuse for excluding them from a published holdings report when "called out" by the public. (Blame it on a software bug.) Those unreported coins could be siphoned off by spending the difference to a new master bc address and publishing a bogus report. The bogus report would check out and the BBE would confirm that the total holdings match the bc address.They could even put up a hash checker on the same page. When someone goes to calculate their hash with that handy tool it would just add them to the list on the fly (assuming they aren't already on it), and move the activity date up on the account. lol! I just thought of that one.Of course the entire list could be published as a flat text file that is PGP signed with the date/time inside of it. That would keep it from being changed on the fly. lolSure, but that doesn't matter if you can exclude some users and spend those coins behind the scenes.Anyway, it is better than nothing. I'll agree with you there. I just think there are ways to steal if one is very creative. You assume that everyone else is as skilled as you are. Most of the people who will be drawn to e-wallet systems will be people who are basically non-techs that want to use Bitcoin. They are the easiest to steal from unnoticed.This could go on and on and I do need to sleep sometime. Cheers! You can't deposit 10 BTC into an inactive account and still call it inactive. Lets say that you were proactive enough to leave 10 BTC in an account for a year just to try to catch an e-wallet provider cheating. Say the e-wallet provider published its books right now. You would have had to known this exploit a year ago. Did you really think about this a year ago? You lose.If the e-wallet provider were caught and backed into a corner they could say that they exclude inactive accounts from their reporting algorithm because it skews their statistics or something. Most of the users would believe it was a sort of accounting mistake and keep using it. They would move on to finding another way to cheat. (We are assuming they are evil for the sake of discussion, remember.)Again, you'd be missing spends between users at the same e-wallet company. The balances would not line up. This would not provide adequate proof of anything. Read this thread again; the part where I talked about why giving users a backup of their own wallet files wouldn't work. It's the same reason. You'd omit accounts from the list that haven't been used or logged into for a long period of time. Edit: Oh, and you're assuming that the e-wallet provider is storing all of the Bitcoins on one address. That may not be the case.  Sure. It can and does happen. I was merely remarking on the paradox of trust. (You can audit and auditor that audits another auditor.. ad infinitum...)Lucky for us, we have the option to trust no one by holding our own wallets with the Bitcoin client.  Vekja.net has one too. Hmm.. If the public could track a spend's lineage into and through an e-wallet provider, that might work. A "BBE" specific to mybitcoin, for example.It could upset the users because it would remove some of their privacy. You'd be able to see spends between e-wallet users and tie their commerce together.It's not an easy problem to solve. lol! That isn't a bulletproof plan either. The e-wallet company could just lie about the number of accounts in their database so that those figures more or less line up with the BBE. Sure. Now we are back to 'reputation' again. Why would the auditor lie and risk tarnishing their reputation? Well, instead of just saying "it sucks"; I've decided to try to help them. It is far more constructive. I sent Bitcoinmail the following email: Hmm.. I guess I missed that. Thanks for clearing that up.I still stand by my conclusion that Bitcoinmail is not the best way to introduce new people to Bitcoin. You're right. I guess I was just a tad choked about Bitcoinmail keeping coins.Why would I? I have no reason to.  A 3rd party audit. That's probably the best way. I sent this email to Bitcoinmail:I will summarize the reply: I was thanked for my suggestion and told that keeping unclaimed coins was their only source of income so they'd probably not change it. They were open to me suggesting a better way.In conclusion, Bitcoinmail is only useful for sending Bitcoins to people who already use Bitcoin. This totally defeats the purpose of  even using it.Edit: (Full email reply from Bitcoinmail with PGP signature removed from public view. My apologies. That was rude.) Yes and no. I suspect that spends between users at the same e-wallet (I don't like calling them "banks".) company are not handled the same way as regular Bitcoin client spends. The wallet file backups would be incomplete or not entirely accurate.For example, I've noticed that when I get Bitcoins from a regular client to mybitcoin's SCI I can see the amount on the block explorer. When I get Bitcoins from another mybitcoin user I don't see it on the block explorer. They must just move bits around in their database instead. From mybitcoin's terms: (https://www.mybitcoin.com/open-account.php)Translation: Not a bank.Translation: The Bitcoins in your mybitcoin account belong to you.Translation: Full reserve.Yes, they *could* steal and plunder and be a bunch of pirates but that would ruin their reputation. Why would they put all of this effort into this project just to toss it all away?I, personally, don't keep my Bitcoins there. I use their merchant tools because they seem to be the best ones out there so far. That's how you market software. We are trying to market a concept. There's a huge difference. Uh huh.FYI: The topic of usury has been discussed on these forums before, and in great depth.It was also frowned upon by other religions too. It was punishable by death in many regions of the world.Earning money, just because you have money, was seen as parasitic. * The Madhatter pretends to be a fortune tellerHere is what I see in your future:1. People using Bitcoinmail drive interest to Bitcoin.2. Mass "spamming" from Bitcoinmail to different sites who consider the emails to be spam or otherwise irrelevant.3. Bitcoinmail getting rich by keeping all of the unclaimed Bitcoins.If Bitcoinmail took the senders' Bitcoin address and returned the funds have been unclaimed for, say 30 days, this problem would be fixed. Also the email that Bitcoinmail sends out tells the recipient to go to bitcoin.org. That's probably a big mistake. I disagree. Full reserve holdings companies do exist, and they don't necessarily go fractional reserve "naturally".That largely depends on the agreement that you have with the organization that is holding your money. If a breach of the agreement happened the "bank" (or e-wallet company, whatever), would quickly lose the public's trust and fast become worthless/useless.Of course if it were done silently only a run on the holdings would make that information known. This is an entirely different topic. lol Neither of them are "banks". They do not make loans, charge, or pay interest.
Hello all,You've probably all noticed that most of my Bitcoin-related sites use Mybitcoin's SCI (Shopping Cart Interface).Over the past few months I have literally bent their SCI PHP toolkit into different shapes to get Mybitcoin to process for all of the whacky things I sell. (From downloadable content to virtual credit cards to automated affiliate programs to collecting security deposits on trades.)In the spirit of Christmas and Bitcoin, I'd like to offer my expertise in integrating Mybitcoin into your projects.My rates are low and my work is solid, and best of all: you can pay me in Bitcoins! PM or email me for details if you are interested.Cheers!The Madhatter Poof! And... it's... gone!Try again tomorrow!  Hello all,I'm pleased to announce the availability of U.S. Dollar denominated virtual Visa cards on Bitcoin2CC! (There is currently 1 card left in inventory. More cards will be added tomorrow morning.)Cheers! http://www.datacell.com/news.php"We have received a suspension notice stating that Visa Europe has ordered our payment processor to suspend payments and undertake due diligence investigation in order to pretect the Visa brand ensure neither the payment processor nor Visa Europe is running legal risks by facilitating payments for the funding of the Wikileaks website. For the same reasons the payment processor has suspended the payments of Mastercard.""DataCell ehf who facilitates those payments towards Wikileaks has decided to take up immediate legal actions to make donations possible again." I remember Yodel. It was centralized and it wasn't online for very long. Bah!That Capulin coffee stuff at Coffee4Bitcoin is far better stuff than starbucks sells, in my opinion. Plus you get to drink it at the best cafe in the world: your own home! Edit: Their slogan "It's a trip" is quite accurate!  Don't use too many of those green beans (light roast).. I haven't slept for days. Seriously. Haha! That's what I've been doing.. patiently waiting...  I assumed everyone else would do that too. Oh, I have been adjusting the rates.  I have two accounts... call me 'greedy'.  Yup. I just added 5 more.  Hey! Those were not suggestions!  Oh, nice! I love I2P!  The status of Bitcoin2CC? I refill it every 2 days. I could literally sell $500/day worth of cards on that site if I wanted to.The problem is that I am unable to sell the coins off fast enough so I have to keep pausing/throttling Bitcoin2CC so that Bitcoin4Cash can catch up. :/As it stands now there are 5 cards available. They'll provably be gone by the end of today. Hey all,I had another great idea. (I'm on a roll today...)I've constructed 2 affiliate programs for my proof-of-concept adult sites:Bitcoin XXX Affiliate ProgramBitcoin Gay XXX Affiliate ProgramEssentially you just link to either of those sites (or both) with your Bitcoin address as your "affiliate code". The sites carry the affiliate's Bitcoin address through the mybitcoin processor and it splits the sale 50/50. The affiliate is paid instantly.Bitcoin is a nice fit for adult affiliate programs because you can pay out as sales happen (unlike other costly methods), use the affiliate's Bitcoin address as the affiliate code (no messy registration or signup forms are needed), and of course: there are no chargebacks. Suggestions?The Madhatter Well now there are two sites!  Hello all,I'm proud to announce that I finally have Bitcoin4Cash trades semi-automated. (A humanoid still has to open the envelopes.  )You can now book trades here instantly without having to email me each time.Check it out and let me know what you think. Cheers!The Madhatter Happy lane? Sounds dreamy...   Uh huh. I had also emailed Jed in private suggesting that he offer that option a while ago. His response was to open this thread.There isn't a story. I won't do Paxum/Payoneer because of the KYC requirements involved in dealing it. I suggested that Jed (owner of Mtgox) offer it as a convenient 'cash out' option.Yes. KYC requirements, all participants must show ID, and I'd need to actually have a bank account and corporation to run such a service. I am unwilling to comply with all of the above for various reasons. That's about as specific as I care to get.As it stands, I'll continue to run Bitcoin2CC exactly the same way it is running right now. I can offer instant one-time VISA #s that are anonymous.Someone also mentioned that you can buy the #s from me via a Tor .onion address. Yes, this is true.  I agree.Can you post the source of this information? Thanks. 
http://www.businessinsider.com/the-bank-that-froze-julian-assanges-bank-account-has-now-been-taken-down-by-hackers-2010-12++  ! http://www.theregister.co.uk/2010/12/06/anonymous_launches_pro_wikileaks_campaign/  What do you guys think of lojban? Some say it is better than esperanto, and it is easier to learn. +1I call it Face Crook. Whenever someone posts my photo to that site I see red. David Icke would say that all lizards have slimy hands.  I think the bounty should be offered to the author of "Money as Debt". Just my 2 BTC.  Uhh.. Yes it can. It could always do that. It can rebill on subscriptions up to 3 levels deep. I know PayPal's API inside out and backwards.If the Bitcoin recurring payment system can't do "trials" you can kiss 80% of the recurring business goodbye. Your recurring payment suggestion is too simplistic.It should be able to do trials and up to 3 steps of billing. (Most sites don't need more than 3, we could make it unlimited I suppose).Example: 4 BTC for the first 7 days, then 100 BTC every 30 days after that until canceled.Example #2: 1 BTC for the first 90 days, 40 BTC every month for 6 months, until canceled.There are lots of sites that really need to offer trials. If you leave them in the dark, Bitcoin will suffer. +1That's why it is important to NOT be a corporation. 'Limited liability' is for thieves. Run UNlimited!  Nope. Gift cards will never be refillable.Refillable cards require the seller to comply with KYC regulations. (Take ID, your blood, your house, we want it all... we want your soul!.. damn that song is still in my head! Haha!)Tell Jed to integrate Paxum and Payoneer already. Jeeze!  This makes me hate Paypal even more than I already do. I didn't even think that was possible. "Not only do we put our hands down your pants, but we also spy on your transactions in realtime."   Credit cards are not really anonymous. They'd be better off buying Bitcoins with cash from someone they trust and then moving the Bitcoins for illicit items.This would only obfuscate the trail of funds. It wouldn't make it impossible to get caught.If they are going to go through that much trouble they might be better off just buying illicit items with cash in person (or perhaps by mail). I actually *just* got to 1:00 and heard the email about "The Madhatter". Haha!Great... now I have cops at my door... again...  j/k Is it just me, or does he call mtgox "MOUNT COCKS" at 30:27?   You should do what I do: assume that the boneheads at the bank have already leaked the card information.chaord's service is the least of our worries. Look at Onioncat. I don't think they are anonymous. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bqtIafdoH_gThanks, Cana-DUH!   Yes! They work at ATMs.
Hello all Bitcoiners!If someone were to create a website to convert Bitcoins to Paxum/Payoneer they'd be a huge success overnight. I'm serious.What is Paxum/Payoneer?They are essentially replacements for the now defunct Epassporte. They have APIs that could enable an exchanger (you?) to have reloadable Mastercards mailed out (they handle all the mail for you) to a Bitcoiner and have those physical cards reloaded instantly at any time. Combine this with Mybitcoin, and you'd have a lean, mean, exchanging machine!Imagine the repeat business? It would be 'off the hook'.Paxum seems to be the new industry leader with Payoneer as a close 2nd. Both operate from favorable jurisdictions.I suspect that Paxum is owned by the same people who used to run Epassporte, but I can't prove it.  I could build this myself and make a killing, but I'd like to put it out there. I don't want to be the largest or only exchanger. Cheers!The Madhatter Try MoneyStream. They'll do PSC -> LR$ and I've used their service many times. Their English is bad (they're Russian), so be forewarned! lol Crazy people? Some would say that the people on this forum are the crazy ones. "Creating your own currency? Pfft! Yeah right! Only governments can do that!", etc...  Where are your servers located?Edit: nm, I just read your site. Oh, I added you to Bitcoin Directory. Hmm.. I'm not sure if I can get the cards encoded with a particular name on them or not. I'll have to talk to the bank. Was I kidding? Hmm... I should be able to send them for the cost of a stamp/envelope by lettermail.It should work wherever VISA is accepted. I might be able to get the $100 denominations as physical cards. I could mail them out as lettermail.Any interest in this service? http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ALZZx1xmAzg No, sorry. They have been contacted before. Check out their forum. Thanks for your efforts; they only help.  Hahaha! I just spilt my coffee! Hahahahaha    First gay adult site to accept Bitcoins. (It has a 18+ warning page on it.)http://www.bitcoingayxxx.com/Bitcoin Gay XXX - Amateur Gay Item Downloads! 100% Anonymous!Edit: Before people complain about this and that let me make this clear: Bitcoin XXX and Bitcoin Gay XXX are more or less proof of concept sites. I'm attempting to prove to the adult industry that Bitcoins are useful to them. I am not running them for any other reason really. I call it "legalized fraud". As the credit card (and other general) debts increase the governments of the world make it harder and harder to file bankruptcy.Also, (I may be wrong) I heard that you can only file bankruptcy in the USA once.If you file bankruptcy where I live you become a 'financial leper'. No bank will loan you money for 7 years. It is called usury, and practicing it was punishable by death in some places. Yes.Have you seen the sequel? "Money as Debt II"? It's even better, in my opinion. I managed to refill again from some spares I had. I have to wait until the banks are open to add more. I am aware of that, thank you.I am selling them as fast as I refill them at the moment. Haha! I didn't mention the amount for a reason. The mystery man would have to supply that information to claim his "prize".  I wonder if the US Gov would go after domains like tor2web.com if everyone switched to Tor hidden services.
Your girlfriend knew what you were talking about? I'm surprised.  "They live".. you don't.Get it? Correct. You are sending me a gift.. a giftcard.  Get it?  Mailing a giftcard isn't against the rules.I'll trade you $100 USD's worth of Bitcoins for it. When I receive it here I'll just buy something from myself (with my virtual terminal) and destroy the card.Email sent. Hmm... you just gave me a great idea!I could accept prepaid visa gift cards in the mail (with the receipt) and charge the cards when they arrive with my USD merchant numbers and then destroy the card. (The customer can't chargeback without the receipt AND plastic card.) I would send the Bitcoins to the customer at that point.There would be no risk of chargebacks that way, and I don't have to lose on currency conversion. I can already charge credit cards in US funds.If someone wants to try it out email me or PM me -- I'll try it out at cost (0%). US Dollar VISA giftcards only! (Sorry to my friends in Europe.)The MadhatterP.S. $100 card numbers have been refilled @ Bitcoin 2 Credit Card They are very similar, except I am able to activate them as they are ordered. I also get them at wholesale prices. If you buy one over the counter they are activated at the shop and they are far more expensive. Hello,This is a request for a particular mystery man from LA.Your QR code on the envelope is unreadable.The letter arrived at my location with the ink smudged. I don't know who you are.Thanks! Currently, I buy Visa numbers from two different banks. They both charge a fee for each card number up front. The purchase fee is in dollars. (CAD). Because these card numbers are essentially prefunded they do not bear any interest charges, or overdue fees when in use, so I assume this is how the banks make their money.The pricing works like this: A $25 number, for example, has a purchase fee in dollars. I add my own fee in dollars to that for my time. (Unfortunately I can't refill my inventories automatically. I buy the numbers in batches and I have to manually copy+paste them into my database.) The combined fee in dollars is converted to Bitcoins using the Canadian Dollar exchange rate from Bitcoin 4 Cash.I am still adjusting the prices around, so you'll likely see some card denominations go up and some go down. I'm trying to match/or beat the retail rates, but it is difficult when each bank that I use charges different fees.I am still trying to find that "sweet spot" where the prices are fair and competitive for Bitcoin users, I can make a bit of scratch to cover my expenses, and provide a valuable service at the same time. I hope that answers your question. ... and when you chargeback you are chased by men in a black van who forcefully remove the gum from your mouth. Yes it is lame, but it is better than nothing. You know how the average joe thinks. If it is on wikipedia it makes Bitcoin seem more credible and "real". Jeeze.. I sure hope so. Someone should revive the wikipedia page and add this article as a 'source' ASAP.It would be nice to have Bitcoin in wikipedia before interested readers start trying to search for it.  Nice to know the cards work on PayPal. I swore them as my mortal enemy years ago, so I didn't test it.I do trades in both directions now; each and every day. It's possible. However, I don't have any connections there.... Ask and ye shall receive. Send me an email. Yup. Spend until the # no longer works and discard. If you need more credit, you just purchase a new number.Now if only I could keep up with demand better. I'm selling them as fast as I refill them. I'm only getting card numbers in small quantities because I still consider the service to be in 'beta'.Cheers!  Have you seen BitcoinGateway.com yet? Edit: He pulled it down to work on it. It is in beta, I think. No. The virtual card numbers work right "out of the box". Bitcoin2CC activates them upon purchase automatically.Registration is only useful when you are making purchases online from stores that do address verification. https://www.bitcoin.org/smf/index.php?topic=1895.msg24165#msg24165 Well, thank you.  That comment made my day! You should be able to register the card to your country by using an address in your area. Or, you can optionally use a VoIP phone number in Canada. Some of them can do SMS now. (I don't know if you need SMS to make it Liqpay work; I've never used it before.) Okay. Thanks for your valued input.  We have Virgin Mobile in Canada.Maybe you can give them a call and see? Hmm...  I just received an email from a guy who moved Bitcoins into Bitcoin2CC and used the card number to top up his prepaid cell phone. He told me it worked brilliantly. I like positive feedback! Oh crap.. I'm running low on card numbers again.. eek! Awesome.  Yeah, for sure. We should linkswap or something once you get your system up and running.
@noagendamarket: I completely agree.Canada's emperor is Sandy McTire. He's my hero.  Hey guys,Just an update. After talking to the banks in great detail (Yes, they're open. We already had our Thanksgiving up here. We can't wait for turkey. ) I came to the following conclusions:If I sell reloadable cards or sell US$ cards I have to collect everyone's identification, keep it on file, and submit it to Visa. There are also a pile of other KYC regulations I'd have to comply with once I even touch US$. If I touch US$ I have to comply with US laws by proxy. The USA has a lot more laws regarding this sort of stuff than Canada does.Now for some good news:1. I just refilled the card inventory again. I was running low -- again. 2. I am now able to load cards up to $500 instead of $100. I am in the process of getting $250 and $500 cards. The higher priced cards make the fees a lot easier to swallow. I might discontinue the $25 card in the near future for this reason. Thoughts?3. I am under a pile of paperwork right now to get setup as a high volume reseller. Once this happens my costs will go way down and I'll pass the savings onto the customer. I'll likely just match the retail price.Cheers!The Madhatter Okay, don't tell the truth then. From my experience; if the merchant number provider doesn't understand what you are selling your application is denied, or you have to put up a large deposit. Edit: I really do wish you the best. If you can keep your shirt on, and not get steamrolled by fraudsters, you will be running the single most important piece of 'Bitcoin machinery'.  4. What did you really tell your merchant number provider that you are selling? The cards are priced internally as CAD$ then converted to BTC.So, to answer your question you are technically paying CAD to get CAD.  Check the FAQ on the site. It'll answer all of your questions.Cheers!  I hoard them until Bitcoin fails! Bwhahaha! j/k I sell them on Bitcoin 4 Cash.  Yes, as far as I know.The only thing I'm not sure is if they work with PayPal or not.  Thank you, Bruce.Yes, it is very real -- I promise. Scouts' honor!  Okay, I'll add you to my list. I want to wait until I see if I can get US$ numbers or not first. Hey all,Just made some progress over at Bitcoin Directory. Yes, I know the site is as ugly as sin -- it will get a much needed redesign soon. The Internet is, unfortunately, more about quantity than quality in most cases. Anyway, I am now holding the top spots on the search engines for "Bitcoin Directory" and other related keywords and traffic is climbing. I've decided to monetize the traffic a tad by selling a top banner spot in each category.You can check out some of the ads I'm running by browsing the site. You can also check out the Bitcoin Directory Advertise page. In true "madhatter fashion" it is to straight to the point with no added "bs". Cheers! A friend of mine is a large commercial banking customer. I was able to persuade him to use his leverage and his bank accounts. It's all about who you know. Sure, I could have used gift cards but the prices for them are way too high. It's really the difference between paying retail and paying wholesale.Anyway... I digress... lol Lol!Card9 is funny. The cards are not backed by Visa or Mastercard so they're useless in my opinion. It's basically a loyalty card program.I have a meeting at my bank later today to see if I can get US$ Visa numbers.  I agree. I can't send a layperson to it and expect them to grasp the concept.BitcoinMe.com makes a great attempt at explaining what it is. I've started sending people to it. Okay, email me your server details and I'll get something installed. Fragment? Oh, I was talking about the Bitcoin to virtual credit card market. Okay, we should probably talk via PM and get this stuff rolling. Okay, great.The current system is a very very small set of PHP scripts with a MySQL backend. You guys will either have to setup some hosting (I'm currently using a VPS at link2voip, and a privacyshark domain.. lol.. all paid for with BTC) and a domain name or you'll have to trust me to host it for you. Either way the desired effect is virtually the same. (Probably best if you hosted it.. distributed, distributed, distributed... lol)We should cross-promote the sites too. "For USD Cards click here" or something like that. Perhaps just a pulldown menu with currencies and a "take me there" button.The site is tied in with mybitcoin and I have the mybitcoin account setup to just bounce the coins to my main wallet here. So each of you will need a mybitcoin account with a similar setup. I can set this up for you and let you login and change the password to lock me out of it.I spent an entire day coding this system so I'd like to be compensated for my time in building the initial system -- payable in Bitcoins of course. My compensation was supposed to eventually be made from the commissions on the cards. A dream that won't be realized if the market is about to fragment. I also understand that fragmenting this is a very good thing for the community.After compensation/setup it's basically a free for all. You can redistribute the software to your heart's content. Also I will provide all of the support required to install and setup the software and get each of you up and running independently. You are likely to run into different snags getting setup and I promise to iron them all out. Do we have an accord? Hey.. wait a second!!!What if we cloned this site for Australia and the USA?We don't need to compete. Personally, I see this as a public service. The more of these systems we have in place, the better.What do you guys think? Hahahaha! I'll call my banks in the morning and see if they can do US$ card numbers for me. No promises.
+1 Brock Tice Just did the #5th sale. I keep reloading #s and they keep selling. Ahh!I'll consider the code debugged now.  * The Madhatter quickly edits the FAQChanged: Oh crap... thanks for pointing that out. They are Canadian Dollars.More stuff to add to the FAQ!  Hello,Those are good questions. I'll likely add them to my FAQ.I am the issuer. The banks I use are in Canada. Not to knock the USA or anything, but I think that having your funds outside of the USA is a good thing. Look to e-gold, Liberty Dollar, and GoldAge as examples.The banks typically charge a 2% spread on foreign exchange. Visa takes some, the bank takes some. This is typical of all credit cards.That's expensive gum.  You'd have to buy something for $13 or less or make smaller purchase until the balance is depleted.The best deal is on the $100 VISA, currently. I am keeping the price artificially low on that one on purpose to pick up some Bitcoins for B4C. This is a limited time offer -- so act fast. (end of sales pitch).Cheers!The Madhatter Hello all,I just increased the inventory and lowered the price. I'm running this service almost at cost to get it going. I'll likely raise the prices once I get some trade velocity happening. Get your cards while the pickin' is good! Cheers!The Madhatter The port isn't unknown. The IP/port are published to the network once the client has seeded successfully. Every other node writes that to their addr.dat.As far as I can tell the addr.dat contains IP/port already.  I'm still advocating for a few small changes to the protocol now before it becomes too much of a PITA to change later. (I mentioned this on the forum about 10 months ago.)1. The handshake should be reversed. An open Bitcoin port shouldn't identify what it is. The connecting client should initiate the handshake. This improves privacy a lot. Think nmap. Think spies. Think any tool that can fingerprint (I use telnet) a service by simply connecting to an open port.2. The connections should be SSL. We should try to emulate FF connecting to Apache or DPI will eventually become our worst enemy. We should take what the Tor developers learned the hard way into account early on.3. The Bitcoin client should choose a random unused port to listen on when it is first installed. For a ISP or even a nation to block port 8333 is quite easy and is becoming easier all the time.4. UPnP is a must. The Bitcoin client should automatically open up whatever port it decided on with UPnP. This will relive a lot of NAT problems and will extend the P2P network a lot better. Bitcoin2CC just did its first real trade!It's allivveee!!  Thanks for being so understanding.  Ahh.. I was confusing you with someone today who was trying to rip me off. My apologies. Yes, I see all of the correspondence now. I sent you a quote on the 9th, and replied with delivery instructions on the 15th. You replied again saying that you had made other arrangements.That was during that gap of time when I was relocating my office. (It's mentioned briefly on the forum.)I wasn't trying to screw with you or anything. I really was away. Automating the site should solve problems like this going forward. Huh?You emailed me on the 17th wanting to trade, I replied with a quote (@0.2739) which read: "If we have an accord, please reply and I'll send delivery instructions.".You replied today (22nd) wanting those instructions right after the price moved over 0.30.Nice try. Thanks for all of the positive feedback guys!  I'm working on that.  Huh? I don't know what FlyingMoose is talking about.I don't pull any nasty tricks like that.I'm in the process of automating B4C now. Customers will be able to lock in a rate instantly without having to email with me back and forth. I'm sure it will make the experience better for myself and my customers.  Hello all,I'm pleased to announce the latest Madhatter site!Bitcoin 2 Credit CardThis site will enable anyone to sell me their Bitcoins for a virtual credit card.Best of all: it is 100% automated. Please use this thread to post suggestions, comments, and other 'beefs' with the service.Enjoy!The Madhatter Bitcoin2CC.com now accepts Bitcoins for virtual credit cards. FYI: The merchant system @ mybitcoin doesn't need javascript. Oh, well that's new.  I haven't looked at the source since 0.3.10. PHP's float precision can be adjusted in the php.ini file too.
Sure. That is their form of access control. They broadcast their streams 24/7 to everyone. (Sometimes even to those who don't need/want the signal.) To prevent theft they scramble all of the content and rent you a box to decode it.The Internet doesn't work the same way. The Internet has a lot of public content that has no need for encryption (you already mentioned YouTube) and you propose that we encrypt it and make the Internet slower? Why exactly? Just 'because we can'?With all of the SSL MITM/sniffing stuff aside, the IP connections can still be logged and the data flows measured. What you are doing can still be assumed. You can still be implicated for connecting to a naughty site, etc.For example, say you connect to an adult site from work and this site is entirely https. Your boss still knows you were looking at porn on company time. He cares not which individual image or video you downloaded. These two statements are contradictory. Are you sure? Tons of ISPs do transparent caching.Security != encryption. For paid content (small static files), I'd choose http over https any day. For handling logins/sensitive information I'd use SSL. There is no reason to SSL an entire site. Especially when the content is public anyway.That's not what I meant. I was pointing out that SSL isn't a "cure all" for MITM/sniffing attacks. If the browsers got their $hit together when it came to SSL it would be far better than it currently is. I know all of this already. You're preaching to the choir. Oh sure. Webmail should have always had SSL. I'm surprised they went this long without it. I'm sure that back when Hotmail started the CPU overhead would have killed them. I know this isn't the case now.SSL is a PITA for content delivery. It just won't fly. If I can't let ISPs cache my content I need 10x the amount of servers. Not to mention my site slows down because the ability for ISPs to cache my content local to a particular geographic region isn't possible.SSL also doesn't stop MITM/sniffing problems since no browser cares when SSL certs change. Until browsers ship with a plugin like Certificate Patrol (for FF), SSL won't save anyone from these attacks.Food for thought..  That will never happen.I used to think that too; until I flipped some of my extremely high traffic sites to https and my bandwidth consumption jumped. Turns out ISPs that used to be able to cache my images are unable to now. https is great, but it sucks on sites with lots and lots of images.  Think about what happens when a new Bitcoin install is downloading from block #1...  Why am I sold? Well, I've been waiting for a system like this for a long time.  I've been through every 'slash and burn' Visa merchant regulation change since 1998. I've witnessed the rise and fall of many centralized payment systems. I've seen bank/court/government corruption with my own eyes, and on and on..  A lot of people on this forum can probably relate to this. My biggest fear is that government will stifle the adoption of Bitcoin by making it illegal. This, in turn, would compel any corporation in their jurisdiction to refuse to use it.We will end up with people who use Bitcoin illegally or from jurisdictions where it is still legal. The "wild west cowboys"; if you will. The mainstream media would likely smear Bitcoin and tell the general public that it only has one use - to further the black market. You'll get the typical vox populi reaction in the name of protecting children/animals/environment/"insert some cause here"; individuals will stop using it out of fear and it will snowball from there. They know how to play the hegelian dialectic game quite well. That said; I think we still have to try.I, for one, am not giving up. Cheers!The Madhatter You should allow the Bitcoin client with generation switched off.  The coffee arrived today. I chose the light roast.It has a great flavor and is super caffeinated. This is definitely one of the best coffees I've ever purchased!Kudos!  I had sent a message to Satoshi and Stefan regarding a radio/youtube interview.Neither one of them ever replied. More correspondence:Reply: I'd like some tuna too, please!   "You are free to do as we tell you!"[ ] <-- INSERT SOUL HEREHere's a copy of the original song by Adam Freeland: freeland_We_Want_Your_Soul.mp3 Why should I trust a closed source on-chip AES-256 implementation?You are further ahead using a cheap thumb drive and whole disk crypto. Also, be sure to keep more than one backup of your thumb drive. That should solve the thumb drive theft and/or theft/copy/silently return it problems.As for the 10 password guess limit and self-destruct feature: I use GELI on FreeBSD and I leave my AES keys on a *computer*. The passwords are in my noggin'. Have fun toying with my thumb drives. They are inexpensive 'bricks'.Chips covered in epoxy? Who cares. I consider thumb drives disposable anyway. Lose a cheap thumb drive? It's an annoyance. Lose that IronKey thing and you might cry. Don't fall for hype.  When I see/hear the term "legal protection" I always think of a mafia being paid-off to leave someone alone. Damn those protection rackets.  http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uH10WJxXbcQWhat do we want? Your soul of course. I more or less just talking out of my arse. I know that each release of the Bitcoin application has a block lock in it. They move this lock forward each release.I was just toying with the idea (if it is possible) to move that lock forward (never backward) automatically.  I'd imagine that Bitcoin would fork into something else. "Bitcoin II: The resurrection"? It would have extensive block locking support or something. *shrug** The Madhatter cues the x-files theme song Ahh.. now that's satire!  That is correct. He might just be really busy.
Hello all,It has been 30 days. I am emailing the mybitcoin username/password to Stefan now.Thanks to all who donated!The Madhatter Hello,My apologies. I have been busy moving my office yet again. I am only able to access my email via I2P and I just got my router linked up again. I'll get to everyone's emails tonight.The MadhatterP.S. I will, of course, still honor any quotes that were given.Edit: Everyone has been answered.  It would be trivial for government(s) to shut down Tor's directory servers. There are only a handful of them. I think that I2P has a far better design in this regard. It has no central directory servers, the use of UDP (as well as TCP), streaming support, and the ability to TX/RX over different paths. Not to mention that I2P's hidden services (called eepsites) are WAY faster than Tor's hidden services.  The auto update feature is the only scary part of I2P. If the authors were forced to trojan, or otherwise tamper with the I2P update, the network would be screwed. This can be remedied by switching the update feature off and manually auditing each update of course.  I've had files stay for ~3 months without being accessed. If you are really paranoid just setup a cron that polls your USK or CHK every so often. Also, you'll likely refresh/change the backup within 3 months anyway. Sure!Upload a backup of your wallet.dat (encrypt it first).Join FMS and setup a Bitcoin forum!   "Europe" is vague. Which country in Europe are you hosting from?Thank you for accepting Bitcoins!  Driving is something that few humans can do correctly. I think that small autonomous airplanes are the way to go. A fleet them would be awesome!  More correspondence below:Stefan:The Madhatter: Very true.The system we have here is also very deceptive. It is a double-headed snake.We have a constitutional monarchy (Common Law) that operates upon the 'Dominion of Canada' ('Dominions' are always under empires. The 'British Empire' in our case. The dominion was never properly federated.), and the sovereign provinces. The people on the lands invest their sovereignty with the queen/king in exchange for certain protections that are outlined in the Magna Charta (and the Bill of Rights). The protections are universal. Kind of like the USA's constitutional republic. (Limiting power is always a good idea.)We have a queen "in trust". The "governor general" is our viceroy (latin for "in place of king"). Essentially she's a trustee. She holds the queen's power on our lands over here. We don't get to vote her in. The queen appoints the governor general.Our 'overlords' (sarcasm) realized that they could not control the free men/women very well so they incorporated "CANADA". (Do an EDGAR search on sec.gov for CANADA if you don't believe me.). CANADA was incorporated in Delaware. (I have the filings if anyone wants them.) They then offered social security, welfare, and passed legal tender statutes. (This should sound familiar.)Each new birth (humans are born, not "birthed"), is incorporated (more accurately, it is a trust corporation) under "CANADA". Under this corporate system (our version of a democracy) our rights are given to us as a privilege. We are told we are free, but we are under debt slavery. Our sweat equity floats a bond that is used to borrow money against. This money is injected into the general economy.As it stands today every province is a corporation, every police "service" (no thanks), every city, and every court.The corruption is even deeper than this. We have more than one corporation for many Canadian cities. They are often incorporated here, and in some US state. When someone pays a traffic ticket where is the money going? Probably to the corporation in the USA. It keeps it off the books in Canada so they can borrow even more from banks and enslave us all further. And I digress... I see (your opinions may differ) the corporate/democracy layer over my lands as a complete scam. The Common Law system still exists, but unfortunately, less and less people know how to use it, and less and less courts seem to want to even deal with it.To quote a great man: "Our forefathers made a nation and we inherited a corporation". New submission on BitcoinDirectory.com today:Title: Pimp DollarURL: http://www.pimpdollar.com/Description: Adult affiliate program that pays out in BitcoinsI can confirm that they do pay out in Bitcoin. I have changed my adult link to take advantage of their affiliate program. In fact, I might run a small text ad on the "adult" section of Bitcoin Directory   Bump!If you've listened to or read any of Stefan's books that's worth at least 50 cents.     I learned this 'the hard way' over 8 years ago. Well, that should be common sense. I'm not sure what you mean by this.There are many ways to accomplish this. Hopefully someone can get something running soon. These lessons are yet to be learned by most of you:8. Corporate REGIStration for Bitcoin-accepting businesses is always a bad idea. (Look up the latin word 'regis'. Understand 'juris' and 'diction' too.).Edit: For those who are lazy: Regis is Latin for "of the King". Who really owns your registered corporation?  You have a privilege (private law) to use the charter, but you don't own it. The "king" ("the state" in modern times) does. When/if they pass a statute banning Bitcoin (or use existing anti-money laundering statutes) you'll have your charter revoked (returned to it's rightful owner; the "king") so fast it will make your head spin.  This includes any/all property owned by the corporation as well.9. Accepting Visa/Mastercard for Bitcoins will get your bank accounts frozen eventually. (Not to mention get you scammed rather badly.) This was partially learned by buybitcoins.com, despite my vocal oppositions. (Out of concern for his financial well-being, of course.)10. Any 3rd-party processors that deal with Visa/Mastercard will get scammed and will pass this fraud onto you eventually. This includes such 'brilliant' ideas such as using Alert/Liqpay to deal Bitcoins. Enjoy getting ripped off. It will happen. I guarantee it.11. 'Money laundering' investigations are easy to attract when your bank doesn't understand your business model. You can easily get your bank accounts frozen too. Corporate charters can be revoked by local government for almost any reason; including your inaction to a request or inability to explain what your corporation did/does.12. Learn the difference between a privilege and a right.13. ACH payments can be disputed and revoked. Expect scams.14. SWIFT payments can be disputed and revoked. Expect scams.15. Counterfeit money orders/cashier's checks do exist. Expect scams.I've posted many times in the past along these lines, but no one seems to listen. Oh well. I've just been sitting back and watching everyone learn these lessons like I did -- the hard way. Without any ill will, malice, or vexation,The Madhatter I am currently doing this for freedomainradio.  I have to start the market rate somewhere. That URL 404s for me.  I already have people sending me Can Tire money! Haha. I'll eventually be able to buy that welder I always wanted!  Go Sandy McTire!  I'll assume you're asking me. It's a combination of mtgox/bcm and trade data from my own trades. I do allow my clients to haggle a bit on larger orders.  I have 8 mailboxes on different carrier routes. If I suspect something is up, I just switch addresses and change names.  Done. Bitcoin4CashI'd gladly mail a Timcard to anyone who sent me Bitcoins for one. Cheers!The Madhatter You have a PM.  I didn't know you could get your hands on them in the USA. Hmm.. this could work.noagendamarket: I would gladly trade you BTC for Canadian Tire money straight across with no commissions. I have a hard time actually trading AUD back to my customers or even converting it into CAD/USD. The local banks rip me off so bad on AUD to CAD exchange. (Almost 8%) Haha! Forget creating a Bitcoin note to be circulated. We should just use unregulated can tire scrip. I can repatriate it as people need their BTC back.  Hahahahaha!  
Yup. A lot of local merchants in Canada accept it as money. I can actually go to a few bars near me and buy beer with Canadian Tire money. It is a form of scrip actually, not money. It isn't legal tender here. It is "store credit". It is also completely unregulated by our government so it could be a good fit for Bitcoin.I just added Canadian Tire money to Bitcoin4Cash.com, mostly for giggles. I'm also in the process of acquiring more of it. Here is a photo of what the scrip looks like: http://www.pennylicious.com/images/2006-09/canadian-tire-money.jpg It has standard security features such as microprint, raised ink, and planchettes.The man on the notes is a fictional character called "Sandy McTire". Don't ask.   I have Canadian Tire money kicking around. Let me know if you want to trade Bitcoins for it.  Someone just submitted a link to BitcoinDirectory.com today under "Adult".Pretty Justine - Photos for adultshttp://www.PrettyJustine.com/ Okay, I emailed Stefan and PM'd Satoshi. I think it would be really neat if Stefan could produce a youtube video that contains an interview with Satoshi. Even if it is just a video that has Stefan reading an email of questions answered by Satoshi it would help Bitcoin a lot.  Hmm.. Stefan hasn't responded to my 2nd email yet. I'll email him again in a couple of days. He's probably busy. Just an FYI: I offer rate discounts on larger Bitcoin cash buy orders ($500+).I can also do Bitcoin sell orders with an international bank wire (SWIFT/ABA; favorable jurisdiction) at a great rate ($500 minimum). Nice!  *shaking your hand* Great work! I have a response from Stefan.My latest email to him:His response to my first email:My original email: Oh sure. I'm trying to get him to directly adopt Bitcoin; it is my preference as well. I figure if I don't hear from him I'll auction the coins publicly and have the winner drop PayPal into his account.  I have just contacted Stefan to tell him about the fundraiser. I'll post again once I get a reply.  The more directories we have, the better! It can only help Bitcoin.  Hello all,I am starting a fundraiser for Stefan Molyneux / Freedomain Radio.If you enjoy his commentary/videos/philosophy you can donate by sending your coins here:19vhXH8her5oBsZGdnRy4AU7cJoJRMuk8u(This is a mybitcoin account that I will hand over to him in 30 days).Cheers!The Madhatter Nope. I want it to be fast and plaintext for search engine goodness. Nowhere yet. I am working on a rating +/- setting. The current ratings are just arbitrary amounts. I actually had this idea 6 months ago, but never acted upon it until now. My site is free (possibly ad supported in the future); so there is a minuscule difference. Also http://www.bitcoindirectory.com/(shameless plug) Bitcoin Directoryhttp://www.bitcoindirectory.com/Edit: It is alpha code, so please be kind.  That's not entirely true. ACH works in Canada/US and some (very few) countries in South America. "Cash is king". No PayPal risk or fees... 
.08 and I'll send you AUD in the mail for it. Each time I am close to submitting a port, the codebase/makefiles change. I'm waiting until the development of Bitcoin dies down a tad before I work on the port again.Compiling it on FreeBSD is easier now. You just have to enable a define, adjust some library/include paths, and it compiles and runs great.  It isn't all bad. It also attracts the privacy conscientious.  Hello all,I recently gained access to a bank account in a very favorable jurisdiction. The privacy laws are superb. You couldn't ask for anything better.I am now able to buy (not sell) Bitcoins with a USD (only) bank wire. I can wire to any account in the world via SWIFT or a US account via the ABA.I am able to pay a 2% premium for this express payment service. Unfortunately the bank fees are quite high on my end so I'll have to enforce a $500 USD per transaction minimum.Email or PM me for details. Email is preferred. I check email more often. My email address and PGP key are available on my website. See signature for details. Offer not available in Antarctica. The Madhatter I hate to say "I told you so"... :/ It would work in a perfect world. Accepting money with "strings" from strangers abroad is a bad idea.If we could do face-to-face credit/debit sales of Bitcoins (prepaid cards?) at major retailers the fraud would be manageable. It's not like you can buy something from Amazon directly with LR either. These people just don't get the concept yet. I've had many many many discussions with people about Bitcoin and I'm surprised how many intelligent people don't grasp it right away. It has a steep learning curve. Cheers to my fellow cryptoanarchists!  +1 These people are "seasoned" alt currency people and they don't even get it. lol! I stumbled upon this very active discussion about Bitcoin over at the TalkGold forums. You guys might find it to be an interesting read.http://www.talkgold.com/forum/showthread.php?p=3971065 It would have ended up at the dead letter office. After that, they may have tried to redeliver it one more time. Good thing you put a return address on it. *thumbs up* Also, you seem to have an honest postie. I know it was already mentioned on the forums, but the word "cash" on the envelope is just asking for trouble. I've thought about accepting Bitcoin for goods via craigslist and kijiji. It would definitely push Bitcoin into the mainstream.I could sell my old car for Bitcoins! That would be fun as well as funny.  "Give me control of a nation's money and I care not who makes her laws." - Mayer Amschel Rothschild Seeding from Tor is a snap. There are 7 .onion nodes that can provide IPs. I'd also just switch the IRC stuff off with '-noirc' to speed it up.See https://www.bitcoin.org/smf/index.php?topic=59.msg14635#msg14635 Okay, great stuff nelisky.Translations are very helpful as well.  I disagree. If you were trying to hide you would choose the most common name available. That's exactly what I'm saying. It isn't only possible; they do it! Money laundering directly through a bank is unnecessary and stupid. The criminals that end up on the news are the stupid ones who thought it was necessary.You are still thinking too small. Large criminals simply start their own factories to manufacture arms, cars, and boats. They launder through businesses, not banks! Once they are large enough, they lobby (aka "bribe") politicians to protect their operations through legislation/turning a blind eye to it all. I can provide many examples upon request.I've seen many city blocks of construction in Moscow that was all built with drug proceeds. The cash was paid directly to the construction workers. (Where is the bank? I don't see one?) This construction wasn't just allowed, but it was given the full cooperation of government. The buildings were either rented (clean legal income from renters), or sold (clean income again).The only reason this job was figured out was that a government official wasn't paid enough and said something about it. (A rare occurrence.) Think about all of the times it happens unnoticed. By the time the government went after these criminals they had disappeared and were busy working on their next business in another country.I should say at this time that I do not condone criminal activity. Crime is a social problem that must be understood in order to stop/prevent it. Okay, great.So we have Canada, USA, and Australia covered. It costs $1.70 CAD ($1.67 USD) to mail Europe from here. Can anyone do this cheaper than I can? It's a feedback loop. Bitcoin will attract criminals. It is inevitable. These criminals will be sensationalized on the news which will scare away legitimate business and attract more criminals. We have to be prepared for this.  The more I think about Satoshi, the more I think his name is an alias.Someone smart enough to develop Bitcoin wouldn't be stupid enough to put his real name on it. No judgments here. I would probably do the exact same thing. For those of you who assume he lives in Japan; he could be anywhere in the world. I'd like to know how this assumption was made. 
Look at private currencies and jurisdiction. If you are already using Bitcoin you are well on your way to understanding these two subjects.  You are assuming that criminals need to deposit their illegally-derived cash into a bank. This is a myth; perpetuated by the movies and the general media.Most of the smarter/larger criminals just deal in cash directly. Why would they risk depositing any of it when they can spend it back into the general economy again for commodities (supplies, etc)? These commodities can be traded yet again as.. well.. money. Banks are not needed.These are all small fish. They are not drug kingpins. They are the street level dealers. You never even hear about the large guys. The media sensationalizes this and makes examples of them for two reasons. One is to show that the system's laws are effective against crime. The other is to educate new criminals. Teach them that 'big guys' deposit cash into banks.The banks and government investigators may have this capability. This still operates under the assumption that large criminals use banks.How many merchants who accept bank notes scan the serial number? Last time I was at a store they didn't even look twice at the bills I handed them. Turn off your TV.Yes. It does nothing when the bills are spent back into the general economy. How do they cut off the supply of USD/EUR to a criminal? Revoke all all of the bank notes in existence? I'm confused. You must be referring to electronic transfers.Most criminals are not that stupid. They demand bank notes. Bitcoins are more like bank notes. Law enforcement are forced to go after the criminals directly. That's the way it should be.Blaming the money system for crime is like blaming the ocean for a drowning. That old 'hammer and it uses' statement is so cliché. Haha! I totally didn't even see it. I must have glanced right over it.  Too bad PayPal's polices are not... they are so draconian.I am going to do some more brainstorming before I post anything else today.  Do the libertarians run online businesses with large trade velocities? Perhaps we can find a business directory somewhere. Using Bitcoin itself doesn't create liability for a crime. Crime creates its own liabilities. Bitcoin is just the messenger (communication) of markers against labour. Or "claims of future labour". (Same thing.)To claim that Bitcoin facilitates crime is a fallacy. The news media will certainly claim this if/when Bitcoin takes off.Example: A criminal pays another criminal to kill someone for Bitcoins. The Bitcoins are just the communication of markers against labour not the crime itself. The payer and payee have created the liability for the crime.Another example: An unsuspecting victim buys stolen goods from a criminal for Bitcoins. Bitcoin could be used to obfuscate the seller's location (possibly, if shipping wasn't involved) and make an investigator's job more difficult. This is not a crime. The crime is the theft itself. A thief can not give better title to the goods than the original owner has. The goods must be returned to the original owner.We can probably agree that the previous two examples are crimes. (I'd hope, anyway.)The following last example is why you'd need to define what you consider to be a crime: Someone uses Bitcoin to hide (called "laundering") the source of funds from a sale of prescription drugs (illegal). Again, this makes an investigator's job very tough. Is that a crime? I don't personally think it is. Various statutes claim it is. You may think it is. I say it is the right to financial privacy in action. You may argue that illegal proceeds do not deserve to be private. Where is the line drawn? Do we draw the line when every penny is spied on? (Happening now) I'd personally call "money laundering" a victimless noncrime. What about the sale of the drugs? In this case I'd say it was a breach of contract. Selling someone prescription drugs without a license or a prescription is a breach of contract.It boils down to this: do not cause harm or loss to anyone. If this rule is violated, there is a crime. Bitcoin has nothing to do with your criminal actions. It is a means to an end -- the crime itself. I hope you used a law dictionary. I've thought about that. No, I wouldn't claim control of any of that. The letters would be from the position of a trade organization or maybe an advocacy group. It would offer information, and optionally point interested parties to contractors who can assist them with integration of Bitcoin.The promotion might have to be coupled with mybitcoin to be viable. Most businesses need working merchant tools.Yes, it seemed kind of sloppy to say the least. Also, lawyers like paper.  Yes. Try to open an account. It offers Bitcoin as a payment option. This was exactly what I was thinking. I see the main strengths of Bitcoin as: irrevocable payment, low fees, and micro-payment capabilities. We need a solid list (5 or less, we don't want to overextend ourselves yet) of industries that could really benefit from these strengths. From this list, we build letter templates. We find businesses, categorize them into these lists, and send them a letter based on the corresponding template. That way the letters are tailored to the type of business they are operating. It has to be highly targeted to be successful.We should start building a list somewhere. (here?)The P2P/crypto/generation stuff is just technobabble to most business people. They could care less. We omit that stuff. Mentioning the lack of central authority might be too scary to most of them as well. (That might largely depend on the industry in question.)The recipients should be hand-picked. The letters are addressed to them personally at their place of business. They should be written with a personal touch, and perhaps even a contact telephone number. Perhaps we need someone to pose as an agent of Bitcoin (or another org affiliated with Bitcoin?), and answer their questions over the telephone. This agent would have to have sales experience. Having an antisocial programmer answer the phone would just ruin our efforts.Am I missing anything? Yes, my address for this cause is: 1LuxxwU3Ek5AyXDeRe2o9NKETrL8KXFLt5It costs $1 CAD to mail to the USA. Being able to split up the mailings would be great. It could bring the costs down and improve the efficiency a lot.Perhaps noagendamarket would be willing to cover AU/NZ? *prod* I could cover Canada (and Europe unless someone else wants that). Perhaps someone would be interested in covering the USA?We could do remote printing and mailing, or centralized printing and remailing. Whichever is best. Speaking of "letter writing", this might be of interest to you:https://www.bitcoin.org/smf/index.php?topic=1342.0 Hey all,Sending emails to businesses to get adoption is great, but from my experience physical letters by post are more effective.I have a lot of experience with the postal system. I'd be willing to mail out professional letters to businesses around the world. If everyone chipped in to pay for the postage we'd be able to cover a lot of territory really fast.We could even come up with the text of the letter together. I could have it professionally printed; in business "image is everything". There are too many to list here.It largely depends on factors such as where you live, your situation, and the resources that you have at hand.Edit: Saying "no" to tyranny isn't always verbal. It could be intentional non-compliance, direct action, etc. 'Seeing the farm' is the realization that you are a slave. It should cause a change in your perception. (I'm not going to define "farm", the metaphor is obvious.)This new perception should invoke the standard feelings: disbelief, fear, anger, acceptance.The end result is to say "NO" to tyranny. That's how you are free. Learn to say "NO". It has nothing to do with moving to another part of the world.I won't leave my lands, for they are my birthright. I think they should just add a category called "Adult" with a notice that it isn't appropriate for minors. There are two confirmed adult sites that accept Bitcoin now. I think that warrants a category on the trade page. So far, my requests to have them added have largely been ignored. I'm not too bothered by it, as I'll likely pick up search engine traffic anyway. Edit: Or for the puritan; the Bitcoin trade page could link to a Google search or something. So he was really asking for sub-categorization then? Honest mistake, I suppose.They are already sub-categorized in the database, I'm just not displaying them. I suppose I could display them in the future. Edit: I am displaying subcategories now. Ahh, I see. You could have titled this thread "bitcoinxxx".  "xxx" isn't a swear word.Categorization? No, it is all amateur videos.Rating? Maybe.Comments? No.
Are you referring to bitcoinxxx.com? A registered letter should be sent to the EFF if you want them to take you seriously.I also like "stefbot" (Stephen Molyneux). I've been trying to get a hold of him for weeks. I want his site to accept Bitcoin donations.  Hmm.. Is is safe to assume that the Bitcoin trade page will not list adult sites?   No. To SEE the farm is to leave it. Think harder. Isn't that what the Internet is for?  When everything is illegal, all money will need laundering. I managed to convince the supplier of the content (TalkSugar) for bitcoinxxx.com to try Bitcoin out.http://www.talksugar.com/(Phone sex, video chat, PPV media)Perhaps the trade page should have an Adult section with some sort of warning?I am in the process of convincing other large merchants I know to accept Bitcoin.  Here are some that I've collected from various forums that are not on your list.pvuif6nonbhj3o3r.onionc5qvugpewwyyy5oz.onionxqzfakpeuvrobvpj.onion Dave? Dave! Is that you? I didn't mean to try to break your kneecaps the other day. I told you to keep a low profile and you just started running your mouth to the wrong people. What else was I supposed to do? Come back to the pr0n studio bruddah! I have urgent work for you!</satire> I figure as long as it has an 18+/adult warning page it should be fine. Thoughts? The quality varies from girl to girl. They are amateur videos. What did you expect for a dollar? You haven't figured it out yet?I already do that. Those videos are on a revshare. I currently have them ranked cheapest -> most expensive. Perhaps I should sort the listings differently to bring the better videos to the top.Edit: No, it is not porndigg. I actually have a license to sell this content. Please see: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=30.msg14368#msg14368 First adult site to accept Bitcoins. (It has a 18+ warning page on it.)http://www.bitcoinxxx.com/Bitcoin XXX - Amateur Video Downloads! 100% Anonymous! Oh, I forgot to post a link from the regular internet.https://www.awxcnx.de/cgi-bin/proxy1/nph-proxy.cgi/000000A/http/torcasinopfuc7cj.onion/P.S. I love the German Privacy Foundation (awxcnx.de). I'd send them Bitcoins if they accepted them.  From: http://l6nvqsqivhrunqvs.onion/index.php?do=topic&id=36963"Try your luck at the Tor Casino! Play for free or Bitcoins -- your choice."http://torcasinopfuc7cj.onion/ Yeah. It is a mixture of 3 or more APIs that I've seen. At least they include working code to hook into GnuPG. I really wished Pecunix did that.. jeeze.The documentation is non-existent, but the toolkit contains a lot of example code. I only had to edit 3 variables in the config file, set the payment forwarding (I don't trust them to hold my coins) to my client here, and I had the receipt url stuff working instantly.I'm in the process of making it work with my existing database. (Inventory, etc, etc). Edit: Yes. They call it a Receipt URL. It is in the merchant tools section.No need to call back to their server. They PGP sign (optional, you can switch it off) the posts to the receipt URL on my end. The downloadable toolkit "just worked" out of the box for me. I had to muck with GnuPG a bit first. Hell, I can even have them post the receipt data over Tor to my .onion address if I were really paranoid.I was pissing around and I found privacyshark is using their new merchant interface already. They have their domains priced in dollars, when you go to place an order mybitcoin is converting it to BTC on the fly.I used to sell stuff with e-gold back in the day, and I'll tell you, customers don't want to buy things priced in grams of gold. They can't wrap their head around it. Price it in USD (or EUR, whatever) and they understand it instantly.mybitcoin's site lists this feature (main page) as "currency comparison". lol! I bet they didn't want to use the terms conversion or exchange anywhere on the site.I'd really like to see statistics. I wonder how many transactions happen @ mybitcoin per day/hour/week. Actually, it was started over Christmas when most congressmen were on holidays.A larger fraud could not be asked for. Gavin: Gotcha. What they should do is create 2 transactions (because you overpaid), send one over the SCI postback thingy for 0.16 BTC, and create a 2nd orphaned transaction.  http://www.tpc.int/I use to use this service in the late 90s. Not sure if it still works.
I think it only scans for a couple of minutes.Leave it up to you to break things, Gavin. I think the waiting page should show the address and amount. Yeah, if you don't send the amount it is looking for I think it ends up in "lost and found".Quick! Call the FBI! j/k Send me an address and I can refund.Oh, I'm an avid Tor user. I've seen google's captcha. mybitcoin also has Tor functionality. Maybe they should only switch on the captcha when they detect Tor or something.I was thinking the exact same thing last night. There is no easy way to handle refunds. I don't understand.Yup.Yeah, I never turn mine off and I use the console version so it doesn't bug me at all. The majority of users will be Windows UI users, so yeah this needs to be addressed.Thanks for your input.  Ok. Perhaps "inherent" is the wrong word to use. Things have value if there is demand. I made an assumption earlier that gold/silver/bitcoins have demand. Ahh, but labour/energy itself is valuable. No one in their right mind would apply labour/energy to produce something that has no demand, for it would be a loss. Nice talking to you. You know your stuff.  Thanks! Yeah, that video is sweet. You have bitcoins!  Looks like changes have been made to mybitcoin again. I'm still in the process of integrating it with my exchange site. I'm trying to get the 'SELL BITCOINS' button so I can automate the booking of orders and remove bank notes from my inventory.Explaining this crazy thing is difficult. It is easier if I show you.https://www.mybitcoin.com/sci/paypage.php?t=6Iwy65ZhqwRPbalrlnS_3GHfYRSI03FUgPmHwgP5LPcK0sn-GkM_HH2BeYqte92P_-XlvZe1oDyPeH3FDbw8pJNl0P-2TxTl8Zm-w_bUpDMH93ELwZ40s37znYtX8nWfe_o25FxcbYRahhMJFVTg7Cv6YalQu6FnZznn6ZIk13Zh4v-eFzK4h1Fog6uAHvSl4SD3Zj-eaKv22xjzMhI37ALOjzogAyQUCuKdH4aeWn8Vx1m8XDD0mOdEMzSgmyZQvEdxw5J9NNNN6gzObG7LMzNhmk_IrNd0rR9cIuihfxCPr-rnpb_vUuxcXBAT59qPpns7YqJs3uZRTTJmClick the link and notice how I priced this link in US Dollars. Mybitcoin automatically converts $0.01 USD into BTC for the duration of the transaction. It reminds me of e-gold! lol! E-GOLD II: THE RESURRECTION! Okay, choose "PAY WITH BITCOIN". (Don't choose any of the other options.)Generate a temporary payment address and copy it into your clipboard, remember the BTC amount too.Here comes is the interesting part. Don't send payment just yet. Click on the continue button.You'll see a page that says something like "please wait, locating your payment" or something. It has a spinning icon.Okay, now send the payment and almost instantly (with a few seconds or so) you should see my "success page".How in the hell are they able to do that? The spinning "please wait, locating your payment" page? It is wild! Totally streamlines the process if you ask me.P.S. I will refund any coins from this test, just PM me your address and I'll send back your ~0.16 BTC. Not exactly. As a commodity; gold and silver are backed by the labour/energy that has been expelled to mine and refine it. They also have inherent value because these metals are rare. (Well, rare for now. There are some situations that *could* change that.)As a currency; gold and silver are backed by what others are willing to trade you for it.Bitcoins are similar. As a commodity; electricity/energy is required to "mine" them virtually. They have inherent value because they are rare. (Only 21,000,000 will ever be mined.)As a currency; they are backed by what others are willing to trade you for it. (Bitcoin is seriously lacking here. Sell more stuff, guys! *hint* *hint*)Now, if the power/internet went out for an extensive period of time, and I needed to buy something, I'd rather have gold/silver. (Food and other supplies would be even better actually, but I'm trying to limit the scope of my post to gold/silver/bitcoins.)For conducting transactions over long distances, I'd rather use Bitcoins. As it was said before, they are complimentary to each other.  This article is your typical "test balloon". Now they just need a reason (right tragedy) to get the UK citizens to accept this proposal with open arms.The next step will be the phasing out of cash, and perhaps (in the not so distant future) watching for illegal barter with all of those flippin' cameras they have all over the place.  I totally agree. This is the exact argument that I use on my gold-bug friends.Most gold-bugs believe that money should exist separate from government, and Bitcoin falls into that category. I usually use this argument as my proverbial 'foot in the door'.  I didn't forget to attach it. Look again.  Exactly. Spreading propaganda would be their only recourse.They'd spread fear and panic on their traditional media about Bitcoin. Much like how they spread fear about the Internet right now. Only credit card thieves, kiddie porn dealers, and terrorists use the Internet, remember? Hopefully independent media will outpace traditional media and they'll be screwed on that front as well. One could only hope. Lots of people believe that the governments of the world will just turn the internet off. I don't believe that. It is relied on too heavily for commerce now. Why doesn't China just *completely* block the outside world? Same reason. If "they" have trouble keeping centralized websites like TPB down, how can they expect to shut down a massive P2P application? lol Hello all,Just a quick post to announce that I have cash available (aka "I'll buy your Bitcoins") to those who want some.I have US Dollars, Canadian Dollars, and Australian Dollars in stock at a low rate of 5% + a stamp (~$1).Check the site in my sig, or PM me for details.Cheers! The Madhatter Probably not very many.  I am profitable because I found a niche that sells. I'm sure that there are many other undiscovered and productive niches for Bitcoin out there.Nope. I never ask. Some of my customers are rather poor at hiding their intentions, so I easily figured out what they were doing without snooping around. So far, I haven't seen anything illegal. I know for a fact that some people were buying coins from me to buy something online with them. I can't discuss it for privacy reasons.Also, link2voip used to publish their stats to this forum. I remember seeing that they were getting around 2 payments per day like clockwork. So there's a real example. Some of those payments are from me for my hosting! lol And I digress... Maybe people will adopt Bitcoin after the dollar collapses..   Well, there are a lot of smart people hanging around on this forum. Someone is bound to figure out a niche to make Bitcoin go viral.  I just got an email from Tom @ mybitcoin. He said that they are working on a solution for this. He told me that overpaying on a temporary address results in the remaining coins going into a "lost and found bin" right now.He also pointed out that Bitcoin addresses are accumulators. He said that you can actually make a whole bunch of payments onto a temporary address over a 24 hour period until the total amount is equal to the target amount.Anyway, I'm urging mybitcoin to signup on the forum here. I'm tired of relaying information.  @kiba + chaord: I like your ideas. I think that selling anything that people would want to buy anonymously (like VPNs, materials and content banned where they live, anonymous calling cards, etc) is a perfect fit for Bitcoin.Without disclosing how much I've made from Bitcoin I'll say this: I've been living off of the proceeds of Bitcoin for 3 months now. Paying bills, mortgage, and buying food. So yes, it is possible.  They use Rubles in Russia. It uses a temporary payment address so it can store and forward form variables back to a merchant's shopping cart. It is a good thing. Look at the SCI Receipt interface and how it works. It took me a while to wrap my head around it, but I have it mostly working for my site. (It isn't live on my site quite yet, but it will be soon.)If you are familiar with how e-gold's SCI worked, their system will make sense to you. I vaguely remember integrating e-gold into a customer's site (it was years ago), so I figured this thing out after a while.I'm not sure what happens if the user sends the wrong amount of Bitcoins. Maybe someone should email Tom and ask him about it?? Oh, I believe you. I didn't mean to come across as a jerk or anything.  Thank you for sharing your views of Bitcoin with everyone here. I'm in awe of what has been accomplished as well. I wonder if having "guts" is enough. This has already been done!  As of yesterday mybitcoin has a full fledged web-based processing platform not unlike paypal.Check out my other post about it. I also include a cool payment URL that I generated with the merchant tools, if you are interested.https://www.bitcoin.org/smf/index.php?topic=1054.msg13028Cheers! The Madhatter That's totally understandable, but I think you are missing the point. The point to Bitcoin is not to generate "free money" (as if there is such a thing). The point is to back the coins with something tangible -- electricity (aka "energy"). Also, this is about the only way you can carefully control the minting of the currency.All of the world's currencies are backed by energy. Human or otherwise. Bitcoin is a little more direct. The generation (work/labour) creates hashes that are valuable (money) to other computers/people running the same program. Why is it worth something? For the same reasons that FRNs are worth something: people accept it for the trade of real goods and services.It also sounds like you feel inadequate because you can't generate as fast as others. Why not sell something? Selling real goods and services is far more profitable than generating. Plus, there is the added benefit of adding value to the currency itself. Generating isn't the "be-all" and "end-all" of Bitcoin.I don't see the point in generating for gains. Some people advocate generating to help secure the network from attack -- sure I can see that point. I also see that as a public service, or a donation to the cause. Where I live the electricity costs are very cheap, but I'd still pay more in electricity than value that I'd get from the coins. I'll leave the generation to other people, and buy the coins from them for my exchange business.Do you keep your life savings in your wallet in the real world? The solution to this is simple: diversify.Sure. Hopefully with enough eyes on the source code the major bugs can be ironed out. The Bitcoin software will never be perfect, but considering the alternatives I'd say it is pretty good.The FDIC is bankrupt. Google it. Also, what good is the FDIC if you lose your wallet in the real world?Legal system remedy? Get real. Have you ever actually tried to sue someone? The lawyers largely benefit from any legal conflicts. The best way to operate is based on reputation. It is what humans do naturally anyway.That's easy. You don't claim the Bitcoins themselves. You declare the dollar-equivalent value of the goods that you received in trade with Bitcoins.Cheers! The Madhatter
Just a quick FYI:https://www.bitcoin.org/smf/index.php?topic=1054.msg13028mybitcoin has full merchant tools / web-based payment processing. Thanks for all of the bitpennies, guys! I'm getting the form data that I encoded into that URL above too! I see the posts coming into my webserver.  Looks like mybitcoin has merchant tools!!! This will seriously push Bitcoin forward! It has a nifty html payment button generator with a URI encryption option -- very nice!The payment pages can receive payments from mybitcoin accounts AND regular Bitcoin clients.I generated an encrypted payment url, sample below:https://www.mybitcoin.com/sci/paypage.php?t=5yy1RvnDskyaYp0a6bW6pJELPG07weMJs2qMT93h05UyOEVzFFpemS65T7p9ydna88QhNbI3HYBfC1wir340At8BSTIJd5yDs0pXz2tDVbG12fppdL6QrJkoyna8TOJzZk90756Tw9-SmpaXgQ0vfaXtsXp_1PJ1QnLUtZg6eTNJE4GdxWpE2hCxzcWtoaSyGW3Xz1Mz2uNwpRRkBIxdTUE%2CSomeone send me a bitpenny for fun! P.S. You can generate links for Tor and I2P too! Wild! Looks like mybitcoin's cert changed this morning... That means you are missing ecdsa support in openssl.Look at the configure for your openssl. Look for -no-ec and -no-ecdsa options. Remove them, recompile/reinstall openssl. I remember seeing a pen camera on dealextreme.com. It does 640x480@30fps with audio. This is assuming that you don't mind carrying a pen everywhere.I've also seen a several car-mounted camera units.Unfortunately every system I've seen records the video files locally and unencrypted. Hope this helps. I removed all of the CA trust from my FF, installed cert patrol (and a few others), and I don't autoupdate. My updates are applied manually. Call me paranoid.  Looks like you posted something similar, gavinanderson.  I didn't see your post until I hit "post" over here. Ah well.Anyway, we are all preaching to the choir. We already know all of the pros and cons around CAs and self-signed certs.I just got an email back from mybitcoin. Tom told me that getting a new cert was on the todo list. He told me that it was planned before the payment pages went live.P.S. Pecunix has been using self-signed certs for quite a while now. I wonder if that has impacted their sales. Food for thought. One thing that I have noticed from a lot of experience in selling online is that security warnings (browser cert popups) around dealing with money should be avoided. It scares the 'average joe' away from making a purchase, or it makes the whole experience seem 'shady'. The mainstream media has done an excellent job with internet fear mongering.I don't have any problems, personally, with mybitcoin's choice in a cacert certificate. I just whitelist the fingerprint with my FF plugins. However, if their intentions are to run a shopping cart interface facility they should really rethink their decision. The adoption of Bitcoin is key. I think that the whole browser CA trust thing is horribly flawed. It should follow the SSH-like model. The browser should cache all new certs silently and only alert the user if the cert has been changed.You can get FF to do this by mucking with the preferences and a plugin called "Certificate Patrol". Hey all,Something just occurred to me... using mybitcoin's new bitcoin payment forwarding couldn't someone just bounce their coins in and out of mybitcoin automatically and use it as a free bitlaundry-like service? Could you not rotate to+forwarding addresses to pull it off?I should really spend more time looking at how the underlying database is structured in bitcoin. Cheers!  Hmm. I logged into my mybitcoin account today to discover the beginnings of a shopping cart interface!!! On the settings page they are offering a SCI toolkit download, and a bitcoin address forwarder. I've emailed them about it with some questions. I'll post again once I have some more information about it. I make money with my site as well.Instead of being negative, you should contribute. Help us! It is as simple as accepting Bitcoin as a payment option on your site. Educate others! Spread the word!  Just an FYI: AVS is a scam. They don't verify anything. AVS has nothing to do with verifying someone's age.They came about to skirt the Visa regulations on selling porn. (Around 2001) They claim to Visa that they are selling an age verification service and not porn. This evolved into "ticket service providers" who would sell tickets that could be redeemed for porn, and many other systems that 'skirt' the banking rules.Are you really going to verify the age of the customer? You are going to sell them an anonymous currency and then ask for ID? Do you really think that current AVSes want Bitcoins? They rely on selling recurring billing.Sorry to burst your bubble.  I'm not trying to be mean. I'm just being realistic. Lol!Wal-mart not accepting Bitcoin has nothing to do with them being a 'corporation of the state', etc. Bitcoin is P2P with no real central corporation to contract with. Who does Wal-mart sue if something goes wrong?Of course, a "Bitcoin service provider" could be incorporated and used to contract with Wal-mart. I'm afraid that they'd become a target of abuse. Look at how the DOJ treated the owners of e-gold, goldage, liberty dollar, etc. Alternative currencies are NOT permitted. :/I think it is better to let people redeem existing cards. Let others hold the contractual liabilities with Wal-mart and "the state".  I'll say this from experience.. a lot experience.. Don't ask. The online adult market won't adopt Bitcoin easily. The type of person who buys online porn is a 'revolver' of credit. They don't have money to spend on porn. They *need* credit. That's why credit cards work so well.Bitcoin is too difficult for the average guy to use. He wants porn. He doesn't care about hashing/encrypting/p2p. No amount of convincing will tell him that Bitcoin is better than a credit card. Also, the thought of downloading and installing an application is scary to an experienced porn customer. They've all had their fair share of viruses, excessive popups from CJ sites, and other general web annoyances.Porn sites won't adopt Bitcoin because it is a waste of time. It can't do recurring billing. That is their bread and butter. Being able to silently just keep billing someone's credit card, until they cancel, is what fuels their affiliate programs and their promises to pay $150-$200 per sale (aka "join") to affiliates.Lets say that you solved some of these problems by directing porn customers and merchants to a web interface system like MyBitcoin. Let's also say that they have a working shopping cart system for the merchants. I'll explain the problems with that next...You could get porn customers to use it. But, you'd end up with the problem of funding the wallet. Assuming that the customer doesn't easily give up. (They *buy* porn because finding it for free is too much of a hassle. They are *LAZY*.) The customer will seek out PayPal or credit card to Bitcoin exchangers. (They stick with what they know.) The liabilities would be held by the exchangers. The levels of chargebacks will slowly increase on these exchangers until they are out of business.After that happens, it would grind to a halt. Merchants would drop it like a hot potato. They are used to dropping payment options. It is their first reaction when something goes wrong. The online adult industry is riddled with bank/Visa/whatever freeze-ups.From the merchant side, you'd have the problem of "cashing out". The porn merchants don't give a damn about your virtual currency. They want dollars. MyBitcoin, in this example, would have to guarantee to buy (under contract) every single Bitcoin or no merchant in their right mind would use it. Sure, they could pass the Bitcoins to their affiliates/promoters to alleviate some of their liabilities. This would require some serious adoption (and convincing) across the entire industry.The only viable option for Bitcoin in the adult arena is the micropayment one. Period. You'd have to supply absolutely *all* of the web technology. (Customer AND merchant.) It would have to be entirely web-based. You'd have to guarantee, in writing, to buy each coin back. This would only work on a few sites. Sites that sell porn per image, video, software download, etc. Sites that don't rely on recurring revenues.Personal reservations aside; the fastest way to encourage adoption would be a dumbed-down HYIP. Funny you should mention this. I emailed MyBitcoin yesterday. I asked those exact same questions. Great minds think alike, I guess.  I was told that they do hourly snapshots on a 90 day loop to 2 remote servers, and that the server they are on has RAID, etc.They also told me that they back the "deposits" 100%. I wonder if they'll publish stats. It would be interesting to see their payment velocity, average account holdings, etc.Cheers!  Another Common Law court video. This one is from Canada.http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8EzJsUExEDEThe audio is a tad bad in the very beginning, but it gets better.Oh, and watch for the little "bow" from the judge. Who does he really work for?  Hello all,Thanks to all of you who took advantage of this offer. I just celebrated my 40th trade today. So far I have had ZERO mail losses. Cheers!The Madhatter Thank you for all of your efforts. They make a big difference. 
For those of you who don't already know; Epassporte is in trouble with Visa. Today's press release on AVN:http://news.avn.com/articles/ePassporte-Visa-Situation-Should-be-Resolved-Next-Week-410832.htmlI've heard these words before. Reminds me of when IBill went into the crapper. I think that payment methods on the markets should be negotiated by the buyer and seller directly.Payment providers vary a lot between countries, continents, and even languages. Having the market railroad everyone into using the payment methods they prefer is wrong. I mean, how exactly is that a free market? Well, under Common Law you have societies. Societies can have their own language. (Ask the Law Society about their creation: legalese.)Those who use Bitcoins could join/create a separate society. They could, in theory, define money/wealth/currency/person/corporation/dog/cat/apple to mean whatever they want. They could even have their own dictionary that their society uses to interpret from.The problem lies in tacit consent and assumption. Those who are part of the "other" (de facto) society will assume that the words that are being used are already defined (and can be redefined) by them. They can also trick you into tacitly agreeing with their definitions as well. Or trick you into granting them jurisdiction in situations where they normally wouldn't have it.The best way to operate is to not cause conflict. Those who flagrantly mail out nutty looking paperwork to government officials will find themselves under abnormal scrutiny. I hide in plain sight. I keep my politics within my group of friends. I refuse to obey laws that enslave me. I live modestly and don't make extravagant purchases or flash money around. I try to stay off of the radars of the so-called authorities. I am completely free this way. I hope the owner of GSF would do the same. I'm not saying that he should give up. He shouldn't. He should keep a lower profile, and tone his politics down. They have no place in business.Cheers!  He should try to leave his politics out of business; or tone them down at the very least. The average layman will perceive him as insane. Would you trust a man that you perceived to be insane with your money? I certainly wouldn't.That being said, a lot of the things about law that he has on his site are correct 'in theory'. He will find that the legal system will steam roll him with statues 'in practice'. Theory and practice are totally different things.He claims to have a corporation in Panama setup to handle things. (Probably for bank wires.) Which means that he's under the jurisdiction of Panama. (Or at least the part of GSF that handles fiat currency is.) He has a clause that states that he has a backup trust to take over should a statute/act of Panama violate "The Law of the Land".I see an obvious problem: Panama never had (or has) the "Law of the Land" (which is synonymous with Common Law, btw). Sure, you could just say that Panama must follow English Common Law. That is like telling the USA to adhere to the law system of Zimbabwe -- OR ELSE! (Or else *what*? Exactly!)I don't know how he expects that to work. Perhaps he will just abandon the bank account/corporation and give Panama the finger when something goes wrong? Lol!In the end he's holding your money and you have to trust him. After this current monetary system completely breaks down, trust will be the biggest issue. As long as we have electricity and some kind of a network Bitcoin is a better system for running our ledgers.I 'know of' the man who runs GSF. He's not a bad guy. He's jaded and pissed off at the current monetary policies. But, who isn't?  A super geeky way to do subscription payments is with the console client and cron. If the EFF had a Bitcoin address I'd donate often. This blog post might be of interest. It lists a few exchange sites with reviews.http://www.bitcoinblogger.com/2010/08/bitcoin-exchange-review-my-experience.html Hello all,When you buy $200 USD or more worth of Bitcoins (per trade); I'll give you a 1% discount on the trade. That's a service fee of -1%!!!This is a limited time offer. Offer valid for the next 30 days.Cheers!  Same here. Put me down for 100 provided the final product is 100% accurate. I'm not much of an artist...  v0.3.6 works on FreeBSD/i386 7.2,7.3 and on FreeBSD/amd64 8.0Compiles cleanly without any warnings, and appears to be working fine. (Not sure who you are asking)Here's my experience:I sent them Bitcoins on the 9th, and then I emailed them to let them know the name of the domain I wanted. I also sent them the IP that I wanted it DNS'd to.The very next day it started working.I suspect that they do everything by hand over there because I did have to email them after I made a payment. Yup. I've dealt with privacyshark.I purchased my domain with them on the 9th of July and it was working the following day.  Hmm... I implemented digest auth into a custom webserver I wrote a decade ago. From what I remember, it was fairly easy. However, client support back then was rather shoddy. It has improved a lot since then. Perhaps we could document a simple stunnel + bitcoin configuration on the wiki then? Under a section called "Securely using bitcoind from remote"?Just offering my 2c as usual.  Hmm.. shouldn't it be using digest auth instead of basic auth?I usually wrap everything into SSL or IPSec anyway, but digest auth might keep noobs from getting pwned so easily.  If you are using PHP+JSON+CURL you can easily specify the user/pass with a curl_setopt() line. The parameter is "CURLOPT_USERPWD".Thanks for the basic auth patch. Before the patch I was using uid/gid firewall lines to limit the bitcoind to only my special users/IPs that ran various scraps of code on crontabs. I'll likely still leave those protections in and just add in the basic http auth as well.  Strange. I use my bitcoind almost every day from PHP, and I haven't encountered that. Try taking the "http://" out of your fsockopen(). The JSON-RPC server isn't really HTTP.I've had the best luck with the curl+json php extensions, myself. Even easier: I have the AUD (as well as Euros and CAD) rates in Bitcoins on the front page of my site (see sig).The rates are updated every 15 minutes. Hello,I have a 10 Euro PaySafe Card for sale at cost. PM me if you are interested.Cheers!  Actually, that was me. Seriously.
+1 privacyshark (purchased my domain there)+1 link2voip (long time customer, even before Bitcoin)Due to obvious privacy reasons I won't list the customers of bitcoin4cash.  I'd imagine that Mars would have a separate Bitcoin network. It would be a (very) foreign currency, after all.Exchange points (automated edge systems, not people manually moving coins) could be designed to handle the laggy conversions between planets. The getinfo RPC call should return the version of the bitcoind server.Just a suggestion. Maybe I should be useful submit a patch 'eh? Satoshi, could you explain this security safeguard? Is this an undocumented feature of the Bitcoin client or something? I figured it was a bug with the display. I spent the bitpenny back the other direction and the balance on the first box returned to its initial state.  Check this out...I just installed 0.3.1 on two different machines and moved one bitpenny (0.01):-= Before the transfer =-[bitcoind@box1 ~]$ ~/bin/bitcoind getinfo{    "balance" : 1.150000000000,    "blocks" : 68717,    "connections" : 6,    "proxy" : "",    "generate" : false,    "genproclimit" : -1,    "difficulty" : 181.5432893640505}[bitcoind@box2 ~]$ ~/bin/bitcoind getinfo{    "balance" : 0.000000000000,    "blocks" : 68717,    "connections" : 22,    "proxy" : "",    "generate" : false,    "genproclimit" : -1,    "difficulty" : 181.5432893640505}-= AFTER the transfer =-[bitcoind@box1 ~]$ ~/bin/bitcoind getinfo{    "balance" : 1.139999999999,    "blocks" : 68717,    "connections" : 10,    "proxy" : "",    "generate" : false,    "genproclimit" : -1,    "difficulty" : 181.5432893640505}[bitcoind@box2 ~]$ ~/bin/bitcoind getinfo{    "balance" : 0.010000000000,    "blocks" : 68717,    "connections" : 20,    "proxy" : "",    "generate" : false,    "genproclimit" : -1,    "difficulty" : 181.5432893640505}I personally think it is a display problem, but I can't be sure.. strange, no?Both machines are running FreeBSD 7.2/amd64. Ahem...-I"/usr/local/include/wx-2.9" != 2.8.11.0Also, yes you need 2.9. You'll have to build it from source on most distributions. Luckily, it's easy.  Hello all,As part of an experiment I am attempting to buy AND sell Bitcoins with cash in the mail. I have had a few successful trades so far. I'd like to be able to trade in the opposite direction as well.I currently have a $100 USD bill available (no, I can't sell more or less). I am asking for the current Bitcoin Market with a transaction fee of 6.9%+$1 to cover the stamp and envelope/packaging.If you are interested in receiving a $100 USD FRN in the mail please PM me fast. I'm sure Mr. Franklin will disappear soon.  The masses of asses are best controlled by fear. I say if it isn't illegal; do it. Step 1:Install the following from the ports tree:x11-toolkits/gtk20devel/boost-alldevel/gmakedatabases/db48Step 2:Install wxWidgets 2.9 from source. The ports version won't work.You can get 2.9 here: http://prdownloads.sourceforge.net/wxwindows/wxWidgets-2.9.0.tar.bz2Step 3:Apply the attached patch to the "makefile.unix" file.cd ~/bitcoin-0.3/src/patch < makefile.unix.patch.txtStep 4:Tweak any compiler options in makefile.unix. (See the CFLAGS line). The default options are the options I use on my machines. They are: "-O3 -march=nocona -fstack-protector". Be sure to set your 'march' at the very least.Step 5:Build with:gmake -f makefile.unix bitcoindAnd enjoy! $ cat ~/.bitcoin/debug.log |grep "Bitcoin version"Bitcoin version 0.3.0 beta, OS version FreeBSD 8.0-RELEASE-p3 amd64$And what about performance? It's insanely great on FreeBSD. Especially with the ULE scheduler.CPU: Intel(R) Core(TM)2 Quad CPU    Q8400  @ 2.66GHz (2666.38-MHz K8-class CPU)hashmeter   4 CPUs   2585 khash/s Amen brother & welcome! Incrementalism is a devious thing. My mini-cluster of Intel(R) Core(TM)2 Quad CPU Q8400 on FreeBSD 8.0/amd64hashmeter   32 CPUs   20,704 khash/s(2588 khash/s per node!! GO TEAM FREEBSD! Roast those penguins!  ) I'll share some of my "secret backup sauce". Some of you might find it helpful.I simply use shell scripts on a cron that make hourly or daily (depends on the velocity of transactions) rotating 90-day snapshots of my entire ~/.bitcoin directory (after I truncate the debug.log; it gets quite huge). The snaps are compressed, PGP'd, and uploaded via scp to a pile of servers I have all over the world. I've never lost a coin yet! End users are notoriously bad for backing things up.Even making the wallet.dat file easier to locate (talking about windows here) and urging the user to make copies of it to a USB thumbdrive or whatever would help a lot. Perhaps the place where the wallet.dat is stored on windows could be standardized? I personally know of 2 people who have lost their wallet.dat file because they backed up the wrong folders on windows before a wipe+reinstall. This kind of frustration will only lead to people dropping the whole concept of Bitcoin. Seasteading isn't a new idea. However, that website is new and particularly interesting to me. Thanks!  I'll check it out in more detail. It reminds me of the Freedom Ship. Too bad it couldn't raise enough capital. :/Robert Menard's work is only the very tip of the iceberg. His works are a great starting place, however he doesn't have all of the answers. To gain a complete and concise understanding one must spend a lot of time researching law, history, and religion. Funny how all three are so intertwined.  Oh it can and does happen.  (Oh, the other vector of attack would be the IRC channel. But hey, I switch that off on my clients for various reasons.. one of which is my uncanny ability to get everyone klined. ) No. That would be foolish. Why should your Bitcoin node trust mine? I could start spreading IPs across the network that I claim are bad and the entire network blocks them.It would have to be per-node on a case-by-case basis. I had posted on the forum 5 or 6 months ago about how to make the client harder to detect. (I can't remember the title of the post atm.) So allow me to reiterate:The post involved making the Bitcoin client select a random port to bind to and not offering a handshake upon connecting to it. Make the connecting party send the handshake. This would improve privacy a LOT.An attacker would connect to some random port on your computer and get dead air. A valid Bitcoin client connecting to your computer would *send* a handshake to invoke a response from your computer. (Why should it volunteer to identify itself? lol?)I also think that the Bitcoin clients should emulate what TOR has recently done (as of 3-4 versions ago). TOR's bridge system spoofs the SSL to look like Firefox connecting to Apache.  Bitcoin should do the same.If the Bitcoin clients just looked like thousands and thousands of Firefox browsers connecting to Apaches on random port numbers it would make a passive attack (DPI) a waste of time.The only vector for attack at this point would be someone running a valid node and looking at the IP seed files. If you are in a country where running Bitcoin is illegal you should be running Bitcoin over TOR (or some other onion/garlic network) or not running it at all. Censoring IPs is a moot point when investigators/anti-currency groups/government could easily use TOR to bypass it. (Or botnets, or open proxies, vpn services, and on and on...)We just need to make the Bitcoin client robust enough to detect the "evil doers" (thanks dubbya), and refuse to communicate on a case-by-case basis.
Bitcoin 4 Cash has a real domain now. http://www.bitcoin4cash.com/(Thanks privacyshark!)Now to make a proper site... the work never ends..  I am happy to report that 0.3 compiles cleanly and runs fine on FreeBSD 7.2/8.0 with the usual makefile path edits.  Look at what happened when Kaza was sued to find your answer. Ahh, I was working from memory.. His name is "Shew".Here's his site:http://xqz3u5drneuzhaeo.onion/users/shew/(Over the regular internet by proxy: https://www.awxcnx.de/cgi-bin/proxy3/nph-proxy.cgi/000000A/http/xqz3u5drneuzhaeo.onion/users/shew/ )If only he included Bitcoin...  Perhaps someone can nag him. I'll do my part.  A guy on onionforurms who calls himself "shrew" has an OS called shrew OS. It is almost exactly what you are describing. It is FreeBSD based, rock solid, has I2P/Tor/Freenet on it. Someone needs to convince him to bundle Bitcoin with it and it will really rock. Those are some of my all-time favorite videos.  http://www.chrismartenson.com/crashcourse/chapter-1-three-beliefsA great video series about the interrelation between the economy, energy, and the environment. The parts that I found to be most shocking were how GDP was calculated in the USA. I already knew that the CPI was bogus (they exclude almost all of the necessities of life), but the GDP was nuts! hahaThe video series was expressed without any hysteria or panic. It is too the point and very optimistic. (I like optimism.)Enjoy! "The Story of Your Enslavement"http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xbp6umQT58AI find this video to be cynical, but factual. The parts about slavery and control of human labor through fear are excellent. Want to see what happens in a de facto court when you have revoked consent to a de facto jurisdiction? Below are some court videos (they are captioned with audio).Video #1:http://www.raymondstclair.com/videos/english-freeman-challenges-authority-in-uk-court/The interesting thing about the video above is that they issued a default judgment at a time when they weren't even in courtroom. They *purposely* invalidated their judgment because they knew they didn't have jurisdiction. You simply take that to a notary public with affidavits from your witnesses and fill out a statement of protest to invalidate the 'judgment'. Video #2:http://www.raymondstclair.com/videos/english-freeman-standing-court-gloucester-part-1/Notice the word trickery in this video. Placing orders on a man under Common Law can be used to assume a de facto jurisdiction again. (An order is an attempt to contract. Just like how ordering a hamburger from a waitress is contracting with the establishment.) This stuff is very real.Using conditional offers for every order works wonders.  That is a poor example. I'm sure joey.rich would open up a PayPal dispute in response to that customer opening up a credit card dispute with him.If this kept happening PayPal might decide that he is performing "currency exchange" and freeze his account. After all, "currency exchange" is prohibited in their terms of use.PayPal is notorious for freezing accounts over the slightest uninformed assumption. (Remember when Freenet had their account frozen because PayPal thought they were selling a proxy service? lol!)A better example of fraud would be a someone who purchases Bitcoins with stolen credit cards, and he sells the Bitcoins to another exchanger for Pecunix or Liberty Reserve. The Pecunix/LR could then be transferred to a prepaid debit card and cash could be withdrawn from an ATM. A great way to 'cash out' stolen credit cards! :O I am on the sovereign lands of Alberta. It is a part of the Dominion of Canada.You might be interested in this post:https://www.bitcoin.org/smf/index.php?topic=227.msg1908#msg1908Cheers!  Actually, it is the rules of the merchant number provider (called an acquiring bank) that you need to follow. I had suggested this a long time ago in a previous post as an option to those who absolutely insisted on incorporating.De facto statelessness works much, much better.  And you don't even have to move! https://secure.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/wiki/Stateless_person(This article is lacking information, there is more to it.)As a 'de facto' stateless person you are removed from all statutory obligations. You are still in a "country" (the land), but you remove the applicability of the corporate powers.Most (commonwealth) countries of the world exist in two forms. They become "one" under the law (and in the courts) through a legal principal called 'joinder'.One part of a country under joinder is is the physical land, the other is a corporation. The physical lands are under the rule of the king/queen with whom I invest (and others, unknowingly) my sovereignty. This jurisdiction is 'de jure'.The corporate entity (with the same name as the land(s), or usually very similar anyway) exists for commerce and statutes only. This jurisdiction is 'de facto'.Definitions:de facto in law, it is meant to mean "in practice but not necessarily ordained by law" or "in practice or actuality, but without being officially established".De jure is an expression that means "concerning law".By becoming de facto stateless, in essence, it renders the contracts (statutes/bylaws) null and void 'ab inito' and everything in court has to be dealt with under Common Law. (Also called the 'law of the land'. I'm sure you've heard that term before in various sworn oaths. It is called this for good reason. It is literally the customs of the people who live "on land". lol!)Commerce with fiat currency is regulated in the 'de facto' arena by the use of statutes. Take a dollar bill into Common Law (de jure) and it is just piece of paper. Quite literally. It has the value of paper. Whatever a sheet of paper goes for in gold/silver/"insert barter item here" is what it is worth. In my opinion you can't even write on it, so I'd rather have blank paper.More food for thought: Who actually owns the paper? Is your signature on it? Is there a copyright on it? When they demand payment in dollars are you just returning their property? Should you even take these demands personally? Gold/silver coins that are "minted" (I could go on and on about what minting really is and means in law) actually work in both jurisdictions. They have a legal face value (de facto), and a lawful real intrinsic value (Common Law / de jure jurisdiction). More examples of dual jurisdictional things (if you want to research more on your own) are: bills of exchange (precursors to the modern "check" or draft), bills, demands, and notices.Anyway, I could drone on and on and upload document after document to prove all of this but I do have job and limited time. Maybe I should start a school and charge tuition in Bitcoins.  You get an A+ for convenience, but selling an irrevocable currency for revocable credit is fundamentally a bad idea.:/ Bitcoin4Cash is now available on Freenet, I2P, and TOR.Eventually the site will have automated ordering and an internal communication system.I don't think Freenet will work out once I reach that point, but I figured I'd try Freenet out. I've never inserted a freesite before so it was a good learning experience. I2P: http://yetyfc7wo57pjhq7ekk37kflm34pos2jhxx2cifzub7up5nd7m7q.b32.i2p/TOR: http://vms43o4cqysakvyb.onion/ If you ended up in court under full force of statute, you have probably already lost. They will expand existing statutes (like the "unlicensed stock broker" point) to get you. The usual route is to hire a lawyer, have him/her argue and reduce the sentence. The state gets paid, the lawyer gets paid, you get incarcerated. Everyone makes money, except for you. Fun times, no?   The way to do it is to assert claim, state your intentions, form an estoppel, declare a societal association, and go the Common Law route. In my country they don't even bother to take you to court when you do this. There is NO profit in it for them. Remove the profit motive and a lot of the harassment seems to disappear.Common Law is the law of substance.Statutes (sometimes called "codes") are contracts. You can revoke consent in my country. Once you do that, they have to use Common Law. Proving that I injured someone by selling them Bitcoins, would be quite difficult.Licenses evidence the acceptance of a CONTRACT (aka statute). If you are operating under Common Law and do not have a license the statutes do not apply. As long as fair warning of your intentions has been provided. (Those who want LLCs, Incs, Corps, etc should re-read the first sentence again.)So as I stand, I am an unbonded/unlicensed man operating in a Common Law jurisdiction with my own society under full liability for the benefit of  ... Bitcoin, I suppose. Peace!  Yes. I'm attempting to "level out" my reserves first. I'd like to see 1/2 of those 50,000 coins go out the door before I start buying Bitcoins. I'd likely charge a small fee (to cover postage).I have a couple of pending orders already, so I don't expect it to take long. Technically you are only an exchanger if you call yourself one. The Bitcoins themselves are the product you are selling. What the customer does with the Bitcoins is really none of your concern, nor are you liable.Now for the age-old analogy regarding liability: If someone buys a hammer from Home Depot and kills someone with it is it Home Depot's fault? Is it my fault that someone purchased something illegal with the Bitcoins I sold them? The answer is a resounding "NO".Also, for a court to rule that you are engaging in currency conversion they have to *recognize* Bitcoins as a currency. If that did happen, it would open a whole new can of worms. (I can elaborate here upon request.)All the best,The Madhatter  Quite simply: you're not responsible. I'm not surprised at all. And I should be. Have I been conditioned? lol 
NEW! (insert blinking here)  The Madhatter's Bitcoin4Cash Service http://tinyurl.com/bitcoin4cashSelling Bitcoins for cash via the mail (aka "post").Why do this? Because I'm in a jurisdiction where I can. Cheers!  I also agree with v1.0 for the same reasons posted above. Publicity would also be nice.  A 'Bitcoin notary public'. I like it!  I was mucking around with the source code on a large research cluster that I have access to. For some reason the nodes were connecting and disconnecting from Freenode quite rapidly witch resulted in most of my nodes getting k-lined. Freenode started going nuts and blocking my nodes as fast as I was creating connections.Not too sure if other people were k-line'd as well because of this?? However, the timing was "bang on".I had discovered the bug around the same time this k-line problem was reported. I ended up forcing the source to seed IPs from some Bitcoin clients that I run on a different network. Whoops! My bad. I was testing something and it went haywire. Should see the k-lines lift shortly. Heh. I'll sell Bitcoins for cash in the mail. It doesn't scare me one little 'bit'. (pun)PM me for details. You are preaching to the choir.Cheers!  Oil is what really backs the USD. (See: "Reserve Currency").Maybe someday you'll be able to buy/trade crude with Bitcoins.  Another "unlicensed money transmitting" prosecution in the USA:http://www.scribd.com/doc/28262676/Criminal-Court-Complaint-Michael-Olaf-Schuett-Gambling-Bluetool-WirecardGotta love how they pass statutes that protect big business / banking interests.  http://consumerist.com/2010/05/get-gold-bars-from-abu-dhabi-atm.html Am I just blind or did NLS drop the Bitcoin to USD exchange rate?Does this mean that I have to take the Pecunix / BC rate to figure out USD?*moaning and groaning* Very very nice.  You'll want to renice +20 bitcoin then. I wouldn't dream of sharing a bitcoin in generation mode on a box that was playing videos. Choppy videos annoy the hell outta me. Also make sure your cpu fans are working, your heatsink is actually on, machine is clear of dust, etc or you might overheat. Hello and welcome! Bitcoin is maturing nicely. More and more shops are accepting it as payment as time goes on.The Atom processor is quite slow. Expect to wait a few days to gain some coins. The generation difficulty has been slowly climbing lately as well so that is also working against you. Try selling something for coins; that's the easiest way to get them and provide something useful to the Bitcoin economy.It's ++good! Nice article. Welcome to Bitcoin, Derrick. Haha! I actually have some of my elderly family members using MBC now. Maybe mum should get 9,000 coins for Mother's day!  We should bundle a snapshot of the block chain with each release of the Bitcoin software to save the user from having to download the entire chain upon a new install.In terms of trust: The user is already trusting bitcoin.org's download to be valid. Combining the zip/exe installer with a snapshot of the block chain is not a big deal in my opinion. They can publish hashes and signatures to ensure file integrity, etc.Even in a worst case scenario where the block chain snapshot was compromised nothing bad will happen. The longest block chain always wins. The client would download a new copy from the P2P network. (Besides, if the block chain was compromised we have bigger problems such as the software itself being trojaned, but this is another topic).It's ++good! I suspect the transactions would be delayed as the network grows. But really, will it be any slower than a traditional bank wire?  I think not.If you need a speedy payment and don't really care about privacy just send an IP to IP payment. They are "instant". You'd still want to wait a few seconds to a minute for enough nodes to see the new IP to IP payment to be sure those coins weren't previously promised to someone else.The client is supposed to only create 15 connections outbound and allow 15 connections inbound. However, I have seen more connected clients on my nodes. The connection code seems to be very lenient.Essentially (in my mind at least) I imagine stacks and stacks of 30 connection "rings" that are interconnected to other rings. A payment that happens on a node in the same "ring" you are in is fairly instant but to propagate the data to other rings may take some time. A million nodes (let's just say) would be 33,333 rings that are all interconnected in a random pattern. Is my vision correct or did I just inhale too many paint fumes today? ha!That's my 2c.. err 2 Bitcoins.  Hmm.. looks like MBC has PGP-signed email payment notifications. Also looks like they don't require the email address to signup. Maybe they read this forum?Hey! *waves @ MBC's owners* Sign up and tell us your plans! 
I signed up for a vekja free Bitcoin account. Very nice. It is very simple. Almost too simple for my tastes tho. :/ I mean, I'm sure it works as expected but the interface is really lacking features.MyBitcoin has some nice stuff like payment history, the ability to change your Bitcoin address (which I totally need btw), some basic statistics, and an addressbook (very handy; try typing in a long ugly Bitcoin address from a Blackberry or iPhone -- no thanks).The need for an email address mystifies me also. I wonder why they require that. Service announcements?Edit: I see a transaction history page. I must have scrolled right past it. The interface is all on one page??Edit 2: Looks like MyBitcoin can do payment notes too (I wonder if/how this works to/from Bitcoin and MyBitcoin). That mybc thing is nice for non-geeks. I signed up last night to try it out. This is something I can setup for my 'ol pappy and he'd be able to actually use it.  Try the SVN version with wxwidgets 2.9. It compiles cleanly for me this way.  Webmoney is good if you are trading with Russians.  Use PayPal only if you like having your funds frozen. They also don't allow currency conversion and are prone to "friendly fraud" (see: chargeback).Best are: Liberty Reserve, c-gold, Pecunix, Loom, e-dinar, MoneyBookers (with written permission to do currency exchange), and possibly AlertPay (again with written permission to do currency exchange).Some other methods: money order, bank transfer, cash (in person or via postal mail), physical gold and silver, gold and silver certificates, hawala, ripplepay (prone to fragmentation problems), and LETS/Time Dollars.Want more suggestions? I can go on and on. We should have a separate section for trading. I think pnnac was referring to Asterisk's IAX2 implementation. I have witnessed Asterisk lock up after a few hundred connected IAX2 calls myself. I personally use SIP because reinvites actually work without truncating billing data.In any event, this forum is for discussing Bitcoin not VoIP. Let's try to keep VoIP related flames elsewhere. Thanks.  IAX is crashy crashy crash! WOO HOO! Yup. Keeping it "green" is a good idea. Just be sure to use an 80-plus or 90-plus power supply, low power CPU, etc. Hmm.. I didn't notice that. They will still perform the public/private key stuff. The SHA-256 functions can be performed on the host CPU. The cards would offload most of the processing.I guess it boils down to best bang for the buck. Some benchmarks and pricing would need to be worked out to find the best fit. The board you mention looks very sweet. The name of the game here is cheap and abundant. Lots of super nodes at a low cost. I was thinking of these boards actually:http://www.soekris.com/vpn1401.htmYou can stuff 4-6 of them in each machine (depends on the motherboard you are using) and round-robin the crypto operations. (Open/FreeBSD can do this already for the HiFn chip.)4 would be $288/server (1000Mbps of operations)6 would be $426/server (1500Mbps of operations) For those of you that don't already know; most of these 'investments' are ponzi schemes. Bitcoins that are lost are lost forever. No it doesn't recover. It is "natural deflation".  I have the latest SVN snapshot running on FreeBSD (bitcoind) with automation running on a few servers.You just install databases/db48, x11-toolkits/gtk20, devel/gmake, and devel/boost-all from the ports tree, download wxwidgets 2.9 and install it manually (the port version is 2.8.. that's no good), change a few paths in the makefile.unix file, and run "gmake -f makefile.unix bitcoind". You will end up with a binary called "bitcoind" (it is headless). Run "strip ./bitcoind" to make it smaller (it is really big with the debugging symbols). You can, of course, leave the debugging symbols in. I had to use gdb on bitcoind a few times in the past to figure out a strange crash.I have tested bitcoind on 32 and 64 bit systems running FreeBSD. I didn't detect any memory leaks or see any crashes. Better yet -- run it in a sandbox / jail / virtual instance. That's what I do. But I am paranoid.  I have thought of that. It is kinda hard to calculate. People lose their wallets and abandon their clients. Those coins are lost from circulation. :/ One could build a graph based on the block count, but it wouldn't be 100% accurate. Nope, but I do read Infowars every few days. I've noticed someone has been commenting on some of the economic news articles on Infowars.com. I bet that helps a lot.  You'll get customers eventually. Stay patient!  SSK@hLJWaKGvv-ouWLZOoPcfhqRA0an8ZLoPGPKi1GPTC0U,FVWgzCzXk969mg1vXq4pqHIGBZYiJl8LqqukwYfwgBA,AQACAAE/HarryBrowne-0/index.html(On Freenet)A lot of information about the common traps people become stuck in, about sovereignty, and about doing business fairly.A "must read" for anyone who is going to run an exchanger. 
I already tried to ask a lot of existing exchangers if they would trade BC, they all said "no".Perhaps this will change with more demand and adoption. Add this to the 'cons list' for cash:- Possibility of RFID imbedded into the bills. They could be read by the machines at your local post office and throw a red flag on the destination address. None of that matters. PayPal's corporate policies are not law. Under the slightest inquiry they will give you up. I guarantee that fact.See 'jurisdiction' again. Is PayPal a registered corporation? I'd imagine so. Obtaining a corporate charter is a PRIVILEGE (means "private law"), not a right. (Rights are inherent, you don't apply for them.) It makes PayPal subject to the jurisdiction of the REGISTRAR. (The state or federal government.) So when they are asked for your information and are stuffed with a pile of statutes, they have to comply or face civil (See: Roman Civil Law) penalties or the revocation of the charter. (Revocation of charters is rare, but it does happen.)After PayPal gives up your information; they (IRS/boogieman/whoever) will look at the real world items you have in your 'keep' and determine that they were paid for with these so-called donations online.You'll enter your plea with the courts (a plea is a verbal contract that also establishes civil jurisdiction with your consent), they'll find you guilty, and you'll get a nice piece of paper called a court order to pay fines (or possibly jail time).Call me jaded if you wish. They are very 'tricky monkeys'.  During an audit (taxman, or otherwise) how will "Person B" explain a donation? Person B would need to have some sort of cover. A fake charity or something? Maybe one should have a lackey that does the driving and mailing.  Pay him in Bitcoins! Great minds think alike. (There are better places than under your bed.) Epassporte is kinda scammy. It is ran by the same folks who run Paycom/Epoch Billing (adult billing). I personally know a handful of people who were ripped off, had their accounts frozen for various non-issues (see: PayPal).When I had signed up for a physical card when they first opened I never received anything in the mail, they charged my CC, my bank called me asking me if it was fraudulent. They told me that those epassporte charges had caused a lot of disputes at my bank. I explained to the guy on the phone what I had ordered online and that I hadn't received anything. (It wasn't my intention to chargeback or cause any "friendly fraud", people do that to me all the time so I know how it feels. It is aggravating.) My money was refunded by epassporte after I called them in California (they claim to be in Antigua).When people ask me to pay them with Epassporte, I usually just laugh.Anyone want to hear my stories about PayPal? lol I have a few.How about with Visa International? Or MasterCard's broken securecode system? I think as Bitcoin's adoption rates go up more and more LR+Pecunix only sites will pick up Bitcoin as an alternate payment option. After all, the people already accepting LR/Pecunix are very like-minded.Yes, we are all here to learn and discuss. My apologies if I came across as a "know-it-all". I have just been in the payment processing industry and law studies for over 10 years, and I know a lot about it. Sure, you can be worried about me taking your DNA from an envelope that you send.  Just use gloves when preparing the envelope and use water or tape instead of saliva. (Wear a hair net too if you are that paranoid! ha!)A franked envelope has information about the general area from where the letter was mailed. It is rather useless to an investigator, assuming that you don't use a real return address. Or you use a return address that I provide you (lets just say). You can also go for a little drive to a different part of town and mail from there. Or another city. Or get a friend to re-mail it from his city. There are plenty of options.'Snail mail' when properly prepared (making the envelopes as machine-readable as possible and using the proper Zip code 5+4 digit extension, etc) is actually quite speedy. (I have experience with shipping as well.) As a business, why would I accept Bitcoin and not LR/Pecunix? It doesn't make any sense to do exchanges between LR/Pecunix and Bitcoin.Oh, and asterisk sucks. You'll want freeswitch instead. (freeswitch.org)So you are saying that people are lazy? lol Big surprise there. Oh and LR is a fractional reserve currency on top of a fractional reserve currency. Do not keep money in your LR accounts. Use it as a pass-thru only. Also, PerfectMoney is ran by a sociopath who is currently in prison.edit by Xunie: merged 4 posts. Not anymore. They were just recently slapped with fines. They are tightening up ID requirements now. Cash in the mail is the best option, in my opinion.1. It is fairly anonymous (there would be a postmark from your side and you'd know my address).2. I know the laws inside and out here. I wouldn't violate them.3. I am not in the USA.Oh and PayPal is a horrible choice.All it would take is for a competitor to rat you out to PayPal and you'd be out of business.Exchanging in and out of physical gold/silver is another option. I have experience with shipping goods, and a friend of mine is a bullion dealer. edit by Xunie: merged two posts. I average around 32-40 on each of my machines. I have port forwarding setup and my machines are on big connections. I'd like to actually increase the number of connections. It is natural deflation. Get over it.  That URL is bunk.The NZD? New Zealand is bankrupt.The USD? The US is almost in a depression and it might lose its status as a reserve currency. (Not to mention rampant inflation.)I'd just choose gold or silver. I pay $9.99 for a local phone number. Been a customer for 4 years. It works great.I also use them to connect my mobile calls. (Mobile calls here are seriously an arm+leg with our local provider.)Oh, and I also resell some of their stuff to friends to make a few extra bucks. I emailed support and asked them. (I've been a customer for 4 years. I was also the one who suggested that they accept BCs.)They told me that they are matching New Liberty Standard's BC/USD rate for the time being.I sent them a payment today and I received a credit. Looks like it works.  Link2VoIP (www.link2voip.com) accepts Bitcoin as payment.Now you can get phone service for Bitcoins.How's that for useful?  Found these ones online:(I2P / port 8333)7dcgf6w3ahd7rjmhyzbu6mvji2pncv2sywlhjhoxkoi6gsjqucxq.b32.i2p(TOR / port 8333)ijzt2eeizty3p5xe.onionThey are listed on http://hosts.i2p (on I2P) I vote for the I2P method, myself. It works great. Your remedy supposedly lies in finding out what a "US Citizen" really is and what your obligations are.I have read a lot of court transcripts of trials in the USA regarding money transmitting, and (so-called) laundering, and I'd have to conclude that the US Government seems to do whatever the hell it wants. And that is really unfortunate. I don't see any freedom in that country (as an outsider looking in) until there is another civil war. :/ (Although I REALLY hope it would be a peaceful resistance.)I really wouldn't want to run an exchanger from the USA. If you do live in the US and want to run an exchanger, setup a foreign corporation and run business that way. Get nominee directors and shareholders. Deny that you own it. Don't even tell your family. (Everyone has something to lose; and those rats will use that as leverage.)As for stopping bitcoin, our government has been trying to stop file sharing and P2P for many years. They can't seem to. I'm not worried at all. The point of attack for them is going to be the exchangers.E-Gold failed because they were SLOPPY and NIEVE.They had "E-Gold Ltd." setup in Nevis+St. Kitts, forgot to renew the corporate charter, held the reserves (contracts with brinks/via mat) with a US corporation (G&SR INC) (where the US DOJ has jurisdiction). They reached a point where they started to realized that they could make even more money if they ran their own exchanger. So they started OmniPay in the USA (another bad move) without any licenses, and poor KYC compliance. They were asking for it.When they appeared in court and started to pull the whole "E-Gold is out of your jurisdiction" crap it didn't matter. (Only the website and book entries were "without US"). The "crimes" were pulled by G&SR+OmniPay and that really is all that matters. OmniPay was a US corporation and it dealt with FRNs. We know how that went. The US DOJ could also seize the physical gold and silver because G&SR was under their jurisdiction as well.Lessons learned: the US has shoddy property rights (if you are a corporation), they don't follow their own laws (corruption), and Jackson needed to structure his business better (sloppy). He thought the US Government would work with him and not against him if he cooperated with investigations (nieve).Peace and good luck! 
They were big in the 80s after the markets tanked and the economy went into a recession. They are handy fallbacks when the dominate monetary system falls.Maybe encouraging those LETS "old timers" to use BC instead is the correct avenue. Hmm. Hey all,I think it would be really neat if someone would approach/email (or whatever) all of the communities using LETS and got them involved in Bitcoin. Perhaps exchanging in/out of LETS could be achieved as well.There is a lot of real world commerce (as in, not just on the internet) on the LETS system and I think it would benefit both systems to form some sort of alliance. So by the same reasoning should the Federal Reserve be charged when a criminal sells drugs with FRNs?  If there were stable fiat exchangers it would make bitcoin a more desirable payment option. Especially in the beginning. After it has a lot of adoption exchanging may occur less and less.I don't think we HAVE to have exchangers. They are just desirable. consensus facit legem  The law *you can read*? Are you talking about legalese or English? Haha! Maybe with Internet 2 (or 3?). They would just revoke your internet driver's license if you don't abide by the new rules. Hahahahah  I love how the word "offshore" seems to mean "not in the USA" now. Trading with bitcoin without the need to exchange in/out to fiat is ideal. Don't forget to look at state money transmitting licenses. That's what killed Goldage. (They were one of the largest e-gold exchangers). They were unlicensed because that thought that digital gold was outside the jurisdiction (not legal tender) of the state/federal governments. The state laws were vague enough, and law enforcement was ignorant enough, that they were prosecuted by the state of New York.(See: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Goldage)Lots of people speculate that they were prosecuted for political reasons and not for "legal" ones. The central banks (and therefore the governments under their economic debt rule) do not want competing currencies. This isn't because it is competition (e-gold was soooo small compared to the FRN paper game). They didn't want e-gold to open up people's mind to the idea of alternate currencies. That is a far bigger threat.Remember that a license is an act of privilege that can be revoked/regulated. I firmly believe that any action that you can purchase a license for is fundamentally lawful. (Ex: you can't buy a license to commit a crime. No "license to kill", Bond. ).It is possible to claim lawful excuse to operate unlicensed. (By pronouncement or claim by right of notary.. again, you need to know what you are doing.)Peace! That wchar thing was what I was stuck on for the OSX build. Glad to see it is ironed out. I'll keep hacking away now. Haha! That was *exactly* what I was going to post.  You and I are true pals now. Nah.. you guys have it wrong.It isn't the written law that you should be concerned with.You need to rely on your courts to make the 'fair and just' decisions. That is the real problem. I wouldn't dream of running any sort of "money transmitting business" (their term) or currency exchange in the USA. (See e-gold and liberty dollar.)It is probably best to run your exchanger from a different country than the one in which you reside. That would involve a corporation or trustee.($10,000 OR any "suspicious" transaction. That is subject to OPINION.. very open-ended if you ask me. So a court proceeding on failure to report based on suspicion would boil down to "he who can afford to put forth the most motions in court"... lol)Another option is an estoppel. (Again, you need to really know what you are doing.)Cheers!  Oh, I know.  I don't advocate illegal activity either. However, I can deface bills legally where I live.  That was all I was saying. It is only illegal in my country (not the US) to deface coins. Bills are fair game.  Why would you install them? Because you currently have to. I know the feeling. I run minimalist FreeBSD servers and to clutter them with X libraries is a pain.However, installing them onto a X workstation is totally fine -- you usually have all of the correct dependancies already.   I suspect they will try to regulate the internet even more, not bitcoin itself.And yes, they will try to deter others from using it by means of a media smear. (See the smear campaign they did to e-gold back in the day). Will this stop people from using it? Yes, some. Will it stop it completely? No. Am I to understand that these graphics are public domain? That would be so awesome...  *NIX peoples are "purists" of sorts. They don't like to pollute their OS installs with libraries that shouldn't be necessary.A million ifdefs are not the answer either. Hmm.. more thought to this may be required. * madhatter2 pulls out razor sharp hex editor
Nice! I might do 'well hidden cash in the mail' here for small amounts. I would deface bills with "bitcoin.org", but I don't have any space left after I ink on "Of what?" on each bill.  International bank wires? Money orders by mail?There are plenty of options. Using a 3rd party billing company is only one. You could always generate your own electricity. I have successfully built large clusters that are nothing more than a stack of motherboards with low power (consumption) CPUs.These systems are all DC (every computer is DC under the hood) and can be powered easily 12VDC with some 5v regulators in there. Systems like these can be easily powered with arrays of batteries with solar or wind generation to trickle charge the batteries during the day/windy periods.Essentially I could generate/participate cheaper (in the long run of course) with a setup like this one. Assuming that electricity prices will climb over the next 10 years and that I'd only have to change out the obsolete systems every 4 or so I could possibly come out ahead.Still haven't ran all of the math yet.  Also predicting future electricity costs is a hard thing to do. It is probably best to price your goods in whatever fiat currency you are dealing with online (usually USD). It is less confusing to the consumer. Trust me on this one. Once the customer has agreed to purchase whatever you are selling -- exchange it on the fly and show them the total in BCs.This is most likely the way I am going to do it.Cheers! Actually a lot of end-user routers (the ones most people use at home) have a DDNS client built into them. That is another option as well. Yeah, I had totally thought of that too. A magnet link scheme would be awesome.  I have something to sell too. All are digital goods from currently-running businesses.  I have been covertly advertising bitcoin over the last month. I have a lot of business contacts (over 30,000) in the tech/online business realm. I will start pushing it here soon. (Once I have automation up and running on my network). If even 1% of my contacts start using BC it will grow the network a LOT.As long as exchangers can keep up with the business demands, I don't see any reason for BC to fail.  Oh thank you!You have no idea how badly I needed something like this.I will have a payment library built in no time.  I have 0.2 running on FreeBSD windowed or non-windowed. I am also really close to having it running on OSX 10.4.11. It is true, I had ran into build problems due to UTF issues. I will try it again soon. I have an Intel Mac and a PPC Mac here as well. I should release builds for both platforms.Peace!  I have information that I can't share here.Pecunix is good. My only stipulation would be that tungsten gold-plated 400oz bars have been found in the LMBA bullion banking system. There is evidence that gold is being stolen.If you are just using Pecunix/LR as a "pass-through", you'll be fine.  Side note: Liberty Reserve is a scam. They are fractional reserve lending on a fractional reserve currency. Lol! I find a lot of this laughable.  (All in good taste, guys.)If you want true anonymity on bitcoin, generate the coins yourself and spend them on digital goods (giving up shipping details would be counter-productive). If you don't have the CPU power, rent or buy more CPUs.  When all of the coins are generated, buy coins from one of your friends in person with cash. Mow their lawn for bitcoins. Whatever. The ideal way would be to have exchangers in jurisdictions where they could easily accept cash in and out of the postal system. The reasoning for this is: no fees (besides a stamp), no banks to deal with, no 3rd parties such as paypal, it's anonymous, they can't claim 'commerce', OR subject matter jurisdiction over you. The value from the received fiat could be re-patrioted by mailing it back out to bitcoin users, purchases of goods in foreign markets that are sold online again for bitcoins/cash in a different currency/paypal, etc. (Really depends on what you are trying to achieve).Courage always beats fear. Hands down. That said, exchangers need to be courageous. They need to know the law. They need to understand jurisdiction and commercial law (possibly property law and extradition laws as well) inside-out and backwards. If they don't, they are doomed to fail. I am talking from experience here.If any of you think for a second that you can simply deal paypal/moneybookers/etc for bitcoins and not attract attention from the law (or those who provide the money transmitting services including banks) -- you are MISTAKEN. You may be able to run it for a while without attention, but it will happen eventually. (Again, this comes from experience.)They try all sorts of underhanded tactics to defend the banking system. They'll demand that you need a license to be a money transmitter. They'll demand that you need a permit to operate within a particular city. They'll claim that you accepted cash proceeds from a crime and try you with criminal charges.I've seen and heard it all.It all starts with knowing the law and being courageous.I wish you all the best.  This isn't a function of Bitcoin. You can just run a ddns client on the same system that you run Bitcoin on.Problem solved.  I "know of" the man who runs ecache. I suspect he abandoned it due to lack of interest. Great! I guess this statement obsoletes my last post. (https://www.bitcoin.org/smf/index.php?topic=25.msg178#msg178) The main issue is that the bitcoin application was designed as an end-user P2P program. (And a proof of concept?) I see it being highly successful in this arena.However, from the perspective of the merchant (myself, and others) payment automation is currently impossible. :/ We could fork off a console-only version or perhaps just put in some defines that can be switched on at compile time to remove the X11/wxwidgets stuff and switch on a control API. I hope for the latter.Payment automation needs to be addressed to expand the market that accepts bitcoin as a payment method.Thanks.  Great stuff! I am going to try the latest SVN on some of my test computers and let you know what I find out. Fragmentation of the Bitcoin idea should be encouraged. It would only increase privacy and make such systems harder to shut down. 
A balance between extended transaction data while NOT becoming an instant messenger client would be nice.  You are much better off with a secured laptop/netbook. That way you can be sure that there aren't any trojans (keyloggers/wallet theft-type bugs). Take the laptop/netbook to your favorite coffeeshops/schools/etc and spend away! Cheers! Hmm.. I am not sure if you can send a 0-coin payment. Can anyone confirm this? Yeah, I2P is much easier to automate in that regard. I could setup some .onions manually and post them to the list to be used as seeds. I have always-on nodes that can just be tied to Tor with minimal effort.I used to be a big advocate of Tor, but after I started using I2P I found it to be much, much better in a lot of ways. Biggest improvement is speed.   Too bad they wrote it in Java. Planning a pizza party?  What are we celebrating?  Good Stuff. However, you will find that getting donations to float your reserves to be difficult. Be prepared to invest your own money. You may want to read this.https://www.bitcoin.org/smf/index.php?topic=15.msg105#msg105 Exchangers are not going to stick around until there is real commerce happening within BC. I mean, why would an exchanger sit around and accept bitcoins that are generated on your computers? They are going to just blow out their float of dollars and fold. (End up with a pile of coins and no dollars forever waiting for someone to buy the coins again with dollars).We are in a sort of "chicken and egg" situation at the moment.Exchangers wont stick around until they can move money in both directions and somewhat evenly. (And can see some sort of a profit of course).In order for an exchanger to sell bitcoins (more than can be generated by an average user's computer, of course) to someone, they need customers who have dollars and want coins. They would buy coins with dollars (from an exchanger) because they don't have the computational power to generate enough in a short enough timeframe to make the required purchase. (ex. I am not going to sit here and wait a year to generate enough coins to buy a t-shirt online. It might not fit me by then, or it might be out of style.. lol!)Also, a merchant is not going to sell products for coins when they know that the exchangers are out of dollars. They would know that they can't get their value out. (Essentially reducing the value of the coins to nothing. I can buy coins by -- essentially -- paying my power bill but if I can't pay my power bill with these coins I am running at a loss. They would be worth less than $0). They will just revert back to dollars. One could argue that the merchant could still accept the coins -- sure -- but they would just pile them up hoping that one day they could get their value out. Most businesses would see this as unnecessary risk.What traditionally defines "money" (talking fiat here) is what you can use for the payment of taxes. And I don't see the governments taking bitcoin as a form of payment anytime soon.One could (in theory) start your own country and mandate payment in bitcoins. That would be one way around that mess, but you would need adoption. One man (or a hand-full) by himself on an island will surely fail in trade. Humans live in hives; like bees.  Why did/do we have a queen? (And I digress..)Here is my proposal: I am going to actually sell goods with bitcoin. I am willing to take the risk because I believe in a new online economy. I understand all of the risks involved. I would like to partner (I will settle for another man's word) who can exchange in/out of dollars for me at a fair value that will keep customers happy. I will do this because I know that for in order for this system to succeed we need exchangers AND goods/services.Cheers and good luck! Hello,I have had another idea. It would be very cool to be able to have TOR and I2P seeds. For example: I could run BT within TOR-land on a .onion address. A client could connect their BT to TOR and have it seed from a .onion address and use it as a connected peer. (Likewise for I2P: someone could run a .i2p service that is -- well -- BC).I might setup a couple of nodes in this fashion and post the tunnels on this forum. I already run a lot of I2P and TOR nodes so adding BC to the mix is quite trivial.I support the idea of making BC compatible with TOR and I2P to increase the privacy of the system. I mean: why re-invent the wheel? There are thousands of mix network nodes just sitting there that can be used to enhance BC. Cheers! All modern computers are amd64/EM64T. It should be able to be compiled on either platform. It is a hassle to compile all of the dependancies in 32-bit mode just to run one program. I know the 32-bit/64-bit stuff is seamless on windows platforms but on *NIX platforms it is a major pain since they are usually either one or the other by default. As a workaround I am in the process of compiling FreeBSD 32-bit jails (aka virtual server images) just for running bitcoin on our network. It should make it easier for me to deploy more nodes as they can simply be zipped up / scp'd / extracted / launched. After I have a working system image based on FreeBSD-8.0 I may post a link for download.Thanks and keep up the good work. I can't wait to see how many exchangers are willing to trade BT. The stability of the exchangers and their longevity is everything. If the exchangers stick around big businesses may use this system to get around service fees / chargebacks / and the general faults caused by the credit card industry.Keep up the great work!  Can bitcoin be compiled to run on 64 bit systems yet? -m64 seems to break the compile.(Not trying to nag or anything).On a side node: I have noticed that the network is about 3x larger than normal now. I see more nodes!  Hello,Great to see that the minor FreeBSD-specific changes have been added to the SVN. Thanks! I am in the process of setting up more bitcoin seed notes (geographically distributed) as soon as I can find the time. (I am currently in the middle of moving the computer lab).I should have some more minor cleanups/compile fixes here soon.Cheers! To build on FreeBSD:Install all of the required software from /usr/ports and then compile using the makefile.fbsd"It just works".  [madhatter@10 /home/madhatter/src/bitcoin]# diff -u headers.h.orig headers.h      --- headers.h.orig      2009-12-14 12:29:39.000000000 +0000+++ headers.h   2009-12-14 12:41:08.000000000 +0000@@ -35,7 +35,12 @@ #include <limits.h> #include <float.h> #include <assert.h>+#ifndef BUILD_FREEBSD //malloc.h is part of stdlib.h on FreeBSD #include <malloc.h>+#endif+#ifdef BUILD_FREEBSD+#include <netinet/in.h>+#endif #include <memory> #define BOUNDSCHECK 1 #include <sstream>[madhatter@10 /home/madhatter/src/bitcoin]# cat makefile.fbsd # Copyright (c) 2009 Satoshi Nakamoto# Distributed under the MIT/X11 software license, see the accompanying# file license.txt or http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php.ifneq "$(BUILD)" "debug"ifneq "$(BUILD)" "release"BUILD=debugendifendififeq "$(BUILD)" "debug"D=dDEBUGFLAGS=-gendifINCLUDEPATHS= \ -I"/usr/include" \ -I"/usr/local/include" \ -I"/usr/local/include/db47" \ -I"/usr/local/include/wx-2.8" \ -I"/usr/local/lib/wx/include/gtk2-ansi-release-2.8"LIBPATHS= \ -L"/usr/lib" \ -L"/usr/local/lib" \ -L"/usr/local/lib/db47"LIBS= \ -Wl,-Bstatic \   -l boost_system -l boost_filesystem \   -l db_cxx \ -Wl,-Bdynamic \   -l wx_base-2.8 \   -l wx_gtk2_core-2.8 \   -l wx_gtk2_html-2.8 \   -l wx_gtk2_richtext-2.8 \   -l crypto \   -l gtk-x11-2.0 -l gthread-2.0 -l SMWXDEFS=-D__WXGTK__ -DNOPCH -DBUILD_FREEBSDCFLAGS=-O0 -Wno-invalid-offsetof -Wformat $(DEBUGFLAGS) $(WXDEFS) $(INCLUDEPATHS)HEADERS=headers.h util.h main.h serialize.h uint256.h key.h bignum.h script.h db.h base58.hall: bitcoinheaders.h.gch: headers.h $(HEADERS) net.h irc.h market.h uibase.h ui.h        g++ -c $(CFLAGS) -o $@ $<obj/util.o: util.cpp                $(HEADERS)        g++ -c $(CFLAGS) -o $@ $<obj/script.o: script.cpp            $(HEADERS)        g++ -c $(CFLAGS) -o $@ $<obj/db.o: db.cpp                    $(HEADERS) market.h        g++ -c $(CFLAGS) -o $@ $<obj/net.o: net.cpp                  $(HEADERS) net.h        g++ -c $(CFLAGS) -o $@ $<obj/main.o: main.cpp                $(HEADERS) net.h market.h sha.h        g++ -c $(CFLAGS) -o $@ $<obj/market.o: market.cpp            $(HEADERS) market.h        g++ -c $(CFLAGS) -o $@ $<obj/ui.o: ui.cpp                    $(HEADERS) net.h uibase.h ui.h market.h        g++ -c $(CFLAGS) -o $@ $<obj/uibase.o: uibase.cpp            uibase.h        g++ -c $(CFLAGS) -o $@ $<obj/sha.o: sha.cpp                  sha.h        g++ -c $(CFLAGS) -O3 -o $@ $<obj/irc.o: irc.cpp                  $(HEADERS)        g++ -c $(CFLAGS) -o $@ $<OBJS=obj/util.o obj/script.o obj/db.o obj/net.o obj/main.o obj/market.o \        obj/ui.o obj/uibase.o obj/sha.o obj/irc.obitcoin: headers.h.gch $(OBJS)        g++ $(CFLAGS) -o $@ $(LIBPATHS) $(OBJS) $(LIBS)clean:        -rm obj/*        -rm headers.h.gch I used the default build options. I will try the options from your txt file. On FreeBSD it just worked right from the normal ports system. Which is excellent. It means that installing bitcoin via the same ports system (my goal) will be a snap.Yes, the debug.log has the proper permissions. I'll re-read the source. There must be something I am missing. Okay, I am on SF now. Username "madhatter2". Okay, I will look into the std::string issue. It is also throwing the same std::string issue on the latest version of Ubuntu Linux. So this isn't just OSX related. I have to say that my main background is C, not C++ so I am still learning some of the C++ data types/headers/and other specifics "as I go". There are only defines for __WXCOCOA__ and __WXMAC__ in wx/defs.h (I must be missing something here..maybe my wxwidgets needs to be rebuilt -- I'll try that). I have tried combinations of those existing defines without success. The other option is to use gtk on OSX but the windowing will be slower and (my opinion) "ugly". Carbon would be the best selection for OSX.  I'll keep hacking at it until I get it working. I also now have a working startup script for FreeBSD that will launch xorg's virtual framebuffer onto the localhost, fire up bitcoin and have the X11 screen output get stuffed into memory (instead of the monitor). This is a real big hack, but it does enable someone to run bitcoin as a pseudo unix daemon. I have had the code running for over 12h now and I don't detect any memory leaks or other weirdness.Also I have a simple network monitor that will detect if bitcoin has crashed/stopped responding on port 8333, send me a page, and start the daemon back up again. This setup is ideal. I have started deploying seeds on servers I control that are all over the world. One question: how do I enable the debug.log? I have tried stopping bitcoin and touching ~/.bitcoin/debug.log and starting bitcoin again. It never seems to write to the file. Am I missing something?I will include these tools once I get SF setup.Cheers! Can anyone shed some light here?g++ -c -O0 -Wno-invalid-offsetof -Wformat -g -D__WXMAC__ -DNOPCH -DBUILD_MACOSX -I"/usr/include" -I"/usr/local/include/wx-2.8" -I"/usr/local/include" -I"/usr/local/boost_1_41_0" -I"/sw/include/db4" -I"/usr/local/ssl/include" -I"/usr/local/lib/wx/include/mac-ansi-release-2.8" -o headers.h.gch headers.hui.h: In constructor 'CGetTextFromUserDialog::CGetTextFromUserDialog(wxWindow*, const std::string&, const std::string&, const std::string&, const std::string&, const std::string&)':ui.h:421: error: no matching function for call to 'CGetTextFromUserDialogBase::CGetTextFromUserDialogBase(wxWindow*&, <anonymous enum>, const std::basic_string<char, std::char_traits<char>, std::allocator<char> >&)'uibase.h:673: note: candidates are: CGetTextFromUserDialogBase::CGetTextFromUserDialogBase(wxWindow*, wxWindowID, const wxString&, const wxPoint&, const wxSize&, long int)uibase.h:651: note:                 CGetTextFromUserDialogBase::CGetTextFromUserDialogBase(const CGetTextFromUserDialogBase&)ui.h:423: error: no matching function for call to 'wxStaticText::SetLabel(const std::basic_string<char, std::char_traits<char>, std::allocator<char> >&)'/usr/local/include/wx-2.8/wx/mac/carbon/stattext.h:38: note: candidates are: virtual void wxStaticText::SetLabel(const wxString&)ui.h:424: error: no matching function for call to 'wxTextCtrl::SetValue(const std::basic_string<char, std::char_traits<char>, std::allocator<char> >&)'/usr/local/include/wx-2.8/wx/textctrl.h:303: note: candidates are: virtual void wxTextCtrlBase::SetValue(const wxString&)ui.h:428: error: no matching function for call to 'wxStaticText::SetLabel(const std::basic_string<char, std::char_traits<char>, std::allocator<char> >&)'/usr/local/include/wx-2.8/wx/mac/carbon/stattext.h:38: note: candidates are: virtual void wxStaticText::SetLabel(const wxString&)ui.h:430: error: no matching function for call to 'wxTextCtrl::SetValue(const std::basic_string<char, std::char_traits<char>, std::allocator<char> >&)'/usr/local/include/wx-2.8/wx/textctrl.h:303: note: candidates are: virtual void wxTextCtrlBase::SetValue(const wxString&)make: *** [headers.h.gch] Error 1 Got it working on FreeBSD! I'll submit my work here soon.$gmake -f makefile.fbsd      g++ -c -O0 -Wno-invalid-offsetof -Wformat  -D__WXGTK__ -DNOPCH -DBUILD_FREEBSD -I"/usr/include" -I"/usr/local/include" -I"/usr/local/include/db47" -I"/usr/local/include/wx-2.8" -I"/usr/local/lib/wx/include/gtk2-ansi-release-2.8" -o headers.h.gch headers.hg++ -c -O0 -Wno-invalid-offsetof -Wformat  -D__WXGTK__ -DNOPCH -DBUILD_FREEBSD -I"/usr/include" -I"/usr/local/include" -I"/usr/local/include/db47" -I"/usr/local/include/wx-2.8" -I"/usr/local/lib/wx/include/gtk2-ansi-release-2.8" -o obj/util.o util.cppg++ -c -O0 -Wno-invalid-offsetof -Wformat  -D__WXGTK__ -DNOPCH -DBUILD_FREEBSD -I"/usr/include" -I"/usr/local/include" -I"/usr/local/include/db47" -I"/usr/local/include/wx-2.8" -I"/usr/local/lib/wx/include/gtk2-ansi-release-2.8" -o obj/script.o script.cppg++ -c -O0 -Wno-invalid-offsetof -Wformat  -D__WXGTK__ -DNOPCH -DBUILD_FREEBSD -I"/usr/include" -I"/usr/local/include" -I"/usr/local/include/db47" -I"/usr/local/include/wx-2.8" -I"/usr/local/lib/wx/include/gtk2-ansi-release-2.8" -o obj/db.o db.cppg++ -c -O0 -Wno-invalid-offsetof -Wformat  -D__WXGTK__ -DNOPCH -DBUILD_FREEBSD -I"/usr/include" -I"/usr/local/include" -I"/usr/local/include/db47" -I"/usr/local/include/wx-2.8" -I"/usr/local/lib/wx/include/gtk2-ansi-release-2.8" -o obj/net.o net.cppg++ -c -O0 -Wno-invalid-offsetof -Wformat  -D__WXGTK__ -DNOPCH -DBUILD_FREEBSD -I"/usr/include" -I"/usr/local/include" -I"/usr/local/include/db47" -I"/usr/local/include/wx-2.8" -I"/usr/local/lib/wx/include/gtk2-ansi-release-2.8" -o obj/main.o main.cppg++ -c -O0 -Wno-invalid-offsetof -Wformat  -D__WXGTK__ -DNOPCH -DBUILD_FREEBSD -I"/usr/include" -I"/usr/local/include" -I"/usr/local/include/db47" -I"/usr/local/include/wx-2.8" -I"/usr/local/lib/wx/include/gtk2-ansi-release-2.8" -o obj/market.o market.cppg++ -c -O0 -Wno-invalid-offsetof -Wformat  -D__WXGTK__ -DNOPCH -DBUILD_FREEBSD -I"/usr/include" -I"/usr/local/include" -I"/usr/local/include/db47" -I"/usr/local/include/wx-2.8" -I"/usr/local/lib/wx/include/gtk2-ansi-release-2.8" -o obj/ui.o ui.cppg++ -c -O0 -Wno-invalid-offsetof -Wformat  -D__WXGTK__ -DNOPCH -DBUILD_FREEBSD -I"/usr/include" -I"/usr/local/include" -I"/usr/local/include/db47" -I"/usr/local/include/wx-2.8" -I"/usr/local/lib/wx/include/gtk2-ansi-release-2.8" -o obj/uibase.o uibase.cppg++ -c -O0 -Wno-invalid-offsetof -Wformat  -D__WXGTK__ -DNOPCH -DBUILD_FREEBSD -I"/usr/include" -I"/usr/local/include" -I"/usr/local/include/db47" -I"/usr/local/include/wx-2.8" -I"/usr/local/lib/wx/include/gtk2-ansi-release-2.8" -O3 -o obj/sha.o sha.cppg++ -c -O0 -Wno-invalid-offsetof -Wformat  -D__WXGTK__ -DNOPCH -DBUILD_FREEBSD -I"/usr/include" -I"/usr/local/include" -I"/usr/local/include/db47" -I"/usr/local/include/wx-2.8" -I"/usr/local/lib/wx/include/gtk2-ansi-release-2.8" -o obj/irc.o irc.cppg++ -O0 -Wno-invalid-offsetof -Wformat  -D__WXGTK__ -DNOPCH -DBUILD_FREEBSD -I"/usr/include" -I"/usr/local/include" -I"/usr/local/include/db47" -I"/usr/local/include/wx-2.8" -I"/usr/local/lib/wx/include/gtk2-ansi-release-2.8" -o bitcoin -L"/usr/lib" -L"/usr/local/lib" -L"/usr/local/lib/db47" obj/util.o obj/script.o obj/db.o obj/net.o obj/main.o obj/market.o obj/ui.o obj/uibase.o obj/sha.o obj/irc.o -Wl,-Bstatic -l boost_system -l boost_filesystem -l db_cxx -Wl,-Bdynamic -l wx_base-2.8 -l wx_gtk2_core-2.8 -l wx_gtk2_html-2.8 -l wx_gtk2_richtext-2.8 -l crypto -l gtk-x11-2.0 -l gthread-2.0 -l SM$ file ./bitcoin ./bitcoin: ELF 32-bit LSB executable, Intel 80386, version 1 (FreeBSD), for FreeBSD 7.2, dynamically linked (uses shared libs), FreeBSD-style, not stripped Okay, thanks for the tips. I am going to try running bitcoin 0.2/svn on FreeBSD tonight in console-only mode. I'll create some notes / patches / etc.
