Thanks, turned out the problem was high wifi packet loss, synced beautifully after I switched to wired LAN not sure this is the best place to ask, but... how long does monero full node currently take to sync? (given a SSD) There was a chart on twitter showing historical performance of coins over time. In short... it's getting worse. Better to exit early and take either profit or loss, there's about the same amount of coins launched every year with long-term potential but they tend to get lost between all the empty ones launched recently. out of the less known ones, byteball has (and will have) quite low fees as there's no mining involved. however the contracts you can express there are more limited compared to eth/nem.Disclosure: I hold a small amount of byteball right now (<10gb), but actually prototyped (and abandoned) something similar back in 2014-2015. Should've finished that one  I like how similar this "post chain" thread is to the blockchain itself For that matter...Code:15w3D2zdTALNdt4rG1hxMhWxbvpwVsjd3rCode:bitcointalk.org: wizzard0 at 2017-08-26, since 2010-09-19Code:HzH2cIUTUXVoUUkiBkeV63G8FhNMSu28cYono0uEwhRxQXt2gWNTaLk/Y5iNiKy7x7Sor00Dea6Fm/DpFavxK58=The quoted message is deemed valid by my bitcoin client, too. I agree. A template term sheet with typical properties would both simplify comparison by participants and act as a quick sanity check for moderators too.Works great on a torrent boards where a lot of similar releases get posted and otherwise need to be carefully sorted like "is this a reencode? what is the quality? what are the languages/subtitles etc?" I see. Sad to hear that. How do you distinguish between "real" and spam registrations btw? (interested for own projects, can discuss in PM) @WCXOfficial registering on the website gives "this email domain is not allowed", care to help?* the domain is http://tvori.info, my personal website Yep, winning 0.1 coin per game is better than playing 100 games and not winning any.However, this isn't as easy to implement as it seems. Собрал еще одну, лол. Но это швах уже, поезд ушел, теперь надо бота писать) я думаю, это та же фигня, что и orphaned blocks в обычном биткойне. меняется время, за которое нужно достать монетку.вчера было 36 секунд, достал несколько штук. сегодня 30 секунд, уже ни одну не смог ) It seems better to adjust not time limit, but level size with difficulty - this makes assessing whether level is finishable much harder - so less profit from brute-forcing levels until the lucky one is found. Thanks a lot, this did the trick! Syncing now. Can anybody give IP:Port for live node with blockchain? I'm running motocoin on 3 different PCs and all of them show "No block source available" :/ it ahem works but not every 25 min as advertised, more like every 5-10h  My FRC finally arrived! There seems to be a problem with FRC withdrawals, min amount is 10, set mine to 20, and after 74 FRC confirmed and some hours passed - nothing appeared in the client :/ rfnY2TejMx88jAofzcPGcEB7iNRksgHk6K Oh, I totally need to update the ticker scraping code >_< Thanks for noticing, it always breaks when I pay least attention to it.
Added IXCoin, I0Coin and SolidCoin profitability comparison.Will make separate bitcoin-only page next  Well, MtGox is back, bugs fixed, chart is back again, too  The chart is correct; the numbers however are not. Fix is underway. Thanks for your feedback) You misunderstood me.1. Difficulty is already only on historical graph2. Look at the namecoin graph zigzags and you'll see that there's not much sense plotting prices and profits on the same scale. I think I'm gonna split them into 2 charts. Prices are using other scale than profits. I'm considering either to split them (because they're not really related), or to rescale.Also, they aren't simply weighted, profit=price/difficulty, and difficulty changes over time  Yes, it's bitcoin. Thanks!It works! So we finally have autoscroll  Thanks again! Previously, MtGox was outputting garbage instead of tickers. Now BitcoinCharts was down for maintenance.Now I query both MtGox and BitcoinCharts and hope one of them works Done that  Oh shi %) Apparently the updating job died while I was not attending it. Thank you! Well, I'm not against your project. I just accidentally trying to implement something remotely similar - http://tvori.info/truelink (a distributed IM is supposed to be simpler than a distributed trading platform, right?)Turns out it's not so simple, too... Even with most of the pieces available.(Some) of the problems that we stumbled upon: trust (between participants), search results spam, deniability, key management, account restore/revoke issues, etc. Don't forget that traditional centralized systems are there for a reason. IEEE 754 decimal32 is a single-precision floating-point number occupying 32 bits. Tell me I am wrong. Because if I'm not - this is horrible.Do you know that adding 0.00000001 BTC to 1 BTC will result in 1 BTC, and adding 0.00000021 will result in 1.00000024 BTC with this precision? Oh. That's rough.I'd steer clear of any "currency processor" that is using floating point numbers, of whatever precision, and rounding. This is just laughable. In the light of MtGox being, um, not so stable these days, I'm thinking of making a new exchange.However, here comes the issue of trust. There are already a number of topics about the credibility of new exchanges which sprung up lately.My proposed solution to this problem is transparency - an exchange where the ongoing transactions are anonymized and then published in an externally audited database.The question is, what is better? completely opaque and anonymous (may feel more 'secure' to someone), transparent to some degree (e.g. with names and credentials replaced by salted SHA256), or totally transparent (even with public deposit/withdraw details) exchange? Unfortunately, cryptography is not a magic pixie dust you can spread over your software and make it "secure".Same with peer-to-peer.This idea has been floating in the air for months. What is needed is the concrete design. Oh, you catched a moment when I was updating the code So, the update:- Split charts to "last week" and "all time"- Added namecoin difficulty/price/profit. Even if Satoshi did that, it would probably be BTC/JPY exchange then  What's the point of DDoS'ing mtgox? не очень понимаю, как связаны мтгокс и сеть нодов биткойна я вот не могу понять - кому какой профит может быть от ддоса mtgox? Update: MtGox stats (and all currency calculations) were screwed. Fixed. Can't think of any sensible hurt that the influx of miners might do to namecoin (name squatting? don't make me laugh)Although if I'm missing something - please explain.I know https://exchange.bitparking.com/ . What's wrong with NMC->BTC->USD?Well, I should probably mention about mining pool fees, mtgox fee, variance, lost/stale/invalid/orphaned blocks and all such things then... It would get over-complicated and would resemble a big pile of legaleze, which I don't really want. That's what Wiki is for.
Yep. I wonder what all those people will do with their 2-3k$ rigs now The Namecoin predicted difficulty jump stands out even more) Update: Now with Namecoin ( http://dot-bit.org/ ) data!Can't find historical namecoin data though, started to collect on my own... Oh BTW, do you know of any historical data of NMC/BTC tickers? 1) Price and profit does not use the same scale2) At the very beginning of the graph, there is portion where MtGox price is not available, the profit line reflects this while the price line does not  I may cut it off in the future though.Bitcoincharts, blockexplorer, mtgox.Well, this isnt meant to be a "prediction chart", but a historical chart. I completely agree with you about predictions based solely on tickers, yes) * Changed mtgox price to linear scale* added (somewhat scary) next difficulty-based profit estimateAlso, yes, in Ukraine we use commas too, but I'm too lazy to make dynamically-generated page for different languages/countries  I don't feel the log scale profit reflects the true volatility of mining. Will make mtgox linear, too. Well, just look at the charts. Every price/difficulty spike there would be miners influx, that's it  I doesn't really makes sense to compare then, so I don't see problem with different scales. Do you? Hmm, there were commas in place of decimal points. Fixed. 2012-01-06: Closed for maintenance 2011-09-25: Added IXCoin, I0Coin, SolidCoin2011-06-27: MtGox is back, bugs fixed, chart is back again, too I've got tired of http://bitcoin.atspace.com/income.html (since it only works once a day for me), and made my own See http://tvori.info/bitcoin/charts/ . Suggestions welcome.Displayed data:* Historical profit chart (BTC, NMC)* Last week profit chart* current profit (All currencies)* projected profit (accounts for next difficulty increase)Data sources: * BlockExplorer* Bitcoin prices/profits: MtGox / BitcoinCharts (whichever ticker works at the time)* Namecoin: Bitparking Exchange + MtGox. ходит там все... только медленно, 1-2 суток каждый раз если заказать несколько мелких трансферов то приходят пачкой, но по отдельности. похоже на ручное ревью. At some time we will start getting bandwidth/server load problems probably  Wow. Could you publish a fraud statistics at some point?I have been told by security people at two large banks that the fraud percent for Visa is as high as 7.5-9%, do you get roughly the same numbers? Таки да, пришло.Надо бы, действительно, протолкнуть фичу "consolidate coins". Надо бы сходить к англоговорящим форумчанам, и описать им проблему. Это помогло бы, если бы в blockexplorer'e транзакция видна была бы. А так сеть считает, что ее не было. Жду-с. А фактический баланс собственно биткойнов у вас уменьшился?Покурил еще раз статью по биткойну, в общем непонятно пока, что делать в таком случае. Поменял 10 WMZ на 9.1 BTC - всё хорошо.Вывел. В клиенте появилась транзакция.Прошло 25 блоков, а транзакция висит unconfirmed!Баг? (Правка: транзакция на 0.13 BTC была сделана после вывода, интересно, почему биткойн сортирует их по конфирмам, а не по дате. Blockexplorer тоже ничего не знает про транзакцию.)UPD: Пришло, спустя сутки с чем-то Куплю биткойн за гривны, при личной встрече. Hi, i'm just placed my first order on your website, and also have a suggestion on the API:Could you please make a field with description (like, Order ID), and hit (from your server) a shop URL with the customer's chosen details (I understand not everyone is willing to share their email) and that ID, to make automated purchases possible?Oh, wait, I could (and should) issue new BC address for every transaction. That would fix it. But I'll post it anyway, in case somebody has the same idea...
