Ooh, possibility to notice. Though I'm actually planning on having the server generate a fresh address and private key for the arbitrator to use, so there wouldn't be a chance of a multsig address repeats. (I have the server generate the arbitrator's key and give it to him so that the server can immediately sign the failsafe transaction with the arbitrator's signature. Then the seller would have no reason not to sign the failsafe transaction, so his signature is guaranteed. This means that the failsafe transaction will work even if the buyer and arbitrator refuse to sign any further transactions. It does mean that a malicious server could act as the arbitrator, but I think that's a small acceptable amount of risk. If enough people found this too debatable, I could add an option to allow the arbitrator to provide his own address, and I'll make sure that the arbitrator's address isn't already in the system in order to address the possibility you bring up.)Ha, funny thing is I've been implementing this on a coincidentally similar (even to the price) bounty given by someone else.(Bit of criticism of knowitnothing's solution: in his, the server generates the private key that the payment goes to. It's just a regular single-key address, not a multisig address. The users have to trust the site to not run away with the funds. The server then splits the private key that it knows with a secret-splitting algorithm allowing any two users to create a copy of the private key. There's no way for the users to verify that the split-key values that they get from the server are valid until after the funds have been sent and they attempt to recombine the key to claim its funds.) I've been fascinated for a while by how Bitcoin is programmable money, and at the many protocol-enforced possibilities such as those on the Bitcoin wiki's Contracts page, but I've been disappointed how even years later most of those special transactions are still very theoretical not used much besides by a few tinkerers here and there. Even if you were in a situation where one of those types of contacts could be useful, you would have to spend most of your time explaining it to the other would-be parties and trying to convince them that you're not just trying to trick them somehow. It's a shame because a lot of those systems done right drastically reduce the possible risks by allowing the Bitcoin protocol to enforce rules. We need better tools and/or tutorials for this stuff.I've recently been working on the Multisig Escrow Manager, a web application for managing Escrow transactions that will provide a communications platform for Bitcoin Escrow transactions, not too unlike other sites that I'm sure exist, but with the twist that you never have to fully trust any money to the site or the arbitrator. Instead, participants in an Escrow transaction give their addresses, the site generates a 2-of-3 multisig address (with a description showing how it can be verified) that the buyer sends his funds to, the site provides a simple communications platform for them to discuss the progress of the transaction and raise disputes in a way they can each see, and instructs them on how they can resolve the Escrow transaction by signing transactions for the funds in the multisig address. Any partially-signed transactions are displayed on the Escrow transaction page so other participants can easily find them and finish signing them. A failsafe transaction sending the funds from the multisig address to the seller with a lock_time set to a pre-agreed time is also generated, so if no disputes are raised during the time and/or several of the participants stop participating, the transaction can still automatically complete.We've seen a lot of Bitcoin sites shut down with their users' bitcoins; a different type of site where that's not possible is surely valuable.The Multisig Escrow Manager is live, though currently very much still under development. Most of the actual bitcoin/multisig stuff is incomplete right now. The system for organizing Escrow transactions and inviting other people to participate them is working. Feel free to test it out! (You can even act as multiple roles within the same Escrow transaction to test it out.) All of the source code is released on github under a permissive MIT license for anyone to use. It's not even too hard to install and run locally on your own machine (though some of the dependencies might not currently play nicely under Windows; I'll look into that sometime). Feedback is appreciated. If only the recipient (and sender) can read a transaction, how can you verify that the transaction is valid and based on previous unspent transactions (that you can't read)? You then have to be able to verify those previous unspent transactions are valid by checking the previously unspent transactions they depend on too.I can't imagine how any sort of anonymous system could work besides one that abused BIP 32 or used Zerocoin's innovations. If the data is already a sort of log-measurement, then doing another log-scale would just be doubling it up. Where do you get your news from? Where are these laws being passed? What does it have to do with gay people?Sources please. Also, do you make sure to avoid fluoridated water? It's in all of the water already. How can I trust you if you're already taken over by the fluoridation? Is there any topic we haven't covered yet? What about fluoridation? Surely there's some angle we can work that into this thread with. What sorts of physical properties do numbers have? Do they have mass?(Also, the theory that Satoshi is the guy who solved the ABC conjecture is just based on the fact they both published their papers online instead of through academic channels. That's it. Not even any links to the cypherpunks. There are tons of better candidates.) I'm sure this was answered somewhere already, but what does the chainsperday value represent? Is it the predicted value of how many chains of some specific length will be found in a day? (What length? I hope it's not based on the current difficulty, or else that would mean that you can't use it as a performance metric for comparison at different points in time.) Have you read the thread at all? The thread is hilarious, and the coin is a bad idea badly executed. It's easily provable that there is no largest prime, and besides, Primecoin isn't trying to search for the largest prime. It searches for large prime chains. Uh, yes I do expect developers to make it without a scam. Namecoin, ppcoin, and primecoin didn't have any premine drama. Some people say bitcoin had "premining", but that's mainly just because it took a long time for anyone to even notice bitcoin after it was released. Why make up a notation when scientific notation already exists and is well understood by everyone? With programmers, you get what you pay for. (Surely you've learned that very recently!)You tried to launch your own coin, and you even specified the parameters for how it ought to work. Both of those being attempted by someone without a clue is hilarious. It's a scam and dying just because you're failing to mine blocks? I assume Bitcoin is a scam too? I'm not sure how any of that relates to my post, but that last sentence is full of errors. The financial industry pays extremely well for good programmers as far as I've heard. And financial institutions pretty much entirely rely on computers these days, so to say they "do ZERO actual money making for the banks" seems to show a huge lack of understanding. (If that were true, why would banks even hire programmers?)Do you mean you own 280 domains for a single online business? If you're in the domain squatting business, I just hope you at least have better taste in names than Vlad. Well yeah, did you think Gas Coin was something other than a quick copy job? Why stop there? This is an unfair world, please disable everyone mining faster than me.(I love the implication that GPU mining is something that can be "disabled" for the whole network by someone on a whim. Or that it's desirable to do so. Or that it's even happening profitably yet. The difficulty has been dropping over the last few days!) That's easy, toothpaste is a ponzi scheme that is going to explode after the toothpaste ETF and everyone is going to want their own tooth paste brand, so we need to get into the market now. I put messages inside two of the blocks I mined. Sunny King's primecoin genesis block and a block by XertoV also had messages in them. You can see them in the blockchain by running "strings -n 16 ~/.primecoin/blocks/blk00000.dat" on a Linux machine for example. (You also get a few lines of gibberish, which I'm not sure if they are intentional.) I don't think there currently exists an easy way to inspect the messages further, such as to find what block they're in. Terracoin is getting hit by some sort of 51% and/or difficulty manipulation attack.
You're talking about currency. Do you really think everyone wants to have their own separate currency? That's useless. There's a reason "Bieberdollar" doesn't exist. I don't think it's the lack of crypto. Oh, I missed XertoV's message, I used strings with a minimum length higher than it. Someone beat me to it for primecoin! Those last two are both mine. (I got no blocks for almost two weeks, and then two within 24 hours. I'm hoping this lucky streak keeps up.) It's not only the US government that can monitor the public blockchain. It bothers me that anyone I interact with financially can do some easy rough analysis to trace many of my transactions. This kills the coin. So I discovered the hidden -dedication parameter, and encoded a short message into block 86043 which I mined. I've verified the message is in the blockchain by grepping through the primecoin blockchain files on a few other machines. Is there any proper way to view these messages (such as to check for more in other blocks)? Or do I need to build my own blockchain parser for this?(EDIT: I tried the linux strings utility. I only see the original block's message, and my own's message. Guess no one else has done this.)(EDIT2: I tried the strings utility on Bitcoin's blockchain. Doesn't look like stuffing information into a blockchain is that unique of a prank, drat.) I only get errors when using this. This bitcoin2 paper didn't do much more for that topic than say "implement zerocoin", which currently has major performance issues. If its performance was much better, I'd love to see it implemented within Bitcoin itself. As it is, maybe some innovative altcoin will take it up, with its current performance. ASICs required the go-ahead to be developed? There are Chinese companies making ASICs. Do you really think they asked the CIA for permission? The fact it existed in the first place is telling. Giving a presentation to the CIA is fancy, but it doesn't mean they're suddenly your best buddies and/or secretly pulling the strings on your personal work. They tend to rush the presenter out right afterwards so the next presentation can happen without them watching. I think I've even met or seen someone talk who talked about giving a presentation to the CIA, but I can't place the memory right now. Maybe it was some DEFCON presenter.I do think Bitcoin needs work on the privacy side, and that lack of privacy may get a bit more attention from some actors, but to claim that means the network isn't decentralized is foolish. To me, it's not about hiding my transactions from the government; it's about making sure my transactions aren't obviously exposed to everyone in the world. I don't want everyone I've ever interacted with financially to be able to too easily piece together every transaction I've ever done.That's good to hear. I want nice features, but I don't want anything more than necessary publicly set in the blockchain forever. It's not hard to get retarded values to "work". They just work terribly. First, your premine was 2.2 million.Second, bragging about the generosity of a giveaway of ill-gained coins is funny.Third, the giant giveaway just de-values everyone else's coins. Why should people bother mining when you can get more than a third of the coins in existence just by sucking up to people in a thread? Why would people pay much for nuggets if they're that easy to get? Shouldn't an economist notice this sort of thing? You don't qualify as an economist or a programmer. The difficulty re-targeting might not be keeping up with the influx of users very well yet. I don't find that very surprising.(But 4 second blocks? That's a joke, right?) I think FTC is crap too, but that's not relevant. I'm only using the market capitalization as a very rough heuristic to judge its popularity and mining power. Unless someone has some better numbers, I'm going to assume that FTC's mining power and Primecoin's mining power are similar. FTC has been 51% attacked several times. I guess there are people with large botnets out there who just want to see the world burn. I'm confused as to why anyone would honestly believe that people should not work to make the miners more efficient, especially in this environment, unless they are just lying in order to try to slow down the rest of the network from becoming efficient. More efficient miners also mean more profits for the people using them in the short run, and a more secure network in the long run as the efficient miners are more widely adopted. Both Feathercoin and Terracoin have just suffered massive 51% attacks in the last few days. Feathercoin is at a higher market capitalization than Primecoin! This isn't some theoretical issue. You list out issues with the coin, and then dismiss people that hate that coin as just being racists? That's an interesting debate strategy. I like PoS, but that doesn't mean we need more PPC-clones that don't add much more. Especially ones with premines.PoS made me a little bit uneasy with how it just gives more money to people doing nothing with money, but PPC's rate being 1%/year didn't bother me too much, as that's below most economies' inflation rates. Anything a little higher than common inflation rates is a bit weird. But you've got to be kidding about 50%, right? That's not how probability works. There's no max number of superblocks in a day. lolol. (Also, if an AI is going to be controlling the economy somehow... isn't that a centralized control? Why even attempt the bitcoin model if you're going to have explicit controls like this?)
If it's hilariously easy to discount too, why even bother doing it in the first place? It just adds another apparent layer of incompetence to it all. Are all of the pieces just as hilariously easy to exploit? This isn't promising at all. What problem are you trying to solve?If no one has the blockchain to a dead coin saved any more, then no one can use the coin and the wallet's coins are worthless anyway. The 1% who understand it could also abuse it to look like more than the rest of the 99%. Whatever metrics depend on it could be gamed for profit or just to break the system. It doesn't matter if 99% of the legitimate users don't understand how to game it, if the 1% can pretend to look like ten times the legitimate network. I think the chance of the primes not actually being primes is supposed to be extremely small, but I haven't looked into it. I know that someone double-checked the first couple records at least. More mining power is also about securing the network from attackers better. And if you mine faster than other people, you'll get more primecoins, so holding back on development is kind of silly. lolol, you're going to check MAC addresses to tell people apart?If you make something just slightly hard to be gamed, but not impossible to be gamed, then the fewer people who do game it will just profit much more. I'd thank you for helping me profit, if there were a chance in hell I was going to use eMunie. You picked the date, and then worked to find reasons to back it up? That's backwards (look, I'm citing something! You should get into that habit!). And what kind of fucking date is "9/1415"?Isn't it funny that bigots regularly seem to be levels more idiotic than anyone they criticize? That sounds like a self-fulfilling prophecy, if you make it closed source at first because you don't think it will be popular anyway at first. Not getting popular ever is also a possibility. That's an excellent post.What does being closed source have anything to do with updates? If this was profitable, why wouldn't you just do this yourself and rake in the profits? And you wonder why people call you a scammer? You're calling altcoins (including your own I assume) a Ponzi scheme. You're admitting to trying to run a Ponzi.I think I'm still here because I'm intensely curious how someone like this manages to function in real life (just barely it appears). And I'm curious why shameless no-innovation clonecoins still manage to get users. This one hasn't appeared terribly successful, but sadly that seems to not be because of its complete lack of technical merits, but just because of it having a crazy rambling promoter. How does that preclude descriptions of how anything works? You had serious criticisms raised here, so you're just going to claim everyone here isn't serious? What? Most of the good ones have their own sites and forums too already. (...and some of the bad ones too.) From a pragmatic side, Primecoin seems to have Litecoin's original killer features: CPU mining and reasonably fast confirmations. (I imagine CPU mining will probably give way to GPU mining just as with Litecoin eventually.) And Primecoin has a bit of innovation in its choice of hashing function. It isn't just some arbitrary function mistakenly chosen just for GPU resistance. I think it would be awesome to add double-spending as a feature! Have you been reading the thread at all? So how are those features going to be accomplished? Centralized control? lol Probably because some people want to do a pump and dump. Avoid this if you don't like donating your time and money to scammers.
Namecoin, ppcoin, and primecoin are the ones I think that will last. They're the only ones that really came up with worthwhile innovation. They might not become crazy valuable, but they'll stick around for a long time. What do you mean no dev support? It just got an update not long ago. Its developer is also the developer of ppcoin and has been around a while. (I do agree he sucks majorly at websites though.) Maybe you're thinking hardlinks? On Linux and I think Windows you can symlink across filesystems.All you need is "just" a wallet that supports every altcoin simultaneously? Brilliant. It's interesting to see the miner's coin doesn't even require mining to get 35% of. How is this a gradual improvement at all? It says in the title and thread "1:1 copy". Its hashing function is much more interesting than Bitcoin's. Bitcoin spends a lot of computational power over the world on verifying the latest block. Primecoin spends a lot of computational power on verifying the latest block, and in making a blockchain of mildly interesting computations. It's not protein-folding tier interesting but it's still at least maybe-paper-citable tier interesting, and I think that's enough to warrant its existence and use.You say we don't need more alts, but defend Litecoin in the same breath? And what about actually un-debatably innovative alts, like Namecoin and ppcoin? (And you know "change" for Bitcoin already exists, right? You can have bitcoin amounts less than one!) If you can't figure out what will make us happy when we complain it's not even open source, then I'm not sure there's any hope for you. ... Nugget isn't programmed to work like that. It doesn't matter how much you talk it up. It matters what's in its code. Innovation is what you call the golden blocks not working?You still premined. I've gotten this error occasionally while mining today, on both Linux and Windows. I'm using mikaelh's hp6 lately, so I don't know if the issue is unique to it.Code:checkqueue.h:171: CCheckQueueControl<T>::CCheckQueueControl(CCheckQueue<T>*) [with T = CScriptCheck]: Assertion `pqueue->nTotal == pqueue->nIdle' failed. There's a major problem with a coin that operates from a centralized data source: If the coin becomes popular, and the SETI@home project decides they need a bit more funding, they could generate some artificial data that they know the analysis of already, and then they could mine the analysis block immediately. This would be giving the data source curators an unfair revenue stream and it would encourage them to compromise the integrity of their released datasets. I assume things will temporarily fix themselves for now as soon as the last of these large transactions get encoded into the blockchain. And then soon there will probably be updated builds of primecoin that fix its handling of large transactions. I think part of it is that I hope my posts that are directed at Vlad are understood by other viewers, if not Vlad.The thing that scares me about this thread isn't so much just Vlad's craziness. The scary part to me is that despite everything, people still lined up to use this coin and to buy it on exchanges. Vlad could have (or could still with what remains) dumped his premine and made a bit of profit with how many people ate this up. Vlad's off-the-wall crazy posts are just funny. The scary bit is how many people don't read any of it and just download the executable and run it blindly without any more knowledge. A few really large transactions seem to be causing performance issues with mining for some reason. It looks like primecoin is having performance issues with really large transactions happening. The devs seem to be looking into it at the main thread. Proof of stake was ppcoin's invention. No altcoins had it before ppcoin. And ppcoin didn't even do scrypt. (A few like Novacoin copied it later.) Those transactions have of hundreds of inputs, but is that really supposed to be an issue? Does bitcoin handle large transactions like this?Maybe primecoin is doing something like accidentally hashing the whole block repeatedly somewhere it shouldn't during mining. All of my miners were showing much lower primespersec values. I restarted all but one. After letting them warm up again, I noticed that the more recently restarted ones had 0 or 1 currentblocktx and a small currentblocksize, and the still slow miner had currentblocktx 9 and currentblocksize > 70000. Now a few minutes later, all of my miners are slow again and back at that point. Maybe those pending transactions contain some sort of denial-of-service attack? (Or maybe they're just unusual but legitimate and the client chokes on them.) PoS? Proof of Stake? Removing PoS isn't much of an achievement when most coins don't have it to begin with. (Also, 3 skies, wtf.) Have you read this thread at all? I wouldn't touch this coin with a 10 foot pole. It would just be validating this scamcoin, the premine, the terrible design and execution, etc.
Paypal solves those issues too. Just symlink your wallet.dat file to be on your second hard drive. Whoa there, you can't ask for a higher bounty! And you're trying to ruin the harmony of the number! You could use a block explorer to follow the premine transactions to find the address that did all of the 100,000 nugget giveaways! What all fits perfectly here? This better not be another crazy "harmonious numbers" or "add up the dates together" thing. Are you saying the only reason anyone would criticize this is because they're scared of how good it is?lol The idea that there's going to be a clonecoin craze is also something very laughable. If you're working 16 hours a day to come up with this coin, then you're doing something terribly wrong. You can't expect compensation for time that is incorrectly spent. For someone that made such a big ruckus about needing a premine to pay off bounties, I'd think you'd at least know what the purpose of what any of the bounties went to. Assuming you really intended the premine to go to bounties this whole time. Because it's hilarious seeing a clonecoin scamcoin get cloned.>implying there's a market for closed source clonecoin scamcoins(Well, there might be, but that's just because idiots exist.) (I'm not a lawyer, this isn't legal advice, etc) I'd be surprised if freelancing deals like this made in emails or messages couldn't be enforced, assuming they spelled out the deal fully (I kinda doubt this with Vlad involved however) and their authenticity wasn't in doubt. Though it's silly anyway as I'm sure any stolen premined nugget coins are barely worth anything. It doesn't seem Vlad understands this stuff very well so I can't really take much he's saying about stealing seriously, and I doubt he could explain it correctly to a judge or lawyer. This feels like someone calling the cops about someone stealing their drugs from them. Why should a cryptocurrency do anything else for you? When was the last time your TV did something for you besides showing you TV shows and movies?If by hijacked you mean that you linked someone else's github account from the thread OP post, and the owner put funny messages on it.And your coin was a Luckycoin clone. (With "God's numbers" added.) This coin admits it purely exists just so people can get in on its launch? Pump and dump scams don't even try to hide themselves any more, do they? I think I said these same criticisms in the old giant thread somewhere, but they're still valid here. Only 3 confirmations for transactions, finally a coin that helps people with double-spending! And the random superblocks just add more variance to mining, so mining is smoother and more predictable for big miners! And you can tell when the next block will be a superblock, so you can switch from mining something else to this when one is coming up if you wanted to. Check page 38, there's a few summary posts starting at https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=256460.msg2761966#msg2761966 We use them because they're part of the existing financial system. I can pay my bills straight from my bank. It's easy to explain my bank account on my taxes. Everyone accepts Paypal.Bitcoin (and altcoins) aren't part of the existing financial system. (If I ever make big profits in Bitcoin, I dread figuring out how I'm supposed to list it on my taxes.) But I still bother with Bitcoin because it's a truly decentralized solution that no one is in control of. There's no chance of some company changing their terms of service and closing my account. There's no chance someone is going to suddenly change the minting rate and make mine worthless. There's no chance that my funds will be seized by mistake, or a system error on a bank's part out of my control leaves me unable to access it for a while. There isn't going to be a buggy mandatory Bitcoin update ever.If you make a new altcoin without the decentralized part, why should anyone bother? There are already many solutions like banks and Paypal that aren't decentralized and are already extremely well integrated with the existing financial frameworks. Right. A more interesting measure is looking at the market capitalization. Primecoin managed to hold spot #5 for a while earlier today, replacing Novacoin. That's promising. So eMunie is intending to compete with banks and Paypal? Bitcoin only got nearly as far as it did because it's decentralized. Bitcoin isn't very legally tied with the existing banking systems. If you're going to remove Bitcoin's real advantage while also being in its legal gray area... good luck. You premined 2.2 million, so how can you call that generosity? And I thought you said you studied economics. How can you not tell that you having (and throwing around) huge amounts of coins completely de-values all of the coins?
Is mining even profitable? Someone just bought 35% of all of the nuggets that exist so far, for an unannounced price but I can't imagine it being very high. I'll do some quick rough math to check. Coins are generated for 7 years, and this coin has only been out for about a week, so at most 0.2% of its natural coins have been generated. 2.2 million coins were premined in the first two blocks if I remember right, which was 0.5% according to the first post of this thread. One million coins would be around 0.25% of all coins, or 35% of all current coins.35% of everything so far in a single person's control just by buying up some giveaways a week in. No mining even involved. That sounds like a successful currency model surely. God's numbers be praised. The first two posts in this thread talk about the premine! Can no one read? I apologize if your post was rhetorical (and deserved!) criticism of the premine. On Windows, long is usually 32-bit. On Linux, it will match the CPU's bit width. There isn't much of a use for "long" over more specific types unless you only want 64-bit values on some systems for whatever reason. What is the attack? Is it related to this? http://culubas.blogspot.com/2011/05/timejacking-bitcoin_802.htmlI've tried googling "bitcoin time travel exploit", but I mainly find unrelated news articles about bitcoin or exchange exploits, or other mentions of it with no details. Whoa there, Nuggets uses "Vlad's Golden Blocks", which are completely different than superblocks, because ... uh, ... they use "god's numbers", that's it. Will you provide the insane rambling here? Primecoin mining might be more difficult now, but I don't see how that kills the coin. Just because you're on a different timescale means you're much better?Credit for what? You haven't given us anything besides a clonecoin that barely even works.You're different than any other dev here. The other devs do development at least.On the other page you admitted to lying to someone and called their mother a whore.Turning down monopoly money isn't that hard. Especially when you don't believe it will ever be worth anything.If this is what "honesty" is, I think I might just rather have a "scammer".Lawsuits? For you linking the wrong github account from your thread? Do they support bluecoins? You paid top dollar? I thought I'd seen you say 0.2 btc but maybe that was just a later minor bounty. Your programmer running the code for two hours (just one client?) and thinking it's "smooth" means nothing. Your god number theories sound great, please do go on about them sometime. The dev was probably mining just like us too. Is he not allowed to participate in the market by buying more if he wants? And why isn't it natural that services like exchanges make money off of fees? Is the github account Vlad's, or just something his programmer(s) put up? Does he even have any standing toward ownership of that account? This all seems like a complete non-issue. He's linking the first post of this thread to someone else's github account. He just needs to make his own github account and link to it instead. All this talk of legal action is baseless. What was one of the major projects he had to do for his PhD? You just said he didn't work on the bitcoin code.He's sounding pretty sane at least so far.I think most scammers would have managed to deliver a more working product at least. lolol Wait, if Vlad doesn't have any access to that github account and it's not actually his... why doesn't he (or someone more trustworthy) just make a new github account, and edit the first post of this thread to link to the new account? I vote the repo retains its new ownership, and gets some experimental changes. What if every two weeks, the block reward doubled without limit? Think of the pure profits for the little miners too. How would that be very different than what's already happening?I've never heard of any of those copycoins, and everywhere I look, PPC is mentioned as one of the big four of Bitcoin, Namecoin, PPcoin, and Litecoin. Are you arguing for or against open source there? Vlad admits to lying about... something, I can't even understand the gibberish post of his that was quoted in the earlier post? Decentralized in the case of Bitcoin means more than just the fact that the network is peer-to-peer. It's also the fact that no entity, no person, no bank, no government has complete control over the code everyone uses.
How is that the same at all? A premine would go straight to the developer. People who optimize their miner get what they mine, just the same way as if they had a faster machine to begin with. Why is closed source a requirement of agile deployment? Primecoin turned me into a newt! (Am I doing it right?) Why would ASICs devalue anything? They just make certain kinds of proof-of-work more power efficient. If it's closed source, then only the developers have the source and control of it. There's no way to inspect changes to it. No way to maintain your own patches. It looks like he updated the code on the github repo, but doesn't even have links to binaries, so no one is using it. And it's not even fully compatible with the existing blockchain as far as I can tell. Kind of a shoddy prank. I kinda hope this is the case just so that this entertaining drama can continue. Hypothetically, he could have made the superblock fix only take effect a few days from now after some block number is hit, which would keep the current blockchain and give people time to switch. Just when I thought the thread was getting boring! You just can't make up this sort of entertainment.(Though why is the blackmailer forking the entire chain to remove the premine? Couldn't he just lock it so transactions from the addresses holding it aren't accepted any more?) That coin had 100% premine! Don't give Vlad ideas! I agree. I swear it's like other people keeping forgetting that decentralization is what was revolutionary about Bitcoin. It wasn't the online or digital parts. Centralized online value transfer systems already exist, and have much more legal standing. Paypal is a popular one. If you're centralized, then they're your competition, and you probably aren't going to get far at all. You just pass a block hash to the getblock command, and it tells you the origin of the prime chain. You add and/or subtract 1 to get the first prime(s) in the chain depending on its type. In the first 10,000 prime chains, 11 primes matched that pattern if I did my quick script correctly.Because Bitcoin would never implement this, especially because of the huge investments in SHA256 hashing machines.The idea is that you can kill two birds with one stone. Have the math work be the same work that does the block confirmations. Primecoin is about finding new prime chains, not about finding new primes. But I can't understand what else you're saying. The difficulty number corresponds to how long the prime chain has to be (and contains a percentage of how many prime chains of that length get rejected anyway, in order to smooth out the difficulty changes). It seems to work pretty well. Focusing on GPU resistance is just going to help the botnets a lot. So you're saying we should be more active in stopping eMunie instead of just complaining about it?  The part where all of the immense amounts of hashing power results in nothing more than a verification of the latest block.In the blockchain. You can query it with the getblock command. There's already a few 3rd party programs that analyze the chain.Have you read anything in this thread? It's not about finding primes, it's about prime chains. But if one does know a faster method, then it would be profitable to write a miner that uses it. I don't see how that's a criticism of primecoin at all. The method of finding blocks to mine isn't set in stone.The same thing happened with Bitcoin. I was just thinking we could use a new clonecoin./s Bitcoin is bad because you didn't get to mine it profitably? Is the dollar bad too because you weren't one of the money printers? The point of a currency isn't so everyone can be a money printer. I think I saw an estimate that difficulty 8 was 30x harder to find chains for than difficulty 7. (But verifying just means checking one more prime, so it's only 1/7 harder in that case.) I think it was in the thread with the poll.I'm a bit concerned about him. It sounds like Bitcoin has been a fixation of his for a while lately, but he hasn't taken any time to understand it at all besides that some people have made money from it. If a friend of mine (who I had previously known to be generally coherent, as my friends tend to be) had begun posting online like this, I'd be calling his family asking them to check on his mental health and suggesting at least a visit with a professional. Schizophrenia can develop later in life.
Oh, I think we both kind of skipped on this point a little. He literally calculated an exact date in 30ish years that he believed something terrible akin to 9/11 would be caused by the government as they took control. He's sure the government is going to shut down bitcoin and altcoins somehow soon so him planning this coin to last "2-3 years" is long term to him. At the same time, he oppositely believes that the possible upcoming Bitcoin ETF is going to bring in huge amounts of investors and cause a bubble like the dot-com bubble, and he believes the best way to take advantage of this isn't by buying amounts of established coins but by making a new one with zero innovation and holding a ton of it pre-mined (and then he wonders why people are calling him a scammer!). He made a second thread with a poll on how much of an idiot we thought he was and literally had a vivid story of how he once avoided pooping his pants as a toddler. I wish I was making this stuff up. pump and dump probably. Anyone who wants to donate to this scam is welcome to by buying in. Read the first page and the last, those probably have all you really have to know. It's another clonecoin scamcoin but didn't even get off the ground. Vlad isn't a developer himself, thought he invented the superblock idea (see LuckyCoin) and thought that it would somehow help small miners out more than larger miners (basic probability failure there), paid some programmer to make it for him (and by "make" I mean copy litecoin and attempt to make the same few changes LuckyCoin did) but they messed it up (no superblocks, and the premined coins aren't even functional). Then the coin has been 51% attacked at least once if I remember right. Vlad has been rambling about how he wants to make a coin for the miners (oblivious to the idea that making a currency focusing on benefiting the money-printers is quite a bit sketchy) to make things easier and better for them, but has no ideas on anything that could actually help in that besides a logo that features a gold miner. He's said as much that we should be grateful for his effort on his clonecoin, and accept that he's trying to make a buck off of this. Vlad has made many long and wildly off-topic posts about his personal life in order to somehow prove he's not a scammer, while at the same time talking about how he's in for the "2-3 years" "long term" and wants to re-enact the failed zero-innovation strategies of dot-com bubble businesses (seriously, he's used pets.com as an example several times, and says that with the possible bitcoin ETF he thinks there's going to be a bubble in altcoins so he wants to get into the action by making his own altcoin without innovation, while saying it's not a good thing that there are so many zero-innovation altcoins). They're useful in showing some empirical data on the distribution of prime chains and maybe primes themselves, but they're not useful in the sense of protein folding calculations. To me, a blockchain full of mildly interesting computations is much better than one of arbitrary hashes that do nothing more than verify the latest transaction.Each chain length is much harder to find than the previous, but the difficulty in verification is only a constant difference, so I don't see that becoming an issue. Satoshi is most likely some sort of cryptography researcher, who probably has or is working on other peer-to-peer non-bitcoin projects (without clear possible revenue angles). If I remember right, it took a year after him publishing the paper for him to release the first version of bitcoin, and it wasn't even cross-platform. He mined a lot of blocks before anyone ever noticed the project, but last I heard none of the early blocks have ever even been spent. If bitcoin were a get-rich-quick scheme by him, I think it would have looked very different. I imagine he's probably at least well-employed by someone who sees the value of what he understands. Judging by his lack of understanding of decentralized cryptocurrencies, I wouldn't even be surprised if "banned from using ixcoin" was what he was going at. If that's accurate about you, then I submit this thread as evidence of how absolutely worthless those metrics must be. Aw damn, just rambling about how Vlad has something to offer that no other coin has: a plan involving him getting money, and no developers.Yes, we've seen this. It's your thread. If you read the paper, it explains it's finding prime chains.It's not terribly useful (like protein folding tier stuff), but it's much more interesting than the chain of arbitrary hashes that every other coin spends tons of computational power into. Bitcoin has tons and tons of computing power just going into verification of the current block. Primecoin does the same thing, but also simultaneously makes a huge blockchain's worth of mildly interesting computations. I'm pretty sure it died, or at least the old version that resembled something decentralized. I'm calling it, this will just get an off-topic long-winded reply about his family and anecdotes about growing up to somehow prove he's not a scammer. I think this thread is a beautiful example of everything not to do for an altcoin. It's better than any possible satire. Come up with some innovation that isn't or won't be implemented in bitcoin or any current altcoin first. We don't need more zero-innovation litecoin clone scamcoins. I think I read that verifying a single zerocoin redemption could take up to two minutes, but maybe that was with a bitcoin-sized blockchain. If it could be made quicker, I would really love to see it implemented in an altcoin (and hopefully eventually bitcoin, as it doesn't really change the standing of any bitcoin users or alter its social contract, so I can't imagine much opposition to it if it was made efficient). You're really that worried about the logo? Everything else about the coin is barely viable. Talk about the bikeshedding principle in action. I think 100% premining would be even better. Or what about 0% mining and 0% premining? It would be a currency with no coins. It might be revolutionary. LuckyCoin worked at least   Bitcoin was similar before mining pools. Mining calculators will hopefully come around for Primecoin, but currently the ways to benchmark prime-chain finding aren't well understood; the primespersecond value that primecoin shows isn't very useful for predicting progress. For a bonus, if you interpret the programmer's mis-steps as deliberate, it's a scammer getting scammed. (Though I think it's just more indicative of a rushed job for an uninspired coin.) But you still did the premining. Showing your real identity doesn't change that...Do you really think everyone here has their own clonecoin? I mean, there's a lot of clonecoin idiots in this forum, but I don't think many of your critics in this thread are big fans of them.
When is the scamcoin dump scheduled? I love donating to scams. /sarcasm Yeah, why no SSL certificate and HTTPS support? Every other exchange I use has that basic security. From Wikipedia:Also, is this coin supposed to only be for Americans? Bitcoin is international!So why are you trying to copy the shit ones so much?You still need all that training though. Don't tell me the lesson you learned is "don't prepare because god will help me in the end". It seems to be the way you're doing this coin.Superblocks are god's algorithm?You probably shouldn't be so quick to alienate the female programmers out there if you're so desperate for a programmer.Long term is 2-3 years? Do you think Bitcoin was designed to last only 2-3 years?! You've already admitted it. You've said many times that you're trying to re-enact the zero-innovation strategies of the failed businesses of the dot-com bubble. You've said that it's not good that there's a lot of clonecoins, but that you might as well make one before it's too late after the bubble to try to profit off of the users. You've said you don't even want to try to understand what a cryptocurrency is.Maybe on the inside you're not using the word "scammer" to describe yourself, but all of your actions and what you've said match up with it. I just realized a major problem with relying on external datasets. Imagine this: UFOcoin takes off, and then the SETI group decides it needs a bit more funding, so it puts a few artificially-made signals into its released dataset, and then immediately "mines" their analysis because it already knows the pattern they match. The dataset provider (SETI) would get a huge unfair advantage at mining, and would be compromising its own datasets. This would be terrible. I've heard mentions about the past time travel exploit with bitcoin, but could never find a description of it. I think I can imagine what the attack was, but I'd be happy if you could link me to more information on it. What was the difficulty rate each time on testnet? So you're planning to pump and dump after 12-36 months? I fail to see how the timeframe changes it.Do you even understand what makes Bitcoin different than Paypal? (Hint: It's not the fact that Paypal uses the dollar. It's much deeper than that.)You've been repeating in this thread many times how your lack of knowledge doesn't matter and that you don't need to learn more. Why do we need more shitcoins? Shouldn't people focus their efforts on things that are less likely to be scams? UFOcoin's proof of work could only work if it is many orders of magnitude easier to verify valid work than to generate the proof of work. I highly doubt you could get analyzing SETI data to fit that model.I don't understand how StringCoin is based on String theory, besides a few silly kinda physics-inspired parameters. Bitcoin or altcoins might be a fixation of yours lately, but you really need to spend some more time figuring out how they actually work and why they work before you attempt to go any further with them. From your past posts, it's very clear all you can see them as is a tool you can dump money into without thinking and get more money out.People who capitalize on new markets are often the ones who understand it before the masses. You are the opposite. You haven't reached understanding yet, and you've seen that the market has already been well capitalized on, so you're trying to get a cut after the fact. I thought AMD cards were better for Bitcoin mining because they were better at integer operations, and Nvidia was mainly good at floating point. Primecoin mining doesn't involve many floating point operations as far as I know, so targeting Nvidia specifically could be a waste of time. There is a simple coin that works right already. It's called Bitcoin. You've proposed no innovations that require a new one to be made.And how can you possibly think you could be successful in making or directing a cryptocurrency when you don't have a clue what the hell they are? PPS is not a good measure for performance. There's higher prices currently on the 3 exchanges I know of, so it would be more profitable to sell to them instead of you. You tried to make a crapcoin and tried to get people to use it, so I assume you wanted us to believe this one was a good thing. You're practically stating you don't even believe your own currency is a good thing, just a tool for you to make money on off of us. How do you not realize we see how transparent you are?That's not the real protocol. The better protocol is don't make more clonecoins unless you have some innovation. (Not that the rest of the forum follows this, but the rest already have or are developers so they don't run into that roadbump.) If you come up with a good idea that can be done in a cryptocurrency, chances are you're a programmer (if you're able to understand how it's viable to accomplish) and are able to do it yourself. In the case that you aren't a programmer but do have an actually viable idea, then chances are programmers will jump over each other to implement the idea.I think this thread looks like a microcosm of this forum. It's just more transparent than most of the other threads. There's not much this thread is stealing space from. As far as I can tell, the Primecoin threads are the only ones lately that aren't obviously no-innovation clonecoin-scamcoin pump-and-dump threads. Premines are just a type of centralization, so I don't find it surprising they're not popular. I'm not really sure how they're all that necessary anyway: if the coin is popular on launch, then bounties don't need to be given out by the developer to get infrastructure developed. If the coin isn't popular on launch, then the dev can mine profitably for a while. But I think the more innovative coins don't have trouble with being popular enough on launch. I thought we moved off of Tenebrix because of the premine to better currencies like Litecoin a long time ago? Agreement.Also, what is possibly the justification for 3 confirmations for a transaction? The original bitcoin paper itself calculates that at 3 confirmations, an attacker with only 10% of the network mining rate can double-spend 1% of his transactions. I don't blame you for investing in bitcoins and altcoins to make a profit. But you making a new zero-innovation bitcoin-derivative for the purpose of a profit and then dumping it is not a bitcoin-derivative we're going to sign up for as users.
You just finished making a bunch of references to how altcoins were just like the dot-com bubble's zero innovation businesses, and how you wanted to make a lot of money from that happening with altcoins.I hope we can all work together to prevent 9/11 2.0 on September 14, 2015. Watch out for the lizardmen for us. Have you recently switched sleeping medication or something? Or maybe skipped taking something you shouldn't have? The idea is that an attacker could push changes by only allowing a subset of valid blocks through. Your client would seem them as valid and would always stick to the attacker's longer valid chain. I disagree with him calling that an attack to "manipulate the source code", but I can see how that sort of attack would be very damaging. I can't imagine anyone spending the money to do it though. No one else will be on their hard fork if they don't receive the program themselves. And do you really think anyone is going to say "Wow, that govtcoin fork's blockchain is getting a lot of govtcoin blocks, I should switch to it!"?Though an attacker with the majority of the network hashrate can make it unusable to us to try to force us to switch. But they would have to invest tons of money into their own ASICs to compete with the rest of the network. I know the government isn't efficient in its money spending choices, but I doubt they're going to spend millions to billions of dollars into disrupting Bitcoin. hahahahahahaahahahaYes, the govt is going to hack every computer on the planet to disrupt bitcoin. If the government released their own fork of bitcoin that was totally centralized, it would only have power if everyone switched to it. Short of going into everyone's houses and swapping the bitcoin program with govtcoin secretly, there's no way they can force everyone's bitcoin clients to switch to it. And no one is going to voluntarily switch. You're calling out others for greed and stupidity when you admit you're trying to re-enact failed businesses by providing zero innovation. Your post is proof of how you don't understand the revolutionary decentralization and crypto behind bitcoin at all. Wow. lololno?Sure, invest in some bitcoins and altcoins. Just don't shit up the place with making innovation-less crap when you don't understand any of the concepts. You came here looking for human stupidity you could profit from, got called out for it, failed at profiting from it, and looked pretty stupid yourself in the process. I think there's a difference between betting on the presidential race, where there's two choices that seem to always come out within a few percentages of each other, and then betting on a terrible coin on the basis that it's terrible. Wait, you're betting on an innovationless dot-com bubble (and crash)? And trying to make it happen? And you wonder why you're getting no support here?! Again, all you said is that you think bitcoin and its community is going to get a lot more money put toward it in the future because it's gotten money in the past. There's no innovation in any of that. But that's fine. Go invest money into some coins! But trying to pretend to be innovative and creating an altcoin for the sole purpose of securing a premine is insulting and missing the point.(Also, didn't ixcoin lose popularity because of their premine, and Litecoin took off when they used its idea but with less scam? My history might be a bit off, but I don't know why you'd bet on ixcoin.) If 6 years of college left you with these management, financial, and probability skills, then I think you should ask for your money back.It's already gotten big. Bitcoins are worth $100 a pop. I remember when they were 8 cents each, and all I could think about was how amazing it was they were completely decentralized. That's why they got big. It's not because of the online or digital parts.You saw bitcoins get big, but you understand none of their significance, which is apparent from your attempts to make a more centralized copy. All you know is that they got big in the past, so they're bound to get bigger, and you're looking for a way to get a cut of it. How about, instead of having a coin that has the block reward halve over time or go down when difficulty goes up, we had a coin where the block reward increased over time? Then everyone can mine profitably! /s One of those two sentences is comedy gold. I'll let the readers work out which one it is. Mining isn't the point of bitcoin. Most people who use the dollar will never get to print their own dollars either. That's not exactly a flaw. Thef's code looks fine, if you change "else if(nHeight > 250) {" to "else {". (Also, his code could use proper indentation.) Yours is littered with redundant early return statements. (Nitpicking, I admit.) Wait, shit, I didn't even realize the premine was "broken"! That's not my issue with it! The issue is that it exists, and the launch was called "fair"!It's good to see comedy is still alive without Vlad.
It's literally just a few if statements re-ordered with maybe some else keywords added in. If you haven't figured out the fix on your own yet then there's no hope for the coin. Not that there was already. I'd make a joke we should call it "CloneCoin" or something obvious, but the name "Yet Another Coin" is already used, so making a new coin ironically isn't even original. "Fair launch" is what we call a 2.2 million coin premine these days?! Because that's what there is.Also, are you going to fix the coin to not be programmed to self-destruct? Not that I care or think it will last anywhere near that long, but the coin isn't even pretending to be viable and I just thought I'd let people know. As I've asked before, honest question, especially in light of recent things, why would you even want to bother mining this? Is it really this easy for a scamcoin to get users? VLAD STILL DOESN'T REALIZE THAT THE "VGB PROTOCOL" IS BROKEN:Also, a reminder that the coin is built to practically self-destruct:Long term indeed.Is this thread some sort of practical joke?He admits many times he has no ideas for the coin, besides that he wants to make it "for the miners" (of course, making a currency solely revolving around the money printers is fucked). Oh, and his one other idea was to copy LuckyCoin's random giant block rewards as if that were going to benefit the small miner. And he states how we should be grateful and he deserves his millions of coins premine.Is this a project by some bitcoin-critic to see just how scammable the bitcoin community is? This can't be not on purpose, can it? Everything is just filled with failure here. I'd be cracking up laughing if people weren't still falling for it somehow. What is there to save in this? It's hilarious that a clonecoin was broken, but does it even warrant fixing? How many clonecoins are needed? Finally, a coin that helps us to do double-spend attacks! Can you maybe change it to 2 confirmations so it's even easier? Only 0.4% premine? That's too low. Think of the Elephants. Changing the block rewards will lead to a fork as soon as transactions that depend on the changes happen.Also, we're allowed to elect ourselves to be in charge of the free premine money? Sweet, elect me in for part of it. I'm sure it'll be enough to buy me a new pair of oxygen molecules to breathe. If it's any more than $5, then I think I see where the real easy profits are! Oh, of course. I'm just pointing out the coin isn't even trying. Holy shit, you're right.Big issue, the "VGB protocol" is completely broken not only in design, but also in implementation. No blocks will ever get the reward.(Okay technically, blocks 249 and 250 alone have a small chance of getting the reward. But no other blocks!) Oh wow, I just realized there's no reward halving at all. After 7 years, rewards abruptly stop. Transaction fees will pay some rewards, but the sudden immediate drop-off would be chaos for the network as most miners go offline, and the remaining miners that stick it out will have extreme trouble meeting the high difficulty left in the wake. And then the network will be very vulnerable to 51% attacks.Major issue. Look above, nSubsidy is initialized to 0.(Amusingly if it wasn't, then each time the blockchain was scanned it would assign random extremely high values to those blocks (likely in the quadrillions), and I think the coins would be spendable in a transaction, but some nodes that calculated the reward as lower randomly would reject the blocks, leading to constantly forks forever after.) Can I mine Time itself with this coin? That would be pretty innovative. Just remember: More premine, more elephants! Bring on the premine! Can I premine too, for the elephants? I'm impressed it's not even really a programming reason he failed at the VGB protocol with. It's just basic probability. People with more lottery tickets win the lottery proportionally more; big miners will mine the superblocks proportionally more. The currency functions similar (well, besides there's only CPU miners right now) but there's a bit more value to the blockchain's proof-of-work messages outside of the context of the currency. Not protein-folding level value but still more value than hashes of random nonces. There's already millions of coins premined.Why would we be grateful? This is just another crapcoin clonecoin, that also has a premine for you already. Aren't there a ton of random-huge-block coins already?And I'll see even more huge miners win this.What this means is that huge miners will be more likely to have wins, and will even have larger sums of coins. Most small miners have no chance of winning ever, so it's actually weighted against more small miners than most coins.
Don't worry, the miner's coin doesn't allow insta-mining. Just pre-mining! It looks like you can easily tell whether the next block will be a lottery winner. Big miners can simply mine other coins constantly, and when they detect a lottery winner is coming up, switch to mining this for a block. Brilliantly helping the large miners! From the source:Code:  if(nHeight == 1)      nSubsidy = 1100000 * COIN; //.5% Public Wallet Premine     if(nHeight == 2)      nSubsidy = 1100000 * COIN; //.5% Coin Owner Premine     else if(nHeight < 10)   nSubsidy = 0 * COIN; //No  Coins awarded for the first 120 blocks (fair launch)The comment that says "fair launch" definitely means it. Don't pay attention to the premine part. Big miners will win the VGB lottery proportionally more than small miners. This doesn't benefit the small miners more. Neither does having a shorter coin generation time with more coins.EDIT: Quoting my page 8 post for visibility: Why would you even want sha256 in a coin that's targeted at the "small miner"? Do you understand the significance of that choice? It's not my intention to appear hounding for the sake of hounding, but I'm honestly curious what anyone sees in this coin. He hasn't talked about the VGB protocol in this thread (and what details he's said in other threads are pure fantasy), so that's a non-factor. Is yet-another-scrypt-litecoin clone that funnels a percentage of money to a certain person really that interesting? What is going on in anyone's head who is interested in this? "I really wish I could mine a coin that gave Vlad a percentage of my profits!" Or is it just "I'm sad I missed the bitcoin launch years ago; this thing has 'coin' in its name and is launching so I'll get rich if I support this!"? Small miners make the network secure less than big miners. If you're trying to profit small miners more, then you're not rewarding them for making the network more secure. It's a perverse worthless charity at best instead.The best scams try to make the people getting scammed think they're getting in on something. That's the miners thinking they're getting the "miners' coin" in this case, when really it's just a distracting show while you get your percentage. Since when is a clonecoin something that needs to be built up by the developer? If it does take off in popularity, the lack of pre-mine isn't an issue because it's popular. If it doesn't take off in popularity, then he can mine legitimately and pay people with his monopoly money to advertise his coin if he wants. I don't think there are enough innovative altcoins to warrant it here. The innovative ones have their own forums too anyway. Why would that be an issue? Excellent debate skills there, mate. You could detect if the blockchain you're on gets changed, but you can't do anything about it. If you stay on the old chain, no one else will be there with you and you'll cut yourself off from the network.If there were an easy way to protect against 51% attacks in a decentralized network, don't you think bitcoin would have implemented it already? coins-e takes too long? This definitely doesn't sound suspicious. "Now launching: PayMeCoin! This is the coin to use if you want me to take a cut out of your money!" A currency built for the sole stated purpose of benefiting the money printers is missing the point and/or reeks of scam. What's the program you thought of? Taking bitcoin/litecoin and renaming it? How are you possibly trying to take credit for that? People use bitcoin because it's decentralized and they can control who gets a cut (optional transaction fees that go to the miners). If we wanted someone to get a cut and have no choice in the matter, we'd just go use Paypal. At least Paypal has to manage servers. What value are you possibly adding by creating a new clonecoin? Can we make it reward miners inversely to their computer power? I think it's reasonable that a TI-84 be the most capable miner as it's a very affordable mining rig. That should stop all the profits going to the people with the expensive GPU and ASIC rigs. Maybe my super nintendo can get in on the mining action? Agreed. In the other threads, Vlad described this as a "currency for the miners". How does this not ring more alarm bells for people? A currency made just for the purpose of benefiting its printers! Miners exist to support the currency. Not the other way around. Getting it the other way around is to establish a useless charity aimed at people doing useless mining. Why only a 3% premine? I think a 30% or 300% premine would be even better.
What makes your coin so special?  What money does it cost to start a clonecoin? If you're paying more than $5 to have someone else rename Litecoin for you, then I'm not sure you're spending your money wisely. He just explained exactly how useless that metric is. LTC made much more innovation than 95% of the clonecoin litecoin-renames in this subforum. Most of the clonecoins change so much less. And The Pirate Bay gets a shit-ton of ad money while relying on Torrent technology. Just because you're vaguely involved doesn't mean you're entitled to a profit by backdooring yourself a cut or undermining the system's integrity. Exactly.If this were a forum for P2P filesharing tools, would we see clonetorrent developers whining that they should be able to backdoor their software so their own files get shared faster or they have more access? No one would give that shit a second look. But here, just because it's a P2P value transfer system, it's supposed to function as a business that profits them directly? A P2P cryptocurrency isn't a small business. It's not a packaged product that you sell (well, the miners will sell the results in their use of it). It's not a charity system. If you want to get paid for running a service managed by you, then providing decentralized software is not the place to look! I'm a programmer that specializes in application and network security, and I can't think of any plausible way to do what I've seen described with the VGB protocol. Am I to believe that the VGB protocol will automatically detect large miners' botnets and server farms and penalize them?I remain less than convinced.No wonder ixcoin isn't all that popular. You seem to be aiming really high in what other currencies you're comparing yourself to. Just to be sure, this was the feature that will make the coin reward small miners proportionally more than large miners, while magically making sure big miners don't pretend to be many small miners? Sounds like easy profits for any big miners that trivially subvert it. Should it also have a picture of you removing your 11% (or whatever it is now) from the scales while she's not looking? The code you just posted agrees with both of them. Either USE_UPNP=- or USE_UPNP= will disable it. Debatable definition of decentralized.I'm assuming by "energy required to set up these identities" you're referring to some proof-of-work system (and not a manually verify your government ID to Vlad system). How is it imaginably possible that managing two identities' proof-of-works on a computer would be harder than managing one identity on a half as capable computer? (Or multiple identity proof-of-works over a botnet, with one identity per bot.) The idea is pure fantasy.So now you're backtracking on the idea that the VGB protocol is secure, and admitting it's just fantasy. If you remove the VGB fantasy from the picture, what you have is a "currency for the miners" which gives only 89% of the currency to the miners.What sort of screwed clonecoin gives only 30% of the block rewards to the miners? And how does comparing against that make this one any better? (Suggested advertising line: "Nazi gold was obtained from killing jews; at least MagicCoin doesn't do that! Please use MagicCoin, it's not that bad!") PPS is not a good metric for actual mining performance, so it's not a good metric for difficulty either. Roll out services and goods that can be bought with it? It looks like you just pre-mined took a cut of mining (we really need to have a term for this much worse practice of hardcoding a scamcoin to mine for you) and then used those free coins to pay users to make those services with ill-gained bounties. If you did make any of those services yourself and I missed that, no reason they couldn't have been for a non-scamcoin.Yes, I'm a Real Developer©, and I can imagine all the work that goes into changing Litecoin's name and blockchain root. I guess re-doing the logo nicely probably took the longest.Holy shit, people actually take the idea of "make a litecoin clone into a scamcoin and treat it as a business to make a living off of" seriously around here. Is this subforum where all of the developers went who saw bitcoin as a get-rich-quick scheme and completely missed the point of its crypto and decentralization? It's not a decentralized cryptocurrency when it privileges someone like that. Could you imagine if the Linux kernel had a backdoor in it just for the kernel author to use, and he tried to justify it as a privilege for him doing the work for free? Why would anyone use that system?If you're looking to get directly paid for work, then releasing open source decentralized P2P software is not the correct place to look for it. Operate a mining pool or some other service if you want to take a cut. That doesn't sound like a good thing (the idea that users don't care). Is this a hypothetical, or a feature you omitted from mentioning in the description of your Noirbits currency?From the description of the Noirbits currency:Also, to be honest, what development work is there on Noirbits besides changing some Litecoin parameters? I feel like I'm the only one not drinking the clonecoin kool-aid around here. If you haven't figured it out yet, making open source decentralized P2P software is not the correct field to go into if you want to guarantee yourself a good income from the work. You probably want to put your own name there. Also, did that address generate a noteworthy block? Bitcoin's adjusting difficulty rate minimizes their profits. If bitcoin was about maximizing miner profitability, then the block rate and difficulty rate wouldn't be constantly making it harder. Which record is that supposed to be for?Also, see this for the real way to verify you own an address:
The value is in base 16. Change "int(chain[3:5])" to "int(chain[3:5], 16)". If you run "primecoind getblockhash 25180" and then "primecoind getblock hash", then you can see it yourself. Spreading the block rewards wouldn't address the issue that a single miner is in control of the network and can more than easily do a 51%-style attack. I don't think the currency is a feasible place to address that. "Unfair advantage". What do you think mining is? The block reward given by mining is compensation for computational power that goes toward securing the blockchain. The only fairness it is supposed to have is that it's proportional to the amount of computational power given to the network. Why are the smaller miners owed more?Bitcoin mining works by compensating miners for their computations that go toward securing the blockchain. It's not supposed to be a socialist "everyone gets money!" welfare system. Why should that compensation be anything but directly proportional to the work contributed? (Not to mention the complete infeasibility of any other scheme.) I think he means well, in the same sense the kid I knew in gradeschool meant well who had this big idea for an MMORPG that totally wasn't just a World of Warcraft clone and was better in every possible way but needed help programming it and was adamant he got a cut and that I didn't steal his idea so he couldn't explain it to me. That's the idea here too. It's a mixture of secrecy and looking for a cut on an idea that is so less than feasible. Honest question, assuming you aren't a sockpuppet of OP or something: What sounds interesting about this at all? Half of what he described is magic and the other half of what he described is "I get 11% of all coins". I do think Bitcoin/derivatives could use a bit more economic attention toward figuring out what the optimal block reward values and progression are, whether a maximum cap is a good idea, etc. But the idea of being able to securely identify small miners (as opposed to powerful miners trying to look like many) is much further on the programming / network security side. (And I don't think his few stated ideas on the economic side are that great. Making a currency that's focused all on benefiting the money printers is a huge mis-step! Holy shit, how does this not ring more alarm bells to people?)*edited to bold for emphasis Does this currency guarantee me a place in Muslim Heaven, or absolve me of any sins? I really think they're missing out on some potential selling points. As you say, even if we ignore those parts, what are we left with? The "VGB protocol" (which a non-programmer thought up?) that magically identifies small miners and rewards them a relatively bigger share. Until a very good explanation comes forth, he might as well say "magic". "MagicCoin" might be a catchy name. I don't think it's much of a decentralized cryptocurrency if it involves continual payments to some specific hardcoded user. I think you'd be hard-pressed to see a cryptocurrency like that take off. Bitcoin received a lot of popularity for being completely decentralized.Running a useful service for a cryptocurrency like an exchange, mining pool, etc, which takes a small known fee is probably the best bet for getting paid for cryptocurrency-related development. All of that verifies for me.Doing analysis of external datasets would be a bit difficult to accomplish in a decentralized cryptocurrency, and the work has to be extremely quick to verify that it's correct, so many types of computations are out of reach sadly. Primecoin's has both.I find it a bit disappointing that for all of the extreme amounts of computational power that goes into Bitcoin's blockchain, all we get is a verification of the latest block. There's no interesting analysis possible of the proof-of-work statements. Primecoin at least doubles as an enormously huge chain of mildly interesting computations. (These aren't particularly large for prime numbers. They're big  for prime number chains.) Some mathematicians may find this data useful. That's already infinitely more valuable than the results of bitcoin's sha256 / litecoin's scrypt random proof-of-work statements outside of the context of the currency. The difficulty would have to get to 10 for the block reward to be 10. The block reward is 999/(difficulty^2). The difficulty isn't going to increase at a constant rate so that's probably a long way off. You can verify you own an address with the signmessage command:Code:primecoind signmessage addresshere "Koooooj owns this address"and posting the address, message, and signature.(I think you could run that in the debug console too, just omit the primecoind part at the start. Or is there just a UI to this feature? I'm not using the QT client.) What possibly stops a single powerful miner from pretending to be many small miners? Short of requiring all miners to submit proof of identification (such as a government-issued ID) that's an impossibility. And frankly, if you're not a programmer, I have much less trust in your judgment of the security of the protocol, but I welcome you to surprise me.Bitcoin doesn't exist to benefit miners. It exists to provide a decentralized value transfer system, and the miners are a requirement for the system to function at all because it's decentralized. To try to create a cryptocurrency that exists purposefully to profit miners and isn't fully decentralized misses the point on multiple levels.This system does not seem feasible in several ways, and it doesn't appear likely to be successful. There are already many successful centralized payment systems which are less plagued by issues. Ctrl-C.(Also, in that command you want a ";" and not a "&".) How many cores do you have? There is no point in using more threads than you have cores. You may get a higher PPS, but that's just because the sieve isn't weaved as much in the same amount of time from the threads fighting each other. You can accomplish that with less thread infighting by setting the -gensieveroundlimitms launch parameter at lower than 1000, but despite the higher reported PPS that won't actually make you mine blocks faster at too low of values. (The default 1000 might even be too low on some slower computers.)
You're on a forum for a cryptocurrency which was revolutionary in that it was decentralized. If you don't understand the value of decentralization that's placed here, I think you fundamentally misunderstand why bitcoin is significant. It's not just the online part. Also, if it's a centralized currency that requires trust in you, why even do mining at all? You could just operate nodes which sign all transactions. Mining is only required for decentralized trust-free timestamping. Mining is only a worthless system of charity in a centralized system.You'll need to explain that protocol then. Bitcoin didn't get where it is from being closed. That last part is easy, just make every new block generated generate new coins to some fixed address. Not that I think that's a good idea at all.A decentralized cryptocurrency is a protocol, not so much a product. Can you imagine if the inventor of the file transfer protocol specified in the standards that when he connects to a server, it should allocate more bandwidth to him? I could see someone doing that with a specific ftp server they release, but shoehorning centralization into a protocol means you've lost the most revolutionary thing about bitcoin there.I can't imagine any way to do that which wouldn't be trivial to subvert. A little refactoring shouldn't stop a counter from being used instead of a timer. The PPS value isn't as meaningful as you think. Its value varies wildly depending on how much the CPU finishes weaving the sieve, not proportionally to performance. No, I meant only a counter of how many times the Weave() function is called, not related to GetCandidateCount(). That's because less time is spent weaving with the threads fighting each other, and more false-positives are counted by the primespersec value. Why make it a weave timing parameter and not just a weave count parameter? I think that would be a better metric, as a change in CPU load means the timing parameter's results will change a lot.I think the biggest change in Luke's miner is that it moves the bnTwoInverse calculation out of Weave() and just pre-calculates it for all of the primes in GeneratePrimeTable(). I didn't get much more performance out of porting that change to primecoin but I didn't check too hard. Isn't nProbablePrimeChainLength always zero if N+1 and N-1 both fail the FermatProbablePrimalityTest in ProbableCunninghamChainTest? Or does that get a ton of false positives when the sieve isn't weaved much? (I imagine I probably just answered my own question.)Anyway, good luck with finding the sweet spot in the trade-off! Agreed. I noticed earlier if you cap off the sieve weaving time to almost nothing, you can easily get absurdly high PPS values but you won't actually earn blocks faster. There's a trade-off that needs to be analyzed closer. Cryptocurrencies aren't supposed to be a get-rich-quick scheme for miners. Miners exist to secure the blockchain for the currency. Getting that backwards does not sound like a good idea.lolThat's even less than currencies that don't revolve around miners btw.I do not follow. This also doesn't sound like much of a decentralized trust-not-required currency (as in, a big reason many of us like bitcoin). I tried testing code on primecoin testnet, but I couldn't connect to any testnet nodes. Granted, the primes Primecoin deals with are only around a hundred digits long, but that's still much too long for that code to work with. Is it using getwork successfully to talk to primecoind? I think it's hardly surprising to see unsupported criticism criticized. If XRP isn't a decentralized cryptocurrency, why is it pushed around here so much? What makes you say that? As far as I see, primecoin and the same developer's ppcoin look like the only bitcoin-derivatives to bring something new and worthwhile to the table since namecoin. You sound just like those Nigerian Princes that want to send me money! Where do I send my SSN? Everything you asked is in the first post of the thread. Never mind that I personally don't trust any closed source thing to get crypto right, can you even objectively call something that's closed source "decentralized"? This message?Code:printf("%s primemeter %9.0f prime/h %9.0f test/h\n", DateTimeStrFormat("%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S", nLogTime).c_str(), dPrimesPerMinute * 60.0, dTestsPerMinute * 60.0);That's just the same counter of primes found in the last minute extrapolated to an hour.
