Um, Freenet? I feel generous  Five fake-coins go to 2, 5, 7, 17 and 19. Unless the other party, i.e. me, is not in the US/UK.    WTF. Well, a direct copy of the Bitcoin homepage can't really be claimed as independant, no matter where it appears. I don't know that site, so despite the sophisticated layout I'll just have to assume some kind of spambot harvested the homepage and pasted a copy there.  I realize it's kind of bitter to see something that is of interest to oneself declared non-notable, but Wikipedia's policies are there for a reason, and we can always try again later. Although it sure would be a shame to break all those outside links to the Wikipedia article... Alternatively, Google has a feature that calculates currency exchange rates. You could use that to convert AUD to USD, and then calculate the Bitcoin value from that: http://www.google.de/q=55.95+AUD+in+USD I would do the drawing as follows:Go to random.org and generate the random number(s) between 0 and n based on a "persistent identifier". A good identifier to use would be a newly generated bitcoin address that has not been used yet.Post the SHA-256 hash of the identifier on the forum to commit to the number(s)Publish the guesses. This way, people can see if all guesses have been exhausted. This prevents me from claiming no-one won.Announce the winner and publish the identifier used to generate the number(s), so everyone can verify the winning number(s). Well, once that reputable someone has been found, s/he could open a 'cause' on Pledgie. Pledgie doesn't take a cut, so everything would go towards the cause. Hehehe. While the Bitcoin client is connected to IRC anyway, why not make it login to an Idle-RPG? Problem solved. (This should probably be moved over to Off-topic or something...) Hm. I've tested it under Linux with Firefox and Chrome. Let me check... yeah it does look different on Windows. And neither Firefox nor Chrome display my example diacritics at all.   The starburst character is a combining diacritical, so yes, it's supposed to surround the D. Then again, I kinda like how it comes out on Windows.For the record, this is what it looks like to me:I guess using combining diacriticals is out then, if they're not displaying correctly (everywhere). There's also the possibility of using the Combining diacritical marks to cobble something together. I did this with the D in my user name, but haven't found something that'd really work as Bitcoin symbol, mostly because the symbols don't seem to line up properly: B ̳     B ̶     B ⃦     B ⃝ Edit: Found a regular Unicode character that may work, although it doesn't look that good at small sizes: Ⓑ    Ⓑ    Ⓑⓑ    ⓑ    ⓑ This sounds like a Ponzi scheme to me. Kiss your monies good bye, those who choose to play. Indeed. Added to the deletion discussion page on Wikipedia. I brought it up on the discussion page and added it to the article. We'll have to see whether it'll fly with the people there. Buying 557, 675, 006, 783, 585, 460, 524, 218, 401 and 832; numbers brought to you by random.org.   Geez. A page that's packed with ads *and* asks for donations... that's shameless. Is it just me or does that thing look like a badass snowman with a quarterstaff?  <3 Hehe, nah. Everybody's brain will have been copied into a computer by that time anyway, so no need for cell phones.  If Moore's Law holds 'til then, a single computer would be waaaay more powerful than all today's human brains combined. Kind of scary, kind of cool. Gotta love exponential trends... See http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=156.0 Wait, what? I thought reversible computation just uses less energy. Where does the non-determinism come in?Anyway, about the hashing being insecure: Wikipedia says that attacks on SHA-256 still take on the order of 2250 operations. And unless I made a big thinko here, doesn't the hash target change every ~10 minutes? Wouldn't that throw of an attacker? And if it was possible to break SHA faster, wouldn't the system adjust by raising the difficulty level? Hehe. The proper name would be Wireless community mesh network. There are such networks all over Europe; the primary goal is not file-sharing, but some file-sharing is, of course, taking place.I'm involved in a local effort to build such a network in my city; eventually we'll be connecting the network to an already established VPN that connects different cities. Later on, that VPN may be merged with other European networks, and in the end we hope to become mostly independent of traditional ISPs.German Homepage: www.freifunk.netEnglish Info (somewhat lacking): http://wiki.freifunk.net/Kategorie:English
