Is the site down for anyone else? I see some "SiteLock" website at amagimetals.com  There are two separate questions here, and I'm not sure which you are asking. Why should the total value of all Bitcoins be $5.1 billion? (Is the Bitcoin economy overvalued or undervalued as a whole?) Why should the number of arbitrary divisions of Bitcoin be set where it is, giving each a value of $385? (Does such a high value make it more awkward to talk about and use in everyday transactions?)  Aside from the issue of whether there should be a Bitcoin central bank, OP puts the cart before the horse. There can't be a Bitcoin central bank unless and until a large portion of Bitcoin transactions are done through Bitcoin banks.  I would estimate that portion is currently close to zero percent. If we don't have widespread use of Bitcoin banks, a central bank can't regulate Bitcoin banks, it can't control Bitcoin bank lending or reserve ratios, it can't act as a lender of last resort to Bitcoin banks that don't exist. They could surely try, with varying possible degrees of success. They could make it illegal for any banks to do any business with Bitcoin exchanges, which might stop large Bitcoin buyers in countries where this was made illegal. This could cause a significant drop in the value of Bitcoin. However, they could not prevent smaller scale Bitcoin transactions from taking place without implementing a 1984-style police state and completely destroying the concept of free speech.  That isn't going to happen, and if it does, Bitcoin is the least of our problems. (After all, Bitcoin is just people sending messages to each other.) We should not encourage vandalism as a way of advertising Bitcoin. The quote defines a "natrually occurring Ponzi" as a thing sold at market that forms a bubble. This could very well apply to Bitcoin, as Bitcoin has been in bubbles and may be in a bubble, but that has absolutely nothing to do with Ponzi schemes. bubble != Ponzi.   "Ponzi" has become a catch-all term for "something financial that I don't understand but I'm still suspicious of." And such people are going way out of their way to fit the word "Ponzi" in here somewhere, even if it's completely unrecognizable from anything Charles Ponzi ever did.  Great answers, thank you very much.  Thank you for your answer.One more question though. How reliable is it in practice that miners will receive transactions in the same order they occur?Let's say one person has a habit of going out and making small Bitcoin purchases ten times a day, and receiving his goods with zero confirmations. And let's say every time he broadcasts his purchase transaction, he immediately broadcasts a second double spend transaction. Roughly how often will the second double spend transaction be confirmed in a block?I wonder if the policy of not relaying duplicate transactions ever backfires, and one node receives the second one first, and that node relays it to numerous other nodes, and now the doublespend transaction blocks out the legitimate one.  I think we should have separate subforums for the perennial posts of:1. Bitcoin needs a central bank!2. Bitcoin is a Ponzi/pyramid scheme!3. Bitcoin is destined to fail because of economics especially deflation!4. Bitcoin is destined to fail because 21 million isn't enough!That said, this is the first post I've ever seen that says Bitcoin is failing because the price is TOO STABLE!  Bitcoin has had very large drops in its price and this risk is still present.The number of Bitcoins in existence never inherently decreases (though it will if people lose their Bitcoins), but the rate at which it increases will slow down over time. That Bitcoin is supposedly guaranteed to increase in value over time, as you say, is a self-defeating prophecy. If anything is guaranteed to increase in value over time, people will speculate in it right now, which will drive up the price right now, which means it is already at the point where people expect it to be in the future. The role speculation plays in the value of Bitcoin thus dwarfs the effect of reductions in the rate of Bitcoin creation.  You're close. Bitcoin nodes relay new transactions to each other, but they don't necessarily (and don't usually) mine a new block when relaying new transactions. Until a new block is mined that includes a new transaction, (usually 10 minutes on average, but this varies)  it is not certian which transaction will be included in the blockchain (confirmed) and which transaction will be ignored*. Miner software has to decide which one to include. It is up to the miner to decide how to rectify this situation, and I'm not certain how off-the-shelf miner software typically handles it. I've asked in this thread here: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=758658.0*And even when a new block is mined that includes your transaction, there is a small chance (if other miners quickly mine two blocks in a row without your transaction) that this block may be replaced by another block that doesn't include your transaction.  Bitcoin address X contains 1.06 bitcoin. Let's say a miner sees two unconfirmed transactions broadcasted - the first one says to send 1 bitcoin from address X to address Y. The second transaction says to send 1 bitcoin from address X to address Z. Both transactions cannot be completed. This is a double spend. My understanding is that Bitcoin miners can write their own miner software to choose which transaction to process in any way they wish. They could include in the next block whichever transaction has the higher fee, they could go with whichever transaction they received first, they could go with whichever one has more of the letter 'Q' in the destination address because they like the letter Q.But in practice, how would this normally be handled by most miners' software?  They say they will in 2016 but I have doubts about whether they will follow through. https://www.amagimetals.com/info/no-dollars-after-2016/ Sound advice here from the CFPB. I don't want to be the "I told you so" guy, but I never trust any Bitcoin business to hold my money for any extended length of time. I had used MtGox to buy Bitcoins for years and immediately withdrew at every earliest opportunity. See the latter half of my signature.  Additionally, 'rising asset values' is also not the definition of a Ponzi or pyramid scheme. Oil becomes increasingly difficult for drilling companies to obtain as the decades go by. Is oil a Ponzi scheme? Also, "The guys who created bitcoin" don't own or create all new Bitcoins - they are created and distributed, essentially, in proportion to the amount of computing power contributed to the network, and anyone can contribute.  This is complete nonsense.No one can buy all the Bitcoin in existence at once, at any price. No one. The government dumping millions into buying chunks of Bitcoin would make the remaining Bitcoin far more expensive, not worthless. Banks serve three purposes, the first two of which are unnecessary with Bitcoin:1. A clearinghouse for transactions2. Safe storage place for money3. Connecting lenders with borrowersThe fact that no one needs a Bitcoin bank for purposes 1 and 2 means that any lending entities/banks will have much more difficulty getting people to hold bank credit as payment in lieu of the actual money itself (a Bitcoin transaction on the blockchain) Fractional reserve lending works for dollars because people tend to keep their money in banks for purposes 1 and 2, and the banks are able to tell people that they have more dollars in their account than actually exist in the bank's posession. It will be far more difficult for fractional reserve lending to take off with Bitcoin because nobody is going to want to have someone else hold their Bitcoin for them, and thus no bank will be able to tell them they have more Bitcoins than actually exist on the blockchain.  Yes, people speculate on Bitcoin. I don't think anyone can deny this. So what?That people speculate on Bitcoin does not prove the price of Bitcoin is in a bubble that will inevitably pop. Bitcoins have utility that dollars do not. Bitcoins can be spent to anyone in the world who has a phone or computer, in minutes, with no international wire fees or chargebacks.  Unintentional orphaned blocks would become more common, yes. But unintentionally orphaned blocks can't be used to double spend because you don't know when unintentionally orphaned blocks will occur, (and without resources you can't guarantee the new blocks contain your double spend transaction instead of the legitimate transaction). But it would take resources to intentionally orphan the last block in order to double spend a transaction with 1 confirmation. It takes no resources to double spend a transaction with zero confirmations. So, there is some security improvement when you compare 0 confirmations and a longer block time, to 1 confirmation with a short block time.  Untraceability
I noticed Amagi started selling 1921 Morgan dollars, advertising them as "1 Oz"https://www.amagimetals.com/morgan-dollarUnless these are reproductions in a different size, they are not 1 ounce. Morgan dollars are .859 troy ounces total weight, which at .900 fineness is .773 troy ounces of silver. If they are reproductions this should be noted.  Until the sun rises in the west and sets in the east. Until the rivers run dry, and the mountains blow in the wind like leaves. Then bots will profitably guess private keys.  I agree with this. Primarily the issue of anonymization - if someone had a Bitcoin clone that was completely anonymous (perhaps integrated Tor, along with making it impossible to track the flow of money from one address to another via the blockchain) it would take over. Even more so if mining of that currency was most efficiently performed on a standard computer processor, which would avoid mining centralization. All the people saying that a government auction of Silk Road seized Bitcoins won't affect the price of Bitcoin are wrong. They assume that the people buying Bitcoin at government auction would not have bought Bitcoins otherwise. This is almost certainly false in the majority of cases. They are mostly people who want to buy Bitcoins, and decide to buy them at the government auction instead of an exchange. This means fewer bidders on the auctions, which will drive down the price.  There is absolutely zero chance that the Chinese government will link their currency to gold. China has been following the policy of driving down the value of their currency in order to promote exports for a long time. Linking their currency to gold would have the opposite effect. Bitcoin is not legal tender anywhere in the world. It's a common misconception that "legal tender" means that it's something that is legal to pay someone with (and thus that something that isn't legal tender is therefore illegal to use as payment). But in all but a tiny number of countries it is legal to pay anyone with whatever legal-to-possess things you wish. Trading/barter is generally legal.As others have said, legal tender means that it's a form of payment that cannot be legally denied in the payment of debts denominated in the same currency. i.e. if you owe me one hundred US dollars, and you present me with a US $100 bill, I cannot say "This is no good, I need you to pay me in pre-1965 silver half dollars." I can't insist on that since a US $100 bill is legal tender. That's fantastic, but I can't see anywhere on your website or in the checkout screens to enter a coupon code. Where is it?Edit: I found it, you have to go to your cart without first clicking Checkout. The code worked for me.  ClicksGimme five clicks. Is that correct - 0.021% ? Meaning if you place an order for $1000, the Bitcoin fee is 21 cents ? I love you guys. Do you plan on getting Britannias, NZ Kiwis, Philharmonikers, or any other 'exotic' national silver bullion coins in? I've heard the UAE now has a coin? I'd like to start collecting for every country that has them. D&T is right, their logic on that fact doesn't follow. But they could easily and more accurately say that courts need an official form of payment for damages and reparations to be made in when there is no more direct form of compensation. For example if someone breaks into your house and destroys a unique painting from a hundred years ago, a court can't order that the defendant give him back another like painting because one doesn't exist. The court has to have some kind of default means of payment, be it dollars or gold or Bitcoin. Brand's interview was babbling idiocy. A revolutionary who has absolutely no idea how to do anything to accomplish his goals other than 'a new system.' Well gee, asshole, what makes your system any better and not worse than the system we have? There already exist political parties who want to tax the rich more and give it to the poor, and who want to pass more laws protecting the environment. I want a Gmail replacement with a few gigs of storage, without ads or without anything that reads my emails, run in a country that is outside the reach of United States National Security Letters (Iceland? Switzerland maybe? Ecuador?) And I'd really prefer a reputable entity running this.I'm willing to pay for this in Bitcoin. Does such a thing exist?  Another fantastic experience with Amagi. You guys are the best.  1. They don't. 2. They will know he (or someone else) has a backup/brainwallet if the 600,000 bitcoins show being moved one day on the blockchain.  What is the status on tenth ounce gold coins? Are they coming in any time soon? (especially Am. Eagles) The network hashrate has quadrupled in the last month. The price of Bitcoin has remained relatively stable. Therefore, it is proven that the Bitcoin price does not necessarily follow the hashrate, and thus the basic premise of the OP's article is wrong.  It may be too late to change this, but I think the most useful configuration would be to move the decimal point six places to the right. 1,000,000 New Bitcoins equals one old Bitcoin. The most common unit would be the KBTC = 1000 new Bitcoins = .001 old Bitcoins. There are still two decimal places left, just like most currencies. 1000KBTC = 1 old Bitcoin. $20 USD = .154 old Bitcoin = 154 KBTC.$100 USD = .77 old Bitcoin = 770 KBTC. It is much easier for people to think and talk about thousands of something versus thousandths of something.  I could understand either demanding the Bitcoins back or demanding the dollars back, as long as they keep a consistent upfront policy. Same thing happened to me - I contacted support, they asked me for a screenshot, then they told me to try again later. It worked later. 
Right now I'm not able to withdrawal my Bitcoin balance from mtgox - it says "Invalid bitcoin address, please confirm your input" - but I am 100% certian it is a valid Bitcoin address.  Thank you for your responses. So now that the Mtgox price can't be considered anything resembling the 'real' value of Bitcoin, what (in your opinion) is the most reliable exchange price to use? Something that I can track on bitcoincharts.com ?  Oh, wow. I didn't realize it was that bad. Thank you.  So I'm trying out Coinbase for the first time, and I'm waiting on my account confirmation, but in the meanwhile it says "Buy Amount ----- at $98.87 each"   - but mtgox is showing their last price at $112.50  There can't possibly be really that much difference (~14%) between the two, can there? What am I missing? Indeed. ASICs made Bitcoin far better, but they made mining less profitable. But the general purpose of Bitcoin is not to make money mining. It's to have a secure independent quasi-anonymous trust free online currency system.  Since, to your great credit, you do such a good job of responding to things in this thread I figured I'd throw this in here. . . .The menu system you use on your website is really annoying. If you want to go to Gold 1 oz coins, you first mouse over "Gold", then the menu comes down showing "Fractional Mix" and "1 ounce" - so you try to put your mouse over the "1 ounce" but first, you pass over "Fractional Mix", and then a new menu opens up that all but prevents you from clicking on "1 ounce."One more thing. . . While Amagi Metals is not legally required to collect sales tax when they sell to out of state residents, those residents are legally required to pay the sales tax to their state of residence when they buy from an out of state company such as Amagi Metals (if their state has sales tax on bullion.)  You don't know what you are talking about. $2.70 over spot is very good. APMEX is selling boxes of 500 ASEs for *minimum* $3.99 over spot. They need an American license when doing business with Americans in America. So in prosecuting MtGox for not having a money changing license, is there a legal precedent being set here that Bitcoin fits the government's definition of "money" ?  If you have three Bitcoins on three different addresses in your wallet, no, the 3 people who sent you 1 bitcoin each will not know about each others' transactions.If you try to send 2 Bitcoins to a fourth person, he will see that his two Bitcoins came from two different addresses. I do not know how the Bitcoin client determines which of the two addresses it will use.  Make sure you also file a police report.  Speak for yourself; I would have an immense amount of fun if I never had to work again. I got my first order on Monday. (last to ship.) All was good. Thanks Amagi!  I assure you nobody on this forum was considering stashing gold in Fort Knox.   If they tried continually buying Bitcoin at above market value, the price of Bitcoin would skyrocket, and the Fed would have to keep spending exponentially more money to get a greater fraction of the Bitcoin supply. If they tried buying Bitcoin at less than market value, nobody would sell to them.  It's not illegal to sell steel or aluminum either, unless they fit the definition of what the government defines as "guns" (and you aren't licensed to do so) I'm sure the BATF agents breaking out your windows at 2:00 AM with tear gas grenades will find it hilarious.  A judge will not consider your splitting a lower into two, or even three, trivially-assembleable pieces to be cute or clever. He will consider it to be willful flaunting of federal gun laws and will make an example of you. These laws are not taken lightly.  There is no way that the BATFE is going to agree that bolting one half to the other half constitutes 20% or more of the process of manufacturing a lower.  As a bit of constructive criticism, I suggest that you not mark orders "Shipped" when they have not yet been picked up by USPS. It confuses your customers, as "Shipped" boxes can be stuck in your 'shipping queue' for upwards of a week with the tracking number showing that the USPS does not have them. If it's in your "shipping queue" it should still say "processing" I know you are swamped with orders lately, but why is there a "shipping queue" of ready-to-ship boxes that can't be dropped off at the Post Office? Does the Post Office only accept a certain number of packages per day? That's some bullshit right there. I had a relatively smooth transaction with Coinabul but I'm never dealing with them again with that in the TOS. 
Look at Amagi Metals. They are also running slow from greatly increased volume, but they are very upfront about it and communicative.  Bitcoin went up quite a bit after I placed my order with Coinabul, I wonder if they will send me some extra silver.  I got one of my orders (placed on the 10th) in the mail yesterday and it's great. Thanks! I have one order placed on 4/8 and one on 4/10, and for some reason the 4/10 is indicated as shipped but the 4/8 is not. But the tracking number for the order indicated "shipped" is not found.  I'm glad they're communicative on this thread, though. How long does it normally take from order placement to shipping? I see "24 business hours" - does that mean 3 business days of 8 hours each? Or just 24 hours if order is placed M-F? In that case, I propose that 10^-6 BTC = 1 Turing. 1,000,000 Turings = 1 BTC. The Turing can be broken into two decimal points. The unit "kiloturing" or KT should be the most commonly referred-to unit unless the price increases by a few more orders of magnitude, in which case the most commonly referred to unit will be the Turing itself. 10 Kiloturings is currently worth $2.The Turing and the Kiloturing should be the only units needed, to preserve simplicity. "One million dollars" is equal to "five million KT." The Kiloturing is within an order of magnitude of the dollar.  It could easily be traced if the purchaser lists his Bitcon address and the merchant sends the Bitcoin to that address. But that would involve Visa understanding and trusting the blockchain data, which is unlikely.  https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=130831.120It sounds like they've done a lot of business with forum members, and there haven't been many complaints. They seem very responsive to customer comments on this thread. I will be placing an order tonight.  I would be highly interested in hearing some people's experiences with Amagi Metals Bitcoin transactions can never be reversed. Credit card transactions can be easily reversed if the buyer says he was deceived, or his card was stolen, or he's not satisfied, etc. This leads to many cases where fraudsters will try to buy Bitcoin with credit cards, take their Bitcoin, and then tell the credit card company they want their money back. And, in many cases, they get it back, and the exchange loses all their money.  I think we should move the Bitcoin decimal point six places to the right, and primarily use the unit kBTC. (new kilobitcoins) 1 old BTC = 1,000,000 new BTC = 1,000 kBTC (new) = $19010 kBTC = $1.90 The reason for this is that it is relatively futureproof, and that people are more comfortable handling very large numbers than very small numbers. It also leaves two decimal points of Bitcoin, just as most national currencies have two decimal points.  Ah, neat. Unfortunately I am not in the EU. Other bullion dealers selling for Bitcoin? Which ones?  An online Bitcoin bullion store, which does not need to rent a storefront or pay for utilities, and who does not need to worry about credit or debit card fees, or check fraud, should be expected to have slightly cheaper rates than a traditional B&M store that has to pay for all of these.Bitcoin-based stores can sell all Bitcoin payments for USD immediately if they want to, so they run no risk of the price of Bitcoin dropping.There are USD-based online coin dealers that hold stock and sell from their stock. It shouldn't be impossible for a Bitcoin-based coin dealer to hold stock and sell from their stock.  I'm looking for a discount versus local coin shops because I'm paying in Bitcoin. Why would a buyer trust your confirmation code rather than just look at his wallet? There are plenty of places with public Wifi that people can meet to trade Bitcoin. Are there other such 'gold and silver for bitcoin' sites? Have you guys asked to cancel your orders and get refunds? In your first "Thank you for your order" email you got after placing the order, there should be a 213 area code phone number, and a 312 area code phone number. Also, try demanding your Bitcoins back if the order takes too long. Perhaps I define "scam" more narrowly than others here, but to me, for something to be a scam, it has to be intentional. If you try to enter an agreement with someone and events occur which prevents one party from upholding their end of the bargian, or if someone make a mistake and accepts more orders than they can process quickly, or even if they just forget, it's not a scam, it's just bad business. Of course "bad business" might deserve a tag on here as well, as it is just as important to warn others about.  Order received, and all is good. Coinabul, while maybe they are a bit slow to respond, is decidedly not a scam.
According to this Wiki article, the "montary base" is not M1, but M0, which is smaller than M1 but no longer reported by the Federal Reserve. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monetary_base FedEx. FRB would be possible but it would require a lot of people to keep their Bitcoin in Bitcoin banks. I don't see this happening, because it's incredibly easy and, if you're halfway smart, just as secure to keep your Bitcoin on your home computer wallet.  After numerous calls and finally a demand for a refund, I just got a tracking number for an order I placed 8 days ago. I will update when it arrives.  This is absolutely correct, with the addition of .01 = 1 bitcentThe term "millibitcent" should never be used under any circumstances. I put a Coinabul order in on Wednesday which was supposed to have "Next Day Express" shipping. The order is still showing as "processing." I spoke with and got an email from Jay on Thursday saying it should be shipped by Monday. It's late Tuesday now, my order still says "processing," and I have heard nothing new. Just left a message on his phone. I know things may be shaken up because the one guy quit, but customers should at least be kept updated. Edit: Just got a call, was told I should have a tracking number within 24 hours. . .  Al Gore is Satoshi. All the people who say Bitcoin stinks because it must inevitably increase in value - do you think they do the logical thing that their belief points to and put their money in Bitcoin? If everyone *knows* that the money supply will increase a certain way (at a decreasing rate), then this information will be factored into the price of Bitcoin. It is not a surprise to anyone. If the rate of inflation would cause the price of Bitcoin to increase, it would increase instantly at the beginning, and not gradually over time. Therefore, you can not expect the price of Bitcoin to inevitably increase. The price of Bitcoin is increasing because it is becoming more popular, not because the number of Bitcoins in existence is increasing at an ever-slowing rate. I reported them to Mediafire as spammers, and got an email saying their page was taken down. Yep, I got the same one. Wasn't Tradehill based in Argentina? Wish they had stuck around.  Call me cynical, but I think Alex Jones is paid by someone to make conspiracy theorists look idiotic. The thing is that the Martingale strategy with the 50% bets is basically identical to repeatedly playing the 85-97% winning odds bets with the amount of Bitcoin that you would risk at maximum with your Martingale strategy. i.e. if you play Martingale starting with 1 BTC on the 50% game and you're prepared to keep doubling at losses up to 64 BTC, you might as well keep betting 64 BTC on the 97.6% odds game. (not exactly sure of the numbers but it's equal at some point.) The dollar value of silver swung up by a factor of 4 between December 2008 and December 2010. The dollar value of goat meat did not quadruple during that time. The price of silver changed. Certainly not. The spending power of the dollar did not go down by 80% from 2008 to 2010, and then up by 30% from 2010 to present (in any sense other than the dollar price of silver.) These changes are almost entirely due to changes in the value of silver.A set number of dollars could not buy five times more labor, or butter, or gasoline, or real estate in 2008 than it would in early 2010. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ponzi_schemeBitcoin pays no returns. So it can't be a Ponzi scheme.Bitcoin offers no returns. So it can't be a Ponzi scheme.Bitcoin has no earnings and no payments to investors. Ditto. Accusing Bitcoin of being a Ponzi scheme is a red flag that the accuser doesn't know what a Ponzi scheme is. If you want to accuse Bitcoin of anything, a very good case can be made that it is a bubble. Whether true or not, that at least makes sense. It makes no sense at all - it is a violation of the definition - to call Bitcoin a Ponzi scheme. Thanks for the clarification. I get it now. Does the bitcoin.org client behave in this way?
This is the same problem I'm having, if you start with an empty wallet, receive 10 Bitcoins, get a lot of confirmations, and you then  spend .01 Bitcoins, it now tells you that you have 9.99 Bitcoins waiting for confirmation again. This is a bug and needs to be fixed. OP should change the title. Hooray! I wish I had more to contribute, but I just want to chip in another voice saying that Bitmit is invaluable to the Bitcoin community and I hope a good businessperson takes over.I'd buy stock in it if glbse was still running. . .  ^Originated the 'popped collar' look. You should not be able to cancel an auction. A person auctioning an item should be required to sell it to the winner of the auction. Once you've started the auction, it should be considered a contract between the seller and the highest bidder. Wonderful!http://code.google.com/p/bitcoin-wallet/issues/detail?id=10 Put in that situation, I'd choose the farmland and the ExxonMobils, and $1 trillion in gold rather than $1 trillion in cash. How many US armed forces or future tax revenues can I get in exchange for a dollar?And how many people can I get in exchange for a Bitcoin?The answer is none, because they are not backed by anything unless you are going way into the metaphorical sense. It is not exchanged at a set rate for anything else. Thus it is not backed.The US dollar is not backed either.I don't know about "Goldmoney." I want to register my otc account with LocalBitcoins, but my OTC account was done with GPG and not a Bitcoin signature. Is it possible to regster my OTC account? I've tried submitting my GPG signature and it doesn't seem to work. Yeah, I think requested items would be a great feature. I've requested it before and have been told it will come, but I don't think it's a priority. I wish it would be. Drop the coins on a table and listen to the ringing sound. Tungsten should sound different. Also, I am 90% certain you can't press tungsten the way that gold coins are minted. It's very brittle and hard. So the fine details on these coins are probably going to look different than on real minted coins.I would also like to hear from anyone who has seen these coins in person. I have my doubts.  Not that I know of, but you can use ING P2P for buying from some sellers on the IRC channel #bitcoin-otc. This method of trade requires a bit of reading and learning to use. Further information on the same problem I was having. I have .08 bitcoins in my "Bitcoin Wallet" wallet. They have been there for over a week.I sent .02 BTC to Satoshi Dice. I lost. Okay. Now I have .06 BTC in my wallet. I try to send another .02 BTC to SatoshiDice. And it tells me I have .06 BTC waiting for confirmation. Looking at my wallet address on blockchain.info it says that from my wallet, .02 was sent to SatoshiDice and .06 was sent to my same wallet address I was sending from. So I conclude that Bitcoin Wallet is waiting on confirmations for Bitcoins that were sent from my wallet back to the same wallet. That isn't supposed to be how it works, is it? If I spend part of my Bitcoins I shouldn't have to wait to spend the remainder of them. You are right. My apologies. Tungsten is .25% lighter than gold, not heavier, and so whatever you mix with tungsten to get the density of gold would have to be denser than gold, not lighter. Platinum would be the cheapest and most obtainable thing to use to mix with tungsten to match gold's density.19.25W + 21.45P = 19.3 where W is cubic centimeters of tungsten and P is ccs of platinum. W+P = 1 where we're looking for 1 ccSolving these two equations gives us P = .02272727. .  ccs of platinum and W = .97727 ccs of tungsten So, if you're having 1 cc of this fake gold, it would be made up of .97727 ccs of tungsten with a mass of 18.8125g, and .02272727ccs of platinum with a mass of .4875g.18.8125+.4875 = 19.30, exactly what one cc of gold would weigh. Platinum? Let's keep things cheap while we're ripping people off. A proper ratio mixture of lead and tungsten could have the exact density of gold. As others have said, it is difficult to calculate a small volume such as a 10 oz gold bar to an accuracy of 0.25% using the "dip in water" method. You would need to be more accurate than 0.25% to detect tungsten in the bar. This guy actually uses amplitude modulation. But does Pamp Suisse guarantee that their bars are 10.00000000000000000000 troy ounces exactly? Surely there is a tolerance, such as + or - .001 troy ounces Or .01 troy ounces.
Right.Gold is 19.30 g/ccTungsten is 19.25 g/ccSo we're looking at a difference of 0.26%. On a ten troy ounce gold bar that's 311.25*.0026 = 0.81 grams if the whole thing is tungsten. Since some of it is real gold, the bar will weigh roughly a half gram more than it is supposed to, on a 311 gram bar.What is the normal mass tolerance on a pamp suisse gold bar? Use gold coins, preferably those under an ounce. Harder to drill, more work, less benefit, greater likelihood of getting caught than using 10 oz bars.I am not 100% certain, but I would imagine that tungsten-filled coins would sound differently when dropped on a glass table than real gold coins.  I consider 'fiat money' to be money that is *created* by government decree, not merely used by order of government decree. And thus if Finland declared Bitcoin to be their national currency, it would not be fiat money by my definition. Likewise if the US government declared gold and silver coins to be legal tender they would not be fiat money. Who runs blockchain.info ? Is he a poster here? Well, in a narrow sense, for example, if you need medicine right now or you're going to die, and no one who has medicine is accepting Bitcoins/dollars/whatever, the Bitcoins/dollars/whatever are completely worthless. In a broader sense they are worth what they would sell for when more bidders are in communication with you (if there are indeed more bidders somewhere else)This example also details how value is different for each person - there is no "real value" as the thread title suggests. If the person needing the medicine right now can't get anything for his Bitcoins, they are worthless to him, but if someone who doesn't need medicine can wait to sell them for other valued things, the Bitcoins are of great value to him. If you were selling to a global market, and nobody would give you anything for a Bitcoin, that is precisely what it would mean: 1 BTC = $0 And what equation would you use to translate transactions and hashrate into dollars? The only way to determine the real value of 1 bitcoin is to auction it to the highest bidder. Unless the news is less exciting than the rumor, in which case you lose. My understanding is that 'coinbase' transactions involve newly mined Bitcoins? If so, that was not the case in my issue - the coins had been on my laptop wallet for months. But perhaps this is related to my problem. Maybe Bitcoin Wallet thinks they are coinbase transactions when they are not? I think having the same 100-confirmation point would be too much of a coincidence. I noticed now that it allows me to spend these bitcoins, right when they have passed 100 confirmations. Are 100 confirmations really necessary? That seems way too high - 5 or 6 are OK for the main client, why would 100 be required for Android Bitcoin Wallet?it appears that this issue is on the bug tracker number 13: http://code.google.com/p/bitcoin-wallet/issues/list?can=2&q=&sort=priority&colspec=ID%20Type%20Status%20Priority%20Milestone%20Owner%20Summary I realize that Transaction Details are experimental, but here's an interesting thing about that: As I said, I sent 20 BTC to my Bitcoin Wallet address last night. I see this transaction on Bitcoin Wallet under "Received". I also see it on blockchain.infoBut when I try to view Transaction Details for this transaction on Bitcoin Wallet, it shows a "Receiver" address which is NOT my Android Bitcoin Wallet address.When I sent my Bitcoins from my laptop address L to my Wallet address W, it sent the remainder of L to address R.When I look at the Transaction Details, it shows "Receiver" as address R. It should be showing address W. But my Bitcoin Wallet is completely synchronized - so it should be seeing all 90+ confirmations on the bitcoins in my wallet. I just tried to sell someone Bitcoin in person and Bitcoin Wallet didn't work for me. When I open the program on my Droid 4, it say BTC 32.4somethingI sent my Bitcoin Wallet 20 and 10 BTC last night. These two transactions have 94 and 99 confirmations according to blockchain.info.But when I just tried to give 32 BTC to the person I was selling to, I write in under "Amount to Pay: 32" and an error message popped up that said (and still says) "Available for spending BTC2.83 (BTC 29.6489 waiting for confirmation)"How can it still be waiting for confirmation on that much Bitcoin when the 20 and 10 BTC transactions in last night have 90+ confirmations?The two transactions into my wallet last night also have full green circles on the program, which I thought indicated that they were fully confirmed.Please help!edit: I noticed now that it allows me to spend these bitcoins, right when they have passed 100 confirmations. Are 100 confirmations really necessary? That seems way too high - 5 or 6 are OK for the main client, why would 100 be required for Android Bitcoin Wallet? I know of no reason to suspect that Bitcoin at $100/BTC would have greater or smaller percentage swings than it does at $11/BTC. If the price currently swings on average 8% per day ($.88) it will probably continue to swing at 8% per day ($8) at the higher price.What will reduce volatility is when a greater fraction of people use Bitcoin for buying and selling goods and services and a smaller fraction use Bitcoin for speculation.edit: Look at the price of gold. Is it particularly more stable at ~$1650 than it was at $400? He admitted he had an unencrypted wallet file on an online computer.There's no excuse for someone with fifty bitcoins to have that, let alone someone with twenty-five thousand, on a (relatively) high-profile website. Holding unencrypted wallet files on online computers in a business where you know you are likely to be a target is either gross negligence or it's a fake story to cover criminal intent.To extend your car analogy, if you had seen many of your friends die in car crashes from not wearing a seatbelt, and you drive without a seatbelt and allow your children to ride with you without a seatbelt, you are grossly negligent. The operators of Bitfloor should have learned their lesson from the hacks of all the other Bitcoin exchanges. That they did not points to either gross negligence or criminal intent, neither of which should instill confidence in anyone. If this was real, they would have provided some kind of proof they possess these documents. Perhaps the information from a non-incriminating line, which would only be known by Romney or someone who has the documents. Kidnappers always send a photo of the kidnapped person holding today's newspaper to prove they have the person and they're alive.Since no such evidence was shown, it is very probably a hoax. It's simply not believable that anyone involved enough with Bitcoin to make such a site, who has undoubtedly heard about all the other large-scale hacks, would simply leave an unencrypted wallet file worth a quarter mil lying around waiting to be hacked. Right now, the owner should be desperately trying to convince us he didn't steal the money himself.I have but a tiny percentage of the wealth of that wallet, and I am not smart enough to run such an exchange website, but I know enough to encrypt my fucking wallet .
I agree, the site owner should be considered the number one suspect in all of these Bitcoin website hacks that result in stolen Bitcoin. They have the means, the motive, and the convenient excuse (those damn hackers!)  Yes, for example, this auction is displayed even when you have "Show Adult Content" unchecked. NSFW. https://www.bitmit.net/en/trade/i/5636-fiona-cooper-dvd-775-maddy-2-gilly-babs/description There are encryption schemes that are resistant to being broken by quantum computers.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unbalanced_Oil_and_Vinegar Bitcoin will be legal tender in the Principality of Sealand. To be extremely accurate, the government borrows money by issuing bonds which are purchased by both the market and the Fed. In 2011 the Fed purchased 61% of federal debt.  I come from the future. This man speaks the truth. For a small number of people to profit from the collusion you suggest requires a much larger number of ignorant/stupid/foolish victims. I've got to admit I am a little embarrassed at the Bitcoin community's gullibility to such an obvious scam. The most important issues to me are not addressed by either mainstream candidate:1) Balancing the budget (especially through cutting defense spending). (Romney/Ryan does not even pretend to plan to balance the budget for many decades)2) End the drug war.3) Stop using the tax system to micromanage everyone's lives, trying to pressure them into taking out student debt, getting married, having kids, buying a house, etc. Replace the current tax system with one that can be explained with no more than 100 pages.4) Stop invading other countries.5) Respect civil liberties, the need for warrants for all searches, the prohibition on torture, and due process.6) Ending legal tender lawsI am voting for Johnson. They dropped the social network requirement many months ago, perhaps because of negative feedback from people including myself. (Unless they've changed something recently that I haven't heard about.) I'm pretty sure it would be classified under a collectible and not a foreign currency, as no recognized foreign government uses it as legal tender. I predict that the release of this card will cause a short-term drop in the price of Bitcoin, as it now becomes far easier to convert Bitcoin to cash. But because that addresses one reservation people have about getting into Bitcoin, this will lead to long-term price appreciation.Will BitInstant issue 1099 tax forms for people who cash out Bitcoins with this card? They called it "BitMint" instead of "BitMit." At least they got the link right. Easy there. If the block reward stayed at 50 forever, Bitcoin would still be the hardest money in existence and the inflation rate would approach 0 over time.  It may not be possible to buy 108,000 of these products. 108,000 of them may not even exist. I think it is a matter of trust - average users might trust the bitcoin.org client (because it's by far the oldest and most popular) but not trust other light clients not to steal all their money - and why should they? Perhaps bitcoin.org should host a trusted version of a light client. It's a Mike Tyson quote, which makes it even better. The best way to get Bitcoins with credit cards is to buy something with a credit card and sell it to someone for Bitcoins.You can sell it on places like bitmit.net, bitcoinclassifieds.net or freenode #bitcoin-otc As someone else said, everything is legal until it is made illegal. What would help, though, is legal enforcement of Bitcoin contracts, brought about through favorable judicial rulings. Namely, a judgment that ordered one party to pay another party in Bitcoins. I think this has zero chance of ever happening to Bitcoin, but if a country declares something to be its official currency, I believe that means you don't have to pay capital gains taxes on that thing. For example, if you transfer dollars to sterling, the value of sterling goes up, and then you transfer back to dollars, you don't have to pay taxes on the gain because sterling is an official national currency. IANAL.
Bitcoin will start including a built-in default Tor client for connections. Perhaps adding features that enhance anonymity.But the article says "should contribute to stability " - does he mean stability of the price? If so, I can't imagine anything he could do to the Bitcoin software that would contribute to price stability. (Short of saying he's going to actively manage the money supply which would never fly.)But if he's saying it will contribute to the stability of the network or the software - maybe something that will take out the guesswork of transaction fees? There was a story a few days ago where someone had checked and 2 million worth of newly mined Bitcoins have never been spent. This does not necessarily mean they are all owned by Satoshi. And I doubt that Satoshi is even a real person. Basically, no. Nobody takes Paypal for Bitcoin due to the propensity of fraud and chargebacks. Yes, there will be some involved people with conflicts of interest. But I propose modeling it after the way Wikipedia makes decisions - it shouldn't matter how many people say yes or no, it matters who posts a convincing story about something good or bad a company did. It's usually apparent which side has the better evidence and better case.At the risk of sounding like I'm ignoring constructive criticisms - by all means please continue to bring them up - I think a group of us just get this started and work the problems out as we go rather than trying to preplan too much. Any volunteers? There would be problems enforcing it due to everyone's familiarity with this great anonymous currency, but we can try to work around that. Perhaps by keeping the decision-making process open, it will become apparent if someone is giving undue support to a crooked business. After all, if they are giving undue recommendations because they are on the take, they're going to have to speak out defending shady business practices at some point, which everyone will see.Wikipedia works somehow even though there are very big questions about how it can work. Why don't businesses bribe Wikipedia editors to promote their products, or make the edits themselves? The answer is that their biased entries are usually overwhelmed by the unbiased majority. It should be forbidden to accept any funding from the businesses being rated. That would be the primary difference from the regular BBB that I alluded to. Here's an idea I had while mowing the lawn this afternoon. There are many times when I see a new Bitcoin business and I have no idea whether it's legit. So I have to ask around to find out, hope some people respond, and then check to see if the responders are long-standing members of the community or sockpuppets, and so on.There should be an organization similar in concept to the Better Business Bureau (yes, I know the BBB is a flawed organization but we don't have to adopt the flawed aspects) and the Good Housekeeping Seal of Approval. This organization should issue approvals to certain Bitcoin businesses which have good reputation for honesty and upholding contracts. Maybe have a secure image they can feature on their website touting their status, or just a listing with a letter rating. Decisions would be made by consensus of a committee of upstanding members of the community.Having such a trusted organization would be very helpful to people who can't spend lots of time on these forums every day, keeping up with Bitcoin news.Does such an organization already exist? If not, who would be interested in getting this moving? I have used btcbuy and it was a satisfactory experience.  Spendbitcoins is one of the most dependable names in the Bitcoin world. Unfortunately they don't service the US any more.  Does this affect US orders that were placed in the last 2-3 days and said to be processed? Payment received. A pleasure doing business. The Bitcoin economy is currently a tiny fraction of the smallest thing the CIA would bother their time with. OK, going back to my example - I want to spend 1 BTC on a widget. I could spend my Bitcoin I received five minutes ago, which would only slightly increase the Days Destroyed statistic. Or I could spend a Bitcoin I received two years ago, which would much more greatly increase Days Destroyed. But there's no difference in my savings between these two actions. I never understood the philosophy behind "Days Destroyed." Why should the transfer of long-sitting money be considered more significant than the transfer of money that has recently been spent?I mean, if I want to buy something, I could send them the Bitcoins I received yesterday, or I could send them the Bitcoins I received years ago. They are both the exchange of Bitcoins for stuff, but the latter would push up the "Days Destroyed" statistic. I don't see the economic difference between the two actions. Look up bitcoin-otc  . It is an IRC channnel and bot that takes a little while to learn but it's precisely what you're describing. Order placed today! Bitmit is currently saying that "1 BTC =19.29 USD "While that would be lovely, it's not matching up with the current MtGox rate. It's unlikely, but possible, that someone could break ECDSA or SHA256, which would be bad for the Bitcoin community.What would be the drawbacks of using two methods of encryption, one on top of the other, so that if either one is broken, Bitcoin remains unaffected?I presume it would be far less likely for two distinct forms of encryption to be defeated at exactly the same time, than to have one broken.Are there strong, well-tested encryption schemes that are based on mathematics sufficiently distinct from ECDSA?Side question: Do there exist viable forms of cryptography which are thought not to be defeatable by a quantum computer? I've heard of "Unbalanced Oil and Vinegar" which is supposed to be quantum-computer-resistant but not thoroughly tested. Freedom Bucks. Let's try to get the media to report negatively on that. 
Sell cash in the mail, or prepaid gift cards, on something like bitmit.net or bitcoinclassifieds.net Just because you started a thread does not mean you should have control over when other people must stop talking in it. That's not how discussions work face to face and it's not how it ought to work here. JMHO.Perhaps an exception should be made when a person posts a thread in an appropriate specific subforum about their own Bitcoin business, but certianly not for general discussion about things like 'bitcoin users should never call the police'. You can do things outside of the law with Bitcoin, but Bitcoin is not outside of the law.You can trade a pound of moldy cheese for a hit of heroin, or a contract to have someone killed, but that doesn't make moldy cheese "outside of the law"The same goes with US dollar cash. It is not illegal or illicit to barter whatever you want for whatever you want (so long as those things are both legal to possess and sell.) So there's nothing wrong about calling the police if one of these legal items is stolen. They might not care much about virtual Internet currency, but there's nothing saying you can't contact them. I'm my own favorite relic. Spendbitcoins used to but it's not working now. Is there anywhere else that will do this? Or someone with a good otc rating that would like to do this?Thanks! I'm sorry if this has been beaten to death already. I couldn't find the right search word to find if this was sufficiently discussed before.As all we know, the block reward halves every 4 years or so. At some point it is going to get so small that miners will lose the incentive to mine if they don't get enough in transaction fees. So the big question is, what are transaction fees going to be worth?At first I thought this wouldn't be a problem, because there's a limited block size, which means that if Bitcoin grows to be popular enough to fill entire blocks to the max size, people wishing to send Bitcoin transactions will have to outbid each other to have their transactions included. But I recently read that it's expected that the maximum block size will increase. Who decides this? On what will they base their decision?What happens if a miner tries to generate a block that is larger than the maximum block size? Do other miners reject the block and keep on mining?Do we want to keep the maximum block size large enough that all transactions can be included in every block, or do we want to keep it small to increase tx fees and incentivize mining?Right now I think there's about zero chance of anyone running a 51% attack on Bitcoin. Maybe it's even too powerful to be justified. But my understanding of the game theory of this is that as long as we haven't hit the maximum block size, rational profit-maximizing miners will include all transactions that have a nonzero transaction fee. That's the best policy for them to maximize mining profit. Your typical rational cost-avoiding Bitcoin spender knows this, and will then attach a 1 Satoshi transaction fee to each transaction. Under this situation I don't see transaction fees as being sufficient incentive for people to mine - unless there is scarcity of block size, in which case bidding between spenders for inclusion in blocks should drive prices up to the point where it sufficiently incentivizes mining.(The other option to keep mining incentivized is to stop halving the block reward at some point. Keep it at that block rate forever, say, 12.5 BTC. The inflation rate will approach zero percent, and we'll still have the hardest money system in the world even if we're not capped at 21 million BTC) I've personally lost 8 or 9 50% bets in a row doing manual Martingale on Satoshidice. Luckily this was when I started at .1 BTC.The real problem with the Martingale strategy is this: Either you or Satoshidice has a limit. Let's say you start with 1 BTC, then 2, then 4, then 8, etc. You're willing to keep going up to your limit, say 128 BTC is all you have (or all that Satoshidice will let you wager at once).That means that each round of run-until-you-win-or-bust is essentially wagering that 128 BTC for a possible winning of 1 BTC. (minus house take & tx fees.) So, if you bust at 128 after 8 straight losses, there's a .5^8 or 1 in 256 chance of losing everything, and a 255 in 256 chance of making 0.78% (minus house take and tx fees). So it's really not any better than betting on one of the high-probability, low-win-ratio games. Joy of joys!http://bitcoin.sipa.be/The 3-day window estimate is above 15 TH/s "The server at spendbitcoins.zendesk.com can't be found, because the DNS lookup failed."I'm still waiting on some kind of confirmation that my Costco gift card has been processed. . . Do you normally get an email confirmation when a Costco card is ordered / shipped? It seems clear to me that the crashing of a large Bitcoin fractional reserve bank or a Bitcoin Ponzi scheme would cause the value of a Bitcoin to increase, not decrease. When Bitcoin-denominated assets are found not to be redeemable for Bitcoins, the perceived supply of Bitcoins will shrink and the price will go up. What are everyone else's thoughts? MtGox probably realized that the cost of distributing free Yubikeys was less than the cost of lost business in response to news of hacked accounts. Am I understanding this right - dishonest apps have the capability to steal your wallet regardless of whether or not the user has rooted the phone? Why then require the phone to be rooted to back up the wallet? It seems that this requirement has no additional safety benefit, but the negative aspect of making it harder for people to back up their wallets. Does anyone know why this was a problem with Tradehill but not MtGox? I forget which book it was, but Michael Crichton once wrote that the highest value density item was bioengineered medical drugs, which could have incredibly high value for just a number of cells.  On further observation, I'm pretty sure Mike Hearn is right on this one - it appears it is connecting all on its own at half past every hour, then disconnecting. I tried turning off 'sync on charge' and closed the program (selecting "Disconnect") but it still does it. I will try restarting my phone and see if that makes a change. I realize it's not the same, but SpendBitcoins.com gift codes/cards are quick and can be used to buy most things that cash would buy. What is a bank?A bank is a place that 1)Takes deposits and pays some interest for them.2)Lends out money and charges more interest than they pay for 1)3)Acts as a clearing house for transactions. Bitcoin software only acts as the third of these functions. What we need is a decentralized network linking all the decentralized Bitcoin exchanges.
I deposited money into CampBX, bought Bitcoins, and was not allowed to withdraw them the same day. Yes, but the program still starts when I'm not charging. I like that this version of Bitcoin Wallet has a "disconnect" feature. However, I am noticing that this app Bitcoin Wallet is randomly starting up and connecting to nodes at apparently random intervals. I choose the "Disconnect" option and it disconnects, and then will randomly start up again at a later time. I am running this on a Droid 4 running Android 2.3.6. Additionally, a person could put a Bitcoin deposit down, and Bitmit could hold it and show that it was deposited, as a sign that the person was really serious about buying the item they say they want. The reason that we can't use something like Folding@Home is that it would allow the operators of Folding@Home to potentially manipulate the blockchain. Individual nodes can't verify that a protein has been successfully folded on their own, they would have to trust the operators of Folding@Home. We would have to find some kind of useful calculation that everyone can verify without having to trust a third party. If the temporary inability to short is driving up prices, they will inevitably fall down again when somebody else sets up a large service that allows short selling. I would like to volunteer to help moderate the wiki and clean up the spam. My login is "barbarousrelic"My motivation is to have a central place people can go to get all their Bitcoin questions answered, for the betterment of the Bitcoin community. Who is in charge there? Is there anything that can be done to fight back against the spammers? Has anyone done a broad data analysis on past lucky numbers to see how evenly distributed they are? If someone sets up an auction for this, I will be very interested. Also looking for a crisp new Canadian $100. Wonderful that it now has the "Disconnect" option. Thanks for the good work! I would say that ECDSA is Bitcoin's "core crypto." If someone found a flaw in SHA-256, Bitcoin would be disrupted but could be resumed with a new hashing method from some point before SHA was broken. Breaking SHA256 doesn't allow you to spend other people's bitcoins. If ECDSA was broken, you can spend anyone's Bitcoins, and the entire thing is tits up. I have not gotten it. I would not give any information from links from an email, just go to their website directly and see if they ask you for information there. Intentional stabilization of the Bitcoin price requires people to buy Bitcoin for more than they would normally be required to pay, and/or sell Bitcoin for less than they would normally be able to get. So it's costing people a significant amount of their own money to do something altruistic. Because of this I think it's unlikely but not impossible. The strange stabilization of price lately does seem to point in that direction. The auctions are listed with the bids at $X USD  (printed large) and the smaller Bitcoin price below that.But the "Buy now" price is written with the larger Bitcoin price and the smaller USD price below that. The two entires should have the two prices listed in the same order.Can you make it so that the link to messages lights up when you have an unread message?I really like your site. A good quality online auction site is imo one of the most important things in the Bitcoin world. I thought that Biddingpond was good, but they mysteriously disappeared. You don't plan on going anywhere, I hope?   Are you gathering this from chart analysis, or have you heard from people who say they are engaged in such stabilization practices? Very interesting, but remember this only applies to brute force attacks. Someone might find a mathematical weakness in SHA256. I have a new signature. Welche Dinge würden Deutschen gerne aus Amerika über Bitmit kaufen? Is it really a significant difference to you whether you receive X bitcoins worth Y dollars, or 2X bitcoins worth Y dollars? I would prefer the latter, really. It's like buying Bitcoins on sale.
I can confirm that my credit card order with QuickBitcoins was fulfilled within 24 hours of being placed. Has anyone from this forum successfully used this service yet? http://www.bitmit.net/en/trade/i/2530-1945-walking-liberty-half-dollar-us-90-silver/descriptionI will be selling low-overhead  90% silver through the regular one-stamp letter mail on an ongoing basis. The problem here isn't that captchas are too hard against humans, it is that they are not effective enough against computers, and they are currently at the point where making them harder for computers would make them frustrating for humans.Sending bitcoins can indeed be easily automated but at some price point it would become cost prohibitive for spammers to do on a widespread scale. Spam is dependant on the fact that it costs virtually nothing to send out and therefore they can afford to annoy lots of people with ads that they don't want.  Forums, wikis, etc. are usually looking for verification that people are not bots but are not usually going to charge people for the ability to post/edit.   Another odd thing, this report refers to US dollars as "Federal Reserve Notes." A Google search of that phrase on fbi.gov returns three relevant hits from the 50s through 1972. So the FBI has not publicly used that phrase for 40 years, since there were US notes in circulation which they needed to differentiate from. Very unusual."Federal Reserve Notes" and "fiat currency" are almost never used by the government to refer to US dollars (by anyone except Ron Paul) and they are very commonly used amongst libertarians, supporters of Austrian economics, and supporters of Bitcoin like many on this forum.  I would not think the FBI would ever refer to US dollars as "fiat currency." Indeed a Google search for "fiat currency" site:fbi.gov comes back with zero hits. Same goes for the CIA and the DOJ websites.  I also suspect it is fake, a lot of the language sounds like it is from the Bitcointalk forums and not the FBI.  Here is another 1945 Walking Liberty half dollar for auction:https://bitmit.net/en/trade/i/2530-1945-walking-liberty-half-dollar-us-90-silver/description iirc there was never anything illegal about online poker in the US, only that it became illegal to cash out your winnings through certian channels like credit cards.How big is the biggest Bitcoin poker site? They should have an IPO on glbse and use the money to run an ad on any widely publicized poker tournament. For question #2, you can sell Bitcoins on MtGox and transfer the dollars from MtGox to Liberty Reserve. Do you have an estimate on how long that will take?(Not really being impatient, I just wanted an excuse to have this thread show up under "show new replies to your posts"  ) You are selling these 30% below spot price. Melt for a pre-65 half dollar is 11.06 USD, bitcoins are 5.10, so you should get at least 2.16 Why do cash deposits have a higher fee? Doesn't that method have zero possibly of reversals and the lowest fraud? . . . and abandon its support for Mt.Gox. Will things keep on going smoothly without them? Maybe it will not make a huge difference, we have BitInstant, but it is something to be aware of. I am virtually certain they will get bought, it happens to so many similar companies. The IRS does not tax "intangible religious benefits." Money donated to a church for which you are not compensated for in anything other than 'intangible religious benefits' is tax deductible.So obviously the solution is to design a currency denominated in intangible religious benefits.  Bump. Ends today! In my auction it says under shipping costs: "   United States: 0.1 BTC (Free shipping)"  But .1 BTC is not free shipping. Idea: Instead of a captcha, send a 1 bitcoin deposit. After a certian amount of time they determine you arent a spammer, and they send you your btc back. This could at least work on forums and wikis.  How do they not have the same problems with chargeback fraud that Bitcoin sellers have?
If you get an Android phone, I would recommend you use "Bitcoin Wallet" app by Andreas Schildbach. Do NOT use the app by Bitcoin Labs - it has serious issues with bitcoins that appear to be sent but are actually not. http://bitmit.net/en/trade/i/2324-1945-walking-liberty-half-dollar-us-90-silver/ Thing to fix:When I Click on "My Orders" when an order is in shipment, and I hold my mouse over the picture of the package on the right, the popup text says "Item shipped: 1970-01-01 1:00 AM"Suggestion: Add a "Items Wanted" section.edit: Second suggestion: There should be a "Preview Auction" option so you can see what it looks like before you list it. You mean the 18 years for instant access? This is understandable considering credit contracts can't be enforced against minors. Its not on their list, but after you give them your SSN they then spring on you that they need a copy of your drivers license or passport. Can anyone else verify? I may take Dwolla off my shitlist. I am looking forward to buying a bunch of mining equipment at firesale prices after the reward drops. http://help.dwolla.com/customer/portal/articles/269223-how-can-i-delete-my-dwolla-account-Their TOS says they keep your info for at least 3 years, that is what "suspended" means. Seeing as 100CAD is about 100.50 USD, 100.50/4.85 = BTC 20.72 plus some for shipping and handling, let's say BTC 22? Preferably from someone with a reputation to uphold. Strange. According to blockchain.info, my old phone running Bitcoin Labs should still have .02 BTC. http://blockchain.info/address/1FbeTucfDjhs5LNCy9PNguNmffqnQajtHMThat address is the one that shows up when I push Receive. But when I push "Check Balance" on that phone, it says "Refreshing BTC Balance. . ." and then says "BTC Balance Refresh Complete.New Balance: 0.00 BTC" Now, because this is my old phone I am not using the cellular network, I am using my wifi connection. Perhaps that is the problem. But then it shouldn't tell me it has refreshed if it hasn't. I don't really care about the .02 BTC. I just want the program to work properly. In general though, I would recommend Schildbach's Bitcoin Wallet much more highly than Bitcoin Labs. How does one acquire MitChip? Can you go to any Canadian bank and exchange loonies for Mintchip? On my old phone, I was using the Android app "Bitcoin" from Bitcoin Labs. I had .02 BTC on it. When I got my new phone, I installed Bitcoin Wallet (by Andreas Schildbach) and tried to send my BTC .02 from my old phone to my new phone. Well, the .02 disappeared from my old phone and never showed up on the new one. Looking in the Android market, there are a few other people who wrote complaints about Bitcoin Labs saying that either their funds did not appear when sent to Bitcoin Labs, or that their funds on Bitcoin Labs did not appear when sent out.I have waited several weeks and the funds never showed up on my new phone. I sent funds from my computer to my new phone and that worked fine.So, my question is, is the Bitcoin Labs app just buggy, or is this a scam and someone is taking all the funds? Is there some way to check? Has anyone received this email who was NOT on the mtgox leaked emails list? Bump Please let me know if you ever change your policy on shipping to the USA. I would be highly interested in buying some of the Norfed rounds if you could post a list of what you have.  I would say that the printing of face values on gold and silver eagles also only serves to confuse the general public about gold and silver. There were two attempts at setting up Bitcoin <-> Meat exchanges, and the first one looked great until KoL changed their software and it stopped working. The second one had the same problem. I wish someone would get them working again.  I've said it before and I'll say it again. As long as anyone can have programs that put in bids or asks they never intend to fill, and instantly pull them out before they would get filled, no one should take the Mt Gox market depth data seriously. 
https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1958.msg740628#msg740628I see these silver and copper Bitcoins (not the ones that have embedded Bitcoin codes) and I have to wonder if they are a good thing for Bitcoin - even an above-average person is going to get the wrong impression from these and think that Bitcoin is something physical, made of precious metal, when that couldn't be further from the truth. Why confuse things?I'm not opposed to AOCS in any way, I think that's a good thing on its own, but it shouldn't be combined with Bitcoin when it is completely unrelated.  Realistically, they could not shut down Bitcoin itself, but they could sue merchants that tried to adopt it as a payment.  What the hell is wrong with the patent office that they would issue such a ridiculous patent? I see the usefulness of that, but it doesn't work with bets that have few people betting. I started the betting with 1 BTC on a bet I thought was roughly 50/50, I wouldn't have done so if I had known one person could bet .1 BTC and win ten times that much.  Two questions. First, did the bet about the Iowa Caucuses get changed when it became known days later that Santorum actually won and not Romney?Second, it shouldn't be possible for one person to win more than they have bet. If I bet 1 BTC that something will happen, and only one person bets against me and they bet .1 BTC, and the thing doesn't happen, they win my entire 1 BTC even though I could only have won their .1 BTC. The way I think it should work is that the person betting .1 BTC should get a payoff of .2 BTC, and the person who bet 1 BTC should get .9 BTC back.(All of this minus fees, of course.) I get the impression that some people think Bitcoin is supposed to usher in a Utopian era where there is no more war and hunger and abusive government power. This is not going to happen, nor was it intended to be. Bitcoin cannot and was not intended to end concentrations of wealth and power. And no money system can end fractional reserve banking, that can only be ended by better education of the populace.  Posting in an epic thread.  Most will not be intelligent enough to see the Emporer's clothes. Those that do will see how incredible they are! Working through the numbers I think I understand now - thanks! If that's the case, then I don't understand the benefit of Bitcoinica, because the following seem identical to me:a) having 10 bitcoins deposited with Bitcoinica, and borrowing 10 bitcoins with the hope of buying them back at a lower priceb) selling your own 10 bitcoins with the hope of buying them back at a lower price? That makes sense for margin trading, I suppose, but what about shorting? Aren't you necessarily in debt to your brokerage when you are short selling something? I apologize if this has been discussed somewhere in the previous 23 pages. . .If Bitcoinica allows users to borrow Bitcoins for margin purposes, and to borrow Bitcoin for short selling, obviously it all works out if the trades go in favor of the users. But what happens if the trades go the other way, the users are now in debt to Bitcoinica, and let's say some users don't pay Bitcoinica what they owe them? If users can profit when the market goes their way (and keep their Bitcoins as profit), and they can abandon their accounts when they go the other way, how does Bitcoinica not swiftly go bankrupt? Could you name an asking price? This seems to be a prime use for Bitcoin: A place for online auctions but without the Ebay restrictions and fees. A few have been made, like Biddingpond, bitbid, and a few others I can't remember, but none of them seem to have more than a small handful of auctions at any time.What is missing from these websites that would make them take off?  Recognizing the existence of Israel does not necessarily mean you agree with all of their current geographical borders. I'm pretty sure Ron Paul has not said anything about who he thinks owns what land in this area of the world. Please correct me if I'm wrong.  Recognizing Israel as a country is far, far different than being an ally of Israel. The US also recognized the USSR as a country. Israel recognizes Iran as a country, does that mean that Israel and Iran are allies? Traders already know this information, and thus it is already reflected in the trading price.  Because the climate changes on its own, we can conclude that humans are incapable of also doing things that change the climate? That does not logically follow.  It's important to note that one's race or sexual orientation are things that they have no control over, whereas one's membership in a violent racist group is the product of a conscious decision. Uh, no. The bolded part is the opposite of describing Ron Paul. 
First, there is a difference between 'civil rights' and The Civil Rights Act of 1964.Second, Ron Paul was not in Congress in 1964 to vote on said act. He has said he approved of eliminating racial discrimination from government actions but opposes federal laws against private businesses discriminating on race.  What attacks has Bitcoin itself been subject to? (Not counting attacks against MtGox et al) You aren't cool unless you are on the mtgox spam email list. http://betsofbitco.in/item?id=200Bet on the Orange Bowl here! If it's due to a quick large sell, then how come the price is bid back up to exactly the original price within seconds? If it does get bid back up so quickly within seconds, the person conducting their large sell lost tens of millions of dollars by not doing a limit sell and waiting 5 minutes for it to complete.edit: And if this is a glitch, I have seen it happen probably 7-8 times in the past few years. I apologize if this belongs somewhere else - Does anyone know why certain stocks will have moments where the trading price drops significantly, just for a moment, and then goes right back to where it was?For example, yesterday, Tuesday the 20th, on this stock for SPY: (30 minute chart)Looking at a 1-minute chart tells me that that entire drop occurred in less than one minute.Someone told me that this is the "market maker" "pulling out the stops," implying that there is a person who arranges buys and sells who wants to punish people who have a lot of stop-sells on a certain stock, and who momentarily prevents higher-price buyers from being able to buy.1. Is there a person consciously and actively doing this?2. Why would he do this? Is there something bad about a lot of people having stop-buy orders in place?3. Does/could this situation ever occur the Bitcoin markets? I imagine not since I don't think mtgox allows stop orders. A fractional-reserve bank can tell you you have Bitcoins on deposit which are not actually in their possession. Thus, if enough people believe such fraudulent bankers, the *apparent* number of Bitcoins can increase past 21 million. But the blockchain will only ever reflect 21 million. Why's it got to be illegal?  How would SOPA lead to exchanges being blocked by banks? What is the connection? Ah, I misunderstood what you intended the bot to do. You would never run out of either Bitcoin or dollars, but as the price varied further from the price you were trying to stabilize to, your bot would become asymptotically less effective at moving the price. Unless you have an enormous amount of Bitcoin or dollars, this bot would quickly run out of either Bitcoins or dollars. This can already happen, say, if a person has a copy of their wallet on their Linux partition and another on their Windows partition. If you spend the money on the Linux partition, and then a few days later boot to Windows, it will appear you are richer than you are until the blocks all download.And correct me if I'm wrong, but the person being sent the nonresistant half bitcoin would never see the transaction, right? Bankers will, if the law and the market allow them, move toward fractional reserve banking under fiat or commodity money. They will do it regardless of the fact that there was a gold standard, not because of the fact. Saying that commodity money leads to fractional reserve banking is like saying that private property leads to trespassing. Yes, people trespass on private property, but they do it in spite of the fact that it's private property, not because it's private property. And the right response is to uphold and enforce the private property, not to embrace the trespassing.  Your signature: "I only use bitcoins for bitcoin related projects (I never exchange for cash)"  Lack of market liquidity is not good, but it is completely unrelated to anything like fractional reserve banking and bank runs. It's an inherent risk in owning anything that you might not be able to sell it for what you paid. Bank runs occur when people have been told they own dollars but those dollars have already been used by someone else. Owners of Bitcoin are, or should be, under no false impressions that their investments will be redeemable for a set number of dollars.  Such a system you describe already exists: Mt.Gox payments can be made from one person to another without ever being processed through the Bitcoin blockchain. There is no evidence that Mt.Gox is anything but honest about having enough Bitcoins to cover the deposits of each user, but the only thing stopping them from cheating is their own honesty and business reputation. The only reason Bitcoin would be less likely to fall to fractional-reserve problems is that the Bitcoin software reduces the need for 2 out of the 3 reasons for having a bank:1. To protect one's money from theft. (Bitcoin can be encrypted and backed up on your own)2. To act as a clearinghouse for transactions, bill payment, etc (Bitcoin software handles this well, it's not instant, but that doesn't matter for most transactions)3. To act as a middleman between people who want to lend their money out for interest, and people who wish to borrow money at interest (Bitcoin does not address this) First, what do you mean that 'mos gold monetary systems were also centralized' ? Are you talking about gold and silver certificates which were then later not redeemable in gold and silver? Centralization was a necessary step to wean the public off of gold and silver money and move to a more centralized system of purely fiat money. (It's also not just a matter of centralization, it's how much power over the money supply the centralized authority has.)It was an extremely gradual process from the gold standard of the 1800s, to the increasing use of gold certificates, to the introduction of Federal Reserve Notes, to the confiscation of privately held gold in 1933 (but dollars were still redeemable in gold by foreign governments), to the removal of silver from the coinage in 1965, to the point where dollars were no longer redeemable for gold in any way in 1971. Each step gave more power to the Fed to create money at will. Basically, I'm not sure what your question is. Centralization was necessary for the government/Fed to get more power to create money - why do you think this says anything about the merits of a gold standard? It would be useful to see this video so people can know what a sticker looks like when it has been peeled off, so we can better determine if a coin is still valid or not.  Any new digital currency is going to be worth right next to zero at the beginning. And therefore anyone who invests real money on a new highly speculative currency is going to make a lot of money if it succeeds.  Thanks, Moonshadow. I mistyped my last sentence - I meant to say "A transaction with a lower transaction fee will never have a higher priority than a transaction with a higher transaction fee."
Sorry to threadbump, but I still have a question about this: Are the following statements true?Priority is not meaningful at all right now, as blocks are nowhere near full.The priority calculation is a thing that is built into some mining software, but not necessarily used by all miners.A transaction paying a higher transaction fee will never have a higher priority than a transaction paying a lower fee. For example, Linux distributions are frequently downloaded over torrents so they ease up the traffic on the official download channels. Public-domain books can be so old there is no "author's website." And some artists want to distribute some or all of their music on filesharing to increase their fan base.  Filesharing is not completely illegal, it is only illegal if you are filesharing copyrighted works that you do not have the right to distribute.  I mean that if you buy 1000 BTC, immediately transfer them, and then the other person immediately tries to sell them by placing a sell order at the same price you bought them, your order will likely be filled within an hour or two. But this is of course not guaranteed.If it is absolutely crucial that your funds transfer maintain the same dollar value, you will be best off sending dollars and not using Bitcoin. I would recommend you use Dwolla.  This experiment is dependent on large numbers of people willing to act against their own financial interest for no apparent benefit. It is unlikely to succeed. If there is a manipulator trying to profit by putting in enormous sell orders ( like on November 14th) and then buying back at a lower price (like on November 29) I don't think this strategy will work for him very long. As the market matures, people will see this and stop panic selling at low prices because they know there will be a huge buy order coming in later on (as there must be if this manipulator continues manipulating) No. The essence of Bitcoin is that its value floats, it is not tied to a dollar value, its value can go up or down due to market forces. However, I would think that within an hour, the price will "probably not" swing very greatly.  The author is not very smart. First he says it will become illegal, then he claims it's already illegal. The only way you could claim it's currently illegal is if you can convince a court that a reasonable person could confuse a Bitcoin with legal tender US banknotes or coins. That is not going to happen.  This is an outstanding idea. Charles BabbageClaude Shannon Alan TuringGordon MooreJack Kilbyand there's many more. Very true! Here's another opinion, from James Madison, the "Father of the Constitution""With respect to the two words general welfare,' I have always regarded them as qualified by the detail of powers connected with them. To take them in a literal and unlimited sense would be a metamorphosis of the Constitution into a character which there is a host of proofs was not contemplated by its creators." I haven't scientifically analyzed this thought all the way through, but hundreds of millions of years ago during the time dinosaurs were living, the world was a lot hotter than it is now. As living matter pulled carbon out of the air, died, and turned into oil, the earth cooled."how could a closed carbon cycle with a finite amount of carbon in it possibly cause a catastrophic warming trend when it didn't do that when the plants were alive?" - It was hot in the past and it wasn't catastrophic then, but there was a very different profile of life on Earth than there is now. A heat level that was not catastrophic to dinosaurs could very well be catastrophic to humans.  You guys need to recognize trolling and stop feeding it.  So Fredrick Douglass was forced under threat of violence to work a certain job for a certain length of time for no pay. How is this exactly the same as our current system of labor and income taxes? *No threat of violence*Not forced to work a job*Not forced to work any longer than you want*You get paid. You're right. That's exactly the same as slavery. But how can it even be known if a fee is "required" ? Isn't that dependent on the policy of whoever mines the next block, so it is unknown?And since miners can choose for themselves which transactions they will include, and they will most likely make their decision based only on what gets them the highest fees, what is the function of "priority" as mentioned in this thread?I don't understand this - so the priority will increase when the transaction hangs around longer without getting into a block? Aren't transaction fees paid when the transaction is first sent, when you have no idea how long it is going to hang around before getting into a block? It was my understanding that miners were not required to include any transactions in the blocks they process - they like to process fee-paying transactions for their own financial benefit, and that they process no-fee transactions only out of the goodness of their hearts (and a desire to see Bitcoin flourish.)Is this accurate? And if so, is the 'priority' of older transactions only a recommendation, or are miners eventually required to process old, no-fee transactions? If you think that slavery is defined as merely having someone limit your choices, then you have a very different definition of the word than the rest of the world.  Slavery involves physical punishment for not working how the slave owner demands. It's a defining characteristic. But you know that and you're just being obtuse.  If you consider taxation to be punishment for working, I would consider this to be the opposite of slavery.  Taxation is exactly equivalent to slavery, only that you aren't forced to work, you get to choose what you do for work, and you can work as much or as little as you want. Other than that it's the same.  Taxation is exactly equivalent to slavery, only that you aren't forced to work, you get to choose what you do for work, and you can work as much or as little as you want. Other than that it's the same. 
Whoops, thanks! I had some quick video editing done by some guy in #bitcoin-otc for a half a bitcoin (back wheb they were worth twelve bucks or so) For comparison, the number of atoms in the universe is somewhere on the order of 2^80. link You can go to the bank or your credit card and borrow dollars, buy bitcoins with them, and then sell the bitcoins back for dollars when the value of the dollar drops (meaning, the value of bitcoin rises relative to the dollar). That is functionally the same as shorting dollars with Bitcoin. Ahh, I see. So 51% is the magic number because that's the point at which a person can make alternative blocks faster than the rest of the network combined, and then spring the alternative, longer blockchain on everybody all at once, later on, where it replaces the blocks everyone thought were already finalized and settled.Thank you! Let's say a person drops a few million bucks and now has 51% of the network hashing power, and he wants to run the 51% attack we hear so much about. What does he do?My understanding is that he makes a payment to a person for goods, receive the goods, and then quickly make a second payment to an address he owns. If he happens to mine the next block (which he will with 51% probability), he includes the payment to his own address in the block but not the payment to the person who he received goods from. Then what? Will all further blocks reflect that the first transaction to the defrauded person never happened and the second transaction did happen?The problem I have with my understanding of this is that there is only marginal benefit to having 51% of the network - having 51% of the network only allows you to double spend 51% of the time. But if you had 40% of the network, you would be able to double spend 40% of the time, which is still a pretty serious problem. There's nothing really special about getting 51%, right?Is my understanding of this wrong? Thanks. We can all conclude from this that previous performance does not indicate future performance.  Mtgox never closes, right? So the volume represents the previous 24 hours from whenever you read the figure?  I wish mtgox would tell you how long a time period their "Volume" number represents. Does anyone know how long it is? The person writing this is a little mixed up. The US government does not back US dollars with its full faith and credit - it backs Treasury debt with its full faith and credit. IMHO all bids and asks reported by mtgox should be completely disregarded or at least taken with an enormous rock of salt. Bids and asks can be automatically listed and removed in an instant by a computer program for any or no reason, and so I will not be using them to make financial decisions.  Online Bitcoin poker would be hugely killer if someone set it up right. Hundreds of thousands of people stopped playing online poker when the US government passed the Safe Ports and Harbors act that outlawed credit card payments for online poker. The client currently reports how many blocks I have downloaded, but it would be useful for the client to also report the total number of blocks there are. That way I wouldn't have to check a website to see if my client has all the blocks. Also it would let me know about how long I have to wait before I have downloaded all the blocks.  Ron Paul has sponsored legislation to explicitly legalize competing currencies such as gold and silver, and remove the tax disincentives to their use. Such a law would apply to Bitcoin just as silver/gold.http://www.ronpaul.com/congress/legislation/111th-congress-200910/legalize-competing-currencies/edit: Fixed quotation problem. The above unquoted text is mine, not joecooin's What do they have? USD. What do they need? Sleeping bags, blankets, gloves, food, etc. How much of this can they purchase with Bitcoin (aside from services that sell gift cards for Bitcoin and immediately sell the Bitcoin for USD) ? Not a whole lot.  http://idealab.talkingpointsmemo.com/2011/10/macs-targeted-by-new-bitcoin-mining-trojan-devilrobber.php?ref=fpbTalking Points Memo has an article on a Mac trojan that steals Bitcoins.  I appreciate the sentiment, but Bitcoiners are such a tiny minority that this can't possibly accomplish anything.  Yes, I know everyone should back up your wallet.dat before encrypting. But still, it's a good idea (all upside and no downside) to require the password to be typed twice to avoid typos in the password.  In my opinion the greatest use of Bitcoin is neither making money mining nor making money trading. It is the facilitation of e-commerce. The only real price point where Bitcoin is dead is when one bitcoin drops below $.01 I think it's funny how this document mentions "the Agency" which is probably a reference to the CIA, which is not part of the Department of Homeland Security. the only "agency" under the DHS is FEMA, which is not normally in the line of work that you'd think handles the destruction of alternative currencies. 
This looks exactly like what I'd like to see (with links). What are new places to spend Bitcoin, what turned out to be a scam, etc.  I used to read these boards religiously. I recently got a new job that doesn't allow me as much time to keep up with the world of Bitcoin, but I still want to know what's going on. Is there a place I can go, perhaps once a week, to read a summary of what has gone on in these forums and what is new in the world of Bitcoin?  We should have an "Obvious attempts at false market rumors" subforum and move these posts there.  Not every way, iirc, VHS could record longer on one tape than Betamax, which was a crucial reason that it won.  I think the Liberty Dollar case would have turned out very differently if they had not a) printed a dollar value on their coin, with the $ symbolb) so closely duplicated many aspects of old silver US coinage (Lady Liberty, "Trust In God," the word "LIBERTY" )c) encouraged merchants to give them out in change to people who had paid in US currency and were expecting US currency as change. This Bitcoin silver round would presumably not do any of these. I'd be interested in buying a few. However, everyone should make it clear that the value of one of these silver rounds is in no way related with the value of an actual Bitcoin.  "Very quickly," from an evolutionary standpoint, means 'just a few million years.' I met a bunch of guys from Austria, and they seemed to really like it there.  From the Wiki on the Austrian School:Which, regardless of my opinion of the Austrian School, I agree with. There is no such thing as a good scientific test of macroeconomic theory as national economies have an infinite number of influencing factors that cannot be controlled for. If you try to test the effects of a lower income tax rate, a nation can vary that, but any changes you see after varying the tax rate can also be possibly attributed to*Changes in other countries' tax rates*Changes in other countries' tariffs*Changes in worldwide supply of oil*Natural disasters*Changes in worldwide consumer confidence*changes in climate that affect food production. . . ad infinitum  None of what exist? Goods and services still exist, I assure you. edit: And in this extreme example, the single holder of Bitcoins would be the person you owe to. But that doesn't make it impossible to provide him/her with goods and services with a value of the amount owed, thereby canceling your debt. In reality there will always be a large number of people holding Bitcoins with which you could trade goods/services for Bitcoin.  The situation you describe is not a problem at all. Even (taking this to absurdity) if you borrowed all 21 million bitcoins at 5% interest and had to pay back 22,050,000 bitcoins, more than there exist, this would not be a fundamental problem for the monetary system. You would just have to present goods and services to holder(s) of Bitcoins at an agreed upon value of BTC22,050,000. 1000 cc * (19.3 g/cc) * (1 troy ounce/31.1g)  *($1600/ozt) = $992,926 Under the bill, there is no state income tax on gold or silver transactions, but there is still federal tax. [quote author=smoothie link=topic=28629.msg360227#msg360227 What Mr. Benanke doesn't realize is that money is also an asset. Gold is an asset and gold is money therefore gold is money. He is plainly stupid.[/quote]Your logic does not follow. (A penny is a coin and a nickel is a coin, therefore, a penny is a nickel?)Money is defined as the most marketable thing - the easiest thing there is to trade. Gold is not the easiest thing to trade. Just try bringing it to a business.It can be money, a very good form of money. But it is not in our society. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZboxMsSz5Aw&feature=player_embedded It would be even better if this key could be incorporated with the Bitcoin client itself. I think this is a more accurate analogy: Let's say you're wearing cement shoes in a tank that drains out 6 gallons per minute and normally has 3 gallons a minute flowing in. Four people have also come along and start throwing in 1 gallon per minute each. Is any one of them legally liable for killing you? They will each argue that their 1 gallon per minute was well within the safe level of contribution that the tank would accept without causing any danger to its inhabitants. The liability analysis gets even more muddled when you multiply all the numbers by several thousand. There is a safe (and necessary) level of C02 in the Earth's atmosphere. Suing an individual power plant will result in them saying, accurately, that their output alone does not bring the Earth's atmospheric C02 levels above the safe level.  The problem is that an individual's actions alone will have zero effect on the global C02 level. It is only when millions of peoples' actions are combined together that an effect is made. So an individual has to choose between the more expensive clean power source, with no measurable benefit for their individual decision, and the cheaper power source, with no measurable detriment to their individual decision. Logical individuals, even if they highly value a low global C02 level, will choose the cheap and dirty power source because it has a net cost benefit for themselves with no measurable pollution increase for their individual decision. I asked this in a related thread and it didn't get addressed so I'll ask again here. How would a libertarian society address the problem of certain entities emitting enormous amounts of C02, leading to global warming?An answer I've received elsewhere was that a libertarian society would allow you to sue power companies that output large amounts of C02. I don't like this answer for two reasons:1) Depending on the type of libertarian society there may not be a court system the power company would agree to be sued in, and they might not obey the decision anyway.2) Even individual power companies don't emit enough C02 to noticeably affect global C02 levels. Global C02 levels only get measurably affected by the combined output of hundreds of the coal burning plants in the world. You would have to simultaneously sue every power company in the world, which is completely impossible right now and would be even harder still in a world with less centralization.How would a libertarian political order address this? And more generally, how would it address the problems that arise when a great number of parties each contribute small amounts of pollution into common resources? How would a libertarian society address the causes of global warming?
Google must be doing something right if people are willing to pay for nonfunctional access to a free service   I recieved an invite and then tried to sign up, Google told me "Already invited? We've temporarily exceeded our capacity. Please try again soon."So it looks like having an invite might not necessarily mean you can use it.  As of three months ago, and far moreso today, anyone who was still keeping money in Greek banks is a fool. There's a heavy risk of banks being frozen and all assets converted to a new drachma which will swiftly and severely devalue relative to the Euro.  He's not real, so this is moot. And even if he was real, he's not necessarily who the government would want to go after. They would go after tax evaders. I love this idea. Caveat emptor. Everyone involved knew, or should have known, the risks of sending their funds to an unregulated exchange in a foreign country run by someone they didn't know that well.  If your password is a non-dictionary string of seemingly random alphanumerics, how is it possible that someone could brute force your hash into a password? Arent there a great number of alphanumeric strings that can be hashed into a given hash? "love" "sex" "secret" and "god" do not appear anywhere in those passwords. Hackers lied to me.  Price controls will lead to shortages. It is an economic inevitability. Eventually you won't be able to buy or sell Bitcoins at the allowed price because none will be available at that price. My Gmail account said I needed to change my password because of suspicious activity. Is this because Google is being proactive and doing it to all Gmail accounts on the hacked list, or was someone repeatedly trying to guess my password? This is probably the case.These forums are becoming less and less useful as they get clogged with "omgskyisfallingsell!!!!" and "omgrallybuy!" posts intended to pump or deflate prices.  People will behave differently now that they've seen it crash once. No action is necessary.  Do these Amazon gift codes ever expire? Considering the risks of a market crash, they became an unpleasantly high proportion of my net wealth.  I'd love one! Do it asap, get it out of the way. 1 old BTC = 1000 new kBTC.It is awkward to deal with more than two digits to the right of the decimal point.  I try to always receive with the same Bitcoin address, but for some reason it seems that Bitcoin changes the address listed under "Your Bitcoin Address:" without my requesting it to change. Is there an action I may be doing that causes it to change on its own? can still restore coins received in that transaction?Say I back up my wallet today, and tomorrow I get sent 100 coins. Then, my computer crashes. From what I've read it sounds like I will still have those 100 coins when I restore my backup. How is that possible? And if it's possible, why is it necessary to ever back up more than once? edit: found it. I should read more. : https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Backup#Technical_Background So does this mean that if you always receive at the same address, you never technically need to back up more than once? Yeah, that's the one I have. Do you know if "agro-cheque" means it was based on the price of some agriculture, product, or intended to be spent on agriculture, or anything like that? Agro cheques. Could you please explain to me what "agro cheque" actually means? I'd love to hear more about the history.
Money allows for the division of labor, which has done more to advance mankind than probably any other development. Bitcoin serves as a more usable form of money.  I bought a bunch of $100 Billion Zimbabwe bills, (you know, just in case the world is held ransom by Dr. Evil) and shipping cost more than they were worth.  Paypal is not likely to be accepted at any exchange for the reasons stated here:https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/FAQ#Can_I_buy_Bitcoins_with_Paypal?I do wish there was another solid competitor to mtgox. If they are going to make it so a central authority can increase and decrease the money supply at will, there isn't much point to starting with the Bitcoin code, or being related to Bitcoin at all.   Ownership of the Fed is not really relevant. The Fed is controlled by both government and private interests. the Board of Governors is selected by the President and approved by the Senate. Private member banks elect six of the nine members of their Federal Reserve Bank's Board of Directors. (who in turn select the President of that certain Federal Reserve Bank, subject to approval by the Board of Governors)The Federal Open Market Committee is made up of the Board of Governors, plus the President of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, plus four other Reserve Bank Presidents on a rotating basis.  There is no way the US government is going to promote a currency they can't manipulate. Not without a revolution.  I just did a successful transaction with spendbitcoins.com . Very smooth and fast. What a great service! This is correct. I donated this morning, and before donating you have to agree that you're not donating on behalf of someone else.  It all depends on how full each block is, and thus, it depends on how popular Bitcoin becomes. If each block is less than its maximum allowed size, it is in each miner's interest to accept all nonzero transaction fees. If there are more transactions than can fit on a single block, then it is a miner's interest to only accept the higher-fee transactions and exclude all lower-fee transactions that won't fit on the block.  Amusingly, one of the most convincing cases for Bitcoin can be demonstrated by the hoops you have to jump through to buy it.  Fungibility is a crucial characteristic of any money, and it seems that Bitcoin is not completely fungible. I hope this can be fixed, but I fear it's inherent.  Psychological. People can mentally think of values to the left of the decimal point much easier than to the right of the decimal point. It is easier/faster to think about the difference between 10,000 and 100,000 than it is to understand the difference between .0001 and .00001.   The commas on the left side are only part of the reason. Bitcoin is still in its infancy. It won't be so hard to convert from old BTC to new BTC. I don't think anyone will be confused about the cost of a transaction, we all would notice if the cost is off by a factor of a million and ask for clarification.But we should have a consensus agreement to refer to them as "new Bitcoins" for a month or two. edit: Found it here http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=11037.0 I think we should move the decimal point six places to the right asap. Once that's done, we should measure things in kBTC.1 old Bitcoin is now 1000 kBTC.We'll also never have to move the decimal point again. A similar thing happened to me before when someone accidentally sent me 100 1-BTC transactions. I tried sending them back all at once, and it seemed to me that it was not possible to send them without the transaction fee. mestar's post above concurs: If you click "No" that you don't want to pay the fee, the transaction is cancelled. I ended up paying the guy back with two free 50-BTC transactions, but it still seems like something is wrong. And I agree with Gandlaf - it is very confusing if the transaction fees can't be anticipated by the amount of the transaction. If the user can't easily tell whether he has 100 individual bitcoins or 100000 of .001 bitcoins, it's going to be frustrating and confusing for him to try to send without knowing the number of kilobytes the transaction will be and therefore how much of a fee he should pay. How are merchant-customer agreements on fees going to be set if they are unpredictable?  I was under the impression you could send any size transaction with any size fee or no fee, and it would depend on which miner processes the next block whether it would be confirmed in that block or not. (And that if the next miner didn't accept it, it would then have a chance of being confirmed in the next block, and so on.)Could someone please correct me? That would be the United States. Unless you meant per capita  If they were, pizzas would be worth about $140,000 right now.
Banks aren't required to borrow with current money systems and they won't be required in a Bitcoin-dominated world. But they will exist because they will be useful for people who want to lend money at interest without having to be directly involved with:a)deciding who is worthy of a loanb)collecting on bad loansA lot of people would rather pay someone else to handle these aspects of loan-making. And the banks perform that job for a fee. First, Bitcoin eliminates the need for banks to provide safekeeping of money or to act as a transaction clearinghouse, but it doesn't eliminate the need for loans. So banks will become less important but not completely irrelevant. Second, when people switch out of unnecessary jobs, they are hopefully finding more useful jobs, which is in general a good thing for all of society. Seconded. Happens to me, too. <insert funny joke about forum software being able to see the future> I'm really surprised nobody has started a dedicated site for poker-site money to BTC conversion. That seems to me that it would be the Bitcoin killer app. Political campaigns are under such close observation by the IRS that I can't imagine any mainstream campaign that would accept Bitcoins. Too many unanswered questions that could lead to campaign-finance controversy.For starters, you can't make anonymous donations to campaigns, you can't accept donations from foreign nationals, and you have to be sure nobody goes over the donation limits. Accepting Bitcoin makes it very difficult for a campaign to ensure it is following any of these three laws. I think this is very likely. Even if all money in existence was loaned from one person to another at interest, (which is an extreme example, but let's play along) this still wouldn't be a problem. The borrower can perform work for the person he borrowed from in exchange for the owed amount. Or sell him something worth the owed amount. Some people are under the impression that there must be enough dollars/Bitcoins in circulation to match the value of all goods and services in existence in the entire economy. This is not so.  You don't need to worry. 2,100,000,000,000,000 Satoshis is incredibly optimistic. If one Satoshi (smallest Bitcoin unit) ever becomes worth more than one US cent, the Bitcoin economy will have become roughly 2.3 times larger than the entire economy of the United States.Currently M2 of the US Dollar (all the cash printed plus dollars in savings, checking, money market, and CDs less than $100k) is roughly $9 trillion = 900 trillion cents2.1 quadrillion Satoshis / 900 trillion cents = 2.33 Satoshis per cent.  You do not need to have an inflationary currency to have interest-paying loans. This is not the reason gold stopped being the basis of currency.I hear  this objection every once in a while, but it doesn't make sense. Let's imagine an island with three people in it, Aaron, Bob, and Charlie, and only 10 credits of money, which will never increase.Aaron lends Bob 5 credits at 5% interest. Bob buys a widget from Charlie. Bob now owes Aaron 5.25 credits. Where does this come from? Bob exchanges his services for it, from either Aaron or Charlie. Perhaps Bob has a job working in Charlie's widget store where he earns the 5.25 credits to repay his loan. Or perhaps he mows Aaron's lawn in exchange for the 5.25 credits he must repay. Or perhaps he sells some of his old DVDs to get the 5.25 credits.The fact that Bob borrowed 5 credits and must repay 5.25 credits does not in any way require that the money supply on the island grow to more than its set 10 credits. Indeed. This entire story is a prime example of Internet hysteria.I explicitly remember someone on either this forum or Reddit/r/bitcoin saying 'oh- wouldn't it be funny if the cops started raiding these bitcoin miners under suspicion for growing?' A day or two later this story appears, judging from some guy on IRC who got picked up by a low-level blog. From there, much like fractional-reserve banking, the story was pyramided up by more and more legitimate news sources, each one sourcing the one below it. This story was on Slashdot. All from one guy's probably-false statement on IRC. I mixed up my words. I meant to say "more" not "less."  I imagine that all the energy required to produce the nation's bank vaults, from mining the iron to forging the steel to shipping them to their installation at banks, is more than the energy 'wasted' on the Bitcoin network so far.edit: I originally said "less" when I meant to say "more." Whoops.  If a person had offended me, yes, I would.Also note that in the scenario, the $4990 doesn't belong to the other person until the game is over with my having accepted their agreement, so the questions on the morality of destroying someone else's property are not applicable.  Did you try refreshing by clicking on the "Check Balance" button?  I can also confirm the legitimacy and quality of Current-C's silver-selling here. It's possible to wish for the government to provide welfare or regulate the economy while also wishing for an honest hard money system. These goals are not incompatible or contradictory.I don't think Bitcoin hampers a government's ability to fund itself any more than the use of cash does. Any business of significant size won't be able to get around paying all legally required taxes regardless of whether they use USD or alternative currencies. Bitcoin no more subverts the welfare state than shopping at the farmers' market. If this is true, then why would anyone drop out when it becomes unprofitable? And if nobody drops out when it becomes unprofitable, it won't become profitable again. My prediction is that buying and operating a dedicated Bitcoin mining rig  will tend toward slightly less than break-even in the long run because of competition against:a) people who get electricity for free (college dorm dwellers, parents' basement dwellers)b) people who have high-end graphics cards for their own video game amusement, who also use them on the side for mining. These people only care about post-hardware-purchase profits, not pre-purchase profits. https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/FAQ#What_is_mining?And, as broctice has noted, all Bitcoin source code is open source. There is no trusted server, everyone running the Bitcoin client is also a server. The fact that something increases in value does not make it fraudulent, and it does not make it a pyramid scheme or a Ponzi scheme. Also, you do not have 100% guarantee of profit buying this week and selling next week. 
This is why I support requiring a CAPTCHA before any order is entered. A CAPTCHA would make it prohibitively slow enough to discourage anyone from entering orders they didn't want filled. https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/FAQ#Where_does_the_value_of_Bitcoin_stem_from?_What_backs_up_Bitcoin? https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/FAQ#Mining Bitcoin is divisible to a point where it can be afforded by anyone. Berkshire Hathaway is not. I believe BRK.B can't be purchased at units less than 1 share, currently, $78You can purchase .01 or maybe even .001 BTC now for possibly less than one US cent.  If Bitcoin succeeds, yes, that means that people who got in early will profit. This is true. The same principle applied with Microsoft and Google. It is not indicative of fraud or wrongdoing on anyone's part.   Thank you, afterburner229. Your objections will be noted in our log. Bitcoin is designed to be a currency, not to replace all credit card services. The US Dollar, for example, provides no buyer-protection services; these services are layered on top by businesses such as American Express. In places where you would be opposed to paying in cash, you would use Bitcoin along with services that duplicate credit-card style buyer protections (Clearcoin, perhaps, though I haven't used it myself and can't vouch for its quality) Well, it works for me in the US. But that stinks. I don't understand why there would be nation restrictions. Real gold mining is unprofitable for most people, so if they want gold, they provide goods and services in exchange for other peoples' gold. Why don't you try selling stuff on biddingpond.com or bitcoin classifieds?  It's the sixth one down when I search the market for 'bitcoin.'  Also it's the top link on https://github.com/bitcoin-labs/ Again, please post a link showing what you're claiming. I'm not entirely sure what you're saying, but the Wikipedia link does not mention this. In fact, the link you post says "these attacks have not been successfully extended to SHA-2." SHA-1 has been shown to be weak. SHA-2, used in Bitcoin, has not been broken. "There aren't enough people in the Bitcoin community" is correct. But it is relatively new, and so this is to be expected.Also, you are conflating the Bitcoin mining community with the Bitcoin community itself. They are not the same. Mining is not the point of Bitcoin. You don't have to be a miner to be involved with Bitcoin. If mining becomes unprofitable for its electric power, either the difficulty will drop (as people stop mining) or the value of Bicoins will increase. It's self-correcting. Miners are not the entirety of the Bitcoin community. I do not mine and I trust Bitcoin for a fraction of my wealth. Is anyone else using this? I know it's highly experimental but it looks so far to eventually be the perfect solution for in-person Bitcoin transactions.Now I've just got to find a friend with Androi I can talk into installing it to test it. . . I'm guessing someone had a much larger amount, but didn't want to keep it all in one wallet, so they divided it up into several smaller wallets with round numbers like that. "Someone profits" is not a sufficient condition to classify something as a pyramid scheme or a Ponzi scheme. For example, every company ever made operates with the intent to make profit for shareholders. I think this is in the print edition:http://www.washingtonpost.com/business/technology/bitcoin-ven-and-the-end-of-currency/2011/05/20/AFFoWd7G_story.html So you know the highest current valuation is 10 coins at $6.80, except it could be higher due to dark pools, and it could be lower because a trading bot could cancel that 10@6.80 order at any second. So I maintain that you really don't know much / you shouldn't have much faith in what you 'know.'  Bitcoin is not for everyone. I think this forum would be improved if, after answering the question and presenting a case for Bitcoin, we accept that some people still won't want it, no matter what we say here. And it's OK for people to not want Bitcoin. The "Depth of Market" chart and listing on mtgox should be taken with a large rock of salt if not completely disregarded.1. Large orders, (the most important ones if you're trying to gauge market sentiment), don't show up.2. Orders may be placed and canceled at whim, as you just pointed out.3. Trading bots exist which can instantly place orders at certain times without showing up on the Depth of Market list.
If new technology comes around that hashes faster than anything else, the Bitcoin network must embrace it. The new technology can be used to either strengthen the network or it will be used to attack the network. I heartily suggest that we promote the former. and Canada have more people searching Google for 'Bitcoin.'  http://www.google.com/trends?q=bitcoinHow easy is it to buy Bitcoin in these countries?  It does seem like the original idea from this thread is pyramid-like. (not Bitcoin itself.) However, it seems to me to be the inverse of a pyramid scheme: With a normal pyramid scheme, an exponentially-increasing number of people funnel money to an exponentially-increasing but always smaller number at the top of the pyramid. With this idea, he proposes an exponentially-increasing but small amount of people funneling money to an exponentially-increasing but large group of new people. (That was worded awkwardly, I know.) So instead of having huge amounts of involved people generate money for a few people, it's a few people spending money in order to generate huge amounts of involved people.  M2 money supply in the USA is currently $9 trillion. I'm not going to worry about all the problems Bitcoin will have when it is more than double the US dollar money supply. Eight decimal places is ridiculously overoptimistic. It is a not a problem. Period. I think we're 'what-iffing' a bit too much in this thread. Yes it can go up and down. No, we can't predict which will happen when or what will be the result. You mean, the biggest risk from hoarders is if they all stop hoarding at the same time?  "It gets promoted by its users" is not a sufficient characteristic to classify something as a Ponzi scheme. The Bitcoin Faucet gives away free bitcoins to promote new users.http://freebitcoins.appspot.com/ You are assuming government never gets into the business of regulating the Bitcoin economy, as they did with the regular, formerly gold economy. I see her point. Let's say Bitcoin becomes as popular as the dollar. Banks start accepting it for deposits and making loans with it. At first you can cash out into your personal Bitcoin wallet.dat, but eventually banks start lending out Bitcoins from demand deposits. Bank runs occur. The US government institutes Federal Bitcoin Deposit Insurance and a Federal Bitcoin Reserve, institutionalizing fractional-reserve Bitcoin banking. Federal Bitcoin Reserve Notes are issued which are not redeemable in actual Bitcoins. And then we end up exactly where we are now.The two solutions to this are a) education about the problems of fractional reserve banking and the benefits of hard money b) Making sure the default Bitcoin client is so useful that people don't feel the need to ever use banks in the first place. People will hoard until the value of Bitcoin reaches a point where they'd rather spend. This is a self-correcting situation. Not a problem. What benefit or service do people get for depositing in your bank? People with bitcoins to deposit in a Bitcoin bank are not going to be the same people who desire to borrow bitcoins.   Yup. They should be eliminated, and all orders should require a CAPTCHA to eliminate trading bots. My humble opinion. mtgox says that orders of over $1000 usd can be in the dark pool. That's only 134 BTC nowadays. I don't think the problem is so much that PayPal has "banned" sending to currency exchangers like MtGox, but that they are very pro-sender when it comes to disputes. Too many fraudsters have sent money to Mtgox, and then later claimed they never received their goods, and it was impossible to convince Paypal that the purchaser was scamming. Many stocks pay no dividends. Standard auctions are free, you only pay for highlighting/"Featured Auction" type promotions.But things do sell on there. Mining on a CPU is not time or cost effective. It will take probably 5 years or so for you go mine a single block on a CPU.Mining is only worth the effort if you are using high-end GPUs, and even then it is debatable whether it is profitable.If you want to get into Bitcoin, I would suggest selling some of your old stuff on Biddingpond, a free auction site that operates with Bitcoin. http://www.biddingpond.com   Microsoft stock is designed to go up in value. Early adopters were greatly enriched at the expense of late adopters. Is Microsoft (or any successful stock-issuing business) a pyramid scheme?  "Increasing value" is not a sufficient requirement to classify anything as a pyramid scam or Ponzi scheme. Look at what price in Bitcoin things are being sold at anywhere in the world, look up the dollar value of those goods being sold for Bitcoin, and there's your going market rate. Even if Bitcoin becomes 100% illegal and subject to a bloated federal War on Bitcoin, it will still be legal for people to publish going exchange rates.
Trust will be required in any exchange. The rest of your points stand. Apparently it only works in the USA. Does anyone know if there are similar services from other countries? It used to be hard, but now Dwolla - > MtGox is as easy as could be.The only drawback is that it takes a few days for your funds transferred from your bank account to become available on Dwolla. But three days isn't that unreasonable. The same way the value of the dollar is decided. By buyers and sellers agreeing on prices. Clearly it does work. Prohibition on the possession of Bitcoins in the US is extremely, extremely unlikely. There is no reason they could outlaw Bitcoin that would not also apply to cash.Every Bitcoin transaction is barter from the government's perspective. When I bought from Madhatter, months ago, he made it clear that the deal was contingent on payment being postmarked by a day or two after we had talked.   If mtgox is shut down, something else will be available. Outlawing bank transfers for bitcoin in the US will not stop the exchange of bitcoins for dollars. It won't even make it illegal to exchange Bitcoins for dollars. You could still sell Bitcoins for cash/check/moneyorder or gift cards in the mail, or goods or services.  You will still be able to trade Bitcoins for dollars in the US. Barter is 100% legal. From your post, I think you are asking these three questions:1) Why is Bitcoin valuable?  faq2) What work is being performed when mining? here.Miners perform a hash calculation on the set of data: (all previous transactions, plus a random number,) with the aim of finding a hash with a lower value than the current difficulty level. If the hash found is greater than the difficulty level, it changes the random number and tries again. It does this millions or billions of times per second.It is not currently cost or time effective to mine unless you have spent a few thousand dollars on high-end video cards.3) Why do people deserve to get coins when they mine a block? Because it's the most equitable and practical way of distributing new coins, and it promotes security of the network. The three reasons people use banks are:1. for safekeeping one's money2. To earn money by lending it out, with the bank acting as an intermediary between lenders and borrowers3. To act as a convenient clearinghouse for transactions (paycheck direct deposit, automatic water bill deduction, etc.)Reasons 1 and 3 are, imho, unnecessary as they are already performed by the standard Bicoin software. I particularly don't see why anyone would pay you for 1. But these are legitimate services for which a bank would charge account-holders fees.If you're acting as function #2, that is great, but those should be done with clearly identified separate accounts from the accounts used for 1 and 3, and the bank should pay the account holder, not the account holder paying the bank. With this type of account it should be clear to all parties involved that the money will not be available for withdrawal during the time it is being loaned out. I highly doubt they will be flat-out illegal to possess or use. Barter is 100% legal in the United States.  They will certainly never be illegal worldwide. In the US, at worst, they may become illegal to purchase or sell with bank transfers or credit cards, a la internet poker. Or, even more likely, you'll see people prosecuted for not paying taxes owed on Bitcoin income. But you will still have people willing to exchange goods and services for them. If you don't explain to people that it's not dollar-denominated, that it is an entirely new currency that can increase or decrease in value relative to the dollar, you are misinforming them.  It could be as simple as people wanted bitcoins, they bought bitcoins, and now they don't want any more. It's not possible to know if something is a bubble before it pops, especially something anonymously traded like Bitcoin. It could be that new, enthusiastic people with lots of money to drop are discovering Bitcoin at the same rate the price is increasing.   If the Fed had not increased the monetary base, we would have had deflation. I'm sure the increase in MB we've seen is responsible for the modest inflation we've seen so far. And in the future, the more banks start to lend, the more price inflation we will see.That may have been the stated reason, but as the Fed is paying interest on excess reserves, I don't see how that could be the only reason. From what I understand the Fed hasn't always paid interest on excess bank reserves, so this sounds like a conscious choice to try to increase bank reserves. Perhaps they are concerned about attracting the attention of tax authorities, so they don't cash out (or they cash out very slowly) I believe it is part of the attempt to make the banks more solvent. More cash in reserves -> less likelihood they will run out, default, and cause further economic trouble. Banks are paid interest on reserves kept at the Fed, so it's not completely unprofitable for the banks. Yes, the monetary base has tripled. However, all that money is sitting in banks' excess reserves doing nothing. Look at the money multiplier around 2010:http://research.stlouisfed.org/fred2/series/MULTIf you look at M2, you will see an increase around that time, but nowhere near triple. http://research.stlouisfed.org/fred2/series/M2If banks start aggressively lending out their reserves, and the Fed does not quickly contract, then we will see steep inflation. I agree, but the solution to this is to make Bitcoin more accessible to the Euro/GBP/CAD/whathaveyou, not to be concerned about being too accessible to the USD. Publicity in India, perhaps?http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Bangalore/article2001732.ece Sales of campaign merchandise that benefits the campaign must be legally treated the same as donations. 
Being accepted and agreed upon by a large amount of people over a wide area sounds like a good definition of "standard."  At this point it's in every miner's interest to require the smallest possible transaction fee. They gain nothing by processing no-fee transactions, and they lose money by requiring a higher fee than anyone is paying (besides zero transaction fee payments.) This will only change when there are more transactions than will fit on a block, which is a long way in the future. Has anyone explained to them the chargeback problems that paypal has, and asked them if they will be different?  You are free to value your Bitcoins in the way you describe. From Wikipedia's article on Ponzi Scheme: Bitcoin does not, never has, and never will pay returns, therefore it cannot be a Ponzi scheme. It may be a bubble, but that is completely different.From the same article:  Is there any way to estimate the 'Bitcoin population' meaning the number of people using Bitcoin? Perhaps a char t of the number of people running the Bitcoin client or the number of addresses holding >5 BTC ? I understand this information would not be perfect but I wonder if spikes in the Bitcoin population would be a good leading indicator of rallies. When I click on "Coins and Stamps" it says "Coins (2)" but there is only one auction below it.Screenshot:https://i.imgur.com/DWgt6.png Brilliant idea. One question, how durable is the hologram? Is there any possibility of it being accidentally rubbed off during the course of normal circulation? Norfed tried this defense. The Liberty Dollar warehouse receipts have this printed on theom:"Receipt is an exercise of the bearer's First Amendment right to petition the government for a silver based currency as mandated by the US Constitution." I wish someone would start a new blockchain just to test this. We'll see if anyone uses it. Buy things on biddingpond.com.   Oftentimes you'll see people selling cash on there. And quite a barbarous one, at that.   If they all worked on the same piece of data forever, yes. But the piece of data (the block) being worked on changes every 10 minutes. So why is it that this Linden Dollar for US dollar exchanger does not run into the chargeback problems that Bitcoin for USD exchangers have?  Is this your site? Great idea, but it needs:1) The ability to contact people by email (I would think this would be the primary method of contact)2) The ability to list what you want to buy or sell. We could do the same thing with Kingdom of Loathing Meat but both exchangers have been down for a while. More importantly, a B-25 has a fuel capacity of 670 gallons. A Boeing 767 has a  fuel capacity of between 16,000 and 24,000 gallons. It's not even in the same ballpark.  Maybe I missed it, but we should be celebrating passing parity with the Euro and the pound! There is nothing wrong with a person lending money to the bank and owning debt, or depositing money in a bank account and owning money that can be withdrawn on demand. But it needs to be clear which the bank customer owns: money or debt, as they are very different things.  In the case of a bank run, bank executives should be held personally liable for funds owed to account holders who are unable to receive them. This debt should be non-dischargable in any bankruptcy.
That's interesting. In the US, vendors are not legally required to honor prices published in error. And furthermore, there is nothing you can do with dollars or euros or francs but trade them, but you can certainly price things in these currencies. He's saying you can't price bitcoins because there isn't a market for them. But there is. It is impossible for a person to 'override emotion.' No decision can ever be made without emotion, you can only substitute one emotion for another. In this case, you can choose between the good feelings you get from receiving the most money for the good feelings you get for protecting your pride. This game is similar to the Cold War nuclear standoff between the USA and the USSR. Let's say that country A detects that Country B has launched 500 nuclear missiles. Should Country A fire back? What's the point? Country A will still be completely destroyed. Launching a counterattack won't help the situation.However, it is in each country's interest to make the other country think  they will fire back in this situation, to deter the first strike. It is in each country's interest to appear irrational. IIRC the minimum fees were put in to discourage people from spamming the network with millions of .00000001 BTC payments. Doing so can fill up blocks and cause legitimate transactions to be delayed. Assuming you keep your place at the same temperature with miners running as you do without them running, then you have to be running more power to your A/C when you have the miner running. You have to spend at least as many watts on air conditioning as you do on mining, plus a certian percentage on top of that because your A/C is not perfectly efficient. Your thermostat might be at the same setting but the A/C compressor will stay on longer (and thus consume more power) when you've got 1KW of heat coming out of your rig than it does without the rig running. Good point. This game is designed so that the people discussing it will have a tendancy to lie about how they would really act: Potential players discussing the game are incentivized to provide the appearance that they would deny small values of money, but are incentivized to accept all values of money when they are actually in the situation. Essentially, it depends on your pride and your dollar value of spiting someone who insulted you.The fact that people behave this way serves as an incentive for the person making the split to give you more than $.01. I wouldn't accept less than $50. In the situation you refer to, if it costs more in energy than the bitcoins are worth, it would be better for the person to shut off the miners and buy the bitcoins with cash. I don't understand. What forms of "promoting Bitcoin" are people doing that you think should be stopped? Are you saying we should stop talking about it to our friends? Speculation with varying degrees of likelihood, depending on the situation. Are you saying that movements in the Bitcoin exchange rate cannot sometimes be attributed to news events?  What are you implying when you say this? A few questions I have that might as well be answered here rather than anywhere else:Does Satoshi approve which changes make it into the new official Bitcoin updates? Is he this project's "Benevolent Dictator for Life?"How long did Satoshi mine Bitcoins as the only miner in the world before he released the software / when did Bitcoin become released for the general public to mine? Did Satoshi sit on an entire years' worth of mined blocks before he released this for other people to mine? Yes it is legal to trade things for Bitcoin. Just as it is legal to trade cheddar cheese, lemonade, shiny shells, or firewood for things, so long as you do not claim they are legal tender (and that they differ in appearance from US legal tender by enough of a degree to convince a jury. I don't think this will be an issue for Bitcoin.)However, in the US you are legally required to pay tax on any income or capital gains you may get through Bitcoin, based on their US dollar value. Go for it! Competition is good.  The good news is that Bitcoin, being an inherently online currency, does not normally require people to speak the cost of something. In most cases you will be fine just writing "BTC 1.23555293" or "BTC .0000334"  and being done with it.However it does seem to me that it would have been better to mint 21,000,000,000,000 Bitcoins and have them divisible to two decimal points. It's much more convenient to deal with digits to the left of the decimal point. I think whoever decided to have eight decimal points did this because he/she thought earlier parity with the US dollar would be A Cool Thing, and that it was worth sacrificing long-term ease of use for near-term parity.  Bugs/exploits discovered. Government prosecution. Someone gets enough computing power to double spend with impunity.  I would not put 95% of my life into any single thing. So call me a girly-man.
Does the client alert you that a transaction has been denied? Or does it just say " 0/unconfirmed " forever? Things like a Bitcoin farmers' market would be much easier once the Bitcoin phone app (payer scans a barcode from the seller's phone and then transfers the bitcoins) are usable. From what I understood, online gambling was not illegal in any state, but it was illegal to use credit cards to cash out your winnings. This restriction was slipped into, where else, the "Safe Harbor Act of 2006."If DC allows this I wonder how they expect people to cash out their winnings. There is no way to determine what the proper "center" should be for the gold:silver ratio.  Do you have a link about this? Whether the Fed is privately or publicly owned is not really important. The important question is who controls it.The Federal Reserve is controlled partially by the federal government (appoints Chairman and Board of Governors) and partially by the private member banks, which appoint class A and B Board Members of regional Federal Reserve Banks. Class C Board Members of the regional Federal Reserve Banks are appointed by the Board of Governors. You are correct as to how money is normally printed. And yes, the US government pays interest on this to the Federal Reserve. However, the Federal Reserve returns all profits it makes beyond operating costs back to the Treasury each year. So the US government is not exactly worried about interest it pays to the Fed because it's mostly coming back to the Treasury in the end.  It seems you are conflating 'money' with 'credit'.  A promise to pay is credit. The architecture of Bitcoin does not require credit, although individuals are free to promise each other a future payment in Bitcoin. This is not how Bitcoin is set up. If Adam borrows 50 BTC from Bob and promises to return the payment, Adam is the one responsible for repayment, not any manager of the money. Inflation can also be kept at zero by having the lender absorb the default. He accepted this risk when he lent the money.Bitcoin is not actively managed, so call that 'improper' if you wish. While we bicker on here about whether it would be better to have new Bitcoins created for a longer time, or forever, the fact that they are created in a predictable and unmanaged way is perhaps the founding principle of what Bitcoin is about. If you don't like this, Bitcoin is probably not something you're going to want to use. They probably get that impression from here:http://www.bitcoin.org/faq#So_your_wealth_is_determined_by_the_amount_of_CPU_power_you_have You must not watch much TV. That would not be a hard angle for them to run with at all. If the bitcoin community is breaking employment laws and child labor laws, then yes, they will probably be shown in a bad light by the media. Who is "we" and who are you thinking will "demonize" you? Bitcoin does not make it easier to get around employment laws than the already available option of paying in cash. The problem is that most employers don't want to break employment laws. Has Ron Paul ever said the words "Liberty Dollar" in a public speech or TV interview? They even made a coin with his face on it, so if they didn't get him to say their name, I doubt Bitcoin will. Perhaps there are other better threads to hash this out, but I have some doubts that transaction fees will ever be big enough to be an adequate mining incentive alone. I foresee a future where each miner will want to include as many fee-paying transactions in his or her blocks as possible, so they will set their minimum transaction fee to the smallest nonzero unit (currently .01 BTC). Any miner setting their transaction fee threshold to .02 or higher will skip over all the .01BTC transaction fees and end up losing money.People sending transactions will know this and not ever set their fees to above .01.But I could be wrong. It's difficult to predict human actions.  Is there a law that says this? They are recognized currency, but they are not redeemable. I don't know about any law that prevents US Notes from being used in fractional reserve banking. If there was I doubt it's enforced. I'll have to watch your video when I have time. Bitcoin is an inflationary currency right now. Very highly inflationary.The difference of opinion is only on how fast to cut back on inflation in the coming decades. There is nothing more fiat-like about the system he proposes than the current system. I actually think it would be better his proposed way because it would better promote mining, which is necessary to ensure network security. The rate of inflation would still be gradually decreasing, because 50BTC becomes less and less meaningful as time goes on.Staying at 50BTC reward per block would mean the inflation rate would approach 0% as time went on but never actually get to 0.Under the current system, the world will still be mining more gold long after the last BTC is mined. "Safe key"  as in a key that opens the safe.
United States Notes were never redeemable in gold or silver coin.Gold and silver certificates were redeemable but the government canceled redemptions on the former after 1933 and the latter stopped after 1964. Keep in mind though that the cost it would take to ruin Bitcoin is proportional to the size of the Bitcoin economy. Nobody in the federal government cares enough about the Bitcoin economy right now to do anything about it. They might care if it were a hundred times as large, but in that case, it would cost them a hundred times more to disrupt it. This is the best thing you can do to help. Sell your old stuff on Biddingpond or the bitcoin-otc IRC channel. If this happened, A) everyone holding Bitcoins would see a tremendous profit, and B) we would all probably just start over from scratch with another blockchain for "Bitcoin 2." Which would probably take off much faster now that everyone has seen the US Government has ridiculously overpaid for Bitcoin 1. Any financial system can be damaged by someone willing to destroy a massive amount of their own wealth. But self-interest usually discourages people from doing so. The encryption of one's private keys is entirely different from the hashing algorithm used in generating blocks. SHA-256 hashing, ECDSA encryption. Doesn't everybody, big or small, mine with the hope that they will profit?  That there are so many different methods of determining 'intrinsic value' is a testament to the entire concept being subjective. Could you explain this a bit further? I don't see how raising the difficulty is anything but a good thing. Also if people mining on their CPUs don't have a real chance of mining a coin, then I don't see how they will be any real negative influence on miners.It's not low-scale miners' responsibility to make things easier for the high-scale miners. The US government voided all contracts that were payable in gold from 1933 until many decades later (the 80s maybe? I can't remember). They could potentially do the same with Bitcoin as soon as its market had any significance. Nothing has intrinsic value except for perhaps basic necessities like food and shelter. These things do not act well as forms of money because the former rots and the latter is immobile and indivisible. Ahh, I understand now.so it calculates hash(lastblock+random_num) and checks to see if it is less than the difficulty. If it's above, it changes the random number and tries again.Does it increment the nonce by 1 each time, or does it pick a completely random nonce each time? I'm a little confused - for one set of data and one method of hashing, isn't there only one possible hash? What does it mean then to try to find a hash below a certain value?  From what I understand about hashes, either it is or it isn't below that value, and no amount of retrying can change that. So a libertarian/ancap society can have limits on how much property a person can possess? The House of Saud permits people to live on their land with certain agreed-upon restrictions, one of which is that they can't have property. Is this agreement not something a person should be allowed to set up on their property in a libertarian society? People who have bitcoins sell them to the exchange for dollars.Where did those people get their bitcoins? These people either sold goods or services for Bitcoins (a large percentage) or generated them themselves (a small percentage) As a thought experiment, what would you guys say to the following assertion: "Saudi Arabia is a perfect anarcho-capitalist (or libertarian) society. It just so happens that all the land is owned by one family, who are justly free to make their own rules for people they choose to allow on their property." 1. Buy Bitcoins2. Submit Article to Slashdot3. Sell Bitcoins4. ?5. Profit! The blockchain, freely available to anyone on the network, is analogous to a publicly-accessible bank vault. Bitcoins are stored in safety deposit boxes. Your wallet.dat file on your computer holds your keys to your box with your coins in it.  The solution to 'sticky wages' is to educate people that the value of their wages is going up or staying flat, even if the number on their check goes down. I don't think this would be as hard as people think, especially if there were reliable statistics available on the price deflation rate.
I don't think it's possible to profit from such action. As I said in my last post, it would be an extremely money-losing venture because you are by definition buying above market value or selling below market value. Almost everything is easy if you've got a ton of money to blow on it.   Perhaps my faith in humanity is too great, but I think most people will read US Attorney Tompkins' quote there and think he's way out of line comparing the minting of silver dollars to terrorism. The only way Bitcoin can be "pegged" is if there's an extremely wealthy individual that publicly asserts that he will buy and sell Bitcoins at $.50 USD. This person's attempt to peg Bitcoin will last as long as he or she doesn't run out of Bitcoins (at which point the value of Bitcoin will rise)  or US$ (at which point the value of Bitcoin will fall).This person will have to do this with the understanding that he or she will lose money in this process. The "Pegger" will always be buying Bitcoin above what others will pay and selling Bitcoin below what others will pay. For this reason it's extremely unlikely it will happen. Does a purpose-built chip for SHA256 hashing exist? Or anything better than GPUs?I'm wondering if someone like the NSA couldn't make purpose-built circuit boards of such chips that could blow away the GPUs commonly used now. I would think the NSA would be the agency with the most potential hashing power, since they specialize in codebreaking. The meat got sent back to my KOL account. I'm guessing your software gave out its last bitcoin, and then figured it couldn't fulfill my order and then sent me my meat back. I sent you a PM about what happened. I did not hack your machine, I sent it enough meat for 1 BTC and it bugged and kept repeatedly sending me 1 BTC over and over until it ran out. Let me know your address and I"ll send them back.This is, coincidentally or for a reason, the same glitch that the other guy had on his BTC-for-Meat site.  "Fair market value" can only be determined by observing a large group of people negotiating deals, and the concept does not even exist without individuals making such negotiations. Awesome, thanks for setting this up. I have a very hard time imagining that the amount of Bitcoins that people simply lose will by anything more than a negligible amountAnd even if people do lose them, the amount lost per year will trend towards zero far faster than the total supply of Bitcoin will trends toward zero. No matter the length of time they will not reach zero. I think we're hung up on the difference between monetary deflation and price deflation. "Disinflationary" would be a more fitting adjective to describe the Bitcoin model.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Disinflation It was going up and down for a while, and the last few times I used it I found a bug, which he said was due to KOL changing their interface. It hasn't been up since the last time I tried it and it bugged.I used it a lot and I too wish it would go back online! I don't think most online games (besides gambling sites) would want this. You play a game to escape from reality. You probably don't want a game set up so that if you're poor IRL, you're also poor in the game. http://www.biddingpond.com is an Ebay-like auction site where you can sell your stuff for Bitcoins, free.https://www.bitcoin4cash.com/buy.php  You can send this guy cash in the mail and he will send you Bitcoins.http://www.mtgox.com is an exchange where you can trade dollars for Bitcoins. You can fund it by check in the mail, wire transfer, or Liberty Reserve. Let it never be said that the Bitcoin community lacks the ability to dream big. Technically you would be owed seashells, but I doubt any court in the country would rule in payment of seashells. They would rule a payment of dollars. It is no easier to avoid taxes using Bitcoin than using cash. Assuming that buying up all the dark pool asks doesn't get you to 100k, you would not be able to buy 100k bitcoins at once.(Dark pools are bids or asks in excess of 1000 that don't show up on the market depth chart. It's a bonus you get just for being a big trader.)
You would go to court, and the court would determine fair market value for the chocolate cake, expressed in US dollars, and rule that you owed that. The dollar is also either the de facto or de jure unit for settling debts expressed in things other than dollars.For example, if I go to the Art Institute of Chigago and accidentally damage the painting American Gothic, a court will no doubt rule that I owe the Institue a great amount of US dollars. The court obviously can't rule that I must repay them with another original American Gothic painting, since there aren't any others. So some law establishes US dollars as the standard unit of payment for these such debts. I'm not sure if it's the same law as legal tender laws. Two words: Online poker. This was enormous in the US until the Feds stopped people from being able to collect their winnings through credit cards. 'Early adopters having an advantage over later adopters' is not a sufficient characteristic to classify something as a Ponzi scheme. Bid/ask ratio is not a reliable figure for two reasons:1) Dark pools2) Bids and asks that are far from the current trading price would not really affect trading. There are currently well over $10,000 worth of asks above BTC 1.05 .  If I wanted to, I could put in a ton of bids or asks at prices nobody is ever going to trade at, but I seriously doubt these are going to affect near-future prices.I think if you wanted to predict future prices you'd have to look at the number of bids and asks within, say, 5% of the last traded price. That number, as are all numbers when predicting the future, is entirely subjective. There are other options, as well. Users can complain about his practices. Users can convince others that his practices aren't good. Freedom of speech and all. The exchange rate should have no effect on peoples' willingness to adopt Bitcoin. Extreme volatility in exchange rate, however, may have a negative effect. It would have gotten on Al Jazeera. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ponzi_schemehttp://www.sec.gov/answers/ponzi.htmBitcoin does not pay returns, therefore, it cannot be a Ponzi scheme.The value of Bitcoin may increase and it may later drop in value. Under this scenario, it can be rightly described as a bubble that popped, but it is not a Ponzi scheme. Let's not pick Hitler's birthday. As Bitcoins are not legally recognized, I highly doubt anyone is going to sue anyone in court to recover Bitcoins. While CNBC sometimes has what I consider to be silly reasons for why the market moved today, news can and does move markets. No-transaction-fee transactions will only get processed when a miner who accepts NTF transactions finds a block. I suspect that all miners will mine 24/7, so I don't think NTF transactions are any more likely to be processed in the middle of the night than they are during peak business hours.(Plus 'off peak hours' may not mean anything as I suspect Bitcoin will be used all over the world.) I have a feeling that the change of ownership of Mt. Gox might have caused this slight dip in the prices. What do you want to major in? Their problem is that the number of zeroes keeps increasing, not that there are many to begin with. And there's surely a happy medium between having $100,000,000,000,000 notes, and dealing with units of .00000001 I don't think the awkwardness of the exchange rate to the USD is an issue. The issue is the awkwardness of prices people will be using when buying and selling goods and services. That's the opposite situation. People have to deal in tens or hundreds of thousands of yen, not figures like .00006831I suspect one of the reasons it's easier to deal with really large numbers than really small numbers is that we use commas (or periods for you Europeans) to make it easier to visually recognize the units. $1,800,000 is easier to read than .0000018edit: To further illustrate, it's far easier to tell the difference between $1,800,000 and $18,000,000  than it is to tell the difference between .0000018 and .000018 The deflationary model (well, not deflationary, just very slowly inflationary) will encourage individuals to use it. It will not encourage institutions to choose it, but institutions may have to end up using it if enough individuals do. Did anyone claim that Mt. Gox did not have the right to have dark pools, or that he could be forced to stop having dark pools? 
The best way to grow Bitcoin is to offer more goods and services for Bitcoins - not just on Bitcoin sites, but other sites like Craigslist.I think asking businesses and organizations to accept it is like the cart pulling the horse. Businesses should want to accept Bitcoin because of the things they can buy with it. Being freely exchangeable with USD is nice, but the business will just ask itself, "If I can't pay the rent, or buy my kids food and clothes with it, I'll have to exchange it for USD. Why don't I just stick with USD then?" But he can't do them because of Bob, which is why it is fair to expect Bob to compensate Adam for the loss Bob is causing.If Adam breaks Bob's leg, and this causes Bob to be out of work for a month, would it be fair or unfair for Adam to pay Bob his month's wages as compensation for the loss Adam caused Bob to take? I was talking to my Muslim neighbor today who was telling me how he was trying to sell his house through self-financing to the buyer, but his religion requires that he can't charge interest. He gets around this, however, by just going into an agreement with the buyer to sell for a higher selling cost, but without any interest in the payments.  This discussion made me think of this thread. Adam is losing the use of his basement for the month. He could otherwise have stored his things down there, or had a sleepover party down there, or fermented wine down there, or set up a Bitcoin mining cluster. The fact that he can't do these things for a month represents a cost to him that he recuperates in his rent.Slaves fleeing plantations were subject to manhunts with dogs coming to forcibly return them, often accompanied by whippings and torture. A person in poverty is subject to no such manhunts.I will qualify the previous poster's statement "poverty is a choice" - I believe it is a choice IF:1) the person is in an area with adequate economic opportunity2) the person is of sound mental health3) the person is not phyiscally handicappedAdditionally, the person may not be able to get out of poverty due to previous bad choice they have made, but that's a distinction between 'a choice a person can make right now' and 'a choice a person has already made that they can't un-choose.' The coercion that a slave is subject to (whips, beatings, torture) is entirely different than the coercion that employer-employee financial exchanges supposedly entail (the need to work the sort of job you want in order to afford the standard of living you want). The difference is drastic enough to make the comparison ludicrous.  So why does any miner accept transactions without a fee? They gain nothing by accepting these transactions and lose nothing by requiring a transaction fee. At this point it is unnecessary.At some point when the load of Bitcoin transactions is so great that it starts taking a long time to process transactions, paying a transaction fee may become necessary. I have my doubts as to Anonymous's productive capacity. Their capacity for comedic revenge is well proven. How do you know Adam didn't put any labor into his basement? What if Adam built this home including the finished basement? May he then rent it out?What if he paid someone else for building and finishing the basement, with money he earned through his labor? "Money for nothing" as you describe this situation, would be infinitely better than nothing for nothing, where Bob doesn't get to rent out the basement and he is forced to be cold and homeless or to build his own shelter.Perhaps Adam is great at building houses, but Bob is very bad at building houses. Instead, Bob is great at growing food, which he can exchange for shelter (indirectly, through money.) You'd take away his ability to have a nice home through your attempts at avoiding 'exploitation.' I know it doesn't fit your requirement, but I've got a Dell Inspiron with an 800mhz Celeron and 128MB of ram. The battery life is not very long, but I'll send it to you for 10BTC plus shipping. So Adam should either give these things away for free or not sell them at all. With only these choices, the world is going to be significantly more miserable. In an attempt to keep Bob from being 'exploited,' Bob is going to end up cold and homeless. If this is the case, I don't see why any miners would have any incentive to process no-fee transactions. If they get the new-block 50BTC regardless, they lose nothing by requiring fees and can potentially gain. How does this work exactly? Say I send a transaction without a fee, and the next ten blocks are all generated by miners who require fees. Will my transaction remain with zero confirmations for the next ten blocks?  That is not a virus. It's just somebody asking people to send in their wallets. I presume you mean 'no greater cost than the expenses Adam would incur' ?If this is the case, you don't account for the expense to Adam of not having use of his basement. This is exploitative of Adam. He's losing something valuable and not getting it back from Bob.Of course, if Adam agrees that providing Bob with a dwelling is incentive enough to allow him to live in the basement for free, than that's fine. If he does not think this is the case, then such an arrangement would be exploitative of Adam.I'm not sure what you mean. Say Bob wants to borrow that money to pay his heating bill while he's in college, and he wants to pay it off a year later when he's got a high paying job. What would you say is fair interest? Would it be technically possible to have an option, integrated into the Bitcoin software itself (not just the GUI), where users can set a password on their Bitcoin wallets, so that it must be entered before each payment is sent, and even if somebody copies the wallet file, they can't spend any bitcoins without using the password?Similar to how you can have a password for your GPG key. You're talking about money being taken from your US Dollar-denominated, FDIC-insured bank account? Yes, they can see where the money went.If you're talking about a trojan stealing your Bitcoin wallet, you could see which Bitcoin address the payment went to, but that would not be helpful for anything. This scenario would be analogous to someone breaking in your house and stealing your cash.Yes. (if I understand you right this scenario has nothing to do with Bitcoin? Guy deposits money with bank A, transfers money to bank B, which purchases something from vendor C. Yes, bank B can contact vendor C. However, I very much doubt that Barclays sells Bitcoin.) Note that Bitcoin is more analogous to cash and cash transactions than to banking.Not legally. But they would have the ability to illegally collect the payment in Bitcoin, just as they could collect a cash payment. I posit that these things are cooperative relationships.Adam wants $500 per month more than he wants to use his basement. Bob wants to live in his basement more than he wants $500 per month. They cooperatively exchange these things to their mutual benefit.Adam wants $6 in interest more than he wants to use his $100 this year. Bob wants that $100 now more than he wants $106 a year from now. They cooperatively exchange $100 now for $106 a year from now and they are both happier for it. Is there any incentive at all to pay transaction fees if the block size is less than its maximum size? If the block is less than the maximum size, won't all transactions be included in the block regardless of fees paid? Yes, and possibly yes. It is very important to keep your wallet backed up somewhere safe, and to keep your computer secure.As of now there is no known virus that steals wallet files.
Isn't there an average number if blocks generated per unit time that will roughly remain constant over long enough time periods? (as difficulty adjusts to compensate for changes in network computing power)This answer, combined with "How many transactions can fit in one block ?"should get us close to the answer we're looking for.edit: according to the FAQSo the rate is 6*(max transactions per block) per hour. Because I was responding to a post where someone challenged people who believe Bitcoin will drop in price to speculate on such an event, but to my knowledge, it isn't possible to do so.And yeah, there is no way that someone can start writing puts options contracts - not enforceable in court, and it's too easy to start over with a new identity on here. Nobody here uses their real name anyway. Aside from selling one's bitcoins and buying them back later, is there a way to profit from a dropping value of Bitcoin? I find it highly unlikely that Bitcoin itself will be declared illegal in the US or any other similar nation. What might happen is it will attract IRS attention and lead to a crackdown on people who make undeclared income in Bitcoin. It would not be fractional if each physical coin was backed by one digital coin. I just hope they don't start cracking down on the sale of gold through a certain purple-peace-signed Internet classified webpage. Weren't the Bretton Woods agreements pretty much finished when Nixon closed the gold window in 1971? Being a good investment, or at least a stable one, is a requirement for something to be a good form of money. (At least when it's not legal tender).  Few people would voluntarily accept something as money when it has what they consider to be an unreasonable risk of losing its value. Regular currency is inflationary, and they do change denominations: There are no longer half-cents like there used to be, and people are talking about getting rid of the penny more and more lately. Bitcoin is deflationary (as seen by its climb in price), so I think the opposite would be a good idea. If Bitcoin got to the $10 USD per BTC point I would think it would be prudent to move the decimal point to keep it more conveniently sized.Or, we could just use the standard metric prefixes: Millibitcoins, microbitcoins, etc.Fun fact: The US money system was originally based around five units: the cent, dime, dollar, eagle, and union. Each one worth ten times the previous unit. Union coins never ended up being actually minted for circulation. As of now there is no mechanism to force people to upgrade to a newer, less desirable version of Bitcoin. the scenario you describe would require that people controlling over 50% of the network computing power adopt the newer, different software. Bitcoin is still unproven. This site itself still warns that it's experimental beta software. There are fears that a bug will be found flooding the market with fake bitcoins, or that a new, better online currency will be introduced, or that someone with enormous computer resources will attack the network. All these might make everyone's Bitcoins worthless. These reasons are why I, and a lot of people, don't put more than a small amount of net wealth into Bitcoin. Gold, on the other hand, has 6,000 years of history of keeping its value. What is the intended purpose of the dark pool on Mt. Gox? Is it just a perk for people with lots of money? Holding and buying are two entirely different things. How does "low volume" lead to the conclusion "everybody is buying" ?   The observation "low volume" should lead us to conclude that very few people are buying. I don't have a problem with such things. I only have a problem with them attracting bad attention to Bitcoin and causing its greater mission to suffer. I don't care if they are on another website. I just don't think they should be on the official Bitcoin website.Bitcoin is too important to get slowed down by easily-avoidable police attention. Assuming most members of the Bitcoin market are well informed, current prices already take into account future estimates of increased difficulty. Yeah, Gresham's Law only applies under legal tender laws. I suppose, if the currency is backed by another currency that does have a lot of goods traded with it. I presume that transaction fees will be rewarded in greater amounts to people who contribute greater processing power? I dont understand fully, but I've read that several other countries back their currency with the US dollar. 
I would agree its "true" value is increasing. I just don't think going from $.05/BTC at the beginning of September to $1.00 right now - almost a 500% annualized rate of increase - is at all realistic. The goods-for-BTC market is not increasing at that rate. Less than it is now. Gut feeling based on the number of things I see for sale with Bitcoins. I don't think the amount of useful things you can currently buy with Bitcoin can support its high valuation for very long. I think a crash is coming. Yes, it is true that illegal activity is funded by Federal Reserve Notes.  But you will not find them listed for sale on the Federal Reserve's or banks' websites. That's ridiculous. Well, whether they are selling them in a separate NSFW folder or within the regular Marketplace folder won't make any difference as to government related problems. I actually would prefer we not allow such legally-questionable auctions on this forum at all. IMO Bitcoin is too important to get bogged down in such legal affairs by allowing them on its official website. I know we can't prevent such transactions being done with Bitcoin, but we can keep them from growing negative attention by keeping them off the official Bitcoin website. A few recent threads make me wish there was a separate NSFW Marketplace. What do you mean by this? Where do I get an address where I should send my 1 BTC to pay for bolding my auction?  A medium of exchange needs to also be a store of value, or else nobody would voluntarily accept it (without a legal framework requiring it.)Regarding your example of silver being a medium of exchange while gold was a store of value, silver also stores its value.A store of value, however, need not be a medium of exchange. Good plan or bad plan: Back up your wallet.dat on a USB thumb drive, hide this somewhere no one will look. Mine wasn't a new account, I just didn't get the email confirming an auction I had posted. Also, I had selected that I wanted to pay 1 BTC to have my auction bolded, which didn't happen, I presume because payment for that would have been arranged in the email. Was the phrase "illegal tender" used in any of the legal proceedings against the Liberty Dollar people?Counterfeit money is illegal to possess, so it falls in the same category as illegal plants. Neither did mine. So were the hacked accounts and the extremely high-value Bitcoin transactions related or not? Ok, you're right, in very specific cases when something is illegal to possess, buy, or sell, you might be able to consider it "illegal tender" in a way. But there is no legal concept of "illegal tender" and possession of Bitcoin is not illegal. There is no such thing as "illegal tender" because bartering is legal. I don't know why, but on auction sites like Ebay, most of the bidding tends to be done in the last 5 minutes. The purchasers are going to have to trust you to not keep a copy of the wallet.dat you're selling them. Is mtgox the best, most reliable place to look? Is it the highest volume exchange?Are there other recommended places to look for second opinions? Just out of curiosity, how many hash/sec do you get, ballpark, on these miners with 1 or 3 ATI 5970s?
