Whats going on, even an apologize message??EDIT: just 10 minutes later web is up again..... I have a pending transaction  Hi.Is there any way to send minimized cgminer msdos window, to SYSTEM TRAY??'I have windows vista, i tried softwware like tray it! and it does not workThanks Any ideas to know or prevent scams from paypal? suggestions? Just a suggestion, put servers address on web, on every name of server Any way to see my last 24h gets??thanks I think im not the only person that is starting to get tired about the "problems communicating with RPC" issue. This is what happen when you try to get rich AT ALL COSTI think this happen for SO MANY people on server.... Is ALL included to works with phoenix/phatk??How can i add a phoenix/phatk miner??? i cant see optionsTHANKSEdit: Ok, i think worksWhats the best "Extra Flags" to use with an ATI 5850 Extreme??? (first time i use phoenix) Where can i do that??  I just join to BTCGuild, and i have on questionwhere can in configure my minimum "btc" to send me a pay??Thanks ty so much Hi.Where or How can I know, when difficulty gonna change (up or down) BEFORE it happens??Thanks I did, until "Load the gadget back up" and is running fine like magic!One thing i see, before, i cant see the list to select "money", but now, yes.Dunnu why, but now worksThanks I did it, remove gadget, add gadger, reboot pc.It happens with many miners, like deepbit or btcmine, ultil 2 days ago, working fine, is just cant press "Accept" beacuase this error, so i cant see informatcion bump Working fine until a couple of days, now i get this error:What is that??Thanks Thanks!!! BTCMine, here we go!!!!! OC without voltage, CANNOT damage my card?? ARE YOU ABSOLUTELY SURE??
Im glad for you (really), but im not asking for that, probably get 1000 is not very safe, i just want OC but, in a very safe range I have an Sapphire 5850 Extreme, and im afraid about overclocking, so im running default. (725)What the BEST option to OC my card, WITHOUT any problem (of course, i dont wanna touch voltages)Temperature? Mhz ??Thanks There's no way on btcmine, to see how much i generated on last 24 hours?? I think gonna try BTCMine, is that good then? Hi.Sice deepbit is SO big, i dont like at much as before, so im thinking to change to another MINING server.What server you think is better? Why?I have 275MH/s, i have to use proportional or pay-per-share??Im listeningThanks I will donate if somebody doesThx Showing on personal message, actual MH/s and total on deepbit, and other miners.Is this possible??Example: Do you think guys, one day difficulty decreases? Please help Hi. A friend of mine have a problem.He have an ATI i sold, and windows 7 32 bits.When he tries to start miner (all packets on bitcoin updated) ALWAYS get: "Starting..." and nothing happens.He is register on deepbit, all data is correct, but can´t start to mining, always status is "Starting..."Any sugesstions???Thanks I did it, but still, when im mining, i have in ANY player v-sync disabled , when i stop mining, v-sync is enabled again  I know the reason.....Im just asking if there is a solution I have an ATI 4890 and i can't see movies (Xvid-avi) when im mining, cause lag, and skipping, etc.What the best way to see movies and mining?? Flags, config, etcIm using GUI MinerThanks I have an ATI 4890 and i can't see movies (Xvid-avi) when im mining, cause lag, and skipping, etc.What the best way to see movies and mining?? Flags, config, etcThanks Is "Paypal Mining" working?? Transaction DONE, all fine and fast.Recommended buyerSee you PM to you hate irc  Hi.I know http://coincard.ndrix.com/ but in this moment havent enough dollar to buy my coinsMore sites that buy btc's and pays on paypal???ThanksEDIT: directly selling coins, not something like mtgox FixedThanks
Sorry, my bad, is -w128The only thing that increasing my mining is -f1, but only in 2M/s, so  i think im gonna minig default.Anyways, thanks Have a little problem.Since a couple of days, i cant receive payments, i dunno why, but my maximum value for automatics payments is set to "1", but i have 3btc's in my account. Well, the results are:Nothing in extra flags: around 82mhash/s-v -w182: around 76mhash/sI tried too, -v, -v -w64, -w64.Max is with NOTHING Im so noobbbWhere i have to put -v -w128 if is not in Extra flags??Thanks what is exactly i have to put in "Extra flags:" I have an ATI 4980Thanks Ok, then, i have a GUI miner running, and bitcoint too (but disabled generating coins)This is the mining:Is that ok then??Thanks Just a simple question from a noob.Is needed to run bitcoin with Generating Coins activated?? or running mining in a cmd is ok??Thanks No, but he included a lil bit of coins for delay, but not 10%Personally, sorry but ill never use this again Received.More than a week of delay, but received.Good luck I think im starting to be mad Hi. I waited 1 week until today, now please give me back my money. Regards I hope next week i get refund of my invest I have to say, i've receibed today 10% of my invest, BUT not my original invest   Okay, i will try just now, starting 1 weekEdit: Done, also mail sendSee you in a week   I maybe do it. But only when many people tested   I like the site just like is now. Any idea? People, i really need your help  Still nothingWhat is the message i have to found on my "debug.log" file, to make sure i may have found a block??This is so rare, 1 month running with 4200khash/s with many versions.I just need to know if my machine is correctly running to generated bitcoins Sorry but here, we are not talking about the good or the bad of bitcoinexchange.Anyways, ill tell you that i prefer this web because it pays in euros directly to my bank account. Since yesterday, when i try to make a transaction, when i press "Go" button, an error message appear:-----------------------------"Internal Server ErrorThe server encountered an internal error or misconfiguration and was unable to complete your request.Please contact the server administrator, webmaster@bitcoinexchange.com and inform them of the time the error occurred, and anything you might have done that may have caused the error.More information about this error may be available in the server error log."----------------------------Is just me?
