Bump - price updated! Bump! Some member accounts available! All of my deals were done only through an escrow. Like I said befor: escrow is a must! No one has to risk anything. I didn't know that, but I am sure that theymos is also able to change username.By the way:I've added a legendary account! No, I think only Theymos could do this... Smooth escrow service and without complication! I am selling my whole business with all accounts I have in possession. Check out this thread: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=757718.0Also, you get my account (Karmicads) and you will be able to continue my business.All in all you will get 1 x Sr. Member and 5 x Full Members + my account (Karmicads).My price: 1.1 BTC  bumpAdded new accounts and updated the price -No, I already reduced the price by 0.1 BTC yesterday...-Please pm me and we can discuss prices.-I don't sell member accounts yet added a full member account and reduced price Thats it! Alwasy PM me...I am in negotiation with some members, soon I will add new accounts! Sorry but I have enough Full members for now Bumpadded more accounts! For now I am only buying legendary, hero or Sr. accounts! Yes, of course I am asking for usernames... I am only buying accounts from users which pm'ed me directly. ALL BULK SELLERS DON'T HAVE PROOF!ACCTseller, please remove the negative trust!BTW: I got Pm's from 12 different members. Everyone wants to sell their account, but only two delivered proof of ownership... "You need to prove that you are the trueowner of this account by signing a message from an old associated btc address or an reputable userthat verifies your ownership via pm. "It matters, because a lot of people bought hacked accounts... @blumangroupyes, I bought this account -BTW: I don't have internet for the next 48 hours. I will answer all questions/pm when I am at home. Check out this thread: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=741302.0Quickseller and co. are buying acccounts without proof of ownership... after that, they sell them...I only deal with legit accounts, but It is really hard to find such. I am selling bitcointalk accounts!Selling:Legendary account! I don't have this account on stock but I will act as a agent! The user also didn't want to expose account stats.Price: 1.5 BTC. Legendary accounts are very very rare! Also selling some member accounts - Price: 0.05 BTC each. Escrow is a must!---------------------------I have sold over 11 accounts the past few weeks -  my accounts are high quality! Oh! Right then. LOL Anything else I can fight to the death for then? Just feeling a wee tad gladiatorial tonight.  I think you are confusing dissent with censorship. I may disagree with what you say, but I will fight to my death, for your right to say it. I thought litecoin was a he. Have you and (s)he gotten to third base yet? 
Gone over $300 now.  !! Woooot !! .What a shame huh? People can't be fucked doing the minimum required to take responsibility for their own interests. Naturally there will be greedy operators willing to exploit their laziness. Bitcoin makes banks redundant and that is good. You can never underestimate the value of decentralization. Going back to a new central service every time a little invonvinience crops up is foolish and lazy. Let them try to create bitcoin banks though; let them try to invoke primitive technology as innovative solutions. People will get burned for no good reason, other than their own laziness. Nobody said a fool and their bitcoin could never be parted. Any kind of central authority/service is the wrong kind of solution because it tries solving the  wrong problem. Better that we have education facilities and tools that make security more intuitive while helping people to understand the need to take responsiblity in free-speech, democracy, safe sex, recycling/environment and yes, personal security (including by trying mitigate the risks borne of using centralised services to defer our responsibility.) In summary, the market you have identified, is not in banking, but rather in security tools and education. Great idea. Before long we will have to denominate the USD in brass razoo's  ...and the dish ran away with the spoon. This was fucking epic dude. Esp. the "hack politics" bit. So you got from a random coincidence, to a sentient universe, and then to a justification of your greed in just one step. WOW :wow: Amazing what folks can do when self-intrest is their only motive. This.  ^^^It seems the OP has common misconception that value is objective, intrinsic to the thing being valued and fixed on an absolute, rather than a relative scale. A unit of measure is only ever an approximation of relative measurement, and not a perfect quantity of fixed objective existence. Much can be gained from realizing that value is subjective and relative. OP also needs to consider that there is no logical inconsistency in the concept of 'relative value'. Just because it cant be resolved to an objective and fixed unit of measure, does not mean it cant be a unit of measure. Value is assigned by cognative projection in the first instance, and then by social consensus as the process of invoking the value vested in any common medium, that might be called currency. Currency btw, is also a relative term. Something gains 'currency' as it gains acceptance as medium of exchange. It is essential fwiw, that an honest currency must allow the value to fluctuate as demand and supply dictate. The requirement to do otherwise, is not sound economics, but rather corruption. Consensus in Bitcoin. Who is it for? Who is it by? :   A number of types of steakholder Come up when I think about Consensus, in the Context Of Bitcoin.   Core devs of Bitcoind/QT Devs of other implementations Miners Merchants Users   It would be helpfull to have clarification on this question of What is really meant by the devs themselves when they talk about consensus. What is the intended scope and how is it decided. I have a fair idea how it goes already, but it's not an explicit protocol itself. This sugestion of the OP, kinda gets down to how important is it to the devs/BF, to foster consensus as broadly as possible. Should it be consensus of only those who do core code, or also those who can read code but only use & test the software? A concise and clear protocol definition should help not only potential alternative implementation devs, but also people who are not actualy coders (or maybe neophytes) to understand the technicalities and also in dealing with more admin/systems-analysis type matters. That in turn, is critical to feilding informed consensus from the non-developer community. That said, is there any reason why those of us with more peripheral skills shouldn't take the inititive and help ourselves to the problem/task? I think it would be a great spring-board into more serious coding for anybody with intermedite or less skills, who may be a bit apprehnsive of coding in the client itself. Also the work on profiling and style, sounds like a great student task.Maybe we need more of an overt system for dev mentoring of newbie programers of whom they may co-opt into the less system critical and more mundane house keeping chores. Of course, the proceeds of a bounty or funding drive couldnt hurt either. I would happily throw a couple of btc into the hat to see a dev mentor system founded. About the existing specs that have allready been mentioned here; what was the problem with them again?   I might take a look at them and the source, just to see if a dunce amongst the geeks can gleen some differentiation between the interface code, the main body of the protocol and the rest. It may help if the core devs could develop a habit of some infomal comment markup, for less invasive follow up work. If they are going over a part that could easily be abstracted (without busting it), they might put in some thing like:    // _dev_abst_&test @ 18333 .... lines=45That could denote that the following 45 lines have been earmarked for abstraction chores and the resulting build should be tested on port 18333 or whatever the testnet port is. Then the student devs could use the  comment notations to pick out bits of work that are usefull and educational, but otherwise boring and mundane to the main devs. If these changes were held off the table and not released in the next one or two releases, then testing could ensure the changes were safe to merge into the main codebase and release into the wild. I have the utmost respect for the devs however much they achive. They could easily be coding for their own bitcoin startups, mining, or just go fishing. But if the work load is accumulating, then the recruitment of new devs is a good option. When in doubt - mumble. When in trouble - delegate.  The poverty of the foundation/devs/community shouldn't even need to be raised, in a movement that is manifesting the future of money; one I might add, that's made some very wealthy people. Patrons shouldn't be hard at all to come by.    It´ś an odd thing to concede such massive a stuff up. But yeah, itś not much concession, to say ¨Yeah! it was me. I stuffed up¨, when a country has been doomed to ruin. It is consistent with the claim that he was just a puppet of the fed though. LOL..  Sry.. er.. RIP.    Normally uncertainty sits very comfortably with me. I can cope with not knowing quite well. But Itś strange how the sinister nature and magnitude of a scenario, drives up the urgency to feel certain. Some may opt for denial, others for alarmist retaliation. But regardles of itś manifestations, many people seem to crave certainty. I tend to feel a more intense desire to find out. Call it UBER-CURIOSITY, if you like. Even then, I can´t know what I don´t know and I know it. I wonder if curiosity is the only emotion that proffers an alternative to certainty.    I´ve just been trying to find out as much as I can about this strange New World Order idea, in the wake of the National Defense Authorization Act debacle. As a consequence I happened to watch the Alan Jones documentary ¨End Game¨. I can honestly say, that film this only left me with even more ambivalence than I´d previously had. Also, I notice a common pattern in conspiratorial rhetoric. It often seems to depend hevily upon, circumstantial evidence such as establishing some motive. It also does what fundamentalist religious propaganda often does, by starting with a conclusion and arguing with full force for a preordained conclusion. Starting with pre-ordained claims they wish to assert, then finding evidence that suits the conclusion, whilst employing confirmation bias, by neglecting any mention of contrary points, reasoning or evidence etc. Isnt this another manifestation of that desire to be sure? To believe that we know. I mention this as I find it somewhat annoying, when attempting to approach an issue in earnest, with an open mind, only to find the issue clouded by, or drowned out by a horde of baying drones trying tenaciously to push their conclusion by whatever divisive and dishonest means possible. Any shred of truth it may contain, is thereby undermined by the least critical and most pernicious rhetoric.              Let me give three examples: The first was the moon landing hoax. I had leg up on this one, with a long standing interest in astronomy and cosmology. The least convincing of the numerous claims made. was the lack of stars in the background of the lunar skyline. The explanation is quite simple. There is no atmosphere (which here on Earth makes the sky appear blue) on the moon. You can stand on the daylight side of the moon, look up at the sky and it will still be black. Nevertheless the ambient light is still too bright for stars to outshine. You don see stars on the daylight side of the moon for the same reason you don't see them on the daylight side of the earth. Mystery solved. Now just a quick memo to all the Moon hoax websites and the misunderstanding will be corrected right? Not likely.  I noted that when it was well refuted that the hoax theorists would either not counter the point, or retort with something like: Well if you´re so smart, why is... [change of topic - insert new contention] ...blah blah blah... The websites didn't seem to care to revise their miss-information either. To me, this has the effect of ringing alarm bells. If the mainstream populists of this idea, had a shred of intellectual integrity, their little misunderstanding would be corrected. If they wouldn't even do that much, then I´m not about to listen astutely, to a myriad of their other claims, expecting them to be one iota more honest. The 9/11 ¨truthers¨ were not so easily dismissed in my mind. Even still, there was a particularly poorly thought out and well refuted argument put forward (never mind the details). I remember thinking just the same thing. These people won´t admit when they are wrong and their worst (and fully refuted) arguments are as tenaciously clung to as the underside of a flat earth. I would like to know if there is a vestige of truth in any scientific social, economic or political theory, but there are many interests to pursue and issues to be concerned about. I´m not going to sit there, discussing wildlife safety strategies, with the boy who cried wolf.This is one of the main reasons I have barely ever gone near the issue of the New World Order. Apart from being a little too... er... political  for my taste, it positively wreaks of conspiracy theorist BS. Discovering bitcoin and the more sane side of the dialog, my perspective was widened somewhat. I was already a do-it-yourself libertarian at heart, with a healthy contempt for authority and a disdain for corporate monopolies and the wretched governments they manipulate. But bitcoin cracked the door open a bit on financial economics for me; then I watched the animated documentary, ¨Money As Debt¨ and that just blew the whole damn door off it´s hinges. Even in my mid forties, I seem to be forever re-assessing my credulity.  How could I have been so naive? Wait...That´s not really being fair... I´d really been much more like willfully ignorant. I hadn´t wanted to know about the NWO, because It was clearly going to be a festering pot of BS and politics. Only recently have many of us come to learn about this ¨National Defense Authorization Act¨. It seems that Mr Jones has a couple of feathers to stick in his hat about how dire the situation actually is. I was surprised at the brashness of some of these crazy old fools, even to the point of openly mentioning their NWO. I hadn´t even noticed obvious clues.  In my defense though, I had long felt that itś necessary for the world to become politically unified in some way, even though my concept was more organic and cooperative. Like, the grass roots organizations would eventually unite and make government redundant. The problem we are facing, is more of a monopolist (dictatorship), top down hierarchical NWO with tyrannical ruling class and a slave like subservient peasantry. (Not to mention the extermination program, if there´s any truth to it.)I found the first part of Jones´s documentary ¨The End Game¨ compelling, but I noted an arbitrary sort of ´pick´n´mix¨ of other ideological contentions woven though it. Going from the fairly obvious shady, sinister plotting, of a secretive cartel of bankers, royalty and political puppets, to some planned extermination of 80% of the world population, seemed like far too much to swallow. Mind you, I would have considered the ¨National Defense Authorization Act ¨ highly unlikely too, if it didn´t actually happen. I was somehow surprised or taken aback, when the global statistics, for death by unnatural causes (stretching back through history) were mentioned. A healthy majority it would seem, are exterminated by their own state rulers. When looked at a particular way (assuming the stats arn´t fabricated), it doesn't seem likely, so much as, almost inevitable. A chicken will trust the chicken farmer, right up to the day he comes with an axe rather than a bucket of grain. Is our supervision of government, really so poultry.   Towards the end, I found my credulity and ire being tested once more, by the outlandish characterization of biological evolution and it´s association (by equivocation) to eugenics. Now I´m back in more familiar territory - all too familiar. The ideas presented in the documentary, now suddenly seemed so much more preconceived, fabricated and cobbled together for the sake of a rhetorical construct. Many of us, according to this account, will be doomed to destruction at the hands of the elite and wealthy, or forced into labor camps. The anti-Darwin/Malthus/Huxley rhetoric, gave up the hopelessly impoverished intellectual rigor of the whole film. It was a vile, lamentable attempt at crass ad-hominem, as if dragging their names through the mud was a way to disprove their science. What credit Jones had gained for predicting USA would become a militarized zone, was shot in the foot by the loony, fundamentalist crackpot rantings that followed. Another incongruous aspect, was the charges laid at the feet of various conservation organizations (Notably the WWF) that had allegedly been setup from the start to do the bidding of the evil empire, by creating massive global ghettos and exclusion zones, while helping to drive the propaganda mill for the global environmental science establishment. Seeeee how it all fits in? Apparently Mr Jones is a bit of a climate science denier also. The problem I have with this, is in the same the way a plot can be built top down, so can a conspiracy theory. Apparently it is too. When so many controversial ideas are packed together this way you might begin to smell fabrication. Isnt it remarkable that so many of these otherwise unrelated conspiracies that happen to be Mr Jones pick´n´mix all hapen to fall together in the same co-cohesive plot. I wouldn't have been surprised to discover the Illuminati had used NASSA as a front to somehow make the earth look spheroid. So itś not just a particular conspiracy, but an interwoven raft of mutually supporting crackpot ideas.A construct such as this, is hard to believe, because it tests our incredulity on so many fronts and because it´s proponents fail to address inconsistencies with other know facts. The more crackpots tend incorporate multiple conspiracy theories, the more they demonstrate they hold a very broad brush of credulity. We´re supposed to be impressed by the way all these conspiracies fit together in such a mutually supporting way. But the plot itself (even if it were true) is deliberately constructed top down (either by the perpetrators or the conspiracy theorists themselves), so either way itś a fabrication, in the sense of a contrived plot. If the scenario can be created by one, it can be created by the other. The big problem that comes with aligning oneself with crackpot ideas, is that when you DO have something important to say, you get treated like the boy who cried wolf. This scenario is a dangerous idea (right or wrong). I still very much suspect something is horribly amiss with the US Government, as itś hard to imagine any good justification, for any freedom loving, non-aggressive governments, to reserve such power against their own people. It´s just a pity we have to sift the useful information out from all the looney stuff, to work out what is really going on.Cheers. Karmicads I´m a great advocate of curiosity, asking questions and seeking evidences when curiosity strikes, but I have to wonder if these sort of questions are asked in that curious spirit or if they are rhetorical and pointed. I´m not making an accusation here Boss (even though it is sort of rhetorical).   It´s a common habit of thinking, to ask questions with a desired answer in mind. They are commonly prefaced by: ¨What if...¨, followed by [my particular (preferred) conclusion]. the ¨What if...¨ type question, is a prime candidate for making a statement in the form of a question and leaving others to contend with falsifications. When I read this sort of question  I hear myself asking: Is this humble curiosity, ambivalence or conviction?  We need to learn how to get past armchair speculation and hoping others will figure everything out for us. Conspiracy theories are built up, by tying numerous whimsical speculations together with popular cultural dogma and gluing them with a little bit of circumstantial evidence (like establishing a motive). Itś all about what you can get away with claiming, rather what there is good evidence for. Extraordinary claims call for extraordinary evidence. I have a different question: What evidence do we have for these things? Perhaps we could ask that, of these questions you have raised Boss. Better yet; What evidence do we wish to consider, and what is the most parsimonious way to explain it? Not being factious you know, but if this eradication policy were half true, then there´s some serious shit about to hit the fan, which we will all have to deal with.   The best approach IMHO is a rational one. That entails starting from what we know (within reason) and preceding to investigate what we don´t know (with reason). Just my 0.002 BTC worth.                                  ^^ This ^^ Yeah! Thanks fizz. That did it. Just have the one board mining @ 100 Mhz ATM. Iĺl have to buy some more cables and rig up a power supply to run all four boards but it does seem to be working.   Iḿ thinking of investing in another ten or so boards, then building up the farm as they generate bitcoin. Thanks freshzive, I got the bug with the dev upgrade though.  With regards to the cooling issues, if you are willing to forgo the board stacking configuration, itś not too hard to conceive of a set of risers coming up to just above the heat-sinks to a pair of flat aluminum strips (mounting rails), counter-sunk and drilled to accept an 80mm fan facing downwards over the whole board. This config, fits with the board quite well and puts the airflow right down into the heatsinks. I can try to knock up a prototype for this and then some jigs if it works out OK. Stacking for vertical space could still be implemented if the mounting rails were extended out past the board and separate holes were provided for longer ´stacking risers´. For extra cooling, how about a sponge (cheap kitchen sponge should do) cut so that it slips down over the heat-sink fins. That can then be fed water by capillary action, with a wick going to a water bottle mounted nearby? Then you effectively have an evaporative cooling system.  Given the lack of header pins for a fan, you can also use the disused Mollinex plug for the fan, if you are using the barrel connector for power (or vice versa I assume).Itś great to see everybody doing so well with the Dominator so far. The code seems to be maturing nicely and the hash rates... OH WOW!!   Hi guys! Ive been away (as you might have noticed) for the past couple of months (learning to fly gyrocopters FWIW) and so since I´ve returned I have finalized my order for the four Dominator FGPA boards. Happy to say they have just arrived and don´t those little munchins look beauuuuuuwtiful?  I´m on a Mandriva linux box with a 32bit Intel BTW. So far I´ve installed the FTDI drivers. I then downloaded PyUSB-1.6-fizzisist-linux.tar.gz extracted it and attempted to install as per the instructions. Here´s where I have gotten a little stumped:Code:[root@localhost PyUSB-1.6-fizzisist-linux]# python setup.py buildrunning buildrunning build_pywarning: build_py: byte-compiling is disabled, skipping.running build_extbuilding 'd2xx._d2xx' extensiongcc -pthread -fno-strict-aliasing -O2 -g -frecord-gcc-switches -Wstrict-aliasing=2 -pipe -Wformat -Werror=format-security -Wp,-D_FORTIFY_SOURCE=2 -fstack-protector --param=ssp-buffer-size=4 -fomit-frame-pointer -mtune=generic -march=i586 -fasynchronous-unwind-tables -DNDEBUG -O2 -g -frecord-gcc-switches -Wstrict-aliasing=2 -pipe -Wformat -Werror=format-security -Wp,-D_FORTIFY_SOURCE=2 -fstack-protector --param=ssp-buffer-size=4 -fomit-frame-pointer -mtune=generic -march=i586 -fasynchronous-unwind-tables -g -fPIC -Iftdi-win32 -I/usr/include/python2.7 -c d2xx/_d2xx.c -o build/temp.linux-i686-2.7/d2xx/_d2xx.oIn file included from d2xx/_d2xx.c:23:0:d2xx/_d2xx.h:23:20: fatal error: Python.h: No such file or directorycompilation terminated.error: command 'gcc' failed with exit status 1[root@localhost PyUSB-1.6-fizzisist-linux]# I never have any joy when expected to compile code in order to install it... NEVER.   I figured there was something missing between Python and gcc, so I installed a package (gcc-plugin-python), but this had no effect. Any ideas?     Sorry Li, but I have to report the above post with the picture of our new boards to the moderators. It should be considered offensive to post something that makes one wet themselves.  Nice!!   Yep, I can't wait for my shipment, but I s'pose I have to. It's worth the extra time to see a little more attention is paid to details like quality of parts, power protection, and reliable shipping logistics. Well done to all of you. I would submit the Dominator as the model of a good (no - make that ideal) bitcoin project and a template for how great things can be done with careful incremental planning and fostering of goodwill in the community. You've dealt with minor quibbles about intellectual property rights and held open arms to those who may have formerly snubbed you. You've shone trough the tough, direct questions and challenges to the technical specifications. You've dealt with contingencies (such as fluctuating bitcoin value and order volumes) and offered reasonable parameters. You've kept your customers informed and involved. You've balanced a whole slew of trade offs in the final detail to hardware and code and simply pulled it all together. I hope you are all very proud of yourselves. And might I add, that board looks just beautiful. PS: Might I suggest you print up an official pre-order voucher for the next lot (using the existing design). If it works as a normal voucher, it could be out in time for Christmas. Just honor refunds in USD at face value if recipients wish to bow out. This answers the question: What to buy the obsessive bitcoin geek in your life, who has everything? I bet s/he doesn't have a FPGA  mining board. Being given a gift voucher for a 10-15% deposit on the Dominator, may be all it takes to nudge them in the right direction. Make the vouchers redeemable right up till and even past the final shipment date. Even if it generated a dozen or two extra orders I bet it would be worth it.Thanks again to all of you, for the wonderful job you have done.PS My money has been sitting there on MtGox (in USD) since I first got worried about the fluctuating price. Today BTC dipped down from about 4.9 to about $4.5 USD. I managed to get back in at 4.65 - 4.7 and were still trending up. So I hope you can call for final payments soon. Just before a market 'correction' but just towards the end of a frenzied, bullish bubble would be nice.    You have to put things into the proper perspective. Before the fall, there was no sin, all the animals were vegetarians. This would never have happened if Adam and Eve had not partaken of the forbidden fruit. Then of course with the Goldilocks incident, we were carrying the bag for the stolen porridge incident.  This sort of thing was bound to happen.  Seems quite consistent with the malevolent, vindictive, desert deity Yahweh. Beside she was probably teasing some bald guy at the time or some similarly heinous sin. Remember Elisha?Let's just hope there's about as much truth to this article, as there is to the Bible. 
Good to hear metonymous.   We tend to get together on #bitcoin-au2011​ on irc.freenode.net in the evenings to plan and coordinate. Feel free to drop in and help out. I second that motion. All agreed say 'aye'...? I am also sorry to hear you are leaving the project newMeat1. FWIW I commend you on your PR skills and having the patience to deal with all of our little apprehensions. I for one, consider it a pleasure doing business with you and wish you the best of success in your future endeavors. I can't help feeling that an amicable resolution might have been possible, as the time-line and cost/complexity of the project have not, so far, caused any unrest among the customers. But the details of the dispute are none of my business. I know we have to have a little patience for an emergent technology and that our wonderful little toys will arrive in due course. It's not like waiting in line at McFGPA fast miner outlet, for your order to be processed. But I get to be one of the first handful of people to enjoy the benefits of a new technology, which IMHO will revolutionize bitcoin mining forever. Some things are worth waiting for. I honestly suspect this project will lead to the future of bitcoin, entering into the ASIC market and ensure the future viability of bitcoin as a stable currency. I prefer to take a long term view of things, as I suspect many others who are investigating FPGA technology do also. I'm just pleased to hear things are moving along at the present rate and that the whole project is looking like becoming a success. It's a big thumbs up from me, to you guys (including you newMeat1), for your persistence, in putting the future of bitcoin mining (and the bitcoin economy) on a new footing.   He's a pants man ^^ If you will be at the iWOB conference I will definitely buy one or two of these. OK. A bunch of fat hairy nerds in rainbow outfits marching down the street to ABBA songs then. Fixed?  Er... I would think Satoshi was the Mesiah (He's been taken up...). Gavin is our prophet, and Bruce? Hmm... I'd have to say he's a fallen angel at this point, but I'll reserve judgement until I see the horns ans hoofs.  No my friend. That is the loving spirit of the Flying Spaghetti Monster, reaching out and touching you with his noodley appendage. This is a fantastic idea. FULL OF WIN!!Furthermore, I say we define bitcoin as 'spiritual love', a blessing and a sacrament, and consider it blasphemy to equate it to any earthly currencies. Will the court's deny our religious freedom?    I had another idea on this. Suppose the hunt were prearranged for a particular starting point and the hunters were given a fist full of pamphlets each. Now, instead of hiding the prizes in random places, they were all being held by shops, restaurants and such. The job would be to go into any place you find open and ask "Do you accept bitcoin?" The proprietors would either look at you with a blank stare, ask "WTF are bitcoins?" or say "Yes we do". The hunters would claim their prize or leave a pamphlet for the business owner (and possibly one to advertice the iWOB conference to post in the window), so that more exposure is generated and possibly more business will end up accepting bitcoin. I don't think prizes would have to be huge. Offer a 5-10 bitcoin incentive to the business owners too, just for trying trying bicoin out. We'd have to organize some POS solutions for taking payments though. Mobiles with pre-installed bitcoin apps would do.  Are we going with the name Graet proposed?Incredible World Of Bitcoin (or iWOB for short)?If so, I have a little demo graphic now:Does anybody realize that the registration of interest form isn't working? The above link yields a page with the following response:Code:Server Error in '/' Application.Runtime ErrorDescription: An application error occurred on the server. The current custom error settings for this application prevent the details of the application error from being viewed remotely (for security reasons). It could, however, be viewed by browsers running on the local server machine. Details: To enable the details of this specific error message to be viewable on remote machines, please create a <customErrors> tag within a "web.config" configuration file located in the root directory of the current web application. This <customErrors> tag should then have its "mode" attribute set to "Off".<!-- Web.Config Configuration File --><configuration>    <system.web>        <customErrors mode="Off"/>    </system.web></configuration>Notes: The current error page you are seeing can be replaced by a custom error page by modifying the "defaultRedirect" attribute of the application's <customErrors> configuration tag to point to a custom error page URL.<!-- Web.Config Configuration File --><configuration>    <system.web>        <customErrors mode="RemoteOnly" defaultRedirect="mycustompage.htm"/>    </system.web></configuration> Could we have somebody fix it or nix it please?    Was given an interesting link last night, to some sort of 3D logic device that claims to combine the advantages of FGPA's and ASIC into a real time reprogramable logic device. Sounds Interesting.  http://www.tabula.com/technology/technology.php Noice. Hows about a reverse polarity diode. Only be a few cents extra. I assume it'd fry something if the supply polarity were hooked up backwards. Nice idea shads. My Nephew Andrew, is one of the head croupiers at Crown, so I might ask if he can pull some strings.   I might let you look for 2 mins - for free - just 'cause I'm a great guy. OK? But only two minutes see...   Building himself up to his own level of self importance:[Insert: Dramatic pregnant pause]  [Insert: Another dramatic pregnant pause] [OK! I'll try to hold back my excitement] WANKER!! The simple fact is that GPU's DON'T compete NOW with FPGA technology and they are not optimized for  SHA256 hashing but for video preprocessing.  That's WHY they are so inefficient with mining bitcoin compared to the FPGA. Can the author of this article write some code to make a 6990 do (in terms of energy costs) what the Spartan 6 will do? NO?I thought not. If GPU's could do what dedicated bitcoin mining FPGA's could do, then these guys (fpgaminer, fizzisist, newMeat1 et. al.), would have been deploying firmware upgrades instead of the costly (but worthwhile) FPGA based hardware solution. You have to account for difficulty increases and power costs. This guy can't see past his nose. Well done Graet!  Re the 'name' thing: I had a little brain fart along the lines of: The Aussie Bitcoin Show 'N' Tell. so as to not set it up for anti-climax (not that I've got anything against climax  ), but at least it avoids the words 'conference' (which sounds like a sit down show, with lots of speakers) and Expo, which sounds like a multi-million dollar extravaganza. It sounds like it's probably more like a 'convention', but do we want to sound that formal? A cross between a swap-meet, convention and a big meetup just sounds like 'Show 'N' Tell' to me, and that's just lots of fun.WOW!   That's just soooo uber-professional. You are a legend for doing this. Hmm.. I'll contact you about that.Good idea. Let's make sure the rest of the world can be involved and especially curious new comers, with their predictable raft of skeptical questions. Best if we're ready to handle them and give'em the straight dope. (No not dope straight from Silk Road  ).I'm sorry to say that I won't be bringing a solar powered FPGA mining board to show off. That's because instead I'll be bringing four count'em, that's FOUR Dominator X6500 boards. That's a total of eight FPGA's with a combined hash rate of over 700 MH/s. That's running at about 1/10th of the equivalent GPU wattage, hopefully on a single 130-150w solar panel. That should be running from software on a notebook connected to WiFi.Which reminds me. We need to ensure that we get some good reliable WiFi, support down there at the site. I'll take that ball and run with it if you like, (and if it kills me) OK? I'm trying to set up some rapport with Internode, an all Aussie company that helped found the Australian internet backbone. I'm sure they can be called upon to deliver reliable internet support for the event. In fact I'd love to get Simon Hackett to come along and learn about the exciting bitcoin revolution. I'll do what ever I can to this end. It would be great to have the ear of the largest privatively owned ISP in Australia and get them backing bitcoin, to the hilt. I'd love to see Aussies  being able to pay for their internet access with bitcoin. Internode is Adelaide based, so the ball is kind of in my court already. Could everybody drop a personal email to the manager of their financial institution? That could at least cause some interest in lower management, and trickle back to a small handful of middle management types. Just a simple invite and link to existing info should do.We'll do what we can (give it our best shot) and that mean's a lot to us Aussies. Hmmm?You bet!!   Thanks GraetPS: Are we having a chat again tonight on IRC? Oh! wait... What was the name of the chat room? (Bump) How's the new design going guys? Abracadabra?     You total legend!!    and 100 MH/s no less. Sweeeeeeet.   Oh yeah! I forgot to mention. DON'T LET THE SMOKE OUT! These gizmo's really work better if you keep the smoke inside of them.  Hang on!   I just realized something (halfway through selling my entire BTC stash). What if the price goes up again and I'm holding USD. I'm not going to have "just the right amount", because I'll be burned for selling low (it's pretty low as it is) and buying high.  I'm feeling a bit tense right now.    Seems I always manage to screw up when I try to do anything with bitcoin on the exchanges.   EDIT: Er... Strike that. Of course - I just realized the USD price is fixed so however many BTC I get when I buy back in will cover the price.  
What I think I would have preferred, is a price fixed in BTC at the time of order (at least the maximum), rather than the price being set in USD terms. There's no way to tell how much the order will cost in BTC, between making the commitment and the time to pay the balance. It's a little difficult for anybody to deal with the fluctuating value of BTC, but if the agreed exchange rate is set at the time of commitment, then we'd have a good idea of the most BTC we would have to find to cover the balance. Just a little something to consider, if you preffer payment in bitcoin.   30w? I was thinking more like 130-140w for 4 X6500's (eight FPGU's). That's 10 or 20w more than the total load. So there's a little room for deterioration. I don't expect more than 1.5% deterioration per year. So 15% over a whole decade. Perhaps I will go as high as 150w. The batteries I have to think about some more. Even if it needs a another $500 or $1000 spent on Absorbed Glass Matt batteries, the whole thing is still going to pay for itself several times over, well within the life of the panel. It would pay for itself twice even without batteries and only running in daylight hours. The extra cost of battery backup so it can run 24/7 would be marginal to the initial setup costs. Even allowing for two or three battery replacements over the decade.So we need to aim at something more like 85% average over 10 hours. I think that's doable. Also a heliostat might very well be a wise investment. That or solar tracking. As long as the solar panel is reasonably oversize the need for 100% efficiency is averted.I'm well aware of this. I've been looking into solar systems for quite a while now. I live in South Australia we have an excellent solar yield.  That's a negligible overhead in terms of running costs. I'm still not convinced that an on site processor is necessary for a network connected unit.  Even still, I cant imagine needing anything as powerful as the processor in a typical palmtop or even an embedded system. If the software can be run over the network, all the better. The point is you don't need a huge power hungry monster that runs on mains power.And that's why everybody's doing it if they can afford the upfront cost? C'mon now. Haven't you heard? People are putting $5-15,000 dollar units on the family home, that pay for themselves in under 5 years, cut their electricity bill down to a small fraction and sometimes even generate a small profit. Even selling excess power back to the grid is profitable. If buying power from the grid to mine bitcoins (with power hungry GPU's) is profitable, then cutting out the middle man by turning solar into bitcoins without inverters/grid-power at a tenth of the wattage, must easily be profitable. I PM'd you, Re: getting an extra 3. Have full payment for total of 4 ready to go.   Somebody who has an aversion to big power bills.Somebody who still wants to do cost effective mining after GPU's have run their course.Somebody who doesn't want to have to use a motherboard requiring video slots, configuration etc.. etc.. Just USB.Somebody who is smart.    Go bravely Molecular, you pioneer.  Just remember that the whole bitcoin world is watching you and counting on those trembling hands. Feel safer now?     I always know I'm not geeky enough when I don't get jokes like this.   No. don't tell me. I hafta work it out for myself.  Phew. Thanks newMeat1. You guys just rock.  So with a 130W panel I could load it up with 8 units. for 1.44 GH/s. Sweeeeeeeeet. EDIT: Actually, I realized since posting this, that I'd only have to buy half the FGPA's while using half the wattage to charge a battery for night time use. Still, 720 MH/s is nice for ZERO running costs. At under $3500 total investment that runs out to breaking even after about 2.7 years, solar panel extra hardware and all. The beauty is, after paying for itself, it's all money for (no)jam. Who wouldn't buy a $3500 (retail) FPGA solar mining kit, knowing the sun's gonna shine and FPGA will last and dominate for probably another decade? Those are conservative figures BTW and don't account for the rapid disappearance of GPUs after the next difficulty increase, nor the steady rise in value of the BTC.  OH Bugga!!   I think I went and ordered the X6000. I'd really much prefer the X6500. Any chance for that order to be upgraded?   Me too.  This idea if FULL of win!!+ 1000   I have a circular display stand I would be happy to bring to the Conference/Expo to be adorned with various bitcoin wares of various individuals who either won't be there, or don't have the wherewithal to justify a separate boot/stand of their own. It's an ex Bodyshop stand, and it looks something like this (although this is just a similar image): I'm thinking for the likes of Bruno and his leather-wares and others who have miscellaneous bitcoin goods to provide a little showcase of variety that can be bought with BTC. I suppose that means I would have suckered myself into taking orders for the displayed merchandise, but, eh... so be it. The stand also has a transparent plastic circle mounted (vertically) above that will be perfect to put the traditional bitcoin design on. I could even install some lighting in it to add a bit of the wow factor!I will also (almost surely) have an interesting technological display of my own to unveil at the event. I'm buying one of the first commercially available FGPA mining boards, which I plan to hook up to solar panels. If all the legal stuff goes to plan, I can also announce what I'm doing with it. I'm looking forward to this immensely (read: getting excited).Look forward to seeing you all there.   Egad!! I just looked at that software from Xilinx it's 4.62 Gig. Good grief, what is all that code for? It says it's a design suite. Is that really necessary to run the mining environment for the end user? I thought the idea of a FGPA was that it does in hardware what would otherwise have to implemented in software. I'm still not convinced that I couldn't get away with running whatever software is needed remotely, over a network connection. Why can't a WiFi / Ethernet link support the FPGA board with software being run remotely? Assuming we have serial interfacing on both devices, the need for a dedicated CPU/memory/board should be eliminated - well, I imagine, at least. I want to connect these units over a VPN/WAN, so although they are stand alone (physically), server support and remote process serving should not be an issue. As far as I'm concerned the software could be deployed in a virtual appliance. In fact, that would be all the better for data center management (upgrades, security etc.). The end user environment IMHO, should be as simple and abstracted from system management as possible. It should also avoid physical on site maintenance of individual units at individual locations. So I fully intend to leverage cloud based solutions and virtualize whatever is possible. Also, I forgot to inquire. Would this FGPA miner afford any advantage towards R&D of an asic based solution? Is there any/much benefit of having a good FGPA based design to leverage a future asic device? Just out of curiosity.   In that case why not just pop the cover and bridge the pads with a bit of hookup wire. Alternatively, I think there are two wire bridging crimps you can use with normal pliers. They fold over the two wires and have little metal jaws, that cut through the insulation and make contact with the wires inside. Neat, simple and cheap.Edit: I found a Pic: Can anybody please explain what the objective of this is? I have an excellent crimping tool and reasonable electronics knowledge, but I don't get what the problem is or what this dummy plug is supposed to do. EDIT: Wait! It's a female isn't it? so you don't have to plug the PSU into a motherboard. Now I think I get it. Er.. but then again, what's the Arduino, transistor and software stuff for?   Maybe I'm still lost.  And then I might kiss your boots.  I'll check that out. Otherwise I might have to collude with these guys and see if they can come up with some custom design for me. Trouble is, my skills/knowledge aren't meeting in the middle. I know a little of programming/computing/networking and a little of electronics theory, but all the microcontrollers & hardcore digital system stuff is getting me in over my head. I'm just working it out and learning as I go.   Well, I could do that I guess, but the whole thing is intended for a larger product/service package deal, which I can't go into until I have some non-disclosure agreements written up. It's a standalone unit just for the solar powered mining part though, so I don't see why a separate kit couldn't be feasible. Thanks for that idea Pipesnake, I'll look into it. You'll be the first to know.   It'll just be the one for prototype/demo first up. But yeah, I post some pics for sure.   Egad! That's a bit of overkill isn't it? I meant the motherboard of course.   I don't need a PCI slot, or video, or most of that stuff. Just enough processing power and memory to run whatever the X6000 software requires and a USB serial interface. Can you think of anything else I'd need on-board? I was thinking more along the lines of an ARM embedded system or something minimalistic. For that price I could buy a tablet PC running android. Don't mean to be difficult, but this isn't likely to be a one off thing. I rather fancy the idea of running the software remotely on a server if possible.No probs. This baby's going to be bolted to a set of solar panels. So low voltage from go to whoa.   Thank's inh. Thought the thing had processing power of it's own. Just don't understand how it can run an OS & software without a processor.   Have to look at something more substantial I guess. See, I was thinking of pairing your unit with something like this for WiFi:  WiFly GSX Breakout.I can't figure out what processor is on there (ARM perhaps?), but it must have one, because is says it's running the eCos - OS. Unfortunately as far as I can tell, eCos only allows for the running one process. On the WiFly, that would be the TCP-IP stack. If I can somehow get away with a hack to use only the WiFly, that would be very cool.   I'm now wondering if given the advantage of WiFi, if my standalone units, could simply run the software process, server side over the network (The  WiFly does do telnet). Therefore I'd have no need for a processor other than the one in the WiFly unit. Thoughts? Thanks.No Probs. If it does the job, the pleasure will be all mine (get it? - MINE) 
Well, I placed my pre-order on a X6000 unit. I hope that means the second series without the need for the system cable. I'm in Australia so hope the shipping arrangements will be OK. I plan on going to the Bitcoin confrence/expo thing in Melbourne 18 -20 of November, as I'm planing to put together a standalone solar mining rig. This will be a great unit to incorporate. I wonder what the most minimal type of processor/board I can look at running for the software. Maybe a simple embedded system board running a Linux kernel?Oh! Great work guys. I'm very impressed.   You're still unconvinced of my position, because you choose to be. You cant be convinced of a position you haven't considered.In case you failed to detect my attempt at cynicism/sarcasm/irony, I'll point out that I have no investment in a petty adversarial competition to win (as it particularly appears to be posited in your case). My concept of debating, is rather to seek a dialectic and attempt to reach agreement. In such a mode, if I disagree on a matter and point it out to you, it is for your benefit, if you wish to have any of your misconceptions pointed out and stand corrected. I may have been my mistake to credit you (or give the benefit of the doubt to you) with the maturity and intellectual integrity, to be earnestly interested in what the other fellow has to say, so as to test your own assumptions. Again we see your petulant appeal to 'proof' and this caricaturisation of the debate in the adversarial mode. One could easily post a thread proclaiming "read this before having an opinion on philosophy and critical thinking", then offered a link to some Socrates. You'd do well to actually read some philosophy, before foisting your pretentious attitude and deliberating on it. You could easily be the very persona of Euthyphro himself. In the post you didn't read I had this to say, about the self-righteous adversarial mode of debate and the 'I'm right cos you're wrong' mentality: Thanks Hawker, I appreciate your optimism. But in the case of the likes of bitcoin2cash, there's little hope ever of attaining a forthright concession, even to one point. I realize I'm a little on the verbose side (I suffer from a compulsion to make myself understood), but as I pointed out at the end of that last long post:Perhaps I should have put that at the beginning, but in the end, all points will be covered even if I broke them up into several posts. I also highlighted the transparent ploy of willfully ignorant dogmatist, in that they will typically look for any excuse to derail the debate by making it about the terms of the debate itself, rather than the subject matter. To that end I pointed out to bitcoin2cash:In the end, it should make little difference if anybody reads a post in two, three or four sittings, and replies separately, or if the same text is posted in two, three or four separate posts. The real reason for the copout, is to create a diversion and quibble about the nature of the debate rather than it's contents.Incidentally, bitcoin2cash has no misgivings about suggesting that others be expected to read a whole book on economics ("Read this before having an opinion on economics") before challenging his views. I took the time to read this book before posting this thread. I also read his whole thread. So I think his petty little quibble about being too busy and not being obliged to read what his critics respond to him with, is much more to do with diversionary rhetoric and his double standards, than any practical/reasonable protocol of the debate itself. I'll break it down for you then. It means 'You're full of shit. I win. End of debate.'What a copout. Absolutely effing fantastic!!I'll be there with bells on. I might even wear some clothes too, if you're lucky.  I'm in the 'other' state but I'd even consider going over to Perth just to be at the start of the convoy. I love the idea of a convoy too. How 'bout if we get on the CB radio and get the truckies involved? Bitcoin4backhaul. Break out the C.W. McCall.Yah Breaker 1-9, This hear's the Rubber Duck. You got a copy on me Pig Pen, c'mon?Let me know what you need in the way of help. I'll be glad to do whatever I can.   I understand. It's a bit like the Colosseum scene in Life Of Brian: Sometimes I think this place is so much like the Peoples Font of Judea.Solidarity brothers... er... and sisters.  The bitcoin economy is a bit like a fat guy sitting on a sofa.Sometimes he eats a bag of chips and puts on a little weight.sometimes he breaks wind and looses a little.The bitcoin economy works just the same, except there is no fat guy.   No. Non-violence is the central tenet of Pacifism. Would you say that opposition to intellectual property is even a reasonable approximation to being the 'central tenet' of libertarianism? Perhaps you might like to go hunting for people who profess to be pacifists yet condone violence, while I go hunting for people who profess to be libertarians, yet condone IP. Who do you think would return the longest list of names?    Depends. Are you a cosmic string on the event horizon of a black hole? Oh... never mind.  The problem is, that there are others who don't agree that to be 'consistently libertarian' they MUST 'reject intellectual property laws.' It's the fact that you don't even appreciate you are expounding a moot point, that makes you seem dogmatic. The point of my criticism was that you were appealing to your preferred definition, as if that itself were an argument for or against IP. Would you really be satisfied to encourage somebody into opposition of IP, specifically on the grounds that is the 'done thing' if you consider yourself to be a libertarian? I'm not opposed to violence because I'm a pacifist, but rather I'm a pacifist because I'm opposed to violence. Declaring that these are 'just definitions', has no barring on the merit (or lack thereof) that Intellectual Property may or may not deserve. It's the sort of ploy that religion often uses, appealing to group think and 'If you're not with us your against us' etc.. I'd rather not be drawn into a petty little quibbling session over semantics if it's all the same to you, especially not while the valid issues of ethics are outstanding. If you act like a politician or a preacher however, I'm likely to point it out. Just sayin'.Thanks for your courteous permission. I think I'll just continue to be consistently libertarian, whist remaining somewhat dissatisfied with intellectual property law, seeking it's reform, but endorsing it as a necessary, even vital part of society.Having just presented a lamentably consequentialist plaint for opposition to IP (that consequence being that 'you cant really be in the libertarian club' unless you oppose IP) now you are going to try to strawman me with ad consequentiam? WTF? Note in this context, that you are asserting the truth value of a claim (ie Intellectual property is incompatible with Libertarianism),  rather than an ethical appeal to what is good. It is precisely under these circumstances that argumentum ad consequentiam is relevant. The consequence of being compatible with libertarian values, is the objective being enshrined (a desirable consequence), but the truth value of the claim is moot. The reader is enticed by the consequence being a desirable one, yet the desirability of the consequence set forth , has absolutely no baring on the truth value of the claim. Moreover, the implication that IP must be opposed, is slipped right in there, without being evaluated on it's own terms. Let's just clarify that my previous comment was not made in the service of a formal logical argument, but simply a response to your own prior comment. If you're going to invoke ad consequentiam, it must be noted that simply mentioning a consequence, doesn't necessarily count as a resort to the ad consequentiam fallacy. If somebody makes a claim of a factual nature (ie asserting something to be true or false) and resorts to implying the truth of the claim by appealing to the desirability of it's consequence, THEN there is justified grounds to call ad consequentiam. If they are simply expressing ethical opinion or a statement about the desirability of a circumstance, then the is no grounds to call ad consequentiam. There can be no logical fallacy, in an ethical conjecture that was not set up to establish a point of fact. In the statement "Well the world would be in a fine state, if everybody who ever had a good idea, kept it to themselves." I am lamenting the moral outcome of of a circumstance (ie what is good or bad). Does it sound like it was set up to establish an objective point of logical fact? Hmmm..?   It might be very nice if you would quit trying to argue like a disingenuous, sophist. Since it seems to have escaped your parochial self-absorbed attention, the whole issue of IP is entrenced in the ethics of consequential outcomes. There's no point whatsoever having any opinion about it, least of all raising it as your favorite bone of contention, if you insist on holding matters of ethical consequence off the table. But of course you expect nothing of the sort. Your own points are loaded to the hilt, with every opportunity taken to express consequential scenarios. It's also a 'patently'  subjective issue of great ethical import. If you consider the various scenarios and examples in the book by Hazlitt, which you upheld as an essential introduction to libertarian values, then you might notice they are also rich in giving credit to the importance of a multitude of intangible consequential outcomes. The central theme (illustrated by The Broken Window analogy) is to enlist our awareness, of the less tangible and less obvious secondary consequences of any particular policy or action. I can scarcely believe you have even read this book, let alone that you understand it and uphold it as a valuable piece of inspiration. Returning to the actual subject matter of the two comments above, the purpose of pointing out the consequence, of expecting people to remain silent in the event they may have a good idea, was that we would all be much worse off if they did so. In my OP I've laid out a detailed case that innovative original ideas are in fact granted value in our societies. Talent (as in the painting example) is rewarded far beyond the material utility of the medium. That is intended to establish that the intangible quality in a work of original art is agreed in general to be worthy of having value in it's own right. Even though the intangible value of a painting is restrained by the physical medium, we have every reason to agree that physical things are not the only store of value. Paintings are not easily copied, at least the intangible value of an original masterpiece, can't be transfered even to a good reproduction. The physical impracticality tends to make IP redundant as there can only ever be one original Mona Lisa. The point is the perceived value of this intangible talent and original creativity has it's precedent, regardless of whether there are IP laws to protect it and regardless of whether it is constrained by a physical medium. Considering this, it is not hard to reach the conclusion that original works of creativity and innovation are valued by society at large, and that if we are asking ourselves, as we should be, do inventors and artists deserve to be rewarded for their original, unique and intangible creations, whether they be works of art, toys, tools or household goods; if we wish to establish whether unique acts of creative endeavor are worth paying for independently from the medium then the typical renaissance masterpiece tells us all we need to know. YES the intangible, original creation of the talented mind is entitled to be granted our endorsement of value. A reasonable person should see that the work of creativity has it's own value. For that reason, our society has seen fit to render a reward system so that works of the mind and imagination can be given reward for motivation. That's pretty basic psychology and shouldn't need explaining or proving. Most economists understand the law of effort and reward. Apart from this, there is the aspect of social justice, that having established that an creative idea or invention, in many cases could be credited to somebody other than the originator and deserving beneficiary, or be taken for profit by anybody, there was a need to establish priority in first invention. The patenting system serves a purpose to allow for rewards and credit to be granted to those who contribute a commodity of  mutual value their talent innovation and creative abilities. If you need proof that inventions are valuable, I can assure you that you need a psychiatrist much more. Not rewarding people for contributions of mutual value to society has easily predictable consequences. They will not only no longer have the motive to deliver their talents and skills for our mutual benefit but their contribution will be squandered, should they withhold their talents. Otherwise if they voluntarily give up their skills and efforts without reward, they will be easy targets of exploitation by greedy undeserving parasites who have no right to profit from the value an innovator might contribute. I don't see how it could be too difficult  to follow this line of reasoning. So I repeat: "Well the world would be in a fine state, if everybody who ever had a good idea, kept it to themselves."And yet I still wonder how you can proudly utter such a contemptible antisocial imperative as: "If you want to own a idea then don't share it with anyone." I have a better idea: If you don't want to live in a society that mutually agrees, to give deserved rewards to people who contribute their creative skills and talents, then go live in a cave and eat worms.  You said: "If you want to own a idea then don't share it with anyone." Implying that sharing the idea is somehow mutually inconsistent with owning it. I pointed out (just for the record): "As it happens, sharing an idea does nothing to change who 'owns' it."  It's still regarded as my idea whoever I might share it with, unless of course it's misappropriated. And of course "Controlling the usage of an idea and receiving credit for originating an idea are two completely separate issues." That's a very pertinent point that serves my argument. You would do very well to take heed in it. In my OP, I deliberately made this very distinction to counter a contrived grievance in a popular Anti-IP publication (which, incidentally. is also copyrighted  ). None of your rhetorical plaints (because you're not making anything that deserves to be called points), seem to adequately or directly address the aspect of "receiving credit for originating an idea". That is the point of IP and the justification for implementing it in law. You don't seem to want to go near the justifications for tentatively deserved rewards, that patenting in particular makes provision for. The protection of the innovator to gain a very marginal royalty, in a restricted monopoly for a limited time, is unequivocally denied. Your own petty, selfish grievances to have freedoms you were never entitled, to do anything you want with your possessions, is reiterated ad nauseum This "Controlling the usage of an idea" you allude to, I take it, is yet another reference to the unsubstantiated and refuted claim, that you and your possessions exist above the law. You have been well informed, that cant do anything you want with your pen or your car, as I have clearly pointed out and exactly why you seem to think, lawful restrictions mandated by IP laws should be granted any exception for you, only falls back to your circular excuses that posit you as above the law to begin with. I might as well point out that this same petty grievance is also founded on a matter of consequence (ie: the alleged consequence of IP on your assumed freedom). Not that you shouldn't make points that draw upon consequential outcomes, but just to note the hypocrisy of your special pleading.  Not that I care to dispute this or take issue, as I don't see the relevance it has to either the preceding discourse or the general issue over why IP law should be abolished. I don't recall saying anything that could be construed as confounding plagiarism with theft. Still, its so amusing to see you make such a pedantic distinction, considering you previously likened the law forbidding you from copying published literature with: "...claiming ownership over my pen and paper. That's little more than theft." Nor am I surprised to hear you report your absence of command and control over your own reputation. I should try to talk you out of thinking this way as a gesture of goodwill, but the reserves of empathy I can afford you are a little low... but that's probably nothing to do with anything you might influence right?  Well thank's for that enlightening piece of informative research. It seems this little treasure has such a profound impact on any practical outcome in the real world, that I've been blissfully unaware of the heavy burden of these bureaucratic manacles that have so deprived my most liberating powers of freedom. Did I mention that "I didn't realize it was illegal to make reproductions or derivative art works."   I wasn't being cynical. I've honestly never noticed the tiniest effect in the real world that this legislation has ever had. Actually, in light of your comment; the one which lead to this point: when you said "work of art" I was thinking along the lines of art... as in, classical art such as paints on canvas and marble statues. I'm no great art buff, but I could swear I have often heard of reproductions mentioned casually, as if they were a legitimate form of art. For some reason I imagine marble statues and oil paintings to have little to do with copyright law. Perhaps that's partly due to the low demand from aficionados and collectors to actually call for reproductions. At the same time there are the repros that I know of, but in hindsight, come to think, they are all ancient classics (David, Venus de Milo etc..) since those would not be covered by existing copyright It's understandable that they are popular as grist for the mill. In any-case, if we return to the above comment it might be taken with the pinch of salt it deserves, if only because it makes no legitimate case for the complete abolition of IP law but simply points out a misgiving that might be addressed by reform. In fact a casual browse through wikipedia and other websites, tends to reveal quite a number of exceptions and caveats that have been brought to bare for exceptions, fair use, education etc etc.. None of them may be ideal, but demonstrate that this unyielding exclusive rights term, is typical of the law in it's attempt at being decisive and unambiguous, until there is some other legislation that partly over rides and re interprets some exceptions or caveats, to correct perceived misgivings, or make pandering concessions, so that governments can be seen trying to please all of the people all of the time. Almost all areas of law, are riddled with riddles and ad hoc exceptions, concessions and corrections. Besides all this, I am far less concerned to salvage much of what counts as copyright law, as I am to defend and reform the provisions of patent law. They are hugely different creatures. Nothing suggests, that even if copyright were totally indefensible, that patent law should be thrown out along with it. It does appear that you are proclaiming the certainty of your position by default however, and you would be the one, who advocated a book which explicitly criticizes the limited and temporary parochial view of any policy whereby the critic looks only at the short term and primary consequences or only accounts for the long-term and secondary secondary. Also pretending anybody must prove their case, where some information is unavailable, and that the corollary must be taken as true by default if they don't,  is completely disingenuous.  Intelligent people, with some understanding of critical thinking and epistemology, don't tend to posit claims in terms of absolute fact nor speak of proof as if it were infallible certainty. 'Proof is for mathematicians and alcohol' goes a wise saying in philosophy. Primary school children quibble about 'proof'. Religious nuts think it's ever so important.  I admittedly can't PROVE that the sun will appear tomorrow. I deliberately surrender the goal of perfect certitude, so that I have room to doubt, even my own tentative convictions. Anybody who is perfectly certain, is in no position to change their mind. Instead I consider all things as matters of relative probability.Since I'm not the one demanding conclusive proof of anything and have willingly considered every argument put forward and presented my own with abundant evidence, your claim to the upper hand in stakes for convincing reason are somewhat premature. Firstly lets clarify that the measures you posit of helpful or harmful are hardly tangible scientific variables to be quantified like rainfall. Even if we could agree on tangible measures for what constitutes help or harm and a calibrated scale to compare them, we would then have to find the empirical means to find data and test them. As far a valid epistemological claim, to the 'burden of proof' you have rushed in to claim priority amidst our mutual dearth of objective evidence.  Who has the burden of proof, depends on whether we choose to test for evidence of harm or help, since they may both manifest for separate reasons, they are independently variable. Which one represents 'god' depends which side of the coin we are looking at.In my experience it's always the religious nutter, who demands to posit a false dichotomy, such that there are only two possible outcomes and If you can't prove their position false then they reserve the right to win by default. The religious nutter never permits their claim to be tested and spends the whole debate squealing for the right to hold an untestable, unfalsifiable position as completely, unequivocally certain fact unless you can prove otherwise. The religious nutter cant deal in relative probabilities or concede a point towards their opponent. They don't consider debate to be a test of their assumptions, but a petulant demand to be indulged. No mater how carefully broken down an argument may be, even if it comes to self evident principals, the religious nutter will refuse to acknowledge the most undeniable obvious fact. They will diligently  ignore it for as long as possible and forestall any progress towards conceding it.For example I may point out the simple obvious fact that people do apparently collectively value the creative component of a work of art or invention. If it's in the religious nuts interest to avoid commenting on that, they will. Instead they will create a diversion of irrelevant sophist rhetoric. They will aspire to make the debate all about the terms of the debate and avoid at all costs, the relevant points to be considered to make any progress. They will require that you school them in basics of epistemology, reasoning and critical thinking. They are not seeking truth or understanding. They are not there to reach agreement in the quest for knowledge. So far you seem to have jumped into that role boots and all. Well then there are a shit load of laws that are due to be axed. I'd like to know who proved it was helpful that I be prohibited from wandering around the street buck naked. I would do it for the mere asthetic value as a community service, but you know, people have no gratitude, if they don't see this law as a hindrance and not a help. Go Figure.   Well it is what it is. It's not supposed to be anything else. Any issue is as tangible and objective as it just happens to be. If you wish to suggest some quantifiable measures of empirical data, to quantify the measures for helpful or harmful, fire away. I was getting bored with doing all the thinking in this debate anyhow.   You haven't put anything forth. I have detailed a rational case for our collective investment of value, in the products of creative endeavor. It stands to reason that we seek to reward intellectual product and talent, because inventions are useful and art is enjoyable. Having established reasonable grounds for the existence of this value in the creative product (which you have tenaciously refused to face and respond to), it follows that there's every reason to expect, that having a reward system that provides incentive to the benefactors of creative endeavor, there will be good reason to expect them to be encouraged to provide their talents. Nobody is expected to contribute anything to society without some reward. I can train my dog according to the laws of effort and reward. Seems that she understands simple economics better than you. I have faith in nothing my dear fellow and only tentative acceptance of what seems plausible.  Nothing I have said should give any indication that I have any unwillingness to change my position. When you actually address a few of the key points which Ive made to show reason for my position, then you can examine if there's any ground to accuse me of faith. FUCK THAT! Who did you say you think you are?   I write as much as I like. MY POST! MY TIME! MY CHOICE! If you need to read my posts in three of four sitting you are welcome. Take your time. If you want to run off and bury you head in the sand be my guest.   PS: Perhaps it might help if you stopped being ignorant and addressed my main arguments, so I would feel less cause to keep repeating myself.  Yes, that "No part of the book may be reproduced in any manner whatsoever without written permission..." does have a familiar ring to it. If it isn't outright plagiarism it's definitely derivative.    It is a contentious issue ferg. My outlook is more a function of frustrated ambivalence than poised balance, but thanks kindly for your words of support. I have been on the loosing end of my own IP negligence and naive propensity to trust. I was less of a libertarian back then though, so I would have mostly been in it for profit. As a habitual inventor I have scores of potential innovations and only now (or soon) at least have the chance to realize any of them. The burden of ethical ambivalence, for whether to make use of the existing IP provisions, is only exacerbated by my past experience and the realization of how much more ruthless another competitor could be if I weren't able to secure the protection of IP to 'get the jump' as they say. I don't like lining the pockets of lawyers or depriving the market of fair competition, but considering the chances I would have without IP law, I might just as well put my commercial idea on the internet, for the first corporate tyrant to turn into a subsidiary of 'McGreedy Bastards R Us'. In that event the customer would be at the mercy of real tyrants, not just a libertarian/sympathizer and entrepreneur with humanist ethical interests, who'd dare resort to patents. If a benevolent dictator must be given power to reign, in order to forestall a ruthless tyrant, then I should consider my co-opting of IP law as the lesser of two evils. So the bastard state rulers in your part of the world, also force you to obey their impositions over freedom too huh? Your car, your steering wheel and your hands, yet they want to sit there, like some backseat driver telling you what side of the road to drive on.   Who do those asshats think they are, your mother in-law?   Did they ever stop to think a guy might be too drunk to keep the car on just the one side? What are we s'posed to do; Catch a cab? So... now it's theft right out of our pockets, to feed their greedy rich corporate cab drivers and... Oh sorry... I must stop hanging out with the anarchist extremist religious faction, of the libertarian peoples front.  I think their mantras must have some kinda hypnotic effect. Agreed. Intoxication and mothers in-law not withstanding.  Or perhaps they inadvertently gain more than they reasonably deserve. Royalties in the mass entertainment industries are tragically extravagant for the famous upper echelon. They could definitely afford be on a voluntarily reward basis. It's a fair point. I have nothing against reasonable wealth for the diligent and talented artist/inventor/entrepreneur, but reasonable wealth to me, is just financial independence, as in enough to live comfortably for life, as apposed to your country house and your yacht each being worth enough for several people to live comfortably for life. When you have to think up ways to spend money to improve your standard of living, it's time to think about redirecting it to more deserving causes. There comes a point where the ridiculously wealthy couldn't possibly justify pretending that their contribution of value to the world, deserves anything like even a tiny fraction the reward they have lured into their feather-bed world of decadent opulence. They should be embarrassed to take advantage of the unlevel playing field that hands them their effortless spoils, for squander on hedonistic indulgence. If only people didn't fawn over them all the more precisely because they are so filthy rich and popular. Copyright lawsuits might be better if they attracted a premium and were incremented exponentially for each subsequent one you launch. But the copyright laws themselves need serious reform and tapering the rewards with sales volume is worth considering. Transparency of sales/royalties might be nice. A community that expects more of artists, in terms of charity work or supporting various causes would also help. People can be compelled by social kudos to return some benefits for their good fortune. The way the disposable music industry is these days, you need high speed internet to even finish downloading before a song goes out of style.   I suppose if your music appeals to an audience who prefer to listen without paying (Yo gangsta rappa) , you may have to reap what you sow. I can't say how we might solve the free-rider problem for digitally downloadable content. I still don't consider the existing reward structures of copyright to be fair or suitable, for the entertainment industry and certainly not for software. For entertainers I think they will have to fall back on their personal live contributions doing live interviews and concerts with appearance fees on TV, webcasts and internet radio etc. They can afford to drop their dependence on royalties for traditional recordings, as they have personal popularity in their fan base. Real musicians with real instruments, can and have always had, the option to do live performance. Hit the road Jack and break a leg.  The kind of IP laws I am more ardent about (patents), are the kind that an inventor needs to rely on to avert being exploited. The free-riders in that context, are other business concerns rather than the public consumers. We cant really treat patents and copyrights like the same kind of entities. One is ridiculously lucrative at the high volume end and lasts more than a lifetime with no barrier to entry, whereas the other is lucrative only for a limited time and almost expects the investor to be a millionaire before they even start. I like one of the suggestions on the "Read this before having an opinion on economics" thread. The patent is charged at a very low nominal fee for the first renewal and must be renewed each year to stay current. Each year it increments exponentially, perhaps double. The monopoly then, is progressively levied towards a break even point, where it would never pay to maintain it. The fees could also work as insurance against legal claims, while the remainder (minus a fair administration fee) could be paid out to the inventor on exit. Another way I have imagined to curtail unreasonable wealth, is a massively compounding tax on advertising. The saturation advertisers would be taxed out of existence and advertising would be prudently restrained to a respectable level of use. If a company paid twice as much income tax for twice the advertising exposure, you'd get most revenue from those who can most afford to pay. The power to pay for the opportunity of coercion, is a good measure of undeserved wealth, so theres a candidate for good honest revenue. Advertising in excess, is the public manifesto of corporate greed and gluttony. A good administration could practically run on advertising tax.  You see, I wouldn't mind government controls nearly as much, if only the state could just play a much more Robin Hood like role.Er.. thanks but perhaps that should have read "Your Utopian world of no IP laws, appears to be a parasites paradise.TM"  Chanting mantras as if to be presenting rational arguments, is incompatible with freethinking. So as a freethinker that presents me with a dilemma. You appear to be saying "You can't be in my club if you don't accept X Y and Z" That's called a religion. If libertarianism is a religion, then I accept your exclusion. Well the world would be in a fine state, if everybody who ever had a good idea, kept it to themselves. As it happens, sharing an idea does nothing to change who 'owns' it. Credit is rightfully given to the originator of the idea, so It's my idea no matter who I do or don't share it with. It certainly doesn't sound very 'libertarian' of you to be attempting to dictate who I can or cant share my ideas with.  Absolute nonsense. There are a myriad of things you cant legally do with your pen and paper, simply because you profess they are your possessions. You cant write death threats, defamatory letters, or pick up the pen and jab someone's eye out with it. Possession of an object is no assurance that you have the right do do anything you want with it. I already illustrated this in my OP, with the analogy of speeding. Is it theft that the law prohibits speeding, because it places restrictions on what you can and cant do with your car and your foot? Another way of looking at this, is that you DO in fact have the right to use your pen and paper in any way you wish. But with rights come responsibilities. You have the right to use your pen anyway you wish. However you also have the responsibility to accept the consequences of your choices. I don't much care for playing devils advocate on behalf of the law as there's loads of BS authoritarian control I deplore, but your claim to ownership of an object, as giving you free reign to do absolutely anything you wish is nonsense. If it's not theft when one law is enforced, it's not theft when ANY law is enforced. Theft itself is defined in law, indeed by law. It describes particular situations and they don't include situations where the state exercises it's power to enforce the law. If you have a concept of ownership and theft that overrides law, then others are free to agree or disagree because it's purely hypothetical, but nobody id duty bound to honor your protocols. Meanwhile we have working protocols in place that not only enforce the limits placed on ownership, but protect the rights. You may complain about speed limits, restricting as they do, your freedom to use your own property as you see fit, but if your car is stolen and you go to the police to report it, then you are stepping back from your autonomous concept of ownership/theft and into the protocols of ownership and theft that the law mandates. We cant have our cake and eat it too. If the law is expected to protect us, we are expected to accept the bounds of freedom. It's certainly no 'anti-libertarian' to acknowledge the rule of law even if we would prefer to modify it.  I also addressed this in my OP. It's rather futile to make any point about how a legitimate claim and contract can be unlawfully and unethically bypassed, If the point in question is should the author have the right to IP protection. The practical considerations of enforceability or policability of a law, has no baring ethical considerations of whether it is a just law.  To quote the OP:I cant provide evidence that we are better off for the existence of any law. Until a person has a particular claim to violation of a particular law and takes it up with the authorities, then the protections of law are moot. Even then, the law can only serve in the specific interests of the plaintiff or person lodging a complaint. The benefits assumed, that the law acts as a deterrent in general, is a less quantifiable proposition. It's rather like the argument put forward by Hazlitt that the alternative repercussions of any economic policy may be less obvious. Building a bridge to create employment on 'public works' for example, tends to create the illusion of productivity and employment. It presents a positive impact for those individuals that can be directly seen, but less obvious is the cost encumbered by the taxpayer and where else those dollars may have been spent. If you had read Hazlitt's book and really understood the extended consequence of "The Broken Window", I wouldn't expect you to pose such a contrived, parochial, one sided case. Hazlitt also repeatedly throughout his book, presents numerous affirmations of the collective value of invention and entrepreneurial innovation. You cant be much of an economist if you fail to comprehend the basic motives of effort and reward, wherein rewards are afforded to those who make an effort to provide something of value.  You can? I didn't realize it was illegal to make reproductions or derivative art works. What I thought was illegal in art at least, is attempting to create a reproduction, and then pass it off as the original. However talented anybody may be in painting a convincing repro of the Mona Lisa for example, as far as I know it's not considered illegal to do so. But if you then attempt to sell the repro as the original, I understand that it will rightfully be seen a fraud. The context of value as it pertains to art, is instructive as I pointed out in the OP, that it demonstrates that there may be great subjective value in it, that goes way beyond the physical utility of the materials used. The artist creates potential value and that is endorsed by the demand for their work. Nothing about that prevents another artist from attempting to emulate the original, but only the market can decide if there is similar value in the reproduction or derivative work. It should come as no surprise that derivative works attract less esteem and value, since they tend to aspire to emulate great works that are already highly regarded. In art there tends to be no second prize and that actually demonstrates the value of the originality imbued in a work by the artist. That is to say, paint, canvas and timber frames have some utility function that describes their value, but the value imbued by original creativity and the talent in expressing it, is something that market forces may deem to be of value way beyond the utility of the material medium.Even in the absence of IP laws, it is obvious that the intangibility of ideas, creativity and talent, are worth paying for. For as long as original art has existed, we have demonstrated this by agreeing to pay for art whatever we perceive it to be worth. That is typically far beyond the material value of the media used in producing it. Nor do we simply total the cost of supplies and then add an hourly rate to account for the time the artist spent producing the work. No! The talent and skills inherited by the medium is expressed by an aesthetic or abstract function all of it's own. In the case of paintings, sculpture or other one-off original art, there is little need for IP to protect the value of the artist's talent, since you cant copy the work and still have the value of the original transfered. Your copy will be limited in value according to what the market deems worthy of your own work. As far as a patent IP goes in the endeavor of invention, I hardly think you could make any valid case that it has on the whole, prevented progress of the kind characterized by improvements of a derivative nature from existing inventions. The primitive automobile was known as horseless carriage, due to the obvious derivativeness due to the evolution of invention, was not prevented from emerging. Nor was the ball point pen you profess so exclusively to own, possible to have emerged without it's historical legacy, in being derived from the quill and then the fountain pen. If you claim that IP laws make derivative forms impossible, than the onus is on you to support this assertion. Meanwhile, it appears to be self evident you are ignoring obvious facts to the contrary. Derivative works are apparently replete throughout the world of invention. You may very well make your petulant plaints, expounding your liberties to do what you wish with your pen an paper, but they might just as well been represented as a right to do the same with a fountain pen, a quill or a chisel and hammer. Instead you make them on a modern computer and ignore the value that all intermediaries of invention, have afforded you in the creative process.If you think that's somehow unfair, that nobody want's to pay for your reproduction or derivative work and give you the same level of esteem or praise for your talent as they do for the original, that's just stiff luck really, but it has nothing to do with IP law. Market forces will ultimately determine the value of anything (whether IP laws exist or not), and the underwhelming lack of demand for repros, derivative works and copycat ideas, is a function of market forces, not IP laws. Even if I have massive investment in world wide IP protection, design rights and every imaginable protection made possible by law, that in no way assures me that my idea will translate to any measure of 'value' endorsed by the market. I could spend millions on the chemistry required to develop an adhesive to stick wet noodles to your head and invest hundreds of thousands in IP protection for it. Then I could invest a million or more in production and marketing, so that everybody willing to pay a couple of bucks, will have the ability to shave their head bald and don an illustrious head covered with wet noodles. "You remember what it used to be like..." I might implore, "those frustrating hours in front of the mirror trying to get your noodles to sit there and look just right. All those bits of double sided tape that stick to everything but the noodles, and trying to walk along the street with an unnatural posture so your noodles would not slip off your head. Well now theres NoodleFix tm. Wet noodles are no longer a challenge for the fashion savvy noodle head. Just one thin coat, dump a bowl of noodles on your head, wait a minute to set and you're ready to go."Can you imagine how much benefit I might attain in this case, from my investment in IP? How much benefit should I expect? I don't know, except to say that the market is the place to decide that and my temporary rewards are decided there in proportion to the value that my ideas confer to the community. It's not just some one-sided game that only rewards the artist/inventor. It's hardly even that. I will not be protected from the harsh realities of market forces. In the case of patent IP, it's an investment proposition like any other, with all the inherent risks and pitfalls of any investment. IP protection costs a pretty penny and only protects the inventor against outright copycat commercial exploitation. Oh really? OK Let's test your assertion. According to Wikipedia:Now it's your turn. Show me "someone suffering because they can't have the same thing generically and cheaper." And cheaper than what might I ask? Cheaper than the price it would cost if nobody had ever thought of it, or cheaper than the price you would pay if nobody had ever had to pay a cent to Samuel B. Fay for the benefit of his creative contribution? You wish to undermine the only mechanism of reward we have to simply be a cheapskate and pay the material price of production, while begrudging the tiny fraction of included cost awarded to the originator of the idea itself?Following the implications of your overwrought appeal to "suffering" for want of "the same thing generically and cheaper", I can't help speculating that you are alluding specifically to the case of pharmaceuticals. Firstly, there is a fair argument to be made that nobody would be suffering any less, for the want of a new drug that is yet to be invented, but only for the want of some incentive to develop it in the first place. You may think that research and development just pops out of thin air and that suffering is alleviated by some miraculously fortuitous accident of chemistry, but those in the pharmacology industry might care to set you straight on that mater.The argument over ruthless profitering and corporate commercialization is a subject that deserves a separate hearing and of course IP laws can be reigned into the fold of merciless corporate greed, but that is another issue, quite independent of whether the inventor deserves our reward for genuine value bestowed upon the community for their innovations. Once again, it's easy to see that middlemen, money mongers, profiteers and marketers might get the better of the profit for protection bargain, but that in no way, imputes the deserving claim, of the creative mind who originates the idea and gives us something of value. The inventor is more likely to be the victim of ruthless corporate greed and likely to be sold short by some corporate claim to their intellectual property. If you want to actually have access to drugs that reduce suffering (at all) then you need to reward the innovations and provide an incentive to produce them. Nobody is likely to provide you with "generic" alternatives, unless the product is developed by somebody in the first place. For that there needs to be some incentive. Agreed!  I would only challenge that they hurt us due to their existence, rather than that they are are like many implements of state control poorly implemented, misdirected and flagrantly abused by those who have the money/power to do so. I have my own earnest grievances with IP law, but calling for it's abolition, appears to me as so much throwing away the baby with the bath water. And you can? I think Hazlitt makes the point as well as anybody so far, that the benefits of the alternatives to any policy may be far less than obvious. Would you be enthused, if expected to prove that the productivity and employment of that bridge consigned by the state, might be better spent on the alternative of letting the taxpayer spend the dollars saved and all the myriad of choices and consequences that are available to that end? NO! I have no doubt you would object. That bridge may be more obvious in it's immediate benefits than the case  alternative case for not having it at all. I wouldn't expect YOU to prove all the alternatives made possible by 'no bridge' in order to fairly argue either for or against it. You should know that the alternatives to anything, are a myriad of other alternatives. Arguing X vs Y, where X is a specific thing and Y is a myriad of diffuse alternative is rather like claiming hammers are useless, unless you can use them to nail smoke to the floor. Nevertheless the state has to make provisions and policy choices. Some of them may be beneficial, others may be lamentable or even disastrous. Pointing to existing provisions and expecting a tidy quantification of all the alternatives to it, is absurdity to the nth degree and you should know it. It should suffice to say, that it's reasonable to expect people to be motivated according to the laws of effort and reward. If they are encouraged (by possible  rewards), to make some effort to produce innovations and that those innovations create some mutual value in society, then it stands to reason that their potential for being rewarded for their creative produce, is enhanced and fostered, in such a way that they will likely be motivated to invent and create things of value. IP is supposed to foster such a reward structure. The expectation in terms of effort and reward, that it tends to do what it sets out to do, is self evident. Whether it is balanced or fair is another issue. Again, I must caution that you might care to restrain your careless slinging of emotive accusations, such that I have ignored your claims to injustice. If anybody is ignoring anything, it's obvious to me that you have ignored my diligent efforts to address those very same claims in detail and  deal with them at their fundamental core. In the OP I clearly give a detailed examination to that very issue. So enough with your divisive BS about ignorance. It's only you, who is being ignorant here. As for practical grounds, for a system that rewards innovation, I invite your next response to be delivered to all forum participants on individually chiseled  stone tablets. Or am I going to far into our pre-technological past not to allow you the use benefits of the quill an papyrus scroll? Do you think it's more responsible to endorse a course of action, that undermines the reward structures underpinning our whole of technological society? The so called irresponsible coarse of action you allude to, happens to be the status quo, and while it is never certain to have been the best of all histories, you are sitting there reading this on the screen of a modern computer that just a few decades ago, would have been impossible to even imagine. If IP law doesn't help the advance of technology and innovation, as much as it possibly could, it's far from clear how it could be considered a hindrance. What is beyond irresponsible and verging on absurd, is the endorsement of complete abolition of IP law and all the well deserved rewards of our creative ambassadors who you seem so inclined to take for granted. It's possible to create things without rewards, but it's far less obvious that without incentives to create things that anybody would be likely to do so. You don't need to be greedy to be an innovator. Moreover you're much more likely to care less about material rewards, however it's still possible to be beaten out of the market by greedy competitors when you emerge with your innovative ideas, so that you don't even have the chance to eek out a basic existence.  That is true EVEN NOW. I know this from first hand experience. Even with the current slew of IP laws to offer protection to those who can afford them, there are honest, deserving, innovators who will slip through the cracks and never be allowed to benefit from their own innovation. Would you mind telling me how the abolition of IP laws (as apposed to the reform of them), is supposed to help those little guys? Please explain how the little guy with a  great idea is supposed to benefit from the likes of predators who can think of nothing original themselves. Your Utopian world world of no IP laws, appears to be a parasites paradise.  I have recently taken the time to review a particular thread, Read this before having an opinion on economics" which was begun (by bitcoin2cash) in support of a particular book "Economics In One Lesson." by Henry Hazlitt. I have decided to begin a new thread for several reasons. Firstly the name of the thread and the issue it was swiftly co-opted by,(that of IP) made a tangential subject of Hazlitt's book, while the name of the thread became a misnomer. Second the above thread didn't for my BTC, tend towards any equitable resolution, but rather, it trailed off without fully addressing some fundamentals, which were only lightly brushed upon. Finally that thread has been dead for sometime, so I thought I would try to give the Intellectual Property debate some air, with a more fitting title and start again. Having read the thread completely, I also read through Economics In One Lesson, for some context over the whole thread (in case it was relevant). I was, I must say, presently surprised at what turned out to be a very inspiring affirmative book, that reminded me, that the more I learn about economics, the more it seems I already knew. Not to be a smart ass, but I've been saying the same sort's of things for decades and Hazlitt only confirms them. In light of the above thread, I was expecting an obtuse diatribe of sophist rhetoric, to justify a preconceived agenda. I think it's quite instructive that Hazlitt's book, lends so much import to technical innovation and invention and following the central theme of the book illustrated by the 'The Broken Window' analogy, we can clearly see an irony emerge in the application of this principal to the special pleadings of the Anti-IP brigade. In this book, Hazlitt makes no overt pronouncements of his views of Intellectual Property, but If read without bias, the treatise makes a case as damning to the special pleadings of Anti-IP crusaders as any special interest. Perhaps the most overt testimony Hazlitt makes for an endorsement of IP though, is the very first thing presented in the book. No not in the first chapter. Not in the preface. Not even in the Contents list, but before all that, his book sets the record straight: I should note, this is not issue of contention for Hazlitt, who implicitly endorses IP in the tenets of his Economics, as well as embracing it as a function of his professional life. The irony goes to those who would elevate this publication with the merit it so clearly deserves and yet fail so completely to apply its lesson to their own position.I can honestly declare I have a fair degree of ambivalence regarding IP as it stands today, not because I feel that it should be abolished, but because it so often serves the less deserving interests at the expense of those who it should be protecting. I personally have failed to find the capital required to launch innovations due to the complexity, paperwork and expense of patent law. I have also, foolishly (without non-disclosure agreements), trusted people and consequently had innovations that were the earnest fruits of my mind, used by people I can reasonably assume would not have otherwise had them and commercialized for good profit. Had I been better placed or supported, I would have been the (I will say 'rightful') beneficiary. If anybody is going to benefit from the providence of a good idea, then it should at least in some part be the innovator themselves. The problem in a world without any reward structures for intellectual providence, is that it not only destroys the incentives of the creative endeavor but leaves those who would innovate in the gutter, while those who have no part in the creation of a valuable idea, to profit from the spoils. There should be no need to restate the free-rider problem. What concerns me, is not to restrict the liberty of the end-user from having the object and using it, but the misappropriation of the creative process that adds value to the finished product. Argument's of shrill, petulant indignation. for the liberty of a person to obtain and posses the creative product, once divorced from it's physical medium, give no consideration for where the value of the thing comes from. All value is equated to the material instance of the thing and none to the value of the intangible creative component that makes the thing so much more than just a blob of matter. Disregarding the value proposition, in the creative processes is as limited and biased as anything Hazlitt mentioned in his book. One thing we should dispense with from the outset, is the petulant recourse to a slippery slope of escalating retaliation, that some Anti-IP libertarian crusaders like to resort to. A LAW is a LAW. That doesn't guarantee it is morally just, not by any means. Almost everybody knows laws they find ethically unsatisfactory. I might prefer, to be allowed to go wandering naked in the streets and claim this liberty to be an unalienable right. I have the right to take this position as a matter of principal. In practice however, I have to acknowledge that I am a member of a (however imperfectly) democratic society and that however intensely earnest my own convictions may be, I am not above the law and that the rule of law applies to all the laws I do like, as well as those I don't. The simple fact that any law when disobeyed, will lead to a similar escalation in punitive repercussions, does not give recourse to any argument about the ethical validity of the particular law that is being enforced. Whether it is littering loitering or looting, you will be expected to face the consequences. And yeah the law can be a proper ass. Most libertarians have a whole slew of contentious bones to pick, before we proclaim we're satisfied with the ethical values of the law. But as they say in the big house, if you do the crime, be prepared to do the time. It's sufficient to say that you disagree with a law, but what makes it wrong, should not rely on the fact that it will lead to repercussions if not obeyed. The argument that Intellectual property is right or wrong either way, should stand or fall on it's own merit, not on the consequences of it being enforced. It goes without saying that an unjust law encroaches on our liberties but disobeying law is not one of our liberties. Pretending that it shouldn't be law, because of the consequences implicit in disobeying that law, is simply begging the question. In a similar vein, I see there is a tendency to appeal to the un-policeable nature of IP law, such that if by some furtively covert means you could sidestep it, that somehow demonstrates that there was no ethical basis for the motive behind enshrining it in the first place. I'm referring here to the convoluted scenarios being entertained about how the contents of a book or a blueprint might fall into the wrong (or right - depending on your view) hands. Whether by X-ray glasses, telescopes or by the transgression of a third party, the laborious details are hammered out to show just how the Anti-IP crusader can 'get away' with an act of espionage, as if to proclaim that the futility of policing the law, somehow demonstrates their ethical precedence, in claiming it to be unjust. What needs to be considered before all else, is the underlying justifications for our society having invested our reward system in recognizing intellectual accomplishment and the value proposition, engendered by those who are able to manifest it. What is considered to be 'property' by this standard, is the product of the social collective, who value the intellectual fruits of talented minds, that are (and rightly should be) entitled to fair rewards for their innovative creativity, toils and tenacity, from inspiration through, research, design, prototypes and on to licencing and production. It's hard enough for the inventor as it is to catch a break and the proposition that coming up with a good idea is easy, is what you might expect to hear from any damn fool who literally has NO IDEA! You tell me that you have come up with any ORIGINAL idea that is as remotely useful as a paper-clip for instance, and that you have been through the trial and tribulations, from the first moment of inspiration to seeing you idea realized and rolling off the production line, then you tell me that good ideas are plentiful. You tell me how pleased you will be to stand there, having made neither cent nor satoschi, for the benefit you have bestowed upon the world, while some greedy tyrant, who sold out on you or just used your idea if you gave it up freely, is now on the way to being worth millions. I doubt that anybody so flippant as to claim 'ideas are plentiful', would ever have the slightest chance of ever being in this situation. Inventing is like rescuing victory from the jaws of defeat and almost nobody wants you to win, no matter how damn honest you are. Let me see the anti-IP crusader who has genuine valuable ideas, that are worthy of pilfering for profit set about realizing them or giving them up freely. Otherwise, I would like to be enlightened exactly how, without the basic protection of IP, an honest but poor, diligent, hard working inventor, can have any hope of creating ideas so valuable that are worth stealing but be granted the benefit of taking them to the market. The original idea is obviously a subject of some value if anybody else might like to make use of it. That by the way, is NOT increasing the plenitude of ideas (hint: It's still the same idea if you simply copy it.). You cant proclaim that ideas are plentiful because they may be copied. Copying an idea and originating it are worlds apart In principal. If you are talented enough to have your own ideas worth paying for then you shouldn't have any need to endorse the profiting from ideas that are originated by others. Go have your own ideas if you profess them to be so plentiful. And nobody is precluding anybody from possessing and using the manifestations of an idea that is protected by IP. The example given in 'Against Intellectual Property', which point's out that: "If I invent a technique for harvesting cotton,your harvesting cotton in this way would not take away the technique from me." is a prime example of disingenuous sophistry. Theres a huge difference between being allowed to buy a cotton harvester, manufactured under licence and incorporating a royalty for it's inventor and not being permitted to use an instance of the intellectual property. You will not be asked to pay the price of having the monopoly to USE something, but simply to manufacture and market it. Of course the idea of invention are non-exclusive, that's the beauty; the inventor recognizes a need and solves a problem that is not just manifest in the single instance s/he first sees it and solves it, but by generalizing that solution s/he see the potential to solve the same problem on a much wider scale. It seems to me that the Opponents of IP cant make this distinction between USE and manufacture. In order to prevail in their views, they hold to rigid semantics of arbitrary definitions, wherein 'work' can only be valued if it is physical labor and 'possessions' or 'belongings' must be tangible assets not some some intellectual concept that you cant directly touch, taste, see, hear or smell. The concepts of their value system are held to be tangibles and that is that. Since discovering bitcoin I have learned so much about economics and I have plenty more to learn yet. One thing I had always known, but has been reiterated over and again, in everyday life it is so easy to habitual forget, is that ALL value is subjective. I had long known and acknowledged the momentarily enlightening principal, that something is only worth what somebody is prepared to pay for it. But to carry that with me and recognize that things do not have any intrinsic value is another matter. We all subjectively value things on our own terms. Yet it's hard not to think as if the ounce of gold or glass of beer is valuable in it's own right. We know there are many others who will agree with us and conspire to place value in the object. We are the ones who objectify things with value, whether individually or collectively. Nevertheless, all value embedded in anything of human value, originates from the subjective idea that is borne of this primal subjective desire. Value itself is an idea. There is nothing less legitimate about the value of an idea, just because it has no immediate manifestation in the physical world. As soon as it does, we may throw away the, idea and only value the item that has benefited from incorporating it, or we may see that  the intellectual providence or talent imbued in it by creative thought, is intrinsic to it and what gives it value. It is subjective value by any measure.What has happened in history, is that we have started out with physical things, which can have value, only by virtue of their utility function or aesthetic appeal, then progressively the value of the creative intellect or art, has been liberated from the utility of the tangible medium.  A famous sculptor or painter could be rewarded well for the providence of their talent, but they could only expect a one-off payment for each piece of art they produce. Nevertheless the renown and popularity they might well deserve for their creative product, is likely be manifest in the inordinately high price paid if the art pieces were in good demand and were perceived subjectively to have aesthetic (or perhaps abstract conceptual) value. It's far from likely that highly prized art such as this is likely to have any price correlation to the canvas, the paint or the timber in the frame. The materials that make the piece, in other words, you might  ironically say, are actually immaterial. The reward for the merit of the artists talent is practically the whole essence of the value and the confinement of this art to it's physical medium contributed to it's rarity. The renascence painter may get no royalty today, nor would his descendants, but then the paintings sold could command higher value, because they were each one of a kind.Moving on to the book publishing industry of more modern times, the ability to print copies of a book, enables the talent of an author to be shared by many more people, but obviously the individual rarity of the creative product is not as potent. Publishers aspire to selling in volume because theirs is a mass produced product. The author is rewarded the same way but to a lesser degree. If their work is highly prized they make more even if they make much less per unit value. It's easy to see that the publishers have a job to do and have to compete in the market for business. They ad an important component to the value that is the whole value of the book. Likewise the printers contribute paper ink and printing services that are factored into the whole price. The bookstores buy at wholesale and add their markup to cover expenses and profits, so that we can go shopping and buy a book. Now the Anti-IP crusader claims that the only one not deserving of payment is the one who wrote the book in the first instance. The one who provided all the creative talent to begin with, is begrudged the right to lay claim to the creative output of their own mind. Sure you can point out that you have the physical means to download and print a book and that doing so is nobody's business because you are only using your own equipment. That A) what you do with your own equipment is your own business and B) any effort to impose a restriction on you is an imposition on your liberties. The question is this. Let's say you want the physical book because you want to give it to somebody (who still likes physical books) as a gift. If you HAD bought the book from a bookshop then, and so you had happily paid for the physical product of paper and inkalong with the editors services and the service that the bookshop provides, and everybody involved with the production of the book; are you then, still going to begrudge the only vital and necessary contributor to this finished product; the author? In that protracted gravy train, of middlemen and coat tail jockeys, would you choose the only person with any real talent and the one who provides the primary reason to produce a book in the fist instance, and say that the dollar they earn from a $20 book is unjustified? If their creative contribution were not worth paying for, you might as well go buy a pretty blank pad of nicely stationed paper, bound in a fitting cover and give that to Aunt Betsy, saying "I would have bought you the latest Daniel Steele title, but I couldn't bring myself to pay royalties for the authors talent". Laws are fully intended to impose on your liberties.  Are we so self possessed as to claim that because we own our own car, gas pedal and foot that our liberty is being imposed upon if we can't go screaming through quiet suburban streets at 100 MPH? The risk of hitting a child chasing a ball onto the road might be nothing but an intangible, remote probability, at least till it happens. If the argument holds that it's your car and your foot and nobody has the right to tell you what to do with it, then undermining somebodies livelihood with your unlimited liberty to use your computer and printer may quite sensibly seem have little consequence. The point is not to invoke a contrived reductio ad absurdum equating copyright violation to killing children, but that we agree as a society, to limit the consequences of some potential outcomes, by surrendering some liberties. It's simply not true that just because you own something, it's your unassailable right to do with it, whatever you wish.I'll be the first to admit that the copyright laws are way off beam, especially to the extent that they confer the rights to royalties well beyond the lifetime of the author/artist. But to contend that they should be abolished completely is also way beyond the pail. In exercising your 'liberties' to the extent of using your own equipment for self serve entertainment, I am somewhat ambivalent there. Most of what we help ourselves to that way, comes under the heading of stuff we never would have never paid for, if we had no choice. So there's an argument to be made that the artist is not loosing a paying customer. But what of the many paying customers who do willingly buy the real thing? If you remove the mechanism by which the writer/artist/performer is assured of their reward, there should be something in place to ensure they are offered what they deserve. If anybody should be cut out of the gravy train, the least deserving of such reform is the talent. In music and other multimedia it's becoming more practical to get rid of the middleman and I have much less problem with that. I'd like to think people could be generous and voluntarily offer the artist a token of appreciation for their work, but in entertainment and aesthetic arts, it is much easier for the performer/artist to bid for their own reward. They are in the business of being known, popular and liked. It certainly seems unfair though, that two or three generations of a pop star's descendants/beneficiaries, get to be born with a silver spoon in their mouths and want for nothing, just because their granddaddy/mommy was somewhat talented. You might give a little coin voluntarily to who ever you like while their music/performance gives you entertainment, and that would rightfully dry up in the timely manner as the fans dictate. You are however, hardly likely to buy a loaf of bread at the store, and say to the assistant: "Here, this is a 10 cent tip, because I want you to see too it, that the guy who invented the little plastic tag that keep my bread bag closed is rewarded for his inventive contribution." Ten cents is all he might cost you in your whole life, for his part in the cost of taking this innovation to market, but without IP laws he might receive nothing and possibly never did. The huge number of similar innovations we regularly take for granted, are embedded into our multitudes of products and services in such a way as we would never hope to individually reward the creative talent that has manifested in them. Moreover, we expect our products to compete on price so we want the best premium of value we can get, regardless of the fact that creative rewards are inbuilt. If anybody is taking a free ride there, it's not the poor inventor guy, who more often than not get's screwed over by the money people and marketing parasites. To axe IP wholesale, would do most damage to the deserving talent and intellectual benefactors of our current time. Meanwhile there is still no valid philosophical justification, for why the virtuous idea or concept, should not be granted the imprimatur of a possession. It's a mater of fact that as a society we agree to do so, and that is because we have grown up in a world in which ideas have been gradually liberated from their physical constraints. The value of anything is subjective and society on the whole, is better off if we seek to reward that which we perceive to have value. In particular where practical invention is concerned the idea, if it is indeed a good idea, deserves some guarantee that just because it is comprised of intangible information, that the originator will not be sold short and their idea allowed to be stolen from them by opportunists, who will take advantage of the profitable value it may manifest without even acknowledging the originator. It's all very well to cynically propose that you might have thought of the same idea independently but the purpose of patenting is to establish a priority. In a sense it's like solving the current block in the block-chain and 'staking a claim' to the treasure. I can remember the crude schoolyard protocol of 'finders keepers, losers weepers'. But that was often challenged by the plaint 'Hey! I saw it first'. Patenting establishes who has first rights to an original concept, even if the process is bewilderingly complex and expensive. We store information as a repository of value between the block-chain and our bitcoin.dat wallet files and so bitcoin demonstrates that information can be used purely as a store of value. We are way beyond saying that nobody can own information or a particular pattern. You can give me your wallet.dat file if you disagree. Information can be of mutual value and so it must be granted equitable protocols of origin, ownership and distribution. Who's to say what protocols are fair? I think we all are. I can think of nothing worse than the nihilistic anarchy, of throwing our arms up and saying "If you think of a good idea, it belongs to nobody". Even 'finders keepers' is more civilized and conducive of equanimity than that.Sorry for the long rant.   Clever. You keep a little grill down there I take it? At least that way if anybody walks in, you don't get caught. Cooking her on the stove top.   Ever tried eating them raw?  Sexy is what you do with a feather. slutty is when you use the whole chicken.     At this point I've lost all interest in the 90 bit. I'd just be all over the idea of going halves in a tenth of what's left. You're the hot little geek girl, so you do the math.   Mousepotato = HOTpotato Shssssssss Ooow!! DAMN girl. I vote that you be declared the Princes and poster girl for the whole bitcoin universe. Hope you like being folded in half and stapled in the belly.HEY!! If you want a Vcard to blitz the blockchain, why not send a few pickyies to a video card manufacturing company tell them you are writing a review for one of the geekyest gaming or admin/network mags with a story about your bitcoin mining experience. Send your story and pics, to to show what a geek you are deep down inside and if they could lend you a sample of their highest power card you'll do photo shoot to offer them for advertising use. You negotiate it so that if they like the photos, you get to keep the card, otherwise they are not available. (There's not much risk at this point, since the've already seen your ordinary sample shots) So off you go to a studio to have a nice little professional photo shoot, being as cheeky and provocative as you dare. Get the Video card and box into the act. The raunchier the shots are the better but for a (G) rated mag you wont have to be too naughty.(Just send any out-takes they say are are too saucy to me ) and if you bring their card to life in a glossy tech mag, I think they would totally throw some cards your way.Their card will be showcased so well, they'll be able to actually feel the heat of the whole internet rise as you are being rendered with them. You write to the computer/admin/gaming mag now, sending them your Classy new portfolio shots and the bitcoin story, asking if they want a good review of the card. The geek boys will be reviewing more than the video card and the mag may have to print the pages on something edible, but, if the v/card company or the magazine don't want more pics/ads/reviews or geeky girl story writting, then they are either blind, retarded, asexual, or the world has ended in nuclear holocaust. The shirt is Kooool, though it seems a bit too big. Needs trimming just below the armpits. But DAMN that see-through-garment, invisibility rendering, browser extension comes in handy.  Sorry TS.  I just couldn't help imagining a guy finally emerging from his lair after two months and uttering just two words: "BIT COIN"     How do we get on board the women you ask? Good question. The porn vids always make their willing cooperation seem even more like a forgone conclusion, than circumcision at a bar mitzvah.   OH! WAIT...  Sorry... My mistake. You said "...get the women on board", not "get on board the women".   Well if we solve the one I was working on first, then we'd have five minutes of obligatory cuddling afterwards to slip the bitcoin sales pitch in. I can see it now... [he puffs on a smoke and brushes her fringe aside] "That was fantastic honey. Almost as breathtaking as the first block I solved with my first bitcoin rig. Soooo... Did the whole blockchain move for you too?" The analogy might seem contrived unless you are older and have lived through a few 'difficulty increases'. Noting also that in the early days you could get lots of it all by yourself, but after a while it became easier in groups, with others who all share what they get. Nobody minds if everybody gets a bit. So you might say to your cuddly prospect: "Oh! You never heard of bitcoin then? You should meet my buddies then we get together and do it in a pool. " So. Have I got this right then? You want the women folk to collectively understand that this bitcoin thingie is something you can use just like money? Like... Hey look honey!! You can BUY lots of stuff with this, like new curtains and figurines, decorative soaps that nobody is allowed to use and... Hey WAIT!! Let me just go top up my holdings in Yale Locks. I can almost hear the stampede of attached (to a female partner) guys, rushing out to buy big locks for the doors to their mining rigs.  OK! Of course I'm just kidding. Whatever helps bitcoin to become more popular and attractive is all good. Somehow I suspect that the girls will all catch on soon enough. They generally do seem to love plastic cards, as convenient payment methods go hand in hand with that genders nearly universal hobby - shopping. I Hope that doesn't seem too sexist, but women are generally somewhat different creatures to us men folk. The things that make bitcoin so wonderful IMHO are the qualities that some have mentioned above re: the technical aspects and the libertarian values bitcoin entails. They may not be the most typical qualities that the feminine sector find appealing, but that's something we have to accept for now. Those who like bitcoin just for what it really is, are not required to have any particular kind of genital apparatus or gender identity, so bitcoin is already in principal gender agnostic. Bitcoin (and probably for the better) isn't required to answer the demands of any arbitrary demographic segment. Say you do some research and find for instance, that gardeners are also a sector that are particularly poorly predisposed to perceiving value in and adopting bitcoin. If you try to please everybody, it probably wouldn't still be our beloved bitcoin. There may be ways to generate some psychological appeal to stimulate interest, but that would seem more likely to be all so much superficial window dressing. Smothering bitcoin in the trappings of superficial glam and glitz, to deploy a campaign of coercive appeal or spin-doctoring, seeped in obsequious self-conscious approval seeking, seems very prone to the proverbial 'making a rod for our own back'. If somebody needs an ulterior motive to appreciate the significance of what bitcoin is and why it matters, then they are surely encumbered with a far more significant type of inequity. They may be seen as, far more wanting for a little education, than anything bitcoin itself lacks as it stands. The shortfall in understanding and awareness of bitcoins strengths, leads by some orders of magnitude in the importance stakes, especially as compared to any subjective appeal factor. It's also more pressing for all who are on board as we move closer to opposing political/commercial pressures, if they are to stand up and be counted for the right reasons. In a sense I don't really even see this as a gender specific issue. We might just as well be concerned if gardeners were being left behind. People who just happen to posses vagina's, are an arbitrary demographic subset and if they happen to feel disadvantaged by some unjust  barrier to adoption, they have every right to make a stand. But if they are granted the same opportunity to participate yet still decline for simple lack of interest, then it's not actually an issue at all. It's just horses for courses.We shouldn't need to behave like insecure adolescents, trying to pluck up courage to ask girls if they will go with us to the prom. We have to accept that the human race consists of two rather different creatures. (Actually it's three, if you count the largely androgynous pre-pubescent, larval stage they called babies.) Women typically have a far more instinctive urge, to nurture and care for those little bundles of indiscriminate poo delivering, rancorously squawking, dribbling, vomiting, sex life wrecking, sleep depriving, bundles of joy. I truly doubt that women by comparison, would often (if ever) feel similarly compelled, when gathered for coffee and a chat, at any typical suburban mothers club, to plan and implement a way to make babies seem more appealing to us men folk. Imagine the earnest discourse: "Guys are just being left behind when it comes to clucking and swooning over strangers babies in shopping malls. How can we get them to carry 'brag books' and yearn to cuddle other parents babies?" Do you think they might be compelled by male appeal oriented modifications to babies, so they might be more appealing to guys? Are there any women out there perhaps, conspiring to develop bionic interfaces so babies can be implanted with a power down mode, or perhaps a programmable bowel evacuation EPROM. NO. I doubt it's even a blip on their radar. Needless to say, installing a stubby holder while the little squawker still has a soft spot, would be right out of the question.  I do honestly and optimistically hope, that bitcoin does go mainstream, but before then I hope the average consumer learns more about the spiraling debt related debasement and unethical political liabilities of fiat currency. Understanding (even basically) WHY we need to adopt a better system, is something I consider to be a vital part of the transition, as there also needs to be much more consumer resistance and accountability brought to bare on the corporate sector. Bitcoin has the power to usurp the financial power bases and give bargaining power the citizenry. We need to take great care, in trying not to merely replicate the voracious unsustainable consumerism with our digital currency, while simply giving control of bitcoin back to the corporate tyrants. Perhaps the more prudent approach is to dig in for the long haul, by investing in and making sound commitments to education of the wider community. It may be too much to expect the typical female of our species to be quite as fascinated by geeky technical 'guy stuff' on average, but I really don't see the basic economic principals or libertarian values endemic to bitcoin, as particularly gender biased concepts. Women folk seem to me at least our equals and then some, when it comes to the social sciences and humanities. They also seem at least as enthusiastic and tenacious when they have actually embraced a social movement for the better. Let's have them on board for all the right reasons That's what I really hope for.Another approach to gaining female bitcoiners, that seems promising, might be to find a good surgeon who will accept payment in bitcoin and instead of trying to turn women into geeks, sponsor a sex change program, to turn geeks into women. At least then the pale, underdeveloped, basement dwelling, male misfit, who may have all but resigned to a life of reluctant, involuntary celibacy, could look forward to possibly being a subject of genuine carnal desire. If the tide turns that way, our little bitcoin brandishing 'she geek', may even be quite brainy and sexy all at once. Even better yet, she will still be quite unable to encumber her partner, with the misfortune of some unwelcome, co-habitation imposition, with any of those larval proto-human progeny. Come to think of it, for a girl such as this, who might roll her own device drivers, compile a modified Linux kernel, laugh at my very un-PC dirty jokes, come back with her own, but yet still turn heads in a miniskirt... well... I might be tempted to donate enough for the silicon implants.  SO! Who's first for the cut 'n' tuck? Adolf Bitler perhaps? Yeah.   We need to get right back to basics. I'm gona re-invent the wheel myself. LOL
+1 You haven't lost the power to influence any descisions in proportion to equity of your holdings. It's a percentage-wise game. The other share holders who bought in to the company at the same time as you are also reduced in their voting power against (or with) you. Meanwhile, the shareholders who are coming on-board in the more recent offering, are entitled to their share of the vote, as they have paid good money towards the equity of the whole company (including your share), and increased the net value with their own hard earned dollars. Do you think it would be a fair system, if companies could sell shares (of an equal value to the ones you have), without giving the new shareholders a proportional vote? They put their money in and that is spent on growing the earning capacity of the company, but you want to retain a disproportionate share in voting rights? Sorry but the value of your company and it's shares, suddenly looks quite unattractive to me. I would preffer to buy into a company which gives me voting rights in proportion to my share in the net equity I hold. Sorry, but it's just a little thing I have with the idea that my share of the influence needing to be proportionate to my investment. Dont you realise you are shooting yourself in the foot by expecting anything else? The other investors in your company are not your competitors, they are people who have come on board to invest in the profitability and general prosperity of the same company you are invested in. They are litteraly in the same boat as you. They are likely to try hard and vote in the best mutual intrest that you each share. The greater the share the greater the vested intrest to help the company prosper. Well that would not be possible by any legitimate legal ownership arrangement that I know of in the real world... would it?  for starters as a 50/50 partner he would have to run these plans to renovate past me and seek my approval, otherwise I'd have to disagree that it was a good idea. Secondly, "40% of the entire property" is still only 40% of the property (there's nothing entire about 40% of something) and by selling that 40% he then forgoes 40% of the decision making power. He now only retains 10% of the ownership and likewise only has 10% of the rights to say how the combined equity is managed. He cant just take the money he gained by selling 40% of his equity and use it to renovate the building. WHY NOT? A better question would be why would he want to? He would then be spending his own money on renovations that are not aproved by either YOU or the new 40% shareholders. You, they and he, would still share a vested intrest in ensuring the whole enterprise was as profitable as possible and nobody would have any vested itrest in doing something so completly stupid (especialy with their own money) as to undermine the whole venture. This is a ridiculously contrived scenario. Can you give me an example from the real world, where such a thing was ever played out? If this happened I would then sue him for overstepping the bounds of his authority and usurping the collective rights of the combined investors. Better still, I'd like to think I'm smart enough that I wouldn't be in business in the first place, with sombody so 'generously stupid' as to sell a fith of his equity and spend it on a total fuck up. When you sell your share of equity, you also give up your share of the decision making power. What's so hard about this concept that you dont comprehend that equity and influence are maintained in equal proportion. I have no idea what this so called "Master Bitcoin" is supposed to represent. For starters, the blockchain doesn't represent or record any particular discrete values of bitcoin ownership. If you decide to send some bitcoin, the amount is arbitrary, but it's divisible down to the base unit (the satoshi) that is 8 orders of magnitude smaller than the whole bitcoin. What the blockchain records is not specific 'values' of bitcoin, but transactions of ANY value IN bitcoin. So it records who has done the trasaction and what the value of that trasaction is. How then are you going to 'anchor' the value of this "Master Bitcoin" to a particular share value, or to the total equity value of the company you want to have floating (presumeably with it's own value) in the free market?Presumably what you call 'knowledge' is a free market asset (although I fail to see how). Nevertheless it doesn't give you the power to literly 'cheat' in any system where that asset of any salable value.  In an idealised free market, your 'knowledge' for want of a better expresion should give you no better advantage than anybody vested with the same opportunities to gain that knowledge or use their own alternative knowledge. Such a market would be agnostic (as far as possible) to the special intrests of those who have particular knowledge of any economic entity. There are huge efforts and sums of money expended towards regulating markets, so as to attempt to maintain some semblence (read pretense) of free market nutrality. Now obviously this is idealistic, but nevertheless it's an ideal worth striving towards. The best measures IMHO are those that are built-in, that make inequity unfeasable fron the start and nip the problem in the bud. That becomes a matter for systems with inbuilt transparancy and standards of equanimity. What can your knowledge of engeneering do to give you an 'unfair' advantage in trading on an idealisticly level playing field?And I'm sure many will. They (like Satoshi, Linus Torvalds and Richard Stallman), are likely to be far smarter and much more honest that those who atempt to use knowledge purely for personal gain. Again that's just IMHO.I tend to agree with this, but only because conventional models of regulation act on cleaning up the mess rather than fixing the cause. The tendency to legislate and regulate, needs to be usurped by inteligent models, that take motives and methods into account and provide solutions to undermine the first cause of the problem. OK firstly a semantic quibble if I may: Let's dispense with the term mining then. That will be misleding, if the purpouse is not to 'mine' for and produce coins. Let's just call it hashing. You dont think it's possible to build a network/protocol wherin every node is required to contrinute some hashing power for the benifit of the network? That's disapointing then.  Would that be a technical problem, or a sociological one? Why is it not possible to make a network wherin the conected nodes are assumed to be willing to contribute some hashing power to the collective benifit of the network? I note that several networks began (notably the 'SETI at home' project) on purely on a benevolent/charitable basis, just to offer up unused machine cycles for combined processing power to a deserving cause. Surely the owners of (hundreds of) thousands of machines wishing to be connected to a ubiquitous stock exchange, could be persuaded by the utility of the whole enterprise, to allow some fraction of their proccesing power to run a bakground process for hashing to ensure the security of the network that supports their cappacity for trading on the free market. Moreover, the incentive could be no more more less than the ability to participate, if you make it a condition of the connection and build that requirement into the network and it's protocol. You seem to be transfixed on the existing network and protocol, as if it were not an arbitary construct and as if that's the only mechanism that exists or that could be used.It could take off by 'being useful and fulfilling a real need' just like bitcoin has by 'being useful and fulfilling a need'.And thats great. But it already HAS a use. That is to support transactions of a particular virtual currency over the internet. NOT for the transacting of many seperate shares (of many companies) that are in themseves arbitrary values of a seperte comodity, all with independant freemarket value. You need seperate repoitories of value to represent seperate comodities of trade. Bitcoin is just ONE such repository. It's our flagship and proves the principal works. It's will probbly always be the alpha of all digital P2P currencies, but every comoditiy needs freedom to float and if they are to be represented as seperate repositories of value, then you cant use the existing blockchain at least not as far as I understand. Needless to say correct me if I am laboring under some misaprehention. I will gladly stand corrected if I've got something ass backwards.  What bitcoin actually offers, is the opportunity to transact in a digital currency over the internet without the need for third party intermediaries like banks. I don't think it offers (in it's present form at least), the posibility to represent anything other than the distributed value of a single commodity, that being the bitcoin currency itself. YES!! It provides the principal enabling a ubiquitous, digital proof of ownership, but that ownership only pertains to bitcoin itself and the amount that specific commodity that each node posesses at any given moment. How then is the value of your company allowed to float in the market as a free market entity? Unless I have something horribly screwed up, it seems that your shares are not independent units of value representing a share in the net equity of your company, but rather they are linked to the fluctuating market value of bitcoin. If I buy 1000 shares in IBM today, I will have to surrender a particular amount of money that represents the value of IBM shares by comparison to the units of currency I am using to exchange for them. 1000 shares of IBM may cost me X USD today but in one week it may be X + 3%. That's because the value of the company floats independantly of the value of any currency. It's effectively traded as a seperate comodity. Now if your company releases a fixed number of shares, represented as a bitcoin value, but to trade in those shares the shareholders need to retain ownership of the equivilent percentage (say 5%) of the master BTC value, then it seems to me, that what they have hold of is either worth whatever that sum of bitcoin is worth, or whatever 5% of your company is worth. If your company looses realworld value compared to BTC, then it needs for those bitcoins (held by the shareholders) to drop in value accordingly. How can your company demand that somebody elses bitcoin not be used just as bitcoin instead of company shares? How can you demand that the value of those bitcoin rise and fall acording to the value of the company? How would anybody even evaluate the value of your company, if you have fixed the number of fixed value shares and use bitcoin to represent them? Doesn't that mean you have pegged the value of your company, to the value of bitcoin? If the value of bitcoin goes up inordinately, while your company is making bad manegment decisions, then surely you can't expect it to ride the coat tails of the currency. That's not a level playing field. That's like floating a company, by saying that you'll release 10,000 $10 bills, recording all of their serial numbers, so they can be 'earmarked' as belonging to your company. All you have to do is pay for them with unmarked/unfixed (independantly valued) $10 bills. The $10 bills will still be worth what they are worth at face value. There's nothing legitimate you can do to them, that requires anybody to regard them as belonging to your company. Nor is there anything legitemate you can do to your company that bestows upon it the right to decalre one of it's shares as being worth $10. That's something for the market to decide. How then can something that used to be a $10 note, now become an Acme inc. share, unless you are taking $10 notes out of circulation and using them as recipts for what was initialy floated as $10 worth of equity in Acme inc.? If you expect the face value to remain fixed, ie: $10 worth of Acme inc shares, then obviously the number or amount (and therefore the percentage of them represented by the recipt) must be alowed to float. That would be an unusual way to trade shares. The value could be fixed but the quantity or percentage would need to be a floating quantity, determined by the market. I'll have to think about that one.  That's what you seem to be saying with this scheem. Not only 'This ($10) is what my shares will be worth' but that is what they will remain. Otherwise you're hijacking the face value of the currency OR you must implement a system by which the face value of the unit of currency and the value of a share is pegged, while the market is allowed to determine how many total shares of Acme inc. exist at any time.This distribution of currency for shares BTW, is not a good finance strategy, because your company must already have $100,000 worth of $10 notes to 'earmark' for shares. If you sell $100,000 worth of notes for $100,000, how does this generate finance. If I have a business worth an estimated $100,000 and, say I'm a plumber who wants to turn my lucrative enterprise into a franchise, then I may only have $5,000 in working capital between the business bank account and my petty cash jar. I might decide to float some shares in my buisness and offer the future proffits to potential shareholders. They will want to see evidence for what I am claiming as being worth $100,000, including the legitimate legal documentation, that demonstrates the profitability of my business model. It's going to be a bit futile, if I have to find $100,000 to buy $10 bills so that I can sell them as shares. I already HAVE an investment worth $100,000 I am looking for capital that dosnt already belong to me to exchange for shares in future profit. If I sell half my buisiness in shares I should be able to raise $50,000, but I dont need to find $50,000 extra dollars in order to sell shares in existing equity. Besides, as I said, I only HAVE $5,000 of working capital. The $50,000 is tied up mostly in company assets and goodwill etc. The purpouse of selling shares, is to raise some finance for expansion. If I already had $50,000 for the planed growth, then I wouldn't need to sell $50,000 worth of equity. Besides which, my company would then actually be worth $150,000. The idea is to exchange money for shares, not money for money. Sorry,   but I just dont see how this using money to piggyback existing share equity could work. In any financial transaction, the money is supposed to go one way and the equity in what is being traded for it, is supposed to go in the opposite direction.What we have with the existing bitcoin network/protocol, is a store of value in a singular commodity of exchange and a means by which financial transactions can be represented electronically and ubiquitously varified for their uniqueness. It's a free floating store of value and a transparent public record of transactions within it. What we dont yet have, is a digital counterpart network/protocol, to provide a similar public record of the various comodities/stocks/shares etc. all free floating with their own independant values, that can move in the opposite direction and be traded for bitcoin. The bitcoin network/protocol/blockchain, is a single ledger accounting for a single comodity. The next generation should rightly implement a double entry system of accountancy, for multiple comodities/budgetary categories, wherein evey transaction taken  from one comodity, is matched by an oppsite defficit in another. The current bitcoin blockchainm, represents a floating realworld value in a shared comodity called bitcoins. Today, the whole bitcoin network, is worth a finite amount, in terms of any other currency or comodity. That can be used to represent only ONE thing. THE TOTAL VALUE OF ALL BITCOINS. If you want to have multiple comodities/assets, with floating values. that can move in the opposite direction, reflecting both sides of a complete transaction of bitcoin for any other comodity/asset, then you need seperate blockchains each allowed to increase or decline in value seperately. It would almost go without saying, that there nededs to be one universal currency against which all of them are traded, so there will always be a universal common denominator. There needs to be a singular currency or store of universal value, that always moves in the oppisite direction when equity in any other comodity/asset is being exchanged. Needless to say I vote for bitcoin to represent that universal standard of exchange. It's not just the first, but it's the coolest and already most accepted digital P2P curency.  I expect a multi-blockchain client/network/protocol, will eventually be implemented to provide for the digital exchange of a plethora of comodities/shares/assets and bitcoin, will be the unit of universal value that goes in the oppisite direction of every other comodity/asset, to independantly represent payment for an arbitrary myriad of other units of value being exchanged. That will be tantamount to replicting a double entry system of accountancy, but one that is implemented over a P2P network.  If it's a mistake, then it's one that a hell of a lot of companies, investors and brokers seem quite indifferent about. Why is nobody generaly upset by a company floating a new lot of shares? It's basic economics realy. The newly created shares, don't just dilute your percentage of equity, but also increase the value of the company by the amount paid for them. For example, a company may have $1,000,000 worth of shares listed and you may own some of them. Now, if they then float the same number of shares, your percentage of the company will obviously halve, but the company will be looking for market value and that injects capital into the company to the tune of whatever price the market is willing to pay for half the company. That influx of capital gives them the power to grow and make more money. They don't just dilute the value of their shares for the fun of it. They gain in working capital (and potential growth) what they release in equity. You effectively then, have a smaller peice of a bigger pie. The market will only pay for one of your shares, the same price as they think it's worth. The same goes for a share released by the company. Although the share released by the company will also reduce the value of all shares proportinaly, but the diffrence with the share sold by the company, is that it increases the value of the company by the amount paid for it. If the company went to a bank and obtained a loan, it might be said to also decrease the value of your shares, as it would now have a bank account in the red by the amount borrowed, except that by accepting a liability, it would have more working capital. As a shareholder, you share in the profits by also accepting the risks. The company that floats extra shares, also reduces your percentage of risks and liabilities. If you were not concerened about the risk in the first place and had confidence in the ability of the management, to turn a good profit on your investment (as you were when you first bought your shares), then you might even buy more of those extra shares yourself when they are floated and expect the management to use the new capital generated, to grow and perhaps produce even better yeilds. It isn't the percentage of shares that you have that determines the performance of the company, but how well they use the their net equity (including your share of it) to turn a profit.I'm not quite clear on how your indignant disaproval is going to be binding on the company.Huh?   I could have sworn there were legal protocols in the existing stock exchange system and laws, to prevent insider trading. Perhaps you mean to imply that they're imperfect (and what isn't), but if you want a level playing field that can lookafter it's own checks and ballances, then it's best to design things from the bottom up, so they avoid such detrimental outcomes as insider trading. It's better to have a system built with forsight from the outset, that destroys the motive, or makes such things technicaly unfeasable, rather than rely on 'top down' regulatory controls. It would at least be desirable, to have built-in transparency.  Which is why I decided that stocks and shares need their own network and protocol designed for that purpouse from the ground up. Bitcoins were designed to represent a single freemarket comodity, in which each node may have shares of the whole. As I understand it, there needs to be another discrete unit of identity information caried by the bitcoin transactions. You  would need bitcoin to store the node it belongs to, as well as the comodity/company it represents. Stocks and bonds are essentialy a companys own micro-currency. They are derived from the 'tally-stick', by which shares in a collective asset, could be represented on a completely unique piece of timber, that carried notches to quantify the amount and was split (with the grain providing a unique fingerprint) so that the notches remained on both peices. The company (or government) retained the stock, while the investor kept the bond (or was it the other way around?). Anyhow, you had a unique identifier of the trading entity in the grain of both halves (like public and private keys) and the amount was in the notches. The 'information' of who either half belonged to, was only a product of who held posesion of it. Bitcoin provides a means to identify each node as independent shareholders of in one single commodity 'bitcoin'. To trade in shares of unique commodities, requires an extra factor of information to be stored, to identify the seperate pools of equity and they in turn, need to float in value independantly. That essentialy means having seperate blockchains as far as I can see. Yes, the bitstock network would operate completely independently as I invisage it. It (and it's protocol) would also be significantly different in some respects. The blockchain as I understand it, provides us with a principal by which we can (and do) derive security. The same principal can be applied to a similar network (ie one with a blockchain) and security can be derived by adopting the same principal. Of course there is nothing more secure than the existing bitcoin blockchain, but that only because there is no other similar network (apart from the bitcoin test network - that I know of) If there were, it could employ the very same principal to also become secure and that would be likely to happen if bitstock became popular, in the same manner as it happened for bitcoin, ie: by leveraging security in numbers.I have to do some more reading up on the technical aspects, of exactly how the process of hashing produces security in the existing network. I'm a little sketchy on that aspect of bitcoin. As I understand it though (correct me if I am wrong), mining (ie: producing bitcoin) is not essential to the process that generates security, so no coins have to be produced to provide security for trasnsactions. I make that assumption, based on the inevitable event in the future that there will be no bitcoin to mine. I assume the security won't colapse if there is no mining, because there will still be many connected nodes (we hope), that are each contributing to some hashing for security. The bitstock network as I invisage it, would work the same way with regard to the transfer of bitstock P2P, but there would be no 'mining' in the sense of producing bitstock out of nowhere or from the work of doing hashes. Instead the protocol would allow the company or trading entity, to float their bitstock, which could then be bought and paid for by a normal bitcoin transaction.I think it's quite implicit in this approach, that the bitstock client would still have the complete functionality of the bitcoin client built into it as well, as it would have to address two seperate networks (or at least two seperate namespaces), one being bitcoin and the other being bitstock. I'm not sure how both could be secured, apart from the bitstock client perhaps being made, so that dedicating some machine cycles to it is compulsory. In the existing bitcoin client the 'mining' (somehow) produces security and also bitcoin. In the existing client you can turn mining off though. If the bitstock client requires 'mining' (actualy just hashing for security), it might even provide a security strengthener for both networks, long after the 21M bitcoins have been produced. Cant a client feasably be made, so that it shares a nominal amount of hashing for security, across more than one blockchain?Nevertheless, there may yet be other approaches to security, but I'm only considering how adapting the P2P trading aspect might work; where each commodity or company stock, is represented as a seperate blockchain. That to me, is the sensible method to associate company stock with a bitcoin like protocal/network, since the blockchain is the entity that allows the value of the commodity to float freely.  In this model, a transaction consists of transfering ownership of some bitstock from one node to the other while the payment in bitcoin travels in the opposite direction. To create bitstock you have to have something of value to sell and the company or trading entity would float that as their own and then let market forces take over. It would be as if the company stock represents a micro-currency; one that can only be traded back and forth with bitcoin. Floating a stock or commodity is realy just a declaration of value. What you're saying essentialy is: 'My company has someting of value over here'. It could be company stock, commodities or whatever. If nobody agrees it's worth anything then it simply isnt. By the same token, it wouldn't be worth stealing it then either. If it has percieved value, then that value would be represented by paying for and buying it with bitcoin.Just as there's no information in the bitcoin blockchain to represent the intrinsic value of a bitcoin, there would be nothing of value in any bitstock blockchain to represent it's intrinsic value either. That BTW is good design on Satochi's part IMHO, as nothing realy has any intrinsic value, only value that is percieved. The basic design criteria is that the bitstock protocol, must be made so that bitcoin and ONLY bitcoin, can be used to transct bitstock. It realy needs to made from the bottom up, so that you just CANT obtain it any other way. If I am right, then there would be no way to steal it from the bitstock network itself. You could steal it only in the same way you can steal bitcoin today. If you cant create it (by mining) and cant steal it (if I understand this all properly), then the security is provided by the original bitcoin blockchain and the security of the bitcoin transactions, that flow in the opposite direction to the bitstock.The other design criteria is that the existing bitcoin blockchain, maintains a registry of public keys assigned to transactions. So bitcoin esentialy carries with it, some information about who owns it. The bitstock will need another element to identify what company stock or commodity, it is associated with. The Information stored in the bitcoin blockchain, for each transaction, of the nodes public key and amount, isn't enough. If I buy 100 bitstock in 'Mr Widgets Software', The transaction will have to be addressed to an associated blockchain and the original 'bitcoin like' ownership information, about the individual node that it is being transfered to, will still have to exist. So bitstock would have data fields denoting a node value and a trading entity value, that must be carried with every transaction. That way, the network knows not only who owns the resulting bitstock but what blockchain it is to be traded on. Did that help you think, or am I still confused about something?   I fully agree with the posabilities of taking the bitcoin concept to the level of stock trading. In fact, I have already proposed a complete stock exchange model, based on a modification of the bitcoin protocol and netrwork. The difference would be that a complete new network and protocol would be writen, so that all stocks, comodities or bonds, would have their own blockchain, as an independent means to float freely. Bitcoin would remain an entirely independant network, so that BTC traded for one would simply change hands and no bitcoins would ever be gained or lost by trading across this independent 'bitstock' network.  LOL. No I didn't think you were casting nasturtiums Phinnaeus, I just didn't get it as I'm a bit thick at that time of day.  Well done Andre. This is a welcome contribution to the bitcoin world and the Australian community. Until Tradehill began trading in AUD I had contemplated setting up an exchange here myself, but it was more involved than I had hoped. I've never tried moving bitcoin in or out of Tradehill, so I don't know if that solved our liqidity concerns. But It's just fantastic news to have a home grown exchange with EFT support, so rest assured, I'll be there with bells on.  You have a wicked mind Mat. At least you didn't sugest a bitcoinpenis.com with a... wait for it... 'here cums the money shot', daily prize.   Oops did I say that?  Yeah! That's what I had in mind Phinnaeus. It would be just like using a mandlebrot rendering engine (I used to play with fractint), only online, and yeah, 3D rendering, that's why I say you would have to be able zoom scroll and move through the set just as you can with the desktop applications. Er... Not sure what you are getting at here.   Wonderful idea. I like the fun aspect of it. I thought of something similar a while back. Might take a fair bit of coding though. It might be called The Mandelpot. It's like a treasure hunt for pots of gold (acctualy bitcoin prizes), randomly distibuted through an online rendering of the mandelbrot set. You would have to zoom in a bit to find the smaller bitcoin 'pots of gold' and explore the set even more carefully to find biger prizes. The colective prize money would replaced regularly as it is won, but randomly split so that the smaller chunks appear closer to 1:1 scale (say at a minimum of 100:1 for 100 satoshis), while a larger chunk would be calculated to be hiden deeper (say 1,000,000:1 for a 0.1 bitcoin prize). You can explore the set for as long as you please, but when you login you agree to have your GPU/CPU harvested for some machine cycles to generate bitcoin. So it's actualy a casual bitcoin mining farm also. While you are exploring you might notice various sponsorship ads swimming into view amidst the sweeping tendrills of the mandelbrot set. Also some of the pots might have a generous vouchers of genuine discount/gifts/introductory offers from the sponsors, rather than straight out bitcoin prizes.I think this could be made so that bots have no better chance of finding the pots than the humans, but as long as they are there, they too have to contribute machine cycles to play, so they would contribute to the prize pool as much as (or more than) they are harvesting from it. The more hashing power you have the more quickly you can zoom, scroll, render and such, so it should possible to ballance the odds if done properly.If somebody wants to code this up, I'd likely to be quite willing to put a reasonable sum of bitcoin in to help launch it. What would the coding for something like that be worth? ^_^ This. Edit:  Sorry I mucked up the quotes.   Hi I have some experience with graphics and have a collection I've put together to show prospective client. I've decided to do some freelance work, to supplement my own startup as it also fits in well with them. I can give more details about the other business I'm involved with by PM, and provide a link to my artwork zip file. I have also just put one of those images together for you to see. If it's suitable, we have a head start. Otherwise I can keep it and find it another home.Cheers Karmicads Not yet, but I soon will.How about a simple server on your own system, just for your code and have the hosted web server, pull the CGI calls from downstream? I know you can get separate virtual IP services. Or maybe just putout for a fixed IP. You should get enough bandwidth for a proof of concept. Then donations for the upgrade. If it looks like your doing something useful (and it does), hell what's wrong with a little begging?Just look at my sig.  Yup! Sounds like it would be an approximite work-a-like to the concept I had in mind, unless its not a P2P client. We really need a block chain for proof of work.You got it goin' on dude. Proof of concept is eminent. Somebody round here is working on (or made) an interface for actually using bitcoin for trading in game. I s'pose it just monitors the game units of credit and passes the bitcoinage on in proportion to any trade it makes in game, like playing poker with match sticks over the table, while passing money under it.   Sounds great. Dunno what 'eggdrop' is (other than how you make breakfast when you wake up still drunk). You can go almost anywhere with RPC though. But IRC for the P2P seems like a bit of a fudge. Still, would show how the system functions from a users POV.  It's like watching raindrops before the ground is completely wet, just before the advent of a torrential downpour. Just began inquiries about forex myself, which I discovered, as I tried finding ways to liquidate bitcoin for pig penny's. Never got around to opening the practice trading account though. I'm too busy with bitcoin ideas.WOW!!   If you could get them to reproduce, you could get some of you best game playing years in for centuries after you kick the bucket. If the humans go extinct after killing the wildlife and environment, your bots could be playing away for who knows how long in solar powered homes where PC's got left running. It's a simplification to getting loans, making payment by credit card and using PoxPal too.  Wait till it's fairly liquid. I used to play TTD/OpenTTD a lot. Just realised you could to the same sort of thing with that. I am not a big fan of forcing everything to be priced/valued in terms of just one thing. In my Digitalis D'ydii Cluster on BBSes decades ago I always allowed players to pick any item from price lists to use as measure of the price of everything else, so that for example a player interested in obtaining tons of fuel to get the heck off the planet could view everything's value in terms of tons of fuel, or a player interested in shipping stuff could view all values in temrs of tonlightmonths of transportation or whatever.There's a very good reason for implementing this common denominator system. More than one actually. Firstly, BTC is the one which will be available to all nodes and the only one which is instant free P2P digital currency. If there has to be a unit that all are measured in, then BTC is the one. The reason there must be a single common unit, is so that the trading between bitstock and bitcoin are kept in sync. The bitcoin economy is a closed loop (with respect to existing bitcoin at least). bitstock is closed too but only with respect to all other bitstock. Bitcoin are not on the same tally sheet. You cant take wheat say, as payment for bitstock.  Why? Because wheat or candy, or horse poo, cant be made accountable. Shareholders have to pay for bitstock with bitcoin, for the sake of accountability. So company owners have to buy with bitcoin, so the books will balance. And if they don't the public record will show. That's OK for honest companies, because one of the many things they can buy, is other currency. It's no problem even to automate trades for reasonable margins to maintain a predictable float of working capital. Also the tax man should love this (and get off bitcoins back). Anybody who says bitcoin is too anonymous, and cant be held accountable is wrong. If you have a P2P stock exchange system and double entry account balancing between a single currency's economy and the commodities/stocks/assets of the company listed on this single exchange economy, you can always keep stringent control in real time, of whether the books balance. Governments can audit with a bot and get off the honest guy's back. NOW! Once they are satisfied that bitcoins can be accounted for, they may just turn on the fed (their ruthless captors) and run to bitcoin for cover (and revenue). Having one unit of trade, either in or out of the bitstock network is a seriously major feature, because it keep all company equity to a known value.  Besides, there has to be some rule that regulates how and when the client node gets to write bitstocks into the network. When they are created, they need to also be like bitcoin, and not be like fiat money. The asset type or commodity they're paid for with, needs to be of a fixed limited quantity. all other commodities / currencies are unknown variables. You cant tell how much wheat (or oil, or orange juice) a company has. If opens to trade, it had better offer what it has in bitcoin. or else it wont be counted as an asset. Owners can value and buy with bitcoin, into their own existing assets, to float bitstock for sale and to show true company value. Otherwise the shares will be less attractive. For over a decade now, I have toyed with a technological idea for a processing system to harvest honey. I used to keep bees as a young lad, and combined a few ideas to avoid heat and ventilation issues. That made it feasible to incorporate a molded wax frame, timber-less frame and disposable honeycomb system, to avoid expensive equipment costs in making frames and extracting honey. Instead of a complex centrifugal extractor, lots of handling (uncapping loading extractors etc.), the comb could be simply squashed to release the honey and the wax melted down for re-molding and for an added cash crop of wax. That coincided with growing concerns over health regulations as each beekeeper tended to run their own extracting plant and the conditions were not always perfectly sanitary. My system afforded itself to mass production and outsourcing of the extraction with much better efficiency. A larger scale plant like this would put such a company between the beekeeper and the large honey wholesalers. Then a few years back, the prices went through the floor. Beekeepers couldn't sell their produce for the cost to bring it to market. This was strange as the prices on the supermarket shelf was still about the same. It all came down to greed and market monopolization. I considered if I could ever be in the position to set up the honey plant, how I could restore the balance. How it could be financed without going to the banks. The beekeepers, I decided, would have to be shareholders. But being cash poor they would be just as stuck. I realized that if it could be done it would be something like a cooperative. It then struck me, to permit... no INSIST, that equity in the company could only be paid with honey. I would sell shares not for money, but for honey. The beekeepers would have the upper hand and the marketers would have to by honey at a fair price. They could not buy shares on the open market to 'future proof' their monopoly either.  I never went further with this idea for lack of numerous needs and other interests, but it always reminds me, that any commodity can be traded as currency in a controlled system and demand for that commodity can be created if you would trade company equity for it. The simplest implementation of  a bitcoin like network, struck me as a way to distribute units representing company shares that could be bartered for any commodity or currency you want to create a demand for. In this case the software will require require bitcoin to be paid for with bitstock and vice versa, because the ability to account with a single common denominator in a zero sum network is the way we keep the books balanced at all times. Everything WILL be valued in terms of everything else though. By using a common denominator (that is - common to all), each commodity may float freely as market demand would dictate, but at any given time, they will ALL have a relative value to each other, which can be calculated by converting to a common reference value. Anything  that goes up 3 BTC, will also go up by 3 BTC relative to everything else. The software can and would, still show all manner of comparisons and even incorporate an embedded spreadsheet  or dynamic tables. You may even be able to buy a quantity of A for an equivalent quantity of C, while bitccoin B is used by the buying node, to pay for the commodity you are trading, then in exchange it is passed directly to the the node with the commodity you wish to buy, who will automatically trade C for exactly the same amount of bitcoin. To you it will seem like you simply bartered some A for some C and your bitcoin balance B, will remain just the same. But even a balanced swap will cause a matching set of transactions, that will create events broadcast to all nodes using bitstock. This way all nodes can evaluate the network data for any commodity they might care to monitor. Your own portfolio would have rich real time budgetary details, for each company who's bitstock you hold. Other commodities like gold, wont have budgets but may have other useful performance statistics. But dude, I gotta say, you got some pretty good background for a project like this. Maybe you should wind down the in game 'toy currencies' and play in the big sandpit. Of course monetizing games would still be a good lead in path for both gamers and software companies to accept licence payments. They also have some of the best commodities to trade online, being that they're digital and all. Gets interestin' dont it? The P2P transaction embellishments seem to be coming thick and fast now. I have also posted an idea called 'bitstock', but it involves a separate network and blockchain, for not only contracts but a diversified stock exchange, payment gateway and P2P escrow. It avoids modifications to the blockchain, network or protocol. Existing clients would function as usual. Only users who wish to trade with duplex accountancy, would have to upgrade. No third parties either with this one.You could still get a merchant bank account and trade in local currency for a nominal fee. Now you mention it, proper contracts with repeat payment schedule's a graphical form builder and client support database, would make a nice extension too. Better to build in functionality that needs adding than be left out in the cold.   I'm not to sure where the infinite amount of companies comes in.  It's already hard enough to choose from all the different brands of dish washing detergent. I hope they won't ALL be cleaning product manufacturers. The calculations I heard of, gave bitcoin the divisibility to trade with something like three times the GDP of the entire world in units the size of a few cents. Of course that doesn't make them infinite, so if an infinite number of bitcoiners ever arrive (because they'd be so rich and successful and have so many children  ), then there won't be enough bitcoin either. Given that's a problem for anything used as a commodity of trade, bitstock is no different. Even quarkcointm   would be finite. In fact, bitstock would not actually be a commodity of trade as such, but a tethered unit of value (in equity) and a record of public accountability. Without even doing the math, it's clear that the number of shares for any one commodity or stock, don't have to have even the tiniest fraction of potential volume that bitcoin do. One way to see this, is to realize that every share of bitstock is bought with bitcoin. Say we limit the unit quantity (for a single commodity) to one million bitstock. Given that we are dividing the entire network capacity by 21,  for one company to exhaust their share trading headroom, their stock would collectively have to be 1/21 of the entire trading capacity of bitcoin, with share prices as small as the minimum value of bitcoin possible. If 21 companies did this at the same time, all the bitcoin in the world would not cover their share value. Remember, the only thing that allows the network to create bitstock, is the sale of bitstock for an agreed amount of bitcoin. You can only buy as much stock in anything as there is currency to cover it. The share value doesn't have to be, and isn't tied to any particular sum of bitcoin. While there will have to be less in circulation of any one bitstock commodity, the total capacity of the whole bitstock network is at least as divisible as bitcoin. Shares worth $2.00 will convert to the current trading value of bitcoin,  and buy the equivalent value in some other commodity at say $0.50. So you'll get 4 times the number of shares, but no bitcoins will be lost or added to the bitcoin network and no minimum units of trade (or overall value) will be added or lost in the bitstock economy. They are both zero sum closed loops, with finite capacity. If all the companies stocks and commodities together could exhaust the capacity of bitstock, then it could exhaust the capacity of bitcoin too, if bitcoin were used to buy it  from the stock exchange.Think of bitstock as an automatic receipt for bitcoin. It can be divided just as finely as the existing bicoin, but never increased in quantity beyond the amount of bitcoin in circulation. So just like a receipt, you can never write out one for more than you are payed. I could be wrong, but if there ever looks like we are getting close to an infinite number of companies, we can sell all our bitcoin and go back to an infinite regression of debt, using fiat currency.   Hello fellow bitcoiners,This gets a little long at the other end, so get youself a cupa and make youself comfey. I've been contemplating a couple of ideas for sometime now, that have eventualy gelled into one unified whole and I think it might now be worth the time to share it with you.On one hand I had wondered if the bitcoin network and protocol could be re-modeled and co-opted to create a useful smaller network for a company to trade shares and originaly I was thinking that it would use the standard protocol and be modified so it had a smaller limit to the number of total units of trade that would be created. Where as the bitcoin network has a target of 21 million total coins, the company 'bitstock' (seems like an apropriate term to coi.. er... stock) would only need, say, 1 million, or even 10 thousand.  Anyhow, I concieved this with some concerns about how coins on one network would be prevented from being exported on another. As I understand it, this is no a concern anyhow. The basic idea, was to allow a business to permit the tracking of it's equity by implementing this micro-currency to represent it's shares and those could in turn be bought and sold with regular bitcoin.Due to more recent experiences with the liqidity issues of bitcoin, with respect to trading them in with of regular currency and then after the MtGox incident, I began contemplating another seperate idea, which involves implementing the functions of a trading exchange in the same manner as bitcoin using peer to peer technology. Like MtGox, only over P2P. Then I wondered, if such a trading exchange application, couldn't also be incorporated into the bitcoin interface. After some more pondering, I realized, that both these ideas were begging to be amalgamated. The bitstock I realised should become a seperate protocol in it's own right and the network and blockchain modified to handle some slightly different data. I should make one thing clear from the outset, that is: The bitcoin network and protocol would stay exactly as is and this idea is only a complementary support, which itself, demands bitcoin trading in order to work.Whereas a bitcoin only has one long identifier of it's uniqeness, the bitstock would have less need for such a large range of unique identifcation, but some of the identity string, could be reserved for a secondary, client assigned identity. The client bitstock application as I envisage, would be able to trade in a large number of individual stocks, comodities, and currencies. Anybody who has something to trade, such as produce, services and even their own company shares, could list them on this virtual stock exchange. The individual trading units, would deliberately have their own block chain (only because I think they would have to) and the units of bitstock, would be asigned an identity according to what type of commodity/currency/stock it is being used to payfor.You can imagine a whole table of comodities, currencies and stocks, that each person or company may have holdings in, allong with of course, bitcoin itself, which would stand as the base unit of value, against which all the others are calculated. The bitstock could be very effective in establishing business to business trading pathways, where bitcoin can be traded between companies for the multitude of bitstock commodities and services on offer. Companies who provide payment gateways for their regular local currencies, can also list the currency they support. Apart from improving liqidity of bitcoin by diversifying it's pathways to liquidity, while building strong bridges of B2B trading, it could also open a much easier and more fertile path to listing a startup for seed capital. Once you have a company listed and its business plan is published (publishing could perhaps even be provided as an intergrated network service), investors, stock brokers or VC's, may speculate and trade to their hearts content.When the company returns dividends, the shareholders need to be paid fairly, so the bitstock network might implement a means by which the company automatically divides the proffit and sends bitcoin in exact proportion to the amount of shares each shareholder has. Proffits of course, will be made in bitcoin. If they are made in other currencies, then they must be converted into bitcoin to satisfy the rules of the bitstock network. The reason for this is that bitstock would only be generated by the node of the company or person trading this particular stock or commodity they list. There will be no mining for bitstock in this network. Instead you have to have a ballance of bitcoin proportional to the value of the companys soluable equity. That will be measured in bitcoin only. The bitcoins you have may be spent, in just the same manner as any company uses running capital, but unless you make a profit somehow, you cant buy back more bitcoin than you spend. You dont make a measured turnover letalone profit; not until it is converted to bitcoin in the trading wallet. The value of your companies shares may rise or fall independantly of it's total bitcoin but not the amount of them that you release. You can only sell at agreed market value and you could only buy back what you have in bitcoin to spend. As far as the client software is concerned, you are just another trader. The companies bitcoin is no better than anybody elses. Just as the bitcoin network prevents double spending, the bitstock network prevents insider trading. Any transaction on the books must be have bitcoin on one side of the ledger. I can well invisage this being incorporated into, or fleecing the opensource code of a good double entry book keeping application, like GNUcash. The point of double entry is everything id accounted in a zero sum system. Every payment from one place is made to some other place and every budget category, is an account, with in and out ledgers. If everything paid for by the company must be taken in bitcoin to be written off as expense, then you ultimately need bitcoin to cover everthing. That's what justifies selling your bitstock shares for bitcoin though.When you release some shares, it reduces the overall value of them, but since they are released by selling them for bitcoin, you have more trading currency to work with. The bitstock network will not allow bitstock to be bought or sold with anything other than bitcoin but only provides a seperate protocol and network, for liquidating one currency or comodity against another, via the exchange of bitcoin. The number of bitstock units in play at any moment is a zero sum game when played against all the bitcoin equity in the trading companies wallet ballance and material equity. The network can see to it that all of a companies trades from their trading wallet are listed publicly in a running budget ballance sheet, so that shareholders can scrutinise every transaction made, with assets, liabilities, trading ballance, existing shares and their current value, all on display.The managers may buy assets for the company with local currency cash and not record it, but that will only give their shareholders a free gift. Instead, to account for a purchace, they must use bitcoin or spend bitcoin out of the trading wallet, to buy other currency. Now it's on record they have accounted for their spending and can make purchaces that they need. The management cant however sell anything out of the company ballance sheet, that isn't already accounted for in terms of bitcoin. That of course goes for bitstock too. You could try to run a cash sideline, tradeing out company resources for a local currency, but that will just weaken the proffit you can record and the value of your stock. It's nothing that any company cant already do, for that matter. In this system at least, you are held accountable to much tighter scrutiny and shareholders are granted the means to track all variables of the companies net worth, by deliberately making them reducible to one common unit of P2P currency (our beloved bitcoin), while shares are floated in a way that is also universaly acountable. Only bitcoin in. Only bitcoin out. all assets, liabilities, profits and shares accounted for.Hopefully companies will eventualy be able to trade for almost all of their requirement B2B+P2P and very little will be needed to be reduced to fiat currency. Their stock can be listed, allong with their produce or services and anybody trading in bitstock can have a smorgasboard of portfolio choices. The existing currency exchangers will not need to maintain central user databases nor have login accounts with all that personal information. Instead they can concentrate on providing a gateway to buy and sell bitcoin for regular currency and list their currency options as on the exchange network. The bitcoin economy could then be rid of a serious bottleneck, causing security and liquidity issues.The bitstock client, will obviously need to incorporate a regular bitcoin payment client frontend at the very least, but it should also incorporate a gateway to transact localy with a regular bank account. Local currency liquidity is a serious shortfall at the moment and the option of third party centeral websites to play intermediates, is a huge drawback for liquidity and security, while it undermines the benifits of P2P currency. Regular currency exchangers should offer the equivilent to POS, requiring only your direct deposit details, encoded over the network, never stored on their system and never human readable, but simply triggering the authorisation of their client to buy BTC at the listed price and given quantity, while ensuring they are paid. Selling bitcoin is the reverse process, authorising a direct deposit payment and negotiating both the bank payment details and the bitcoin transaction. With currency, as with any comodity or stock, bitstock acts at an automatic escrow as well. It only releases the bitcoin in reciept of the stock being sold. The trading client nodes will agree by the buyer taking an offer on the market, and confirming the bitcoin is availble in their wallet, then signaling the buy to the sellers client node. That locks in both payment and supply so no more human intervention is permitted. Only with a multi-commodity P2P network or two seperate networks, is it possible to monitor both comodities in a transaction and make sure one agreed unit of trade gets exchanged for another. That in my view has the makings of a universal online stock exchange and bank to network, network to bank trading gateway, to go with the wonderfull, universal bitcoin currency we already have. OK that was an overwhelming intro. I'll leave it at that and wait to hear what confusion I've mannaged to cause.   Needless to say, your input and queries are greatfully welcomed. HIT ME! I wouldn't ordinarily quote myself, but this thread like a number of others, clearly seem contaminated by a certain 'element' or perhaps I should say: a silicone based compound. It seems to have leached into the water around here and ever since, has had a horribly divisive effect on members of this community, who would otherwise be more enthusiastic, supportive and cordial to each other. I would just advise anybody climbing the hillsides of the booby trap ranges, not to loose their footing and tumble into the deep crevasse of Silicone Valley. If I were say the government or the fed, planning to send some agent of  to create disharmony and to try undermine the values of this community, I might choose a sexually liberated vixen, who many guys will be quite reticent to find fault with, because most guys tend to be more forgiving with our women folk. She'd be coached in making a calculated ploy, to inflame egos and subtly troll for emotive controversy, taking a disparaging, abrasive line that she knows full well that somebody will take issue with, then precede to play the victim card, when the inevitable backlash arrives. It won't be her fault she will protest, as she's just giving good advice and being helpful. Having inflamed a hostile reaction her work is done, as those who join the discussion will tend to take sides. Others may offer some limited agreement, but not to the extent that they would have raised the issue themselves. Yet by contributing to the contentious issue, her supporters will have picked up a hand, and so find themselves playing the game.She my also make obnoxious claims that the people here in staff roles, are persecuting her and shutting her down; that they are offensive tyrants, who insist on victimizing her. She waste no time in overtly drawing on the support of others to challenge status quo,  while making not the slightest attempt to negotiate a diplomatic solution or temper her hostility, but rather adding fuel to the fire, by pulling such grandstanding stunts, as placing her brazen accusations in her signature, with links to threads where she has made her petulant contentious, confrontations. As well as this she would very likely rail against bitcoin as community, for it's ethos and values, while pretending to be a contributor with valuable constructive criticism yet patronizing those who find her criticisms disagreeable. She would never seem to just make an unreserved encouraging comment herself, but rather positing her 'advice' as stern criticism without qualifying her unsolicited opinion. It will never even be intended as friendly or helpful advice, but rather calculated, as mildly acerbic and derogatory criticism, so that the bystander, is likely to care less than the subject of her backhanded helpful 'advice'. She should also make audacious calls, for tumultuous changes, that would undermine the community such as removing an entire forum. In this community the best target for inducing conflict and to divide the community into seperate factions, would be the politics & society forum. So that's what I'd advise her to do, post a thread calling for Politics to be removed, as either a ploy for invoking contentious flame wars, or if some how successful, to weaken the community and undermine the education of newcomers, for whom the philosophical underpinnings of generally libertarian values might empower them to turn from curious to dedicated community members,  expect support for substantive  Some may entirely agree, just for the sake of solidarity with (what they perceive as) the hot vixen while others. A segregated politics board on a separate website, would hardy be visited anywhere near as much, if it isn't here on bitcoin.org. I would also have her loudly trumpet mainstream business values, demanding consideration for crass corporate elitism and have her advocate the need to pander to the whims of corporate despots, who she claims, expect bitcoin to adopt a corporate stylized image (including the removal of  the politics forum). She will insist that these so called 'business people' are taken aback by the forums being contaminated with appeals for an uprising against government an tax evasion advocacy. Highlighting a potentially negative aspect and putting bitcoin down will also be a priority even declaring that it doomed to failure, withdrawing her participation in using bitcoin for business. That's what I'd do if I were a politician or senior executive of the Fed, and I wanted to disrupt the community and spawn contention and resentment. These divisive ploys, wouldn't be neatly as effective, coming from a typical guy or a more conservative looking girl. A politician would probably find a girl of this caliber at a B&D/S&M fetish fantasy dungeon. That's where they all go for their guilty pleasures isn't it? I said I intended to quote myself. Reading this whole thread and putting it into the context of the above post, consider these words of mine from another thread, which happens to be calling for the removal of the politics forum:
OK. Thanks for your help joe, I'm going to follow a new thread on FPGAs I just discovered, just to learn some more.  But if I spill a glass of beer on it, then it would move a couple of my mates to shed teardrops. What makes raindrops so hard to move?   Ahhh. That explains quite a bit. The loss then, would be incurred by the de-serialization algorithms. Like an ADC, it must introduce bottle necks, that require a processing speed, proportional to the volume of data being hashed. Likewise, emulating a CPU on GPU, would force the opposite issue, like a DAC, I imagine it would shift every bit it had to move into registers to address a virtual UART, implemented for a serial interface. I'm just guessing here so don't shoot me now  . I would assume these visualization apps, have virtual UARTS for parallel to serial interfacing and vice versa. Now (if I'm right so far), I have to wonder how differently FPGA's work and if they are more amenable to improvisation. I'm trying to see how a mobile device (or older computer) could have the best environment, to churn out hashes better than one with no particular hash processing optimizing code (virtual or otherwise), yet still be efficient at processing regular OS/application code, while addressing the system bus, dynamic memory allocation, handling interrupts, and so on.If we talk in terms of say a virtual UART, dedicated to this optimization, are we still still throwing good machine cycles after bad? Keep in mind of course, that the code in service of this task, has the system memory at it's disposal (I think). Where as my basic 3D on board video, has a piddling 128 meg of DRAM, My whole system has a couple of Gig. With good tight, clean, code that dynamically  pulls the required memory into service, don't I have more room for flexible parallel assignment like a processor that grows extra process threads or something? Even an expensive video card with a Gig of on board memory is limited to it's capacity. If you implement the GPU in memory (unless I'm mistaken) then each instance of it's parallel processing would not require a new parallel image of it in memory, but only an implementation of the internal clock and I/O addressing the virtual UART as quick as it's little legs will carry it. OK. So my CPU is only 3.7 gig, but my GPU is far worse at 1 point something. Surely I can squeeze a bit more processing power from a 3-4):1  ratio of processing speed, especially if I have almost 10 times the RAM to depose of in idle time.You see what I'm saying? Even if the capacity of CPU is nothing like GPU in terms of hardware performance, I still may have much more CPU power and RAM for modeling (even perhaps somewhat more SMP) than could attained by CPU processing alone, if only we isolate the bottle neck and virtualise only the components/functionality that give the GPU it's advantage. A dynamic VGPU, might chew up available system resources and spit out a SMP implementation of scalable/adaptable clocks, I/Os and VUARTs that even granting that my piddly video card may be better in hardware design, my virtual video GPU, may be somewhat better given the much better internal CPU clock speed and the disposable memory available to it's registers on demand. Efficient is something the CPU may not be (for hashing), but in terms of being resource enriched, and having dynamically delegable functionality and for all round versatility, it seems like a resource undervalued. The challenge may be virtulising no more of the GPU architecture, than needed, to re-purpose a reasonably fast CPU to outperform a relatively slow GPU (or no GPU). I can afford the overheads, if putting a graphics card into my machine is not an option and the VGPU is basically a targeted optimization of GPU architecture that could interface with the CPU and perform better than the CPU trying to crunch hashes all on it's own. My understanding of how a GPU performs hash calculations or draws polygons, by comparison to ordinary CPU processing, call upon an analogy (perhaps a less than satisfactory one) with the difference between bitmap (grid plotting and pixel rendering) vs. vector graphics. The latter calculating the absolute coordinates of points on a plane, whereas, the later uses minimal differences between frames of reference and optimal mathematical descriptions of  lines, planes and the relationship between points (geometry), whereas bitmaps were only intended to describe pixels and their attributes one by one, as they were scanned to the display. OK, So a CPU can calculate vectors and do the same tricks, but a GPU (in my naive understanding), was designed to describe the contents of a given chunk video memory, by the geometrical relationships and differences between frames and render the result in the same way as the dumb electronics would accept (Ie, scan lines and fixed values for each pixel), but to calculate that, it only needs know the relatively small differences between each frame and send the information that would be relevant. Given the typical similarity between each frame, the difference could be subtracted and only the changes refreshed on each pass of the scan line. As I understand, this preservation approach to describing only what has changed, is particularly favorable to description by vector relationships. reducing data to all so many lines, angles, points and the relationships between them (geometry). You can. as I understand it, describe a point, plane or polygon far more efficiently in terms of vectors. As typical video images contain lots of objects moving (or perspective of them shifting) incrementally, which while their perspective/position has changed their general consistency is preserved. The total share of pixels in each frame then, that must be adjusted, is usually a much smaller fraction (compared to redrawing the whole screen) and so their description in a multidimensional array, is simplified by what minimal pixels are to be re-rendered and the incremental degree of change, rather than of absolute whole values. In vectors terms this may be trivial, except for the colour encoding, shading and ray-tracing dimensions. As I understand it, modern cards have a fair bit of separate dedicated circuitry and chips to handle support for this separate dimension of contextual complexity. They really are marvelous and clever devices on close inspection. Not that CPUs and computers in general aren't, but this clever complementarity, so well devised to model and render, complex 3D fields of vision, beyond the resolution required by human eyesight, it's just a marvel to behold. Comprehending the complexity of what is being drawn on the screen, gives some sense of magnitude, of the information processing that modern computing deals with, and the clever ways being used to compress and minimize the preprocessing of redundant information . Yet that is but a fraction of the processing power, of a modest desktop box. It's beguiling to think of the amount of information being processed by the whole machine and all those lines of code, with all the conditional tests being tried, ports being read, I/O accessed, buffers read and written to, while registers are being peeked, poked and mov'ed. People may look at their screen and not only take it all for granted, yet only assume that what they see up there, IS the program and IS about all that is happening. Anyhow. I digress. Now I have to wonder about the future potential of field programmable gate arrays and how differently they work. The potential to have mobile devices with dedicated processors, optimized to be adaptable for any processes presently demanding greater resources (whether they be CPU like GPU like or otherwise), is an interesting line of inquiry; costly as it may be for R&D. I wonder if the FPGA could allow a device to be just as efficient at playing CPU as GPU depending on present needs and dynamically adjusting it's provisions to suit each process accordingly. I hear that some FPGA's are down to below $300 now. Also I wonder how the advent of the massively parallel processing of hyper-visors like KVM, might affect the potential of a VGPU implementation. The potential I'm investigating BTW, is not so much for individual/personal use, as for aggregating and for SMP over networks. I can almost imagine bitcoin being farmed (like existing mining pools), but with many, many CPUs, on participating mobile devices, all sharing the hashing work, of a cloud based VGPU server, deployed over a VPN and using a hyper-visor like KVM for load balancing. The question of viability, then has to account for the performance leverage, afforded to the whole system, given memory constraints may be handled by the data center serving the VGPU, while parallel processing of hash power is handled by the hyper-visor. Would CPU hashing still be more efficient in a massively parallel cloud of clients, than some kind of virtual appliance, emulating the essential features of a GPU? Interesting possibilities methinks. Anyhow thanks for the info. You can learn so much, just by asking stupid questions to clever people.   That Del Shannon guy sure was an underrated hero wasn't he?OH! That Shannon. Now we are talking heroes of another order of magnitude (no offence Del, wherever you are  )  Here he is:How many people realize that in 'coining' the term (pardon the pun) 'bitcoin' Satoshi was actually acknowledging (perhaps inadvertantly) the father of information theory? The 'bit' being the unit of information that halves prior uncertainty of an unknown value. It's generally recognized that Shannon essentially defined the 'bit' if he didn't literally coin the term (again, pardon the pun). I don't understand programming all that well nor mathematics either for that matter, but I do love information theory, so Shannon is a legend in my eyes, in that he devised the mens to quantify redundancy. I don't know how Satoshi's algorithm does the weight calculation, but I assume it's some sort of Bayesian approach, heavy on recursive looping too I expect. Fascinating indeed. Particularly for it's implications for entropy, but that's another story. BTW, even that explanation helped my mathematics understanding. I can see now, how the cumulative 'surprise value' of each bit, is derived from Shannon's Log function. Thanks for that. I can't wait till you write a verbose non-mathematical description for us non-mathematical types. It sounds like a very grass roots 'bottom up' approach, to avoid the need to calculate the weight by measuring it directly. But again, I don't know how it's ordinarily done in Satoshi's implementation.  I'll be looking forward to it.  Well done ol' chap. I hope somebody will take note of this. It sounds like an elegant alternative. I don't suppose you ever read Richard Dawkins' article The Information Challenge, in which he honors Shannon and provides a great layman's explanation of information as an economic commodity and the relevance of redundancy. I particularly like the parallels it draws (in my mind at least), with energy and entropy. He comes tantalizingly close to venturing into this realm, but unfortunately forestalls it. Anyhow, I wish you well with this promising refinement and intuitively, I honestly do think you have a good development refinement to offer. Please, keep us informed. OK. So that's an unequivocal NO then. I was not sure that 'power' of a GPU for hashing or rendering polygons etc, was an equivalent measure of 'power' for CPU processing, nor if once the overhead to do the emulating had been paid, if the subsequent cost in power would rise in proportion. I was thinking it may be a fixed overhead to emulate the hardware, so if you had a relatively powerful CPU or no GPU at all, you'd loose a fixed amount of CPU processing ability, yet gain from re-purposing you CPU while it would otherwise be idle. I would have assumed that other emulated hardware, such as tap and tun devices, had a fixed overhead unrelated (or at least not proportional) to the bandwidth of data they handle.I understand basic thermodynamics (better than most esp. in relation to information theory), so I realize you can't get something for nothing. Also my (perhaps naive) understanding is, that GPU's may be better designed for hashing, but that the CPU on a typical box, is a much more powerful processor overall than the GPU, which while designed for graphics, is able to do so much more in it's specialty than a CPU, more because of the way it handles video data, which has well defined and limited characteristics.So if you don't have a GPU at all (and cant install one), there's nothing to be gained by emulating one. I'm interested to learn where the efficiency difference lies. Clearly it's not simply because a GPU mainly has to address video memory, or such mundane architectural differences with it's I/O design. It's obviously more to do with it's intrinsic method of processing algorithms. It's an interesting thought in my view, as I understand that field programmable arrays, can do yet again more efficient processing for a given task, with literally much less power in terms of kilojoules. So again we would conclude that emulation is futile to trump the hardware alternative, I would have suspected as much, but if there is no alternative (ie. no GPU to speak of, or if you want platform independent, standardized, virtual deployment, over a VPN running on a hyper-visor like KVM). That's the crux of the issue. I'm not simply wondering if a CPU emulated GPU, is better than a a hardware GPU, but rather, if it's worth implementing at the expense of the direct CPU hashing power, specifically where hardware GPU power would be negligible to no-existent.So, I'll take it the answer is still an unequivocal NO, unless perhaps, I didn't make my original query clear enough and perhaps you have some clarification to qualify the result. Either way, thanks for the advice. PS: I promise I won't try to save the world with my 'over unity' bitcoin generating virtual GPU, even though we know there are suckers out there who would by it.  Perhaps somebody has already thought of this. Perhaps it's unfeasible. But I'thought I'd ask anyhow.Since GPU's can mine far more efficiently than a CPU, is it possible to create code for a virtual GPU (I'm thinking of hardware that won't support a graphics card)? Would the overhead defeat the purpose? Could you squeeze much more hashing power out of a CPU and make the memory dynamicly allocatable to the GPU on demand (ie in native CPU idle time). Just a thought.   The issue is that PP (as I understand it) is honoring chargebacks because the payments were for bitcoin. If it isn't bitcoin that are the goods being paid for, then why would they bite? The goods could be anything if they honor chargebacks indiscriminately, but I don't think that's the case. The complaints I have heard, are about bitcoin buyers defrauding sellers. You'll have to ask PoxPal that one. It's a fair question, but I am only assuming that there must be something unlawful in this practice. Particularly if it's a standard PP policy. The point of the exercise was intended to demonstrate the unjust policy and provide sound evidence that this is how PP handles chargebacks. It's then implicit that they would do this in any event and that would involve real victims. I would hope btclaw might shed some light on the particular violations of law that might be relevant. There may be no damage to consider in the transaction staged, but that is the exception which proves the rule. PoxPal are not privy to the arrangement, so if it were any other legitimate transaction (legit. from the sellers pov) that they had intervened in, there would have to be a victim. Saying the seller has not been defrauded because both parties 'expect the result' is little disingenuous isn't it? The result is not conditional upon their expectations.If "the service is not guaranteed for all customers.", there must be some accountability to how they justify their exceptions. I read briefly somewhere, that they won't support trading of any other currency. Needles to say this is a condition placed on the customer not themselves, as they do support alternative currencies on their website. What they mean is, you can't buy or sell anything which might threaten to weaken our service. Other online currencies or payment systems cut into their market. Aren't there some antitrust implications here? I'm no legal beagle, but isn't it possible to take a company to court for violations of law, without having victims, if their operating practices are unlawful? In any case they are are supporting fraud if they allow the payment to be reversed, while they have no power or desire to reverse the other half of the transaction, by returning the goods. I would expect that if they can reverse the payment, but not the goods, then they have an obligation to stay out of it. It's no business of theirs, what payment is for unless they make sure they can refuse payment in the first place and mediate both payment and goods. Since they only have the power to control payments, they should not be privy to the goods or what the payment is for. If they cant make the buyer return the goods, they should have no right to reverse the payment. Reserving this right, is something beguiling to me. I cant disclaim my obligation to be accountable to law, can I? OK then, I reserve the right to punch PP executives in the face. I'd have to get them to agree to TOS, but does that make it legal? Well as you said before, a class action may well be in order. The exercise I suggested was just to clinch the evidence for their misconduct. It could be used to serve any case, in which this policy was instrumental and needed to be established.I rest my case. You'd have some experience to pull from in that case. Glad to hear you had the better of them.   This is very disappointing indeed.   I hope all the contributors to this effort and those who donated to the EFF, are not too disheartened though. Your efforts were noble and commendable. You can only lead a horse to water. I guess any friends the EFF might make, by deserting bitcoin after taking donations and then denouncing their endorsement (not to mention squandering those donations), will not be such trustworthy, honorable bedfellows. When I first saw this thread I thought about the FSF, as being an even better advocate and more deserving of donations too. I just checked and it seems they already came on board back in early May. I hope they will be more loyal, as I expect they will. We have to be thankful for small blessings I guess.  You might like to try here.   Precisely. Anything bad that happens anywhere, to anyone, or anything, even vaguely associated with bitcoin (even if it's only that they use it), must somehow be attributed to bitcoin itself. If bitcoin users cant draw a distinction between the security issues of a bitcoin exchange (hint Independent entity) and security issues of the bitcoin clients and network itself, how can we expect newcomers do so?  !SNAP!BTW theres a link for the MtGox 'security patch' in my signature.   But now Jessy Kang has gone all tech savy, theres light at the end of the tunnel.   It's true though. Nevertheless there a particular kind of intrinsic utility, built into the bitcoin software and network, that doesn't require anybody to understand it, in order for it to procure significant accumulating benefits. The inflation of bitcoin value itself, will accumulate as an ongoing attraction and that will continue with adoption even after the bitcoin production dwindles to nothing. It's very simple economics really, but even then, you don't have to understand it for it to happen. The fixed to total sum of bitcoin likewise makes existing inflation currencies look like dinosaurs. You don't have to read the source code and understand it, to see that value of a bitcoin it steadily performing better. It just works. And finally, the P2P nature of the network, is also a technological innovation that you don't need to understand to see it's benefit. So it's technologically superior, for geeks and all users alike. It's economically superior for economics savvy people and all users alike. It's also subversive and politically potent for those who understand the importance of this, but, as Atlas pointed out, like the other benefits, it is all intrinsic to the nature of bitcoin, which doesn't expect users to know anything (other than face vale) to benifit. When TV was an emerging technology, who would have said, 'It'll never work because nobody understands all them little components inside or how the radio waves are supposed to carry pictures through the air. Nobody will adopt it because it cause it doesn't have any intrinsic value." People see it working and how it benefits them directly. They will download and use bitcoin just for P2P transactions. That's a huge value proposition right there. The business community will see the same value and also the swelling numbers of people, who have desktop and phone applications that enable transactions to occur and so they will see lots of $$$. @KarmicadsWell, yeah, I do realize is used in a broader context. The context of the OP and the more traditional concept of commercial branding, was the one I was addressing more specifically, with respect to business people coming here and expecting the bitcoin 'brand' to conform to their particular scope of 'top down', commercial marketing, image oriented hype. The issue is not really with the semantics of the word 'brand', so much as the opposite approach represented by grass roots, 'bottom up' consumer driven technology, that liberates us from being seduced, by an insidious onslaught of opportunist marketing magicians. Branding is an overt strategy in this sense, and as such, is oriented to the masses as a means to manipulate them for the ends, of the self-interested commercial player. Those players, must not be allowed to intervene and make bitcoin the strings to pull in their top down puppet show. There are many business owners who will not play, if they cant have it all their own way. They will take bitcoin users for puppets. It's not that hard to see, who has the most to gain, from removing the politics forum, as a strategically subversive ploy, to silence the will of the individual, under the pretense of image sanitizing the 'bitcoin brand' and to prevent the newcomers from finding a valuable resource of education and  information that empowers them to know how to take this technology forward, as consumers, who are inverting the power base and taking back what government and industry have squandered.That's an interesting description.  Older folk will have learned the meaning of 'brand' before the mid 70's and before they'd ever have adopted the word 'meme' though, which was coined by Richard Dawkins, in The Selfish Gene. (and I just realized, meme still shows up underlined as a spelling error on my system). There's an even more compelling argument to reconsider my claim to 'value' being intrinsic to the properties of the bitcoin software and network. As you point out the value is subjective and it is must be perceived, in order to be valued. I have adopted more perfunctory short-hand in reference to value as being intrinsic to bitcoin. I am also aware that a much more pedantic assessment, would need to reconsider the designation of 'value' as a utility of the object. Utility, in economic terms is, "a measure of relative satisfaction". But here I refer to the word 'utility', in the colloquial context of 'usefulness', as a practical consequence of intrinsic properties, in contrast to the perceived value. The utility of bitcoin itself, IS at least, partly intrinsic and objective (like gold), but it is also engineered to inevitably improve, in ways that are consistent with our subjective perception of value. The undeniable subjectivity of value issue is of prime importance. It's the only answer needed for those who have decried bitcoin as 'funny money', because, so they complain, "it isn't backed by anything like gold or government endorsement". We've all heard the ballyhoo denigrating bitcoin for having no 'intrinsic value'. But all the best POTENTIAL value arises from the intrinsic, objective properties and thats important.All currencies are valued as a meme of collective endorsement. To say bitcoin is a 'brand' might apply (loosely) to the software, network and community as a whole. But to call the bitcoins themselves, both a brand and a currency is an unusual idea to ponder. I mean we don't call our existing money a brand AFAIK. Nevertheless, a brand must be subject to consumer approval and have subjectively perceived value in order to succeed. A currency it seems, is also subject to the arbitrary whims, of subjective consumer consensus. They both have the properties of their value being proportional to subjective consumer approval. My preferred implementation of a brand however, involves a very tangible value proposition, which expects the value be derived from utility and not from artificial inflation of superficial marketing hype and coercive manipulation to sell the perception of value, rather than the genuine utilitarian benefits, of its intrinsic properties. Trouble is I don't know if that would count as branding. Telling like it, isn't popular in some places. Perhaps we could have some kinda slogan like: Caveat Venditor - Cos the boots on the other foot now biach!Just a short point list of thoughts in closing:We should try to keep a separate account when considering the value of bitcoin, that there is a difference between 'face' value of the bitcoin itself, and value of the bitcoin client software, the network and the community. All value is subjectively perceived, but may be derived objectively from utility as emergent value. Some value is derived from intrinsic objective properties and subjectively perceived as a result.Some value is derived from subjective perception alone, (or perhaps more like subjective projection)Tangible information derived from external objective source, must travel from outside to inside Ie: from source to mind Value attributed to anything prior to direct experience perception is projected and travels outward from mind to sourceValue worth paying for, is not derived from subjective perception alone.The emergent value of bitcoin is independent of the marketing appeal factor, in that small merchants will compete better then larger competitors will be compelled to adopt for same market, it has universal appeal for free instant transactions with no controlling body adoption will increase value leading to more adoptioncommunity support & OSS FTWinevitable inflation  +1  Not to mention this......sudden swing from Politics/PR rhetoric, to Inspiring Technical CritiqueTM may have a serious impact, on our chances of Obama announcing a MtGox bailout.   Hmmm... Yeah. I know I was a little windy TS. I sometime have a fair bit to say and just want to deliberate, for however long it takes to say what I need to say. New points and analogies often arise as I write. Having an attention disorder and an aversion to being misunderstood, only makes me more verbose. Are you kidding me Jessy?   Really? After the best part of a whole day's writing, to detail the value of the Politics forum and to detail a far bigger picture that needs to be considered, as a lot more serious and important, than your concern about the image which business people wish to portray to their would-be victims, and not only do you falsely assert that I was denigrating you, but you also imply that was the sole message of my (what I would have considered) extremely substantive post.Thats Funny, I thought you just did. If you had apparently demonstrated some remarkable feat of humility, by turning a blind eye, rather that taking issue, with someones 'unreasonable' criticism, or unconstructive , then I would be the first to admire the commendable restraint of your temperament. If you want to take credit for being so restrained, by gloating that you are, while at the same time, pointing out that the remarks you "don't particularly object to" were "juvenile insults", then, I regret to inform you, that you could be not be more comically ironic, if you shoot yourself in the foot, while giving a lecture on gun safety. What, ACTUALLY DOES encourage "a decline [in] substantive dialog", is making unreferenced accusations, that you have been insulted, indeed positing this alleged opprobrium (which you have already claimed you don't particularly object to), as if it were a deliberate, malicious, character assassination, yet you foist this contention, without addressing the comment/remark in question. Clearly it's YOU Jessy Kang, who would rather have a substance free, declining dialog. In particular, with the shrill accusations of 'juvenile insult', you also seem to be inflaming the emotive rhetoric and trying to provoke hostility. If you were such a noble and tolerant sport, then instead of making an unsubstantiated accusation, of having been maliciously lambasted, by my allegedly 'juvenile insult', you might have instead, pointed out specifically what this insult is (by directly quoting it) and why it is you consider it so unjust and juvenile. Obviously it would be easy then, to put the issue in context and I or anybody else, could attempt a fair assessment.  I make a VERY stringent effort, I think it's fair to say, that if I am going to criticize anybody, I go to whatever length necessary, to give full disclosure of my justifications and address the issue head on. I don't care very much at all, for thoughtless derision and senseless cruelty, to debase anybody, for the sake of pushing their buttons and making them feel bad. If I had wanted to do nothing more than level a juvenile insult at you, I would think, I could have come up with a much stronger flavor of vitriol, an taken far less time, to post a detailed assessment of your proposal and why I think it's so disagreeable. If I happen to express my contempt or disapproval, then at least I care enough to be honest and even more so to show my justification. For what it's worth, it doesn't make a tinkers damn of difference what I think about you. I have no idea why anybody considers any remark an insult unless they can furnish some measure, for why they deserve any more respect than they are being offered. In any case, playing the victim card and tolerant sage all at once, while failing to mention any specific content, is hardly prone to help address any issue, or foster any 'substantive dialog'. By such means, the dialog I already had been servicing with more than my fare share of substance, may be hijacked, by your plaint of personal offense, in effort to divert it towards one of those squabbles about the debate itself. You see? This is the sort of divisive, reactionary tactics, that do tend to cause emotional reactions and substance free squabbles. Take a detailed constructive criticism, ignore the details in question and make an emotive appeal, to foist an accusation, that itself has explosive potential for emotive reactionary response. I won't be manipulated into petty bickering. If you don't want to play silly little mind games, and degenerate the dialog from substance, and if you think you deserve credit for being tolerant and mature, then I suggest you might resist the temptation to pander for it, by pointing out how the 'juvenile insults' you "don't particularly object to" were juvenile and insulting, thereby making it clear you DO object and returning a insult by way of name calling. By your own ironic measure, of boasting humbly about your own tolerance, I could just as easily proclaim my own virtues of restraint because 'I don't particularly object to compound hypocrisy'. But I wont do that.    See... Here's where direct quotes come in very handy for the sake of honesty and transparency. Those who wish to have a constructive dialog, often quote another persons text, in order to make reference to it, so it can be seen in the context of the present reply. I would love to know what you are on about. Other than for the sake of disingenuous innuendo, I cant see why anybody might consider this relevant. If you want to address an argument that I have attempted to make, then I would be glad if you would care to point out where I have said any of these things, and why you think I expected them to be taken as an argument? If somebody says something of this sort to you, I think it would be best to conclude that it's just a straight out remark. It's not necessary to construct a syllogism, in order to express an opinion. If you want recognize an ad-hominem fallacy, then don't forget, that a remark expressing discredit or disparagement, has to have been used as a premise. If I tried to establish your argument was false, because you were amoral, then I would be resorting to ad-hom. Ad hominem or tu quot (to the man), is an attempt to employ emotive, value added judgments against a person (or persons), rather than address the soundness or validity of their arguments. such an ad hominem is exactly what you have employed with the politics forum, by saying:A) Libertarianism is crazy hysterical vigilante zealotry, that embarrasses the forum.B) My business friends, are turned off by the crazy hysterical vigilante zealotry, they see in the politics forum.C) Therefore, bitcoin will suffer if the politics forum is not taken down.Or perhaps:A) The Politics forum is a turn off to business people. B) Business people are needed for bitcoin to succeed.C) Therefore, the politics forum should be taken down.If you wouldn't mind, please desist from attempting any further efforts at provoking divisive rhetoric, in your blatant effort, to inflame emotionally loaded venting. I have provided plenty of substance for you to consider and respond to. I appreciate being quoted thanks and not having contentious insults shoved in my mouth.  That's true. The block chain is great for us to be sure. The problem (At least I assume, otherwise these disputes would be fixed by PP) is if PoxPal is unwilling to look at the block chain or even recognize it as evidence, even if you wave it under their nose. The don't exactly idolize bitcoin and the will hold out on giving any recognition to the bitcoin network as legitimate if they can.  There's already plenty of evidence and victims of paypal to push forward against them for illegally taking money out of their account.Thats fine but my understanding is, that PoxPal probably dont/wont investigate IP address info either (unless it was for their own benefit of course) as they identify their clients by email and as a central repository the probably wont consider the client side data. I havn't checked, but I imagine the decision to reverse payment, being made by office people, rather than a tech person in a data center. If that's the case, then telling the clerical/office you have IP records and block chain data, wont help much. And yes, of course the same info can be taken to court, but then you are presenting technical data (conclusive as it is) but that has to be analyzed and demonstrated that those actual people, own those actual IP addresses and then you may have to subpoena the the person who initiated the chargeback and the evidence that connects the bitcoin transfer to the PoxPal payment. But then, If you were going to yank a payment like that would you run bitcoin from your home IP? My idea, is to bypass all the chasing the evidence via hostile witneses and tech data. If you control both ends and you can replicate the failure you have a straight forward demonstration of PoxPal in action. You can then present legal ID and highly secured confidential paper documentation proving on paper, exactly who was on each end, when payment is made they both agree in front of a notary on paper and the documents can also be scanned time stamped and encrypted to make the chronological order of events and authenticity rock solid. Once the buyer then pulls the payment, they can sign of against their collusion. and both sets of document establish that the were both on board  and  every detail, presents a watertight case court ready on paper. It's not all that complicated and if you've got both parties conspiring you have no struggle to collect every detail of the evidence.  S'pose it's a bit early yet, for Obama to come out and announce the MtGox bailout.   You ain't seen nothin' yet brotha. Wait till you see how small it is in a couple of days.    Thout Shall NOT.... er...Said Moses descending MtGox,"I was lucky to escape in me jocks.""Your bitcoins are gorne,""But the good news is porn...""...and Viagra spam's filling your inbox. "  We certainly need to get business on board I think John, Plenty of it. But we don't necessarily need particular ones, who have the gall to check out an application that volunteers wrote and provided as OSS for free and that may benefit their business, then come here to complain that they don't like the discussions of libertarian values here and that they think it will scare off their customers. Some people may not be ready to embrace a world of change, but I'd truly be more concerned if my customers thought my values were any other kind. You cant really choose your customers, but I'd be damned if I let them dictate what values I should hold, let alone what software I use, because it's community happens to broadly endorse those values.  Thanks. If only I though you were sincere.  Then perhaps you'd then be able to encourage me to market those values. You know, some nice lighting and a modern display stand at eye level - 'cos eye level is 'buy' level. I could have them packaged up in cardboard and plastic bubble packs, adorned with images of sexy glamor and wealth, implying (by association) that this product is intrinsically associated with those things. I could get some glossy brochures printed, exclaiming my values to be the very thing your life is incomplete without and that your are tantamount to being a failure if you don't have them. By only associating myself with flawless physical beauty and appealing to the consumers greed and sense of inadequacy, they could be transformed into rich, attractive popula... er.. Hey wait! What was the product again?   I wouldn't go overboard with the 'faith' rhetoric. Sometimes impulsive revulsion has a rational basis. In any case, I'm not sure what the extent of the damage is to be sure, but there is a gradient of attitudes from the purely superficial, needy, ego-paranoid hyper emotive power consumer, with no impulse control and all those easy to reach, ergonomically designed buttons, that you seem so keen to push, right up to the conscientious, compassionate, cosmopolitan citizen of the world, who needs less and contributes more. There is also a shifting 'zestiest' of public awareness, that despite the tenacious perils, of flagrant corporate marketing manipulation and coercive party political spin-doctory, is able to resiliently move forward towards a more enlightened and responsible mindset. I don't want to over estimate the potential, for a conscientious consumer market and proclaim that self-respect and responsible buying/spending will triumph. I don't want to even estimate the probability. What I am concerned with, is the seeming inevitability of this crass, consumer debt based, vortex of gluttony, to be a major catalyst in the demise of society as we know it. Great civilizations fall all the time if you look at history on the proper scale. The failure to plan is the surest plan to fail.My argument is not one of naive optimism, but of sincere concern and extreme consternation. If anything, I am pessimistic that we will pull through, without first causing a shambolic catastrophe, the likes of which the human race has never witnessed. Our governance our economy and our environment, are on a collision course with reality. They are ALL unsustainable. There is a brake even point, beyond which there will be no hope of meeting our requisite capabilities, to turn things around. If we become too selfish, we may not care if society lasts another couple of generations. As long as we can use it and take from it and gorge our hedonistic desires, just for this lifetime. If we don't learn to quit living in delusional fantasies, we may convince ourselves that future generations will be fine. We can buy into all the spin-doctored, coercive political rhetoric from politicians and take the easy, hedonistic, self gratifying promises, bantered by power hungry politicians and leave anything that is not as glitzy or asks us to compromise, or use our brains, or get off our ass. We can be lazy, ignorant, selfish slobs that want everything done for us, to only eat delicious food, demand pretentious, media manufactured, cookie cutter stereotypes of beauty, that we have been programmed think of as objective and intrinsically valuable, while we crave and covet, over the endless spoils of status symbols and opulent luxury, that we now believe we deserve to own, before we have earned the price of them. All that, can not only be ours but by taking the easiest, self gratifying, no-brainer approach, this is how we can get incredibly wealthy, irresistibly attractive and be immensely popular at same time. It's true! The man behind the big corporate marketing machine told me. He must be honest, clever and nice because he wears an nice suit.  Our government models are coercive adversarial marketing machines deliberately plotting to manipulate us and fending of responsibility and fueling our imminent demise. The private corporate monster, of commercial consumer greed led by the fed is orders of magnitude, beyond all powers of accountability save for that which we muster by our own collective will. Our environment is a disgrace and the need to consume from borrowed spending, at ever escalating rates to prevent the catastrophe of economic collapse, precludes an environmentally sustainable, social infrastructure from being implemented. If that sounds like doom gloom and misery then wait till you can taste it, see it everywhere and feel it crumbling under your feet. It's not so much that I think we can depend upon "large groups of people acting in concert" and "their willingness to read deeply and educate themselves" but that we MUST. It's absolutely imperative as our only hope of climbing out of this hole we are in. Those who don't understand this will invariably ignore the true nature of the problem, and continue their quest to dig their way to prosperity and toil for the guy standing above the hole sifting gold nuggets out of our dirt pile. The future we are stealing belongs to us but to our of spring and yet we give it for a pittance, to the guy taking the gold. We may even yet, come have no immediate impulse to care about anybody who is not yet born. They are just a subset, of those who we dont know and who cant give us our fix of ego flagellating reinforcement. It's sad that so many of us have desperate yearning for approval of those closest to us, and apathetic compassion fatigue for those with whom we are less familiar. This I think, is a relic of our tribal past. Large societies are less suited to primitive instincts, even though our best social skills (empathy and co-operation) were also nurtured there. Our desperate desire, to be wanted, liked and seek the approval of  others, that tribal impulse of our collective egos, is as much a farcical tragedy, as it is, a bonding tool for social cohesion. It's not the first time we've discovered something that can make our world much better but also ultimately destroy us. We should be learning by now.Try thinking of society as a 5 yr old child. Your child. If say, between the age of 3 and 5, you fail to teach your child any impulse control and cave into her slightest petulant demands for attention and toys, and treats and... well, whatever she wants; then what will she be like and how well behaved do you think she will be. I expect you will still be changing her diapers waking up in the middle of the night to her screaming demands, because she wants a drink and you should get it for her. You, will have to take her to the playground when she wants and she might refuse to go to school/kindergarten, because the teacher made her stand in the corner for throwing another child's lunch in the sand pit. You may find yourself chasing her down the road, screaming futile pleas for her to come back, as her chance of being hit by a car increases by the second. You get the picture? Society is like this poor child who honestly doesn't know any better, because her parents were irresponsible, selfish and avoided their responsibility. Instead of raising a well adjusted child, they made a rod for their own back. Those two years of Society's live, are analogous to the previous fifty years of the society we live in. I have nothing against business making money, and their participation is vital in the long run. It's how it is implemented and how as consumers, we are actively engaged in the process of reward for value proposition that needs to given the utmost consideration. It's not true that ANY business that comes along aught to be able to bilk our money after a sleazy coercive appeal to our compulsive, ego driven insecurities and our poor education about consumer resistance. The reason business is mostly concerned with making money, is because so many of us, do nothing to alter the value proposition by demanding they furnish products and services that are consistent with values that we should have had in the first place. Business would be interested in nothing, so much, as pandering to very detail of reasonable consumer needs and desires, and making money (even handsome profits), would be an inevitable outcome of it. It can be considered a by product of business. When satisfying needs comes last and wallet stuffing is the shamelessly lauded grail of virtue, while the modus operandi, obvious to any intelligent person, is to exploit peoples ignorance and make them want some shit that is near worthless. Theres a point where it becomes obvious that many (far too many) consumers have been programed to accept that greed is good and still not see through the blatantly obvious crass, vulgar, and frankly insulting efforts, of so many businesses to make people want things and control their buying impulses to exploit them and use them as cash cows. If you don't think this is insidious evil born of pure greed, then you are a part of the problem and not the solution. Coercive greed driven marketing, anti-competitive maneuvers and monopolization are things that consumers can well do without. Actually for the health of society, they are forms of economic disease. There are things out there that are the economic analog to rape. White collar looting and pillaging for the digital. When people lay down and let it happen, or even seemingly even enjoy it, its more like a gang bang. That may be a fun theme for a consensual adult party (in the right company of course), but in social economics, its not a private party and everybody gets assaulted by the same cesspool of corporate filth. When theres nothing else to choose from and you cant say no, it simply blatant rape.  Like any guest at an adult party, the business that we might use our better judgment in favor of as consumers, would be invited to attend and not be accepted for gate crashing. Lying manipulation and coercive bullshit is an insult to our intellect and if we don't posses enough of that, we need education to help us understand the value of consumer resistance, healthy competition and living within our means. I think many people do know that they have been played for a sucker at times. They may be reluctant to acknowledge it though, because they have emotional investment in their "choice". They wont want to admit that they were coerced and so they own the choice, they wont like being burned so they find some justification that their purchase was satisfactory. Again, ego gets in the way of reason. I can admit it. I have been ripped off before in my time. It's easier to resent the business that riped you off, than admit it was your own poor choice. But at least if you admit, that you were burned you can learn. If nobody (or hardly anybody) even does this, then you can learn about smart spending till you have an advanced doctorate degree in it, but it wont make a tinkers damn of difference. If people wont learn to think for themselves, then somebody will exploit not only them, but all of us.The importance of the whole community ethos of bitcoin as well as the diversity of forums, is that it represents much more than just a piece of software. It's more than just a currency or even a P2P currency. It is a solution to a much more pervasive social dilemma. The convince of P2P transactions is a pittance of the benefit. The wisdom the coin supply decreasing to a finite limit and the practical implications alone are profound. Bitcoin is simply, the definitive solution, to never ending debt, unsustainable deflation and catastrophic economic collapse. That plenty of reason to use bitcoin right there. Liberation from economic failure should be the MAIN reason that every day people want to use it. As individuals, they are automatically able to transact with each other, and thats better than having to use PoxPal or anything else. Even if there were NO business using bitcoin, the individual using it as P2P cash represent a user base. Business, will follow the opportunity to open their doors to the consumers that are using bitcoin. Bitcoin needs to belong to the whole community and the business should have the intelligence to cater to the community (if they want access to consumers) and understand the ethical principal that under pin the new economy. Bitcoin is not a tool for commerce to manipulate and control consumers with. It's a tool for individuals to transact with and if business owners can find consumers amongst them, then they should be grateful and respect the community that owes them nothing. If you think the community should be remodeled to pander to the dictates of business and that a corporate facade should be erected to present the main bitcoin website, so business will be pleased with what THEY want customers to see and if they think those consumers should be spared from exposure to the libertarian values of the community, then I think they can got to hell. That clearly demonstrates their ethical imperative. A minimal test of business ethics would be their willingness to satisfy a libertarian consumer base and community and to become a part of it, without throwing their weight around as if they deserved to be here without satisfying consumers, answering their needs and earning community respect. That's the whole problem with the traditional corporate model of economics introduced by government handing currency control over to corporate banking. Business needs consumers not the other way around. What consumers in turn need, is education and a sense of community, one which they don't have to fabricate with material status symbols, bought with their addiction to debt that can never be repaid. They also need the sense of belonging to a community which maintains a positive cash flow and that their little chunk of the currency pie, is guilt free and not contributing to international debt and poverty. Only by ACCEPTING the new currency as based on a positive cash flow supply, spread throughout the community, as the rightful distribution of wealth, while consumer satisfaction, acts as a sort of psychological currency moving in the opposite direction, which pulls   bitcoin through the economy (rather like the Kanban on demand component delivery systems in many factories), only then will business be so deserving as to assume respect =< 0. Value is added to bitcoin by business, for the PRIVELEDGE of competing in a lucrative market, and by providing a products and/or services that may prove to be valued by virtue of ordinary market demand. The more discerning the consumer can be, the healthier the overall economy. Letting greedy pigs, blurt bullshit in your face, to convince you that if you buy their shampoo, sexy girls will want to run their fingers through your hair, or that you will be just like that sexy girl, and since she is on a beautiful yacht, mored in a pristine tropical shore line and of course using this emulsified, scented chemical muck, is much easier than working and saving for a yacht. It might be owned by a guy (conveniently absent) but they are easier to get than yachts too, at least if you use this shampoo, which makes your hair a shine in such a way, that your whole body looks like that of a a swim wear model. The bonus is that nobody who uses this shampoo ever seems to have a double chin, buck teeth, a hair lip, acne or even looks older than 25yo. So the benefits are obvious.  The problem with this, is not primarily the understandably coercive feel good imagery, or the the company's competitive motivation for trying to present an appealing psychological association for viewers to be drawn into (albeit a blatant mind game). After all, their competitors will be trying to do the same thing or something similar. Their scammy conartistry, may be about microscopic gena-lust-rious micro-gell vitalizing particles. Which is technical terminology for 'meaningless, fabricated pseudo-science marketing piffle'. They might as well tell you that pixies know you've used it, and it makes them more likely to trust you and come out to dance in your garden. If they thought it would sell more product, I have no doubt they would be happy to feed us the most deplorable, crass bunch of monkey snot, possible, if only they could find a tiny percentage of gain to be made on the desperate effort to trample any minuscule vestige of integrity they may have left, along with the respect they have, for the intelligence of the less gullible viewer. This is not just a concern for attitude of contempt it elicits, but more so the fact that. first of all, it actually works. Ie. They do find a profitable margin to gain somehow, by taking their brazen, mind bending con artistry to these levels and worse. Second, whatever gains they can squeeze, from such blatant, infantile pandering, to such insecure, helpless people (who must be pitiable to say the very least, if they are impressed enough to be influenced), is somehow not swamped, by the negative backlash of people who I would think, should be reviled by any company with such arrogant contempt, for not just the obvious disgrace, of trying to con people and fleece them by any means possible, but for expecting the viewer to be so gullible and to insult the intelligence of what should be a much larger mass of the market. It says a lot for how gulible some people are. It say even more about how much unadulterated cynical, insulting, contempt, many more people will turn a blind eye to, and complacently allow the companies to hunt for gullible suckers in full few. This is why it's futile blaming the companies for trying it on. If nobody cares and nobody drops the offending company, for daring to suck people in and just make money by throwing it into crass, insulting advertising, that takes advantage of people who have little presence of mind to avoid being used. Isn't there a duty of care we have for our fellow traveler? Anybody who is prone to being influenced, by much of the advertising content we see, deserves pity and support. Whereas the company deserves to suddenly see their sales drop to the floor and find they have to scramble about and pick up the scraps. They need to be made to have some respect for people and earn their market share by showing us a fair deal and an honest effort to face a much more stringent gauntlet of educated consumers, who expect to actually be given GOOD reasons to choose one company over another. It's not as if these advertising campaigns don't cost anything. Nor are they of any intrinsic value to the product or service being flogged. Does anybody realize or care that the cost is an overhead that companies have to factor in and that has to be passed on to the consumer.The only good reasons we have to tolerate advertising at all, it that it may be diligently used, to bring a deserving product or service to our attention. An intelligent society wouldn't tolerate the arrogant temerity, of a company, squandering inordinate sums of money, which they will expect customers to reimburse in their profits, for the opportunity, to capture our attention and squander our time, yet give us no useful information, but instead, get in our faces, with a cynical plot, to test the lower extremes of our intellect, in pursuit of a bounty collected by making the unwitting victim pay, for a something they were manipulated to want. Coercion, brainwashing, pseudo-science and outright bullshit, is the typical modus operandi and it's underlying motive is greed. Stupidity has become a commodity and harvesting its dividends is the forte of the advertising profession. It's our visible evidence of just how insane, greedy, lazy, petty, superficial, selfish and apathetic, our hapless societies have become. How can we expect the typical citizen, to contribute more conscientiously, to their community and to responsibly make vital decisions, about how we can collectively mandate a more reliable democratic process and regain some semblance of mutual democratic power? We are clearly required to be the guardians of our society and lay down the mandates for government and Industry to follow. A task we have selfishly squandered, to our escalating detriment. Expecting people to think about the things of substance, that make the economy, the government and society as a whole, work (or fail as the case may be) effectively, is something of a perilous mystery; especially if they cant be trusted to buy shampoo, without being manipulated by the most trivial and transparent, ego pandering, coercive ploy; or, if per chance, they can see right through this pretentious farce and somehow don't give a toss that those who might be prone to the seduction, are little more than pitiful victims, how could they have a hope against the might of the banking world, which plunders their very future and sells them money that never existed, for money that they pay back over time with interest.  What needs to be done is a mountain of diligent hard work to show people how important it is to take a little interest in things. If not politics then at least a little economics, along with a much more diligent commitment to consumer responsibility. That's an absolute vital must. I don't see how this could be any less than URGENT! Dependence on strong community and allegiance to the fundamental principals that made our economic revolution possible. The coming days will present many challenges, as we can expect covert attacks on the community, attempting to usurp the libertarian stronghold, have it relegated to obscurity, or just disrupt the cohesion of the community by instigation of contentious divisions, and mud-raking to incriminate community members of higher profile and foster resentment for things that might have come to nothing.The politics section here is of critical importance IMHO. The people who come here as new to bitcoin, need to have every opportunity to notice and take part, in the vital philosophical backbone of this movement. The act of using bitcoin is to experience the practical outcomes of libertarian values at their finest. There is no requisite to adopt any political allegiance and of course you may forfeit entering into the politics section. The link on the forum, has been carefully created with this in mind. You can either click on it and go in there OR (and this is the clever bit) if you DON'T click on it it works in the other mode, by which it doesn't direct you to the politics section at all. It may be considered somewhat unfair that the zero click option is given precedence and those who wish go there have to 'opt-in', but that's a negligible compromise. The is NOTHING to be gained from splitting this forum and consequently the community, by dividing the politics section of into another forum on another site. The newcomers who come here are far less likely to pursue other external sites, if they are not important enough to be given pride of place here. the community would clearly be divided along these lines so that it would break ranks and become two weaker groups with diverging agendas and communities. If I were determined to drive a wedge that would divide this community and weaken the whole movement, that is precisely where I would drive it in. A malicious attempt to undermine this project would also do well, to cut out the heart which might really be considered as philosophy of libertarianism, more so than politics, but that does tend to be the impetus of the politics forum.The importance of communicating the political and social implications of bitcoin, just cant be stressed enough. The freedom of autonomy and restructuring of monetary power bases that, if this currency were to become widespread, would put people back in control and send pigs back to their swill troughs. That will not happen without some turmoil, so people need a strong and cohesive, supportive community for the battle of ideologies ahead of us. Education, for which we have such a very long way to go, is to bitcoin, like nutrition is to our bodies. The difference with nutrition, is that you can get enough of it, without having to discuss it and think about it all the time. Education and the skills that will be required to foster a community, that can handle to responsibility which it has the potential to create, cant survive without strong lines of communication, as the philosophical and political consequences come to pass. That will require that the social ethos and ideological basis of bitcoin, needs to stand front and center in the landscape of of the project. This is the exact opposite, to relegation of politics, to an off-site forum, completely segregated from the first port of call where newcomers will come to learn more.  Suggesting that the superficial, cosmetic vanity, of business people who come by, with no commitment to the community or the ethos of the golden gift they are given freely, is tantamount to treason. While they may expect every thing to palatable to their patronizing, 'marketed at the peasants', corporate image and facade of 'glam coated greed' design philosophy. They have earned nothing and clearly want to establish the same power structure they are used to seeing in the conventional economy, where it is the norm to harvest profit without cultivating prosperity and to tell people what they want and expect them to be pleased. Catering to customers rather than profit, may be new to them. I suggest they get used to it. Wanting to be involved with the community and it's ethos rooted in liberties and freedom for our mutual benefit, would be the best way to show they even deserve the opportunity to cultivate the respect they should wait to be granted. Otherwise it's clear who they are and what they stand for. So I say, they can get back to the swill trough, until they learn some manners.The proposal to banish those conversations of substance, regarding the essential ethos and social value of this project, to make way for the vulgar ploys of shallow, pretentious, manipulative, con artists, who only know how to profit from exploitation and coercive deception, is an INSULT to the integrity of this community, of selfless developers and community builders, who toiled without reward or any guarantee of gaining anything from their experiment. A nascent market appears and suddenly the pushy show ponies turn up, to tell us they...:  'don't want to hear about the libertarian values of the project or anything like that, but hey! You sure can cut me a slice of that yummy turnover. Now let's make the place look a bit more sleazy. how about if we hide the stuff that would allow my customers realize that they are the ones with the consumer power and that I am required to please them. Screw this community crap and all of it's ethical ideologies. Screw the talk of something better than our good ole loving government. You'll have people thinking they have a mind of their own before long. Let's start making some appeal oriented props, for the puppet show and glamorize the whole thing with a superficial marketing facade, so they can jump into the coercive trap, because this is how it's done. You need to tell people what they want and need, and make them feel inadequate without the 'product'. Now! Slogans and sound bites. What have we got to make it seem too good to be true? How about some subtle implicit lies?'That must make you very proud, to know that you have given so much of yourself, for the tireless efforts to make something of value and give it all back, by seeing if there is a more efficient way of appealing to peoples unconscious impulses and manipulating the important things that make the world a better place.  "The largest brand in the world provides brown sugar water- and even if your brown sugar water is Open-Source, tastes better and will free the masses from the tyrannical price fixing of Coca-Cola- you still can't call it brown sugar water when you want people to drink it."There's an old saying: People who only know how to use a hammer, tend to go around treating everything like a nail. That gets to be a problem when you're helping out in a store full of fine antiques and china hammer gurl. Coke is a fine example of mass enslavement of the minds of so many unwitting innocent minds, who were unprepared for the massive corporate machine about to engulf them and turn their brains into a malleable putty, to be prodded and stretched, kneaded and squeezed. The success you tout, is lauded from the perspective of greedy corporate tyrants who only had, knew, and cared about hammers and themselves. Bitcoin is 'the taste of a new generation'. Bitcoin is not brown sugar and water. It's made of emancipation and mutual voluntary co-operation. It's not a product or a corporate brand and if you treat it as such, you are going to be left out of the value equation, like the piece of lettuce from the baguette, that fell in the dirt. Nobody will use something they don't want or need, unless you sell it to them. Bitcoin isn't something unneeded or unwanted.The power of this technology, to liberate people from being treated like sheep, being herded and enslaved by the greedy, ruthless tyrants, is unprecedented. You may market that as if it only had the intrinsic value of sugar and water if you like. Trivializing bitcoin as something like soft drink that relies almost exclusively on image and coercive appeal value, is the preferred strategy of those skull f**ks that screwed everybody, so they could to make nearly worthless liquid an expensive commodity, at profits in the hundreds of percent, so they could afford to pump their ill-gotten gains, into the most extravagant advertising assault, and harvest those inadequate, needy feelings, as a prime commodity to exploit the people who knew no better. Its the kind of sad, reprehensible exploitation, that bitcoin (in particular the community and the libertarian roots) has the power to overcome. You're trying to sell an open source project and its power of freedom from corporate exploitation, as if it were a product of corporate exploitation. You are applauding the very model of economics, that bitcoin has the potential to undermine. Needless to say you are missing the whole point.  Bitcoin is free and doesn't need coercive manipulation to get it to market. You hear about it, you download it. Simple. From there the main selling point is that you can learn to liberate yourself from greed of banks and connect with a community who offers a growing compendium of online services and products, that will accept bitcoin. You can have friends install bitcoin so you can transact with them, like when you call up a friend and say 'I'll send you half the cost of the pizza and you order it. I'll see you in 20 mins'. The cost of transactions is zero and so for non-comercial P2P there is already an obvious niche. You then get to know the community online and explore the many exciting developments and soon learn that the thing you have is sooooo much more than a convenient transacting system. The business people will have to learn that they cant be manipulators and make bitcoin a herding tool for gullible sheep. The currency doesn't support their traditional dependence credit based currency. They may sell their own stuff that way but bitcoin has no need to 'guild the Lilly'. The main selling points, are all in the components that are totally free. The way the software works and the access to a community of intelligent conscientious people, who are fed up with the coercive manipulation of greedy pigs. The buck stops here where the bitcoin begins. The one thing open source software does not need, is to be sold with coercion. That's a deal breaker. because developers produce code that people choose to use, not because they were manipulated or bullshited too. Selling is for products of business that have a price. What other product? You know of a P2P online crypto-currency, that is capable of free micro transactions, has a finite absolute quantity to prevent devaluation, is open source and secure, requires no central authority or server, and is immune from physical intervention by authorities? Of course the community that you might like to undermine, is also apart of the bigger picture. Liberating people from the mindset of ignorant sheeple that require 'branding' after muster is going to become an matter of contempt and resentment sooner or latter.  Even if you think there is no correlation to Bitcoin, look at what the De beers marketing campaign did to diamond prices starting in 1939. I knew about De Beers and I didn't need to read past the smoking gun line "diamonds had little intrinsic value". That is the crux of the issue you don't (or pretend not to) understand. You seem to think that the value of the bitcoin network, and it's burgeoning community, is the equivalent of an unlimited supply of worthless industrial rock, or even worse, brown-sugar water. When you are selling worthless bullshit, the only way to make people want it is to make up sound bites of bullshit coercion, or glossy, hype filled,  brochure making their inadequacies pale into insignificance, with the illustrious dreams of the marvel they can only get from CompanyX (hurry while stocks last). The only people you can really use this method on is the sadly impressionable folk, who will be far worse off, for having the misfortune of walking into your house of smoke and mirrors. It's nothing to be proud of or enthusiastic about, that you like pulling the wool over peoples eyes and getting their emotional state into the best condition, to exploit their least controllable impulses. It seems your capacity to comprehend the true nature of bitcoin, is clouded by superficiality and greed. You don't apparently understand the fixed supply and inflation factor, nor that the value of bitcoin, is not a commercial enterprise that needs to swindle and con people with cheap coercive stunts, to manipulate them into believing a sales pitch, or even an 'angle' for them. You want to 'get the foot in the door' then 'close the sale' *shudder*. Bitcoin is not a plastic packaged toy for screwing people over with and making them want to buy worthless shit. It's a REAL, intrinsically valuable, one of a kind crypto-currency that has no parralell and is designed so that bitcoins will become more valuable than De Beers diamonds, in the event that every person who has a diamond wants some bitcoin. There's no digging more up and no oversupply.  Well it's NOT a brand. You think everybody has the attention span and the cognitive capacity, you seem to think is required to get over this? YOU are the only one I've seen with such a difficulty in comprehending that bitcoin is not a brand. "competitor to Paypal" You see, you cant help yourself with the corporate terminology. bitcoin is an ALTERNATIVE to PoxPal not a 'competitor'. Bitcoin doesn't loose money if PoxPal earns more, nor does it 'win' more if it gains participants (although the demand for bitcoins may may increase). There is no corporate body, no turnover no bottom line and no shareholders.  Most people get that bitcoin is not a brand fairly easily, as most computer users by now at least, have a basic comprehension of what open source software is and understand that it's just like the community group in your neighborhood, but that it makes software, it lives on-line and may have thousands of participants. Most people get that you can go to any community group for it's "COMMUNITY" of people, and a support network. They would also usually be very uncomfortable with a community group doing a 'RA RA RA' high pressure sales pitch, using voguish corporatism, whether it be cheesy gimmicks, or artsy stylized pomp. Designing a logo and having an attractive, consistent website theme, is about enough for the grass roots project. Destroying the community, by amputating the heat an soul of it and relocating to a different address would make for a sad day.  No offense Jesse, but you're either a corporate/government shill, or a general all round pain in the ass.    
Good grief!!  Those poor little things. I do hope they were wearing their 'big girl' Pull-ups. Those 'business tycoon' types, can be such delicate little treasures. Next time you might like to let the mods know you're sending guests, so they can have the place sanitized and renovated to look like a part of the Microsoft PR website. Most of us are far too selfish and greedy to stand by our convictions and openly discuss our true values. The fear of what is good for our own personal profit/resume/social standing etc, does have a lamentable tendency towards cognitive dissonance, tempting us to rationalize our motives and decide what is 'best', is the thing that makes the most profit or popularity for me. Of course, nobody is required to place a political logo on their business. Your business colleges are not required to adopt any particular political view (even if it is predominant here), let alone endorse it with a badge of honor, simply because they happen to use bitcoin. Are they really so intellectually challenged, that they can't differentiate between using a piece of software and endorsing/embracing a political ethos? Fortunately for them, the very ethos that underpins the development of this software and the whole open source movement for that matter, also happens to emancipate them from being required, by external forces (monopolies governments) to endorse anything. Who is expecting them to nail their flag to the mast? Let me guess. I know!! It's the stigma and public perception factor isn't it? Ahhh! Thought so. Once again, those who are incapable of separating a community and its (individuals) political values, from the piece of software it uses/endorses, are conduits of a deplorable social problem. I say conduits, because the problem is deeper. They are prone to petty whims and vanity and vexing psychological concern like 'what will the neighbors think' and 'ew... that's yellow, nobody likes yellow things anymore'. The throngs of vacuous automaton like consumers, hungry for populist conformity, irrepressible gluttony and who need to be told what to think, what to believe, what values to uphold and a myriad of petty, voguish little conceits, which fill them with programed piety, conditioned self-worth and indoctrinated allegiances. Norms and fragile egos that collude to endorse them, must be conserved as the precious treasures of humanity. The "done thing", they cry. It isn't the 'done thing'.  So when they see somebody, who happens to be doing something they happen to associate with evil/wrong/bad or... 'not the done thing', it's not just the actual thing they perceive is wrong, but also anything or anyone to do with it or standing too close to it. Guilt by association. We already have a front of spin doctors pushing the line that bitcoin is used to buy illicit drugs. well whop-de-do. Government cash is also used to buy illicit drugs. Are your pantie piddling business associates, also decrying the guilt by association they will have to endure, because the money they hungrily clutch at already, is used to finance the black market drug trade. HEY! That was started and fueled by the cash economy and granted it's premium profits by the war on drugs making it massively lucrative. No?  I suspect they don't recoil from government cash, because society isn't programed to despise it. They go along with what's good for them. Pandering to the hoards of ignorant sheeple and helping to reinforce their stupid prejudices and petty egocentric norms. Linking to it and advocating it huh? That's what leads to people thinking wha... WTF? It's such a pity to have to admit, that there may be some element of truth to this claim. You make it sound so 'par for the course', I most like you understand or sympathize with this Neanderthal tribalism. I don't know that this 'public perception' is anywhere near as prevalent as you suggest; at least, not if you think it's a fatal detriment to the eventual widespread acceptance of bitcoin. I think bitcoin will at least become extensive as an on-line currency and that will be success enough. I also think it will do so, whether we pander to these conformist, spin-doctored populist PR charades you seem to endorse. My guess is that there are well more than enough people out there, who are not so intellectually lobotomized, by coercive social programming, that they need everything they see, to be sanitized and commercialized, with a squeaky plastic facade, of conformist mass marketing bullshit.What anybody with a modicum of intelligence should be aware of, is that bitcoin isn't a commercial product. Nor is it a brand or a coercively marketed corporate entity. How hard is it to realize, that these forums are inhabited by INDIVIDUALS? Each and every one of us, is the vehicle of a separate individual value system. I only have to worry about how, whatever I post reflects on me. I don't expect anybody who can make their own breakfast, to be incapable of understanding that whatever I might say, should not be taken as YOUR opinion. Nor should YOUR values be expected to stand for anything other than your values. This is a shamelessly low blow, to pitch an issue of such petty minded appeal to the most lamentable vices of mass ignorance. There are too many people who expect you to think what they think, eat what they eat, do what they do and wear what they wear. The need belong and 'fit in', to satisfy their fragile ego and be given recognition in a kin group and so they conform and adopt the prevailing trends and norm of their identity group. Like little monkeys they mimic each other because, 'if I'm like you, you are more likely to like me'. We establish norm just to support social bonding, but anybody doing something different is less acceptable.This is how social groups are manipulated. this the basis of fear about anything different and 'weird' it fuels social conflict, bigotry and war. Here it's just being promoted to support bigotry and censorship. The 'people won't like it' war cry, is a lot like the 'not the done thing' motive. It's fueled by ego-paranoid petty and debilitating human emotions. You do it or don't do it, because everybody else wants you to do it, or not.The problem lies not with people who come here to discuss their thoughts freely, but with those who can't keep their own prejudices to themselves. People who cant say 'it's none of my business' also have a hard time with saying "that's you opinion and we can agree to differ". Those ones, go around demanding others either agree with them, else they don't deserve to speak their mind. Many places (like this) have already made provisions for those people. They are granted the same rights as everybody else. Wanting to shut people up because you don't like what they have to say is called censorship. It may be the next worst thing to outright bloody war except that censorship fuels ignorance and ignorance causes war. Freedom of speech is the most fundamental and precious liberty we posses. It enables us to engage in constructive criticism and undermine deception and coercion. The libertarian values you seek to undermine, by calling for the politics forum to be closed, could only be a threat to those who would benefit from harnessing the ignorance of the lowest common denominator. It's places like this that people can come, to learn about the kind of liberties and freedom that are absolutely intrinsic to the open source movement and the grass roots projects like bitcoin, which it has spawned. You don't like what people are talking about in the politics section? If you don't agree you are free to do so. If you want to say you disagree, you are also free to do so. If you don't want to read the political content, or perhaps you just cant make any cogent argument to support your censorial bias, well then, you don't have to go in there. The same goes for all the people, who you think will be so scared they will have to run away from the freedom of open discussion. If there is an argument to make about any topics in there, then go and make your point to address the issue at hand. Argue against the topics if you wish, but not the fact that they exist at all.  What kind of crazy business owner is going to link their business to a site and brand that advocates tax evasion and the overthrow of the government? One who understands that his businesses is not being represented in any way by the individual people of this forum or their ideological views. Supported? Yes Educated? emancipated? Yes Represented? NO. In case it isn't clear yet, this is a community and when people come to a community place of discussion, they should have no reason to expect anybody to represent anything but themselves. For those who don't get the idea, that every individual can speak for him or her self, then it's damn well time that they DID. This is far more serious than an image problem with the forum. It's an issue that cuts to the heart, very of the mental health of society. Some people just cant think for themselves as individuals. They cant like what they themselves like, believe what they themselves believe, want what they themselves want. They've have been brainwashed and indoctrinated as blind little consumer sheep, on the corporate ranch. So when they meet people they project their own expectations onto that other person. That other person uses bitcoin? 'Well... they must think like everybody elde who uses bitcoin'. 'Some people buy drugs with bitcoin - he's probably a heroin addict and a criminal'. As for toppling governments. Whether you like it or not, there is going to be a revolution in political governance, just like the one in economics bitcoin has already begun. Government will inevitably be one that is OF the people and BY the people. It will be globalized and our legislation will be tabled and thrashed out on forums much like this, while the voting system will likely be done over a P2P network, very similar to bitcoin. People had better pull their heads out of their ass, learn a bit about what's going on in the world and make some contribution to the collective welfare of society. Governments WILL be toppled, it's not a matter of IF, but WHEN. It seems, you would have the education resources that people need, to help them escape from their mindless fog of oppressive manipulation, removed. The MOST important thing that it would change, would be as a result of those libertarian values it empowers, through the decentralization and the finite supply, that will make the political paradigm shift possible and allow freedom from corporate tyranny. So the only thing that is wrong with what you said there, is that the exact opposite is true. The very fact that you don't want people exposed to politics is a deplorable attitude. People need to become involved with and learn about it. We need to foster free speech and learn use our mind and ideas as currency also. Until people snap out of their state regulated, corporate funded fog, of insular, materialist consumer apathy and learn what they need to know, to take mutual responsibility for representative governance, we will never have a fair system. If there is a way for bitcoin to fail, it would be at the hands of government. We are in for a rough ride if we are not prepared to nip this in the bud and empower ourselves. This forum, is the center of the universe in terms of it's political potential to bootstrap a new democratic system and the big political battle with government, will happen whether we like it or not if bitcoin is successful enough to be common currency beyond the net. Pulling the plug on the politics forum, would only be about the stupidest thing anybody ever did.   Hmm... Might have just been my explanation of how it works then. It's actually intended to be a watertight method, to present a solid case of misconduct (perhaps fraud even). The general idea of it, is to offer a bait to PoxPal that, if they should take it, is simply a fabricated (hoax) fraud, in which the parties doing the transaction are 100% consistent that no real fraud took place, or was ever even intended. Both seller and buyer are conspiring to 'play the ends off against the middle' as they say. If PoxPal take the law into their own hands and grant the reversal of payment for the bitcoins (which are meticulously proven to have been sent and received), then I would suspect that it is they (PoxPal), who are defrauding the seller of the bitcoins. While the illegitimate complaint of the buyer (claiming no bitcoin were supplied) upon requesting a chargeback, is in fact a baseless claim and a manifestly fabricated pretense and one that can be proven after the fact; it is therefore, an illegitimate reason (by any metric of fairness or justice), to reverse the payment and break a genuine, mutually satisfied deal. The transaction itself however, actually is a completely legitimate, above board legal transaction. By intervening and withholding payment, I would think, PoxPal are acting above the law and committing fraud (or some other serious transgression) themselves. I can't see how this is 'escapable', because the buyer, seller and coordinating lawyer are cooperating as a team, to make absolutely certain that the transaction is irrefutably documented and proven to have been conducted successfully, to the mutual satisfaction of both buyer and seller. At all times the parties will agree, that no genuine discrepancy exists between them. Even after the transaction, the successful sale and purchase of the bitcoin will again be confirmed and once again, the corresponding exchange of documents (receipt of bitcoin and receipt of payment) are meticulously dated, signed (before a notary), digitally encoded and encrypted then exchanged, while a copy of each is given to the lawyer. This may all seem a little convoluted, but that's only to ensure that all possible lengths are taken, to ensure that proof of the transaction, mutual satisfaction of the parties and the willfully fabricated nature of the chargeback complaint, are manifest as irrefutably as possible, even before the chargeback is attempted. When the chargeback is initiated by the buyer (who claims  to have received no bitcoin), it will only be after having signed those meticulously watertight documents, which declare the transaction was successful and that the bitcoins were received as ordered and paid for in full. This is all just to set up a trail of evidence and ensure there is no excuse for PoxPal, to claim that the subsequent chargeback may have been justified by any real facts, external to their greedy whims. Note that all this is confirmed after the transaction is final and mutually satisfied, but before the claim of non-payment is submitted and a chargeback requested. Only then, is the chargeback initiated by the buyer who has manifest fully in those documents, ahead of time, that the claim of non-payment will be a deliberate fabrication and that the payment was indeed received. Well, that would be a nice result if it had to go so far, but my understanding is that there are usually numerous options considered, as far as settlement is concerned. Mediation for minor disputes and (particularly in USA) out of court settlements are granted consideration. But before the nature of any court preceding or settlement is considered, a case has to be made that holds water. That is the purpose of my little scheme. It's not an alternative to any particular type of action or suit, but a means by which to make a case that PoxPal is culpable. If that can be made evident beyond reasonable doubt, then council for the plaintiffs, may take it to whatever court and file whatever kind of suit they deem appropriate. The challenge is to build a good case. Catching them 'red handed' I would think, is the best way to do so.The other elements, would be demonstrating there is a case to answer and making sure PoxPal can't excuse themselves from liability. There needs to be evidence (to build a case) that the bitcoin were supplied in exchange for the conventional currency payments that they declined via chargeback. As it stands (with respect to previous cases of chargeback fraud), I suspect PoxPal would argue no proof (documentation ie: receipt) was forthcoming, to establish the bitcoins were supplied. Their record will show that the payment was initiated (albeit reversed), so they have their own records of the buyers payment, and since they know this much, they can only vouch for buyer, with the option to reverse the payment. Usually, a receipt is only given for 'money' that changes hands. The goods (in this case the bitcoins are being treated as goods) ordinarily, have their own paper trail, due to their physical nature and delivery may be accompanied by a cart note, or an invoice generated to make the order accountable in the suppliers ledger. Note that this is no help to the buyer. I don't know the details of the existing cases, but if these transactions were only done as private sales there would be no papers confirming the bitcoins were supplied. In any case, the person who allegedly received the bitcoin and defaulted on the payment, is not going to furnish evidence that they received the bitcoins but nevertheless requested a chargeback. PoxPal only have records for who has paid money to whom and not who has sent good to whom. As I understand it, nobody has manifest evidence for the supply of bitcoin, in the existing cases. What evidence for the supply of bitcoins in these cases of alleged fraud do you know of, beyond the bitcoins signature and the blockchain records of IP addresses (sending/receiving), that existing claims of undelivered bitcoin and subsequent chargeback are false? I don't dispute them of course. I have little doubt that A)There are those who would do this if they can get away with it and B) PoxPal would wash their hands of the bitcoin seller and uphold the chargeback for the buyer to damage bitcoin, but I don't see how you can conclude that there is already an established case that could be tried in court. The fraudsters have very likely gotten away with their crime (so far). Thats why I'm proposing this little plan. Even then, if PoxPal are proven to have reversed payments, for genuine purchases of honestly supplied bitcoins, there is a good chance that they would then argue to usurp their liability, on the grounds of it being the buyers obligation to pay or pejorative to decline. They would probably try to indemnify themselves against being anything other than an actor for the buyer and simply 'pass the buck'. As for finding a good a class action lawyer, I wonder if Julia Roberts is busy these days?  Seriously though. Is there actually a special qualification needed to handle a class action? I thought Erin Brockavich was based on a true story. Wasn't she just a part time para-legal or secretary who 'took em on', despite her lack of qualifications (and fairly average boobs)? I thought that part of the movie at least, was likely to be fairly unembellished. Julia's boobs may be another matter.  ORDER! ORDER! The advice/discussion may be 'wildly' different, but two factors do remain relatively constant: The laws of most western world countries are reasonably consistent, in so much as they are based in constitutional democracy and a laissez laissez faire economic model. For the government of most jurisdictions then, there is a similar duty of care to be considered and so the motive to legislate, derive from similar problems in similar situations. The legislature process and solution will have much in common and usually, for these constitutional democracies, the legislation must take into account, the international nature of trade. After all, bitcoin did not establish the first instance of international trading. There are precedents and international agreements, about a myriad of legal issues across borders. We could use more standards, but I cant see how bitcoin itself and our having a lawyer in our community to flesh out these issues could be anything other than a total win.The other constant, it the nature of bitcoin itself. No mater how people chose to define it, what they do with it or where they are in the world, the network and block chain, work exactly the same way and a bitcoin gota do, what a bitcoin gota do. Practical fact of physical (or digital) reality are held extremely constant for the sake of ubiquity and that limits extremely, how much implicit difference can be derived in the interpersonal, international and legal protocols, of arbitrary human/political/legal whim. Again it is an imperative to iron out these issues of poor international standardization but bitcoin itself introduces a standard with the power to usurp the power base which hold back unilateral adoption of standards. Because you can trade freely with a non-partisan unit, uncontrolled by any government, the politics and legislature enforced may only be imposed on human/corporate entities rather than the currency itself.I understand you are only pointing out the perils of taking legal advice from an online source and applying it universally, but btclaw did clearly point this out himself and that it should really be considered common sense. Anybody going to court without personally retained legal representation, in their own jurisdiction, had better have more than common sense, they'd need knowledge of law that would make that advice rather redundant. There are mountains of common ground, that a lawyer in any jurisdiction can give good advice about. Next time you hear someone ask 'did you get a receipt?' or say anything about trading with a legal implication, consider for yourself, just where in the world that this question or statement would not be relevant. OK, so if you happen to be a sub-Amazonian native, living in a tribe where the seed pods of a rare tree are used as currency, then you'd better not take the legal opinions/advice here as being endorsed by your witchdoctor. Caveat Emptor, indeed. In any case, I suspect that lawyers in most of the democratic world, are broadly trained in recognizing the regional nature of their business. In the event that there was a particular question of jurisdiction to be taken into account, perhaps a lawyer would be aware of this and preempt the assumption that it applies universally.Therein lies the crux of my earlier point about practical facts about the nature of bitcoin and existing international trade. A specific legal question is going to be FAR more likely to be mitigated by regional law, than a general one is, precisely because the utility of international trade depends upon international protocols that deal with such things, as having common definitions or methods of translating. It's FAR more important to consider the specific implications of bitcoin, against the economic morass into which it enters. There's much more difference between bitcoin and it's universal legal implications in existing markets, than there is between the existing currencies, commodities and laws that underpin them. To use your own example. No mater how ANY legal authority or government decided to define bitcoin, it will have no effect on how the network works or the utility of bitcoin as a market instrument. If it is decided that it will be called a 'virtual good' then the powers that be are only agreeing upon what words to use for semantic convenience. The definition of 'virtual good' or 'currency', already has international standardization conventions, that are by necessity adopted as international protocol, so that global trade and regulation can be made possible. If USA decides to call bitcoin a currency, then it is hardly likely that Australia for example, will call it a 'virtual good'. Why? Because those words already have definitions and those definitions themselves are like commodities of exchange. The lingu franca of international economics. If the world didn't agree about what the word 'currency' means then global economics would be in serious strife. Bitcoin either does or doesn't fit the accepted definition. The question of whether bitcoin has currency is very different. That is decided by the utility of the instrument itself, as a market commodity. The practical outcome is not effected one iota, by government legislation ruling over semantic nomenclature, to be adopted in their own jurisdiction. Sorry Dansker, I can't say I agree. In fact I think you're dead wrong. You rule out a lawyer who comes here as a willing participant, without requiring you to have wads of money in your fist, before even saying hello to you, as a source for 'even having a chance to find out anything solid about a specific bitcoin legal question'. Are you kidding? Not even a chance? It sounds rather dramatic and uncharitable to say the least. You will hear any number of opinions here and on the Internet at large, about bitcoin, which have legal implications. Anybody with a modicum of common sense, knows well enough not to take unsolicited, anonymous advice, as solid council to base important legal decisions upon. It goes without saying. But given that btclaw is at least a lawyer, cares about the success of bitcoin and isn't asking you for wads of cash to even speak to you, I think you are selling him a bit short, as a source of general legal guidance. However much I pay to a self interested lawyer in my own jurisdiction, it wont be enough to make that lawyer an advocate of bitcoin.You may need to seek legal council, in particular if you actually have legal battle to fight. The facts about law in any jurisdiction, are not really the commodity you are paying for access to, as much as the skill and wit of a professional advocate, to give your case the best chance of success you can. The payment for advice is no assurance the lawyer will perform well, and the recourse to compensation for bad advice, would be even less reliable. As for legal advice on general information (ie where you don't absolutely have to hire a lawyer), such as matters that do not pertain to a specific pending case, or the need to draw up a contract etc, then who do you know, that will happily fork out the wads of cash that it takes, to get this general information from a paid, fully qualified, contractually bound lawyer? Nobody I know ever does this, as the cost is prohibitive. Decisions I make in day to day life, may have legal implications, down the track. But I am not going to pick up the phone and book a session with a lawyer, for every minor legal detail I may be curious about. What people usually do (or at least did in years gone by) if there are question, is go without. They use their own common sense and knowledge of law, to manage their own risks. Otherwise they may chat informally with a lawyer they have hired in the past, or one they know in their circle of family, friends or work colleges. That is far better than nothing, if you are fortunate enough have the access. Now with the benefit of the Internet, we can do more research for ourselves and of course we have places like this, where knowledgeable people may offer to lend a word of advice. That is orders of magnitude better again. Our gratitude is hardly enough to pay for this, but it's the least we should offer.I see that btclaw has come around to the use of the word 'currency' to define bitcoin. I haven't looked into it myself, but I would be willing to wager a fair bit, that his rationale would make no difference in the context of Australian law. Now if you were to go and hire a lawyer to find out for sure if this was sound legal information, what's the bet that you would just be wasting your money? And even if that lawyer insists that bitcoin is not a currency, and my government declares it is not, will that change the fact that it has currency, acts like currency and actually is currency for those who use it as such? I think not.  This thread is just awesome and it's only getting better. I just wanted to stick this idea in the melting pot. Re: The Bitcoin vs PoxPal scandal. It has emerged on other threads and elsewhere, that PoxPal have been deliberately sabotaging the legitimate transactions of honest traders, who happen to be selling BTC with PoxPal. PoxPal is just greedy corporate tyrants nest IMHO. They appear to be facilitating blatant criminals, with a white collar clearing house for digital fraud. Ironically bitcoin gets mendacious political spin, by association with crime and contraband, just because you can do the same kind of transactions with it, as you can also do with cash (though bitcoin doesn't launder as well, so paper money should be currency of choice for black market crime.).  Perhaps somebody should set PoxPal up with a test case: What if we planed a thoroughly legitimate, independently documented transaction, (with receipts and affidavits to nail the deal shut). We could even do a whole series of them. Heres what I'm thinking: We coordinate this transaction at both ends, with a lawyer to supervise (there's one lurking about here somewhere  ). We even document the data from the blockchain and declare legal identification, for proof of the bitcoin address ownership. Extra authentication security could be enlisted, by having the parties to the transaction use digital certificates for their invoice and receipt and all other document exchanged. Make it as easy in advance, to thoroughly and independently verify the legitimate provision of the bitcoin as requested and generally plan to make the transaction as legally watertight, traceable and transparent as possible. Then just do it. Use paypal, to sell/buy the bitcoin, boldly making it as obvious as possible, that the vendor is selling bitcoin. Have the buyer then do a totally bogus, unwarranted, pre-arranged (and pre-nullified) chargeback, declared in a sworn affidavit by the buyer, as null and void, by prior agreement between the transacting parties. Then you just let PoxPal, fail to honor the  seller, for his/her irrefutably legitimate part, in the completely reciprocated transaction. As far as the transacting parties are concerned, the transaction is satisfied and complete without any dispute or grievance whatsoever.The affidavit would be written, to carefully ensure it indemnifies the seller, against any intervention by PoxPal or any other third party, while the buyer explicitly declares in it, that the sole intention for making such a claim to PoxPal (of not having received payment) and requesting a chargeback, would strictly be ONLY for the sole purpose, of auditing the diligence and fairness, of PoxPal's dispute resolution process. The buyer must agree to this without reservation, at the outset, and then once again, after payment in full for and receipt in kind of the bitcoin, as agreed, has been completed. It could even be reiterated again, on two post-transaction counter receipts, not only that, full payment has been received and the bitcoin delivered, but that both parties are completely satisfied, and also, words to the effect that, both parties now fully agree that the chargeback to be initiated, could not and should not be possible to uphold, therefore no consideration should be enlisted, that the buyer is culpable or actionable for attempting to defraud the seller. Stating explicitly their manifest intention is to audit PayPal protocols, and that both parties are privy (in foresight) to the planned chargeback, the post transaction affidavit and counter signed receipts, are then signed signed and witnessed by both parties in front of a notary and then handed to the lawyer for safe keeping. Documenting this whole experiment on camera for a youtube video might be helpful too.All parties privy to this experiment, declare and agree, that the documentation thus produced, indemnifies the seller, in relation to the now successfully concluded transaction, but all this has been done, prior to the buyer making the claim of non-payment and initiating a chargeback. The only culpability that could eventuate at this stage, would be that of PoxPal defaulting on an iron clad legitimate transaction, for no other reason than the buyer asked them too. PooPal of course, are not privy to the experiment, but since there is not one iota of reasonable justification, in the fabricated claim which our buyer is about to make, then they could not possibly have any reasonable grounds to suspect the allegation was true. Why? because it simply ISN'T. This manifestly orchestrated fact, is now  proven beyond all reasonable doubt documented. The stage is set. The buyer, then proceeds to make the claim of non-payment and requests a chargeback.  Let's just see if PrickPal reverses the transaction and freezes the sellers account. In which case our lawyer (Hi bclaw! You busy?  ), steps in, both barrels loaded, demanding they handover the evidence demonstrating their supposedly responsible, dispute resolution protocols, pending serious legal action. (class action anybody?) Perhaps we could at least find ourselves, in a good position to demand an out of court settlement. It should be demanded in bitcoin, along with a public apology by their CEO right here in our announcement section. Would demanding a public admission that Satoshi is God and Gavin is Jesus be going too far?  All that's left then, is to just send off the media release. I can see it now.   STOP PRESS: BITCOIN LAWYER MAKES LEGAL DEMAND OF WEALTHY ONLINE COMPANY SAYING: "IT'S TIME FOR YOU TO PAY, PAL". That plan wouldn't constitute entrapment or anything like that would it? I'd assume you'd have to be a law enforcement authority, to be subject to entrapment laws wouldn't you? Is there any legal reason this wouldn't work? It would sure as hell be a good publicity stunt. It might also just make PoxPal, somewhat hesitant to jump to the unqualified defense, of any two bit huckster, who reverses transactions in payment for bitcoin. If you could really get them over the barrel somehow, it would be nice to make them agree (in an out of court settlement), to disclaim their right to reverse transactions, where payment for bitcoin (or even virtual goods) is concerned. Whether it is considered a virtual good or a currency, it has the trading properties of cash, so it should be deemed as a non-reversible transaction. Political bias, against the use of a particular form of currency, may be hard to counteract, but willfully restricting others from transacting with it, should rightly be seen as impeding free enterprise and legitimate trade. I lost a tangible sum of bitcoin, trying to cash out of the market at BTC = $14 each, but then, discovering there would be no takers for my bid to sell Liberty Reserve $USD on Exchange Zone for payment to PoxPal, I reversed my tracks and put my money back, but it had gone up to $17 in that time. I bought bitcoin again, as the price was still rising, but it only served to cut my losses, which came out around to $1400 worth. If PoxPal could be trusted and relied upon, this never would have happened. Their deliberate intention and successful impact, is to undermine the potential liquidity of bitcoin. So it effects much more, than the transacting parties of particular reversed transactions and frozen accounts. Also, the serious nature of this interference, should not be underestimated. If you take possession of something you order and don't pay for it, it's called theft. If PoxPal takes your word that you didn't receive something you payed for, when you actually did, an so reverses your payment; isn't that committing fraud on your behalf? Don't they have a very strictly regulated obligation, to follow protocols of evidence based investigation and transparency? Shouldn't they in fact be obliged to hand disputes over to legal authorities? If they take sides and determine outcomes, without recourse to any legitimate legal authority, aren't they simply taking the law into their own hands and committing serious crime? After all, if I walk up to a police officer and claim to have been robbed of $50, pointing to the little old lady over the road, I wouldn't expect him to simply walk over, snatch her purse and pull the $50 then hand it to me. Even for a serious crime, police can't just walk into a home and seize possessions. They have to have search warrants and seriously solid evidence, or else heads will roll. How can a private company, get away with just deciding who is in the wrong? If they are also in the wrong as a result, then how can it be passed off as a matter of trivial negligence? It seems to me, like a child selling contaminated lemonade on the front lawn, being allowed to dispense medical advice and prescription drugs to go with it. I don't see their TOS agreement, as being any justification for writing their own legislation either. PoxPal should be given enough rope to hang itself, by creating their own PR disasters, whenever they try to foreclose on honest transactions, while facilitating criminal activity. Getting government and legal authorities, to acknowledge bitcoin and to demand a level playing field would IMHO, be a priceless objective. I'd prefer to see PayPal fall on their own sword, than to see them fall victim to ruthless competition, of our straw-man stereotype; that of a devious cabal, of vigilante, anarchist hackers, destroying 'honest *cough*, legitimate *cough*, sentinels of corporate respectability.  To our potential detractors, this could only martyr PoxPal and vilify bitcoin.  This raises an interesting question, as to whether an overriding waiver, could be written up, to take legal precedent over PoxPal's TOS; in that one party might agree with the other, as a condition of any sale, not to invoke any privilege such as chargeback and to be subject to the terms of an externally binding agreement, such that the buyer, explicitly agrees, that the payment will be finalized, without recourse to any such provision of PoxPal (or other intermediary) to intervene, delay or reverse the payment. If possible, then a standardized agreement might be made available for this purpose. PoxPal should then be warned, that they are duty bound to desist from arbitrary intervention, in the presence of such an agreement, adding that failing to do so, will result in litigation. Would this be feasible? How much would that cost to have written up? I would happily pledge some bitcoin towards that goal.It might even be worth setting up a slush fund, where people could contribute to various contractual type legal work and/or to help pay for any worthwhile legal action that needs to be taken, on behalf of bitcoiners, where the whole community would benefit. Also btclaw, have you considered offering a paid, out of court mediation service? That way any disputes within the bitcoin community, may be nipped in the bud and prevented from entering the jurisdiction of the courts. I don't advocate litigation in general, unless it's against the ruthless tyranny, of corporate greed, or in the interest of important human rights. Alternative provisions for resolution, would certainly help to foster a cooperative, symbiotic bitcoin community. Sorry for the long rant. I got a bit carried away. The court will now recess.  +1 As I sadly discovered the hard way, as per this thread: Australian Dollars - What's the best way to trade them for BTC & Vice Versa.You pay BTC and the buyer can do a chargeback and reverse the transaction, leaving you with a frozen PP account and the onus to prove that you had provided the ' virtual goods' as requested. PayPox do not want a free alternative so they will resort to corrupt anti-competitive tactics. Caveat Emptor - They reserve the right to do this as a condition of their draconian TOS agreement so you cant complain that they are defrauding you or breaching their contract. PoxPal is just another greedy corporate tyrant, facilitating blue-collar criminals with a digital fraud clearing house.That gives me an idea:  MAN! That is absolutely AWSOME!!   You've done us Aussies proud. Thanks for this. It's very nice looking and laid out well. Perhaps once you stake out a few bread and butter lines, you can build enough T/O to buy wholesale. Then you may be able to take a bit of a margin. I hope it goes off like Paris Hilton at a bucks party. I don't know where abouts you are in OZ, or if they have any Angus & Robertson book store there, but Angus & Robertson are in receivership and should be closing in six to ten weeks. So if you want some cheap books to stock, you could keep an eye out for the BIG closing sale and scoop some likely titles. Books on computing, business and economics, would sell well in the bitcoin crowd I think. Again. Well done and thanks fellow Aussie! Yeah. I guess the 'eruption' of MtGox put them on the back foot for just a little while. With the increased volume of trade, I expect we have to expect some hiccups and some delays in communication all over the place. At least we've still got this forum.   Again, Oldminer, thanks for the info. I have registered the domain 'australinbitcoin.com' and I'm working on the site. Truth is I'm not a real pro at web development, and I'm really on a steep learning curve with the economics too. I am inclined to take any good advice I can get and may collaborate with the right people. Just a little overwhelmed at both the challenges and the opportunities here for a fair and honest entrepreneur. I looked at the idea of setting up an Australian exchange, but the problem is not with being able to trade in AUD (MtGox already supports this). The issue is with liquidity in the AUD cash economy. We need liquidity LIKE NOW!! TO ALL:At the moment I am just looking for a reasonably efficient transaction pathway to put Aussies on the right track. Anybody is welcome to join the site (using Drupal for now) and I will try to set up some forum/feedback system so that users can contribute their ideas. I will look into registering a proper business tomorrow. Until I have the proper legal entity in place, consider what you may have to offer in 'sweat equity' (I'm not looking for any money or bitcoins), but to offer the most helpful 'ideas people', the first option on one third of the equity. That means if you help to make it better with ideas or skills, you will be in line to invest in a team project you helped to build. If there's ONE thing I have confidence in, it's that Aussies know how to just 'muck in' and just make things happen. $8 is OK, if you're trying to liquidate $2000 dollars worth. That's the way I should have done it in the first place then. Considering that I cashed out to USD at $14 and tried to withdraw over two days to LR, then, when I realized I was going about it the wrong way, I put it back and ended up buying back in to the market at $17. There's a good investment strategy for ya; sell low and buy high - NOT!!  . Anyhow I managed to burn myself on a rising market an in those two days I lost about 50 BTC or $1,400 (well over half the amount I was trying to withdraw). I'll learn to play this game yet, but the thing is, bitcoin it's like sex. One you miss out on, is one you never catch up on. Oh! Thanks for the info BTW Ruckus.   That's a very nice idea. Thanks for doing this. Is it possible for anybody to incorporate the main table into a website? Any plans for an API or some such?   Hmm... "easy enough to get money into MtGox" you say. Wondering how you do that even? Well, I am trying to set up something myself so watch this space.  Oh! I have no problems converting between currencies on the exchange. I had bitcoin in MtGox and traded for USD and vice versa, but the problem is getting the dollars of regular currency in or out of the market. I can't spend USD while it sits in MtGox, so I want to buy something in AUD, how do I get it out? Likewise, if I want to buy up some bitcoin, but I only have AUD, how do I get that in? The only options on MtGox were Liberty Reserve and Dwollar, the latter being available only for transacting with US bank accounts. Liberty Reserve doesn't appear to offer any payment pathway to and from bank accounts, but a bewildering array of even more intermediaries. So where do you go from there? TradeHill offers more currency choices but I think it's the same problem with getting some money ($AUD) in or out of the exchange. Note: Paying by percentage is expensive for larger amounts, while fixed fees are expensive if you are limited to the size of transaction. I had to do two transfers to LR over two days to get $2000 into LR, being charged a fee each time. Of course I didn't want money in LR anyhow. I just wanted my money on my bank account. All of these middle-men, pseudo-currencies and escrow services want a piece of the pie to handle your funds and having to use them, kinda defeats the purpose of bitcoin P2P transactions. There must be a better way.  Or else I'll have to set something up myself. I just posted a similar thread out on Trading Discussions. http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=15913.0 It's a pervasive issue.  I'm probably not alone in this, but I had lots of struggles in the past week, with trying to first take some bitcoin and cash it in for my local Australian currency, then wanting to buy some of those cheap bitcoins today, I struggled to find a way to buy in with Australian dollars. It's quite frustrating when you have good money in your bank and there are people on MtGox and TradeHill screaming to sell, yet I cant get a look in. In the first instance (getting AUD for bitcoin), I tried selling on MtGox and opened a liberty reserve account, then I opened an offer on Exchange Zone to sell my liberty basic USD for USPP, until I realized all the difficulties that go with depositing PayPal and that nobody would want to go near a reversible transaction. So I backed out of that pathway and put my money back on the Mt. By the time I bought back in with bitcoins still soaring, they had gained $4 USD so I lost some ground there.  I then discovered BitPiggy, but they only handle the lesser of $500 or however much is in their pot and now they are also down for servicing for a few days. Somebody pointed me towards e-ForexGold but the seem to require a 24 hour waiting period, at the time It was because I had a new desire to buy bitcoin while the price was low. Now the prices are going back up, it seems I missed bus again. This is really quite frustrating. I have bitcoin in my wallet, money in my bank and accounts with PayPal, Liberty Reserve, Exchange Zone, e-ForexGold, MtGox and TradeHill, Yet I still can't easily just pay AUD anywhere, to buy BTC or vice versa. Anybody with the same problems or a reliable solution? Do you consider that to be an inevitable trade off? The trade off I am more inclined to be concerned about, is quality of life vs quantity. That is the message I got from the OP and nothing about it suggested hating humanity IMHO.There are two directions that a population can take towards declining quality of life (or even extinction). Choosing to breed uncontrollably or not at all, tend towards the same result. Sustainability would be achieving some balance between the two extremes. WOW! You have to do something as system dependent as a cron job, to update a member status?   Never flew a SMF board, but at least you don't have to do peek and poke memory locations with assembler.  Has the management ever considered porting the board DB to phpBB? Don't think you'd have to do 'cron jobs' then.  Well if you need another one, I don't mind helping out.  Ironically, 'I agree'.   Thanks theymos   Hmm.. Well I have to admit I'm somewhat ambivalent about this. While I accept that something had to be done to address the trolling issue, I have my reservations about the post count method of evaluation. I have a habit (in every forum I join) of writing fairly verbose and detailed posts. Their quality may stand on their own merit, but I do like to think I ponder the ideas I am writing about deeply, and give  carefully considered input. I have long disliked any system of merit which is based on credit for post count, as the mass of people who write hardly anything but one liners like "I agree" or short, ill considered posts that require no effort, are prone to earning a better reputation for poor quality input, whether they are spamming/trolling or not. Also, I always end up with a fairly low posting count wherever I go due to my preference for reading a thread right through before I jump in. Considerate participants, also tend to spend more time browsing or searching, before they interject with ill considered opinions or misconceptions on any topic. For some people the time they spend on a forum, whilst being thoughtful and diligent, is inordinate compared to the average member, although you wouldn't know it from their post count. I cant's say I never jump in with a brief frivolous comment, but on the whole I spend much more time reading, thinking and digesting the ideas on offer, before I post what often turns into a somewhat detailed and lengthly contribution. I have a certain amount to say about a subject and I take whatever time it takes to discuss it with the depth I believe it deserves.Also I joined this forum over a year ago (before even Gavin Andresen). So being put in the playpen, because of the recent influx of trolls that are nearly all newcomers, it somewhat bemusing. There are those of us who have contributed to ideas being discussed here, for many months and have active threads in which they were still participating. I wonder if this could be done with the restriction being placed on the amount of time the member has been registered for, rather than the post count.Needles to say, I hope my request to be white-listed will be considered.PS: I do appreciate that the staff here generally do a great job and deciding how to tackle these little dilemmas is not an easy task. FWIW, I was forum admin on one of the larger boards back in 2006 and  I know that pleasing all the people all the time is simply impossible.  EDIT: Of course one of the perils of being windy and verbose, is that a problem is often fixed in the time it takes to post about it. Thanks
No. You should have fewer kids because everybody procreates too fast. African people should do the same. Did the OP exclude Africans from the plea? Why do you think you are the only one being addressed? For some people It's always, 'what's in it for me or why should I do it' instead of the benefit of the whole human race. The environment doesn't know about man made geographical boundaries or national politics. Two wrongs don't make a right. Nor do two problems make a solution. Think globally; act locally. Africans aren't typically the ones driving SUV's to the shop for a carton of milk anyhow.I agree whole heartedly with the OP. Although I wouldn't want the human race to go extinct to save the 'bristle nosed pig weasel', we have to plan for sustainable population and uncontrolled population growth is no more sustainable, than uncontrolled printing and lending of money. And there's no point arguing about how the working class can support an aging population either; you can't dig yourself out of a hole. Stability in some systems, is a zero sum game. Eventually somebody has to pay the piper. +1  But... Every Sperm Is Sacred. Maybe because some people do a hell of a lot for the bitcoin community at large and deserve to pick up a small margin here and there. I used the code handed out by Bruce Wagner on the bitcoin show, as I admire what he has done and rather than pay the sizable sum for the donation I think he deserves, depleting my savings (and their compounding future growth), I can tip him a residual reward. I liked it for the very reason you dislike it.   Oh well... Diffrent strokes for different folks I guess.   Oh yes! It's a wonderful spectator sport. Just like watching non-bursting bitcoin bubbles.  I saw the interview on The Bitcoin Show and was really impresssed. I want to partner with TradeHill and set up for Australian transactions. Ive sent an email to the info@tradehill.com address. Keep up the great work.   +1 (I'll buy that.)   *Sigh* I cant help thinking of somebody trying to control a nuclear power plant, with a Fisher Price activity table. Oh well, nevermind. Firstly you'll need either an internet conection each end, or 50 km of network cable.  If you are happy to just use a command line for basic control, then you could just telnet to the machine using any old terminal emulator on Fish... er windoze. Otherwise just use a VNC client / server. I haven't installed Linuxcoin yet, so I dont know what VNC software it comes packaged with, but it should have a software installer like synaptic, which makes installing almost anything a piece of cake. Just type VNC into its search window and look for a server on the linux end then install a client on the windows machine and just follow the instructions in the help/documentation for each of them. The VNC will give you full desktop access once you have it working.Good luck with that.  Thanks for joining us Bitcoin Lawyer. I'm sure you'll be able to make a very valuable contribution to this place.I'm an aussie and I'm also interested in the tax and liability issues surounding trade and consumer protection. Just reading some of the points above, it has occoured to me (at least, intuitavely to me it seems) that if the government expects you to pay tax on any income surounding trade with bitcoin, wheter mining them or tradeing with them, then wouldn't that implicitly deem them responsible to consumer / trader protection. In Australia, we have a GST so not only is the vendor required to declare (and pay) income tax, but the buyer also contributes to tax revinue in the purchace, provided that the transaction is legal and done strictly by the book.How interesting, as it seem this would put the government in something of a dilemma. If it want's to forbid bitcoin as a medium of currency, yet it has set a precedent of accepting revinue from ligitemate bitcoin transactions, it should thwart any attempt to dissabuse themselves of the responsibility, to bring bitcoin trading under the umbrella of the trade practices act, and the consumer protection authority. Would it be a fair implication then, to expect that as a result, responsible (above board) business practices, by ethical bitcoin traders who keep ligitimate books and pay their taxes honestly, might force governments to honor bitcoin as a ligitimate way of trading, if not a ligitimate form of legal tender. I expect it will come under the various provisions for bartering as would the existing quasi-curencies and trading systems already on the net and in the real world. I think govermnents will have to see that bitcoin just works and that nothing will stop it. Better they embrace it (at both ends) and offer full legistative support. What's the bet they try to disown it as a responsibility, while still demanding that tax be paid on its revinues.   Interesting time ahead.Again, welcome to the club btclaw.   I had an idea a while back (it's where the name Karmicads comes from), to create an alternative to those anoying scammy adsense and adwords banner ads from google. The escene of it was to run an OpenX ad server and include a little 5 star rating bar at the bottom of each ad, so that people could give the advert a 'karma' ratting that would effect it's precedence in competition for exposure.At the time I was researching a business model for a secular NPO fundrasing organisation and KarmicAds was intended to be a staple of fundraising for the organisation itself. To bootstrap the system you would offer free advertising for suitible non-proffit organisations in return for banner space on their websites. Any revinue raised from commercial ads, that were directed from the participating NPO's website, would be returned as fundraising to them, or they could elect to have non commercial (NPO ads) only. Any comercial business could also participate, but of course, being subject to community criticism by the karma stars, would tend to drive up the performance of companies who deserved the reputation and ward of scammy parisites. Perhaps you could adapt this idea for the bitcoin community and even reward bitcoin buisness with good reputations a discount on a sliding scale.Another idea is a forum specificly to foster colaboration and diversification. We already have a very good general bitcoin forum, so no need to re-invent the wheel. But there are many gaps out there in the co-ordination of innitiatives. Fostering colabs and team work would be a very helpful pursuit, it you think it may be up your alley. You could watch the ideas board here and foster a more detailed buisness planning and development scene over there, as well as hooking up those who have bitcoin to invest, with people who have ideas that deserve investment. Develop a model for vetting ideas, and fostering the buissines planning process and try to conect the resources people have together. If you could manage to put both of these ideas together, you could have a funding model for the colab forum and hopefuly profit to draw an income from.My focus has shifted from the NPO fundraising organisation to total global domination, so I haven't got the time for that idea anymore.  Feel free to adopt/adapt it if you like. And good luck with it. Damn! You must have tiny writting. Those blotters are sooooo small.   This is magic steam. Edit: I should have also said 'The cooler bitcoin gets the faster it rises'.  Thanks w0mbat.   I looked at BM but they are presently only open to new members by invitation (due to some fraudulent transactions). I hadn't even heard of btcxc.info yet, nor did I know about BitPiggy. What a clue I've got huh?  Next time I might do it the easy way.   Yep! I deffinately think this is a badly needed service here in the land downunder. I am just in the processes of trying to cash out 200 BTC and so far it goes something like this: Sell BTC at MtGox; it gets converted to $USD. Withdraw $1000 from MtGox into a Liberty Reserve account and wait 24 hours until $987.11 shows up, then go back to MtGox to withdraw another $1000. [that's the story so far]. Now I have a ballance in Liberty Reserve but I cant cash that for $AUD there either. The easiest option seemed to be the ExchangeZone, where I can sell the LR credit for payment into a paypal account. From there I can convert to $AUD and withdraw back into my bank account.  Good Grief  What a bunch of screwing around that is. I don't know if I am doing it the easiest way but this deffinately takes the shine off the instant, transperant, free transactions of bitcoin. Including MtGox and my bank there are FIVE - count them - FIVE intermediaries between my bitcoins and local currency cash. I have only gone through two of them so far and I am already down $12.89 Everybody is going to want a little piece of the pie for nothing more than handling my funds and passing them on to somebody else. Is there some way to set up this exchange so that you can simply support $AUD by transferring ballance to and from MtGox; like a sort of $AUD <---> $USD gateway, so that ballance at MtGox can be traded in and out using regular currency while each exchange handles their own $BTC <---> local currency trading? There must be some reliable and secure tools out there already for trading between traditional currencies. Once you can go $USD <---> $AUD instantly and securely, then you can trade bitcoin for either at each end. It seems that this is where the bitcoin exchanges fall down. They need to be supporting each other in bridging the gap between local traditional currencies and not just between the local currency and bitcoin. Then you will have a very usefull tool to bypass all of these ceteralised online pseudo-currencies and trading systems, that compete with each other, in trying to make themselves the universal midleman.The exchanges also need direct payment methods to local bank accounts. I mean how hard can it be? the corner shop has a damn eftpos machine. Any business can make direct deposits. Where's the hard part here? I haven't looked into it properly myself, but I don't see why bitcoin exchanges cant just make seemless international bitcoin <---> bank transactions happen. It seems to me that the botom of the upward exponential curve began right when BTC hit parity with the USD. That is a milestone that tends to generate a little bit of chatter in the financial media and would have a fresh batch of economists and speculators exposed to bitcoin for the first time. Now hands up who's heard of the butterfly effect? My guess is that some critical mass of smart money people, who can see bitcoin for what it is, suddenly wanted in and the seculators seeing the sudden rise followed suit. Then we have the masses who are curious but unsure, riding on the sudden wave of publicity. So many of them now, are all hearing about bitcoin for the first time and they only need to be buying $100 or less worth of BTC to play with for micro transaction and the price will continue to rise. I don't think it's realy a bubble at all. I agree with Koolio, It's just normal market dynamics. The price of one bitcoin will have to be $1000 USD one day (if enough people want to use it as currency) and it might just as well go up now as anytime.Some speculators may panic sell, but as long as many more average joes want to buy up smaler amounts to use it for trading and holy on to the little amount's they do have, then I don't see that it has to crash at all. It may spike (like the last couple of days) flounder around for a while like today and then grow more slowly until another spike drives it higher. I'm realy just speculating here, but I can't see the price crashing like the stock exchange has. Commodities and financial products are traded on the stock exchange, almost exclusively by speculators mostly professinal, without a large reserve being held by people who buy it for it's utility. People seem to either think about bitcoin like investment brokers or like traders/consumers . But the market contains a combination of investors and consumers and traders the consumers and traders, wont stop wanting to make use of this utility bitcoin has, for making small online transactors. So of course that sugests the need to offer more diversity in the products and services that are traded in bitcoin is high priority, but nobody is going to go into a fit of panic, becasuse they have 73.50 worth of BTC in their wallet and hardly anything they can spend it on, especialy not if the price keeps rising. Even If the price goes down, they havn't got much to loose. It isn't worth trying to pull $25 out of the market because you think it's going to crash. Wouldn't the larger numbers of smaler amounts have a buffeing effect on any downward spirals? Not everybody in this market is a gun ho, stock broker trying compete with other stock brokers for nothing other than profit. In any case the serious investors will be smart enough to settle in for the long haul. Not everybody is going to go into overtime trying to sell out on the falling market.I think we'll see a few dips of a few dollars, over the time frame of days perhaps, but generaly over weeks and months, I think BTC has to trend upwards. Bitcoin is too usefull to NOT be taken up by more and more people, and generaly it has to be divided more and more, while accrueing value as it must, to support the masses who want a piece of a limited pie. The scarcity and utility both function together, to make this a currency/comodity like nothing there ever was. I always assumed there would have to be a time of exponential growth as the masses caught on to the idea. Conversely, I just don't see why there must be a backlash counteracting the boom. I'm not saying this out of feverish optimism. I just don't see how a crash, is anywhere near inevitable, as if bitcoin were some infinitely renewable, artificialy generated comodity (like fiat currency). Of course I might not be seeing this correctly at all.   That's always a possibility.   It kinda reminds me of the Einstein quote explaining how radio works."You see, wire telegraph is a kind of a very, very long cat. You pull his tail in New York and his head is meowing in Los Angeles. Do you understand this? And radio operates exactly the same way: you send signals here, they receive them there. The only difference is that there is no cat."--Albert Einstein, when asked to describe radio.Long cat is looooooooooooong.   Hi all, Well I have gotten myself into a bit of a mess, and a bit of a catch 22 situation.I started playing with bitcoin about a year ago (back in v. 0.2. days). I've been caught up in other worlds since, but until the GPU miners started to take hold, I managed to mine 450 BTC on my CPU over a bit over a month on my CPU alone. I think I had a problem with my OS after a power outage and never got bitcoin set up again for one reason or another, until a few months ago. Unfortunately by then there was no joy to be had, mining with a measly CPU. I spent some of my coins though, on a months worth of VPN connection (which I never really made good use of) Anyhow I checked back again a couple of weeks ago only to find the price of bitcoins going through the roof. Seems that my months worth of CPU mining is growing toward $4,000 USD WOW!   Anyhow I no sooner learned of this and had intended to do a full (and careful) upgrade to the latest client, before my mother board gave up the digital ghost. That's were the real problem begins. As Linux users may be aware, it can be very forgiving on some hardware problems even changing drives to a completely different machine can work, but not for me. Not this time. Grub wouldn't take to the new (slightly downgraded board) To complicate this, I had two drives with the root partition on one, and the /home directory on another. I just couldn't boot into my old distro. I chose to make some space on a new partition and set about installing something else. I had a super security packed Fedora distro, which I tried out and a futzy cloud based consumer oriented Ubuntu distro called Joli. I have both of these installed. The beauty of the Joli distro is that it finds all your other grub installs and includes them automatically on it's boot menu. The down side is that it makes it like hell to get proper administrative privileges and access to you own machine for say copying files as root (if it's actually possible at all). But at least I can try different parameters at the grub prompt. The fedora one is better to administer but I found that after installing the latest bitcoin client, it is giving me a segmentation fault error when I try to load it with the the wallet.dat file which (I believe) is the one from my old distro. I did try clearing out the whole lot except the wallet.dat, starting with restore etc...etc.. I've spent over a week pouring over the docs and problems here on the forum, but I'm getting nowhere fast. I cant start the old client on a new system and the new wont take my old wallet.I have that many copies of various wallets and have tried that many things now, I am loosing track of where I am and what I've done. So I will offer 20 BTC bounty to the linux guru who can help me fix this mess and get access to the wallet which (I believe) is the one that has my BTC booty stored in it, as I need to do a transaction to cement a business deal and those coins will come in very handy. Thanks in advance for any advice/help too.Steve. Hi DataWraithI hope I didn't give the impression that I either intend to use magnet links without more consideration of/ agreement with others, nor that my provisional support for them is based on their existing popularity. I'm honestly not into superficial popularity if I can help it. The reason to consider a magnet URI IMHO is owing to the Actual stated purpose and draft specificationsIt's stated purpose is specifically to allow websites to seamlessly integrate with features of local utility programs. It is intended to be vendor neutral and avoid having to reinvent the wheel and avoid further conflicts with other URI schemes. It also follows strong compliance with W3C standards and any scheme using the magnet convention would inherit that rigor. Sorry DataWraith, but with all due respect, I have to disagree. The first issue is that files on a hard drive are mapped to a hierarchical namespace of nested locations, i.e. domains and directories. The fundamental difference, in approach of the many P2P networks is that the namespace is not hierarchal and the data it supports is referenced not by address but by the uniqueness of it's content. Whether the target is a file or anything else it's not referenced by a specific fixed address, but by the identity of it's unique contents. Identical files, are essentially the same identity and the P2P application can use multiple instances as multiple feeds to the same item. The parameters of magnet are well suited to any P2P application. Well actually it's a URN handler and I didn't specify any limit to the 'weight' as you put it. I would be more concerned with robustness and not being painted into a corner myself. The effort to implement backward compatibility and forward extensibility, having been considered from the outset, is a small price IMHO. In any case I am only contemplating this, in the hope it can be done without installing freenet, at least the chunk of code needed to read and write to and from freenet should be much smaller if (as I suspect) the whole freenet web server is not needed. Also the URI should of course include this freenet functionality, as an optional parameter. So if not specified, the information to do the basic transaction would still be legitimate. It would not then be compulsory to use in publishing the URI, but the handler should still be able to take the parameter if it is used, otherwise the optional choice you are proposing is between two different incompatible URI schemes. Measure twice, cut once.Not sure what you mean by address, other than the 'address' that is provided by your bitcoin signature (which is more like a name than a place). I cant see how you can hand out different addresses to different people, unless you already have some aliases defined. So you are suggesting an added naming system to encode and translate aliases for a bitcoin node, is that what you mean? That could be done without too much hassle I suppose.The amount: Yup goes without saying.Message: This is where URI data becomes unwieldy. A message is implicitly a useful amount of human communication, which was never intended to be delivered in the URI itself. The need to reference a supplementary document begins here. The payer can send their message in the software interface (either the standalone program or the Firefox add-on), The link, at a minimum, identifies the recipient and the amount, that must be passed to the software. If the receiving party wants to communicate some text, then they can do so in the document they are publishing (IE. where they are publishing the link). The text for the sending party, can use the normal route, as the link invokes the bitcoin interface and that provides the field to include a note. What message needs to be passed by the receiver (payee) that is not possible in the document in which they are publishing the link? What message needs to be passed by the payer, that is not possible in the interface, but is possible by clicking on the link? That would imply that the link invokes methods like post or get, that are exclusively http/s functionality, that is defeating the purpose of having a purpose made URI scheme. Post and Get functions need to be addressed within the hierarchical namespace of TCP/IP and/or physical file path names. Details: I advocated from the outset, the desirability of the URI scheme, being able to reference a document with a richer data structure, that can be used to embellish upon the basic essential information passed by the obligatory parameters. I also suggested a proposed repository for those documents which lead to some accessibility issues, but if solved would enhance the anonymity of the bitcoin node and circumvent the reliance on non-P2P or hierarchical namespace. The possibility of taking a beautiful network addressing protocol and remapping it with (or kludging it onto) a regressive, inferior, butt ugly one, which requires all entities to adopt the analogy of a fixed location, and loose all hard wired associations if they are shifted, seems to me as tactful as giving a beautiful stone building a coat of cheap plastic paint; bright green paint. A URL for a parameter, Is precisely the kind of butchery I would rather avoid, because a URL is not a URN and the namespace it addresses, is hierarchical and must ultimately reside at a fixed IP. As far as this "you could also link to freenet, i2p and tor to keep things anonymous." is concerned, you clearly haven't given it much thought. If I could just link to freenet, then I could just as easily incorporate freenet as the actual repository referenced in the URI to begin with. That's the problem. You can't just store files on freenet, and expect anybody to be able to retrieve them with a URL or a URN, on a regular website, unless the visitor has the client software to handle the link, the reference it gives will be useless. If I can make the URI handler address the freenet namespace, then I suggest it would much better to store the files there in the first place. Because http/s operates on a hierarchical namespace and P2P clients operate on non-hierarchical namespace, the one parameter can't be used to interdependently address both. It's a bit late for you to decide to become anonymous after you have fixed your identity to a physical locus.If I have misunderstood you I apologize DataWraith, but you don't seem to appreciate the difference between the two namespace models, nor their relative advantages and liabilities. I am sill quite willing to consider any other system of schema. I am not rejecting your criticism out of hand, nor insisting my own preferences should be the default. I would prefer to simply make the best URI scheme possible regardless. Thanks for your consideration all the same.EDIT: Re my comment "The amount: Yup goes without saying." I take that back. I was thinking in terms of links only as instigators of payment events, but of course, if the amount and other parameters are left blank, it should then default to acting as an identifier link to instigate a payment at the behest of the payer. A simple donate button would only need one parameter and zero redirections/login/confirmation/calculate and change currency before you can finally send, to not see your transaction eating the dust of snailmail on horseback, in the event that you don't have a credit card. (Suck on that that PlayPal). That, along with the naming alias idea suggested by DataWraith AKA (having an address), if that;s what you meant DataWraith, is certainly worth implementing for my bitcoin.   This just in:... It seems there is, as it just so happens, an existing protocol precisely for interacting with stored data files on freenet   <YAY!> Sorry, I'm not assuming that we must agree on the freenet URI functionality I suggested, just that It is exciting that it can be so readily incorporated, even for experimental purposes. Simply addressing a preconfigured freenet server should do the trick, but perhaps even the existing code can be slightly modified to directly address freenet (without the implicit web server included in the proper freenet install), but by including this FCP code, in the browser add-on, just the addressing and communicating functionality may be incorporated without the overhead of a full blown freenet http server. I assume at this point, the freenet web server, is only needed by the client for browsing freenet, not to service a node. As Bitcoin already addresses a similar P2P network, how hard would it be to make the bitcoin server do freenet inquiries? Could such trickery be included in the JSON intreface? From: http://new-wiki.freenetproject.org/FCPv2So, it seems you can pull data out of and post data into freenet at will.Veeeeery interesting indeed. Aside from that, in the course of looking for proxies or workarounds for freenet URI integration, I believe I solved an unrelated problem to do with my ISP blocking VoIP/SIP (as it's the local telco as well - and yes, I am changing providers very soon). I want VoIP, but my bastard anti-competitive ISP has crippled my modems firmware (which has an inbuilt 2 port analogue telephone adapter), and I hope this work around (Tor) gets past it (I'm not holding my breath) but  Link2VoIP, if you are reading this, I'm looking in your direction.   I'm wondering if anybody is doing anything about this idea, as I have been researching the possibility of implementing some Internet browser functionality, as per this thread and the wonderful developments described here. It seems that it may be easier first steps, (I'm learning as I go) to try this out and include it with whatever other features the Firefox add-on evolves. Before this can happen there needs to be a consensus about what form the URI would take. I have done some quick research on the URI schemes and most approaches are frowned upon without W3C approval, there is one category whereby the W3C approves a tentative URI scheme and holds it in reserve, with no guarantees (like a provisional patent), but by far the most suitable scheme, seems to be the magnet URI, which was designed to find a resource by the hash being a product of its content uniqueness, rather than by specific address. Magnet was intended for use by applications on peer to peer networks and has reserved parameters for reference to application specific data. Basically, you simply preface the application specific parameter with an x as in xbitcoin1:?Maybe it is good, not to try implementing a new top level URI scheme, as it is regarded as an ad lib maneuverer, if it is not recognized universally. Adopting the magnet system would avoid this, but in itself magnet is an informal, unregistered scheme. The beauty of magnet is that it can be shared and is open in that sense. Now, that might all seem very good, because bitcoin is after all a P2P application and it's network does operate on similar principals, but what if the person clicking on the link is not a bitcoin user? What if you want to incorporate some information that is not carried in the existing network, such as the article being sold, shipping information and various other issues. My understanding is that bitcoin only handles the transaction itself, so the user is left to make all other arrangements, contracts and communications independent of bitcoin. Here's where the anonymity is compromised, because here, we are inclined to resort to conventional 'hierarchical  hardwired, or non-anonymous technologies. That's not a criticism of bitcoin by any stretch, because bitcoin is a fantastic way to transact, no question about it. But the transaction is only one side of the coin, if you'll pardon that cheesy pun.  In the process of investigating URI's I was reminded of freenet and the magnet like system they use, and I ended up back there checking it out. Given that freenet is a user/identity-space intended for information storage, couldn't it also be used as a repository of human readable data files, particular and unique to each user, and incorporating any format of data you wish to use, for embellishing your transaction? Couldn't this be used for hooking the URI into a rich database of application specific data, that has been designed for the publishers own website functionality or business system? While your bitcoin node takes care of the actual transaction, the freenet node takes care of the individual data presented. This should keep everything under the same kind of cryptographic P2P infrastructure, and allow infinite diversity of application specific context. I suppose a unique URI hash key, could be borne out of the combination of your freenet+bitcoin hashes and the file encrypted with your freenet key found by decrypting with your bitcoin key, while your bitcoin node can be addressed the other way around. Does that sound right? Of course, if you use your real identity on one, then I guess then, you real identity would be divulged on the other. Anyhow, I'm sure there's some way to do it. Again, freenet also uses an unregistered URI scheme, but if a variant of magnet is adopted, that will not be a problem. The question remains, if people have hopes of bitcoin becoming a formal recognized currency and a very legitimate deal, then the strict adherence to all other internet protocols might be advisable. I have noted so far nothing in particular that would prevent the registration of a magnet/freenet like URI scheme. I haven't searched them all but one may even exist. Otherwise why not register one?So the URI scheme needs to be agreed upon as to the classification (i.e. what kind magnet etc, as well do we go legit/formal or not) and format, such as how it is to be laid out: Components Of A URIThis speaks to the conventions that Mozilla will account for in parsing a URI.A typical magnet URI, looks like thismagnet:?xt=urn:sha1:YNCKHTQCWBTRNJIV4WNAE52SJUQCZO5CA freenet URI is like this:http://127.0.0.1:8888/USK@oshw3DxmJUt7q4ThF4dCez5IXbc9hCGcv0VuwLRCmeQ,ckeXv20F1gBzkqssB4RXHZ2nB1YRT8Pb8KYZk8wj-bs,AQACAAE/occamsrazor/6/f.pdfTo be recognized at all, the freenet program needs to be installed and this includes a Java powered web server that recognizes the resource as an item in identity space of the localhost. i.e. my browser sees the whole of freenet as being on my machine. I don't know if this identity space could be addressable without the user having to run a web-server, but I suspect the server is only for the ability to serve web pages as well as recognition of the localhost as the requisite top level domain. The 'http:' indicates that the freenet URI, is nothing special in itself, but the IP address (localhost) certainly is. I suspect a program can address the freenet user space, without incorporating a web server, and the universal links can be made as magnet URIs. As for those who don't have bitcoin installed, I don't know how the URI could be made to have a default fall back, to redirect visitors of that link. to the Sourceforge download for bitcoin. That may need to implemented in code and cookie or environ variable set to record the presence of bitcoin. Other relevant sites I have visited in the course of this research include:http://infomesh.net/2001/09/urischemeshttp://www.search.com/reference/Magnet:_URI_schemehttp://magnet-uri.sourceforge.net/http://magnet-uri.sourceforge.net/magnet-draft-overview.txthttp://www.w3.org/Addressing/schemeshttp://www.w3.org/Addressing/schemes#RegistrationAny ideas/comments/feedback is/are welcome.  Steve
