http://www.npr.org/blogs/money/2013/04/09/176688096/episode-450-bitcoin-goes-to-the-moon You understand Amazon already tried their own coin:https://developer.amazon.com/post/Tx2EZGRG23VNQ0K/Introducing-Amazon-Coins-A-New-Virtual-Currency-for-Kindle-Fire.htmlPeople did not "flock" to it.I know this is not a decentralized secure currency so doesn't really compare to bitcoin, but as someone else pointed out it if is entirely mined by Amazon then non of that really matters. re: willphaseSo what did you put in Google Spreadsheet? Because the rest of the people are smart enough to realize they can make more money using then than selling them. "money without borders" rLrXz7D6eSdggwmFsMfAxvLeq6C5To9e8F Well right now is the time when it isn't _that_ hard to imagine some entity obtaining a significant portion of the hashing power of the network.ASICs are starting to appear that dramatically change the economics of mining, but they haven't yet come online for the network in general.I was part of a small consulting group in discussions to build a custom ASIC for doing real time trading.  (sadly being a couple microseconds faster is a big deal) We were a couple engineers and they were a small Chicago trading firm.  Developing an ASIC is not limited to large organizations or deep pockets.  It isn't that hard to imagine more bitcoin mining asics in the world then just the ones that are trying to sell systems commercially.Right now at the retail price of the BFL's systems it would take $500k to buy enough hardware to exceed the current network rate.  If you were developing things internally and already setup for this type of work then the price might be lower.  And it might be online already.  Hmm actually the cost might not be lower, most of that would just be paying the engineers. ;-)  But still this is only 0.2% of the value of all coins in circulation.However I am having a hard time seeing this as profitable. That is still a lot of money, and if you did take over the chain and get yourself a pile of ill gotten bitcoins, then what?  Who is going to buy them from you? You just tanked the economy. And currently bitcoin is just not that important for a government (or evil bank) to bother spending the money to destroy.(*)Soon mining ASICs will come online and bitcoin will be much stronger as a result and as time goes on this becomes harder and harder.  Probably the cost to attack the network will always be a constant fraction value of all coins in circulation.  We just need that fraction to be more like 10% than 0.2%.*) As I write this and look at the numbers I start to wonder if someone wouldn't consider $1M to be a pretty deal to remove bitcoins as a valid alternative. Hmmm.  That said I hate encouraging the conspiracy people.-Wayne I see now.  The hashes being generated payout to an address owned by bitpenny.com.  So solving a block does me no good.Right? I used bitpenny today and got my first penny within a couple hours.  Thanks!I can see why this works great for me, but I am confused about something.  What protects the guy running bitpenny.com from fraud?  Can't I tweak my miner to send proof of work blocks to him, but keep any solved blocks for myself? I don't see this listed above so here is the official permanent link for this show:http://twit.tv/sn287And I don't see it yet, but fairly soon there will be a full transcript of the show posted here:http://www.grc.com/securitynow.htmThe transcript is handy to create videos with captioning. Before people have too much fun tearing apart my post, allow me to do it.  "The 'length' of the entire block chain refers to the chain with the most combined difficulty, not the one with the most blocks. "That kills most of my approach.   But I still think some like what I posted is what the OP had in mind. OK.  Sorry I am too lazy to read all the replies to this thread to see if someone else has already said this...I can see how to exploit the current client if the checkpoints where not in the code.You just start from one of the first blocks and create a new block history from that point forward where the difficulty never increases and all generated coins go to yourself.  Since you will always be using the original difficulty, it wouldn't be too hard to construct a machine that could recreate all that history.  Then when your chain is longer than the current chain the clients would all have to accept your chain as authoritative.The checkpoints prevent this.   But still, I can start at the last checkpoint and recontruct a history where the difficulty drops at the maximum rate until I can start producing blocks faster than the mainline chain and catch up.  All I have to do is fool the oldest clients in active use.Hopefully I am wrong, or perhaps the "longest chain" takes into account difficultly. The remarkable part is the high/low reported on mtgox: 0.12/0.01The number of people wanting to sell bitcoins totally exceed the number willing to buy.Big lost opportunity for people who believe in bitcoins. The mtgox 30day wait should help in this case. The fees are a function of total transaction volume.Right now the volume is pretty tiny so all fees are zero.Later when the volume is high only some of the current transactions will be included in eachblock so you either pay a fee to make sure your transaction is desirable to be in each blockor wait until the trading volume drops.-Wayne And in the future node could certainly drop connections from nodes that generate bad transactions. And the proposed solution is to pre-generate a lot of future addresses and store them in your wallet too.  Now every transaction will use one of these pre-generated but unused addresses for the change and also generate a new address to replace it.This means that if we save 100 future addresses in your wallet file, you just need to have a backup of your wallet from less than 100 transactions ago to recover your money.  Much better.-Wayne Another beginner question.Is there a wiki article somewhere discussing how the bitcoin system is going to scale to a large economy?  I have seen the stuff about coins being divisible so it can be used for any volume of traffic, but what about the blocks?Currently each client has to collect signed blocks of transactions that are distributed across the network.  These blocks contain every transaction made by every user.  I understand that like bittorrent a large amount of data can be sent to every user, but ever user seeing every transaction isn't going to scale.  Moreover, if you are in generating-mode your client needs to receive all pending transactions to see if they can be combined to create a new block.  (I assume the pending transactions are not sent to clients that are not generating blocks.) That is twice the volume and is fragmented into many different pieces.  What is the plan for this to scale?My plan: (only half baked)Here is now I would do it.  Really a client only needs to examine transactions that might potentially be directed to itself so it really doesn't need to track all transactions, just the subset of transactions that could contain the client's address. (Multiple addresses are considered later) So we allow the block chain to fragment to different regions depending on the hash of the recipient of the transactions.   This done in a decentralized fashion just like the current target stuff is handled.  Every N blocks the transaction volume is examined and if the volume exceeds some threshold then the block chain is split into two by the hash.  Then we have two parallel block chains depending on the receivers hash.   Then clients only need to be tracking those blocks that can potentially contain transactions for itself.  A client may also be tracking multiple chains, but only generating blocks on one chain so the detailed transactions are only needed in that region.This does mean that ideally when a client creates multiple addresses it should be able to make them all cluster around the same region of the hash so only a faction of the total block chains need to be tracked.Then when a transaction is completed the DHT is used to find some other client to accept the transaction if the receiver is in a different region than the sender.  This does open up some security concerns because then clients might not get direct conformation that a transaction has been accepted.  Hmmm OK, so I do have some issues making sure money moving between chains are matched up..This seems like it should scale nicely to very large transaction volumes without running into network traffic issues.Hopefully my picture is clear.   It there an official plan like this?  Is this not really a problem like I think, if so why not? I just noticed the snack machine thread: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=423.0 OK I have read the wiki and other posts and I don't see this addressed anywhere.Because of the way payments are validated it seems like any online payment using bitcoins will involve a time lag to verify the payment.What do people do currently, wait until a payment is N blocks from the tip of the chain?  How long does that take? minutes? a couple hours?It seems more some uses this would be a downside of bitcoins.  But then again I suspect most places that want a fast turnaround will be doing micropayments and then the seller can just take the risk for good service and just shutdown the user later if the payments don't end up being cleared.Am I missing something?-Wayne
