Cdecker, that was great when you said and did "I will of course remove all mappings from pseudonym to IP address (IRC Join, Part, Whois, ...) but I guess keeping the nicknames in place would be acceptable for everybody"   but now they're back in the link you just posted, did you change your mind or was that an oversight? So in .13 1 confirm is good enough to pay someone with, but it takes 6 to display "confirmed" in the GUI.   This is inconsistant.  This coin is good enough to pay you with but not good enough for me to accept?  I don't know the logic behind the 6, but whatever it is, if its only used to decide which word to display, then is it really  representing anything at all? Since anyone can join the channel anyway, it's not so much the log that bothers me but the fact that its indexed by search engines.. someone who may not know about someone's presence there could find out, learning something they didn't know.you can stop all the important search engines with Disallow:  /path/to/logs   in your /robots.txtalso hiding the IP addresses was really nice, thanks Some people might want to add the pcoin->GetDepthInMainChain() < 1 in GetBalance() too. it seems this could take down the whole network depending on the logic behind combining lots.. as in if the micropayment without fee is combined with a normal transaction and has change, both the send and the change would never confirm either.  so now you have 2 lots that will never confirm.  repeat.and it does seem the client lets you spend unconfirmed coin. Nothing I send gets confirmed now.  Here's how I did it:I was sending out payments under .01 in size and not paying a transaction fee, which of course were never confirmed.Here's a guess as to why it broke my wallet:Because the change leftover was also then never confirmed, yet my client treats it as if it was so includes those amounts in the amounts it sends out.I've only lost 100btc, so I'm not real worried, but if you know how to fix it without too much trouble, that'd be nice. i clicked a link from the bot to 'tell us what you think about [the loggging]'  i was expecting a poll, but i dont see one, so:i'm very, very, much against it, and am totally amazed anyone would be logging such a thing to the web for countless obvious reasons i'm not going to state for the same reasons Yeah, I'm trying to increase awareness.. the poll is to show the powers that be how low the current awareness level is so it's made more clear to the user in some way.. mainly so this doesn't get really bad PR at some later point down the line when any influential start losing their wallet.   (Like how XFS got bad PR for losing data merely because its default age time was higher than ext3)And thanks for that explanation. The correct answer is "everything ever".This is very counterintuitive and I don't really understand why, but you MUST backup after every send, or after creating new addresses, or you risk losing the ENTIRE wallet.  Also, use the bitcoind backupwallet command, or exit bitcoin first.   For that to work with the GUI, the GUI had to be run with -server.Since that always leaves a window of unbacked up wallet, a better solution is to have a savings wallet that doesnt do much sending, and send everything there.(Way at the bottom of the FAQ this is mentioned http://www.bitcoin.org/faq#How_do_I_backup_my_wallet)
