The point of the multi-algo is to decentralise the mining. Presently, profitable Bitcoin and Litecoin hardware is manufactured by a select few companies with shady histories, there is an enormous imbalance as the majority of mining enthusiasts can no longer afford to get in the game. Not only is this unfair to the rest of us, it's bad for the health of the coin. The whole point of Bitcoin was to pursue the ideals of decentralisation: let's get rid of the banks, and we can all collectively be the bank. Take away the power from the few greedy cunts and distribute it fairly to us all. Decentralisation is strength and security. Decentralisation means no one person or group can decide on tx fees, inflation, or who can pay who what. There have been multiple recent incidents of a mining pool nearing or even reaching 51% of the hash power of both BTC and LTC.Multi-algos means no pool can get close to 51%. They would need to have a total monopoly over one algo to even get 20%. Not only that, but Myriad already has a bigger ASIC market than either LTC or BTC, and is still profitable for GPUs. This very diverse market is only going to drive up the competition for hardware makers and that can only mean cheap, low barrier to entry mining for all of us. I would much prefer people all over the world in poor areas running their little $20 ASICs for $2 a week to help them put food on the table, than to see the old world banks monopolising the mining industry. 4 hours 17 minutes remain until coinpayments.net voting ends and we are only 3 votes ahead of Asiacoin. If they overtake us, we lose.Coinpayments.net is necessary to get merchants to adopt this coin. What does it say about the future of this coin if we don't win the vote? For fuck's sake any of you bludgers out there who haven't voted, VOTE! If you are invested in this coin more than a few bucks and you don't vote, you are officially an idiot for not protecting your investment. Unless you are invested in Asiacoin, in which case you are still officially an idiot.Thank you to all those who have already voted. Guys, Myriad needs to remain in 4th place or better to win the coinpayments vote which ends today. We are only 4 votes ahead of the 5th position. This is a big step forward for Myriad coin and we're so close. Vote if you haven't. Guys I have a revolutionary idea that could really bring this coin to a top 10 market cap. We should replace scrypt with X11, add POS + multipool, cut the inflation by 50%, and implement darksend. Trust me guys, this could be huge.  add blake plz 혰 free extra 16.66% scrypt mutipool resistance  Can anyone who hasn't voted please vote for us on http://coinpayments.net/vote ?We're slipping down혰 at 7th place now with only 12 votes. NewYorkCoin is ahead of us for fuck's sake with 17 votes, and Cinnicoin with 28. We need to surpass them in order to be accepted on coinpayments. So the record during this was 4 blocks found by one address, 259253 - 259256. This is not bad for a young coin with low diff. Didn't recently an address find 8 LTC blocks in a row? Nut2pools went down which might have had something to do with this. Personally I think there's two lessons from this:a) Myriad itself is fine and very resilient b) Myriad's scrypt needs p2pool users. There's only one scrypt p2pool and nobody uses it. This coin will no doubt attract bots if it succeeds but at least it won't ever have ASICs. Question:Why can't this coin support multiple games? Complex open source games never seem to take off, but having a variety of less ambitious games would be great. My computer is too slow to play this, but maybe I'd like to download an Android app and mine some coins. I'll get bored, though. Needs multiple games! Also, this would mitigate the botnet issue as it would be difficult to orchestrate your zombies to play a variety of different games, and also prevent clandestine bot developers from seizing too much of the nethash. Think of it like the Myriad coin of Proof of Play. Also, heard of Arimaa? It is a board game designed so that a toddler could learn to play but the best human players always beat the bots. There is a $10,000 prize every year for a bot that can beat the world champions in a tournament, and they never win. Myriad is mined on 5 separate algorithms. A block for each algorithm is found every 2.5min (so 1 block every 30s). Each algorithm gets a fair share of block rewards. You can even use a profitability switcher to choose the best algorithm for you to mine Myriad. The idea is that a range of different hardware is optimised for Myriad mining to keep good distribution and, someday if Myriad takes off, diversify the competition in the ASIC market to make entry cheaper and less scammy for all. It has a similar effect on pools as one pool could only possibly control 20% of the network if everyone mining that algo used it.I like this coin and I am invested in it, but the market doesn't seem to be paying attention. The price has barely budged in 2 months out of its 3 month life. So I'd just like to know: Why? Anti-Myriad people, if you're out there, what are your reasons? Vote to get us on coinpayments.net. It's really important to have merchant services if you want somewhere to spend your coins when they go up in value. It costs 0.001BTC or DOGe/LTC to vote, which goes to charity. the results so far. Bear in mind that cheating coins may be disqualified and usually the top few are added. On that note, only 1 vote per person. We have a good chance to win.  I've been reading up on cryptocoin SMS services for a while and very excited about the prospect. The Myriad community works with a lot of outside projects. In fact Bryce Weiner is working on a project to establish a coloured coins subset of Myriad called 'Liberdade' in Brazil and educate a group of 100 Brazilians on how to mine Myriad to get the ball rolling. In short, I think TXTCoinNow would work great hand in hand with this project, so you should adopt MYRIAD!!And to those reading who don't understand the importance of Bitcoin SMS services, look up something called M-Pesa. Fooled! By the fake David Seaman. Curse you fake David Seaman, you magnificent bastard. I don't really think Myriad needs NFactor scrypt. I don't think GPU mining is an ideal situation and while you're right that low market cap is the only thing holding Myriad back from being 100% ASIC mined, I don't see it as a problem. Imagine ASICs for these algorithms coming out slowly one by one. Unlike Bitcoin and Litecoin ASICs which are totally separate markets, in Myriad they're all competing. A slow transition from a world of mainly GPU mining for Myriad (today), to a world of mainly cheap ASICs from all different makers혰 not just Nvidia and ATI혰 and hopefully by then the unscrupulous ASIC makers of today will be long gone thanks to the free market and the power of choice. Vnezapno: My understanding is that each algo has a target of 2.5 minutes, and they're all out of sync by about 30 seconds. So their difficulties are irrelevant. If one algo gets a spike in hash rate the block will be found faster than 2.5 minutes and I guess it's theoretically possible it will be ahead of the algo scheduled to find the next block? But no, the coin with the lowest difficulty has no chance to find all of the blocks. It will always average out to close to 20% of the blocks per algorithm. Guys, I have been beta testing Mr Burdell's Myriad electrum wallet for a few days now and it works perfect! It's fantastic. But I am a Linux armv7 user, and Mr Burdell is a Mac user... These are not exactly priority platforms for testing! So please, if you think Electrum will be useful, and believe me it's pretty nifty once you try it, help Mr Burdell test it. Especially if you're a Windows user!https://github.com/wozz/electrum-myr I like Auroracoin, but I don't care to see it on any exchanges or services until the airdrop. The dev himself made it clear he wasn't interested in that either. Like the others said I would be happy to see Vertcoin added. Premined shitclone by a renowned pump and dumper. Then again, people are idiots. This might take off. Ah, thanks, I was wondering about that. And yes, it does seem like a possible scam, but you never know. Either way it's publicity. so how many blocks per day will one 333MH/s block erupter find? I would pay the datacoins it costs to upload the block explorer. It would get us publicity, so it's worth it.
