That's great to hear about the ATM!  There is a bitcoin meetup today at 2 at Panera Bread.  I'll be sure to pass on the word, but I missed the location.Where is the ATM? I think it would be helpful data for trading in and out of various crypto currencies.  I would like to know if bitcoin is gaining in overall market cap or declining.  The graph might help answer the question "Do alt coins indirectly devalue bitcoin?" I'm also interested in seeing the percentage of bitcoin market cap to the overall crypto market cap.  Right now it is about 92.4%.  ($7625496705 / $8248110917)As was already pointed out, it would be nice to be able to see the change for various coins and to be able to select which coins were included in the calculation.  I'm surprised this doesn't already exist. I'm having the same trouble on my wallet.  I've owned over 300 ppcoins since April and I haven't been able to generate any stake yet.  I'm running on Linux and I've made sure to unlock the wallet so that at least my client does't complain that the wallet is locked. Yes, we have a meeting every first Saturday of the month and an in person exchange every Thursday evening.  I hope to see you there!http://www.meetup.com/Triangle-Bitcoin-Meetup/ You'd also want to look for someone interested in austrian economics and cryptography.  I'm not sure if that fits Shinichi's profile.I'd rather that no one finds Satoshi because he clearly went through a lot of trouble to be anonymous and probably doesn't want the attention. I wish I could help you out.  I don't know of any established local businesses that are accepting bitcoins.  I will buy and sell bitcoins and a few others will in the triangle, but that is about the extent of bitcoin trading that I know of.I'm going to go shopping later today at a mom and pop shop, and I'll ask them if they'll accept bitcoins.   Hello,I would like to announce the a new bitcoin meetup in the Raleigh, Durham and Chapel Hill area.  http://www.meetup.com/Triangle-Bitcoin-Meetup/Right now there are three of us who will be meeting every first Saturday of the month at Panera Bread in Breir Creek.  I know there are many more bitcoiners here in the Triangle and it will be nice to be able to meet some of them in person.  If you live in the Triangle area, please think about showing up to one of our meetups.Thanks! rJXg39VN74G3WYpKzYY88vmr2rYTFxwbPx Yep, down for me too.  I'm in North Carolina. I believe this is a typo and you should use "tar -xzvf icd-registration.tgz -C /"  or something like that.  The flags for unzipping the tgz are missing form the command. It recognized my 2 6990 cards and all 4 GPUs.  I didn't have to change anything except for untaring the license file.  I'm still trying to get persistence to work, and then I would ditch all of my hard disks that I had been using. I must be doing something wrong then.  I booted with the persistence option.  I then open up xterm, installed vim and created a file.  I rebooted with "shutdown -r now", I booted back up with the persistence option but the changes I made were not there.Any tips? I'm trying the OS now.  Is there a way to keep files around after reboot?  Every time I restart I lose all the changes I had made. I don't know, but I'm running my 6990 cards on 2.4.  I think 2.3 works too. No problem.  When you get it uploaded I'll test it out and give you my feedback. I could not download the link.  Where do I get the ISO?  BTW, I think this project is brilliant.  I'll definitely be donating you some BTC if I get it to work on my machines. Sent! SentSent! The Dropbox link that I posted is legit, although somewhat outdated now.  I compiled it on Windows 7 with the code here: https://github.com/dmp1ce/namecoin/tree/win32  Let me know if it doesn't work for you.http://dl.dropbox.com/u/2882613/Namecoin/namecoind.exe
Sent! @khal The nameserver works great for me!  Thank you!  Where can I send the Namecoin donation to?BTW, I updated my router to use your nameserver.  It is also resolving OpenNIC domains right?  Here is how I configured my DD-WRT router: http://www.dd-wrt.com/wiki/index.php/OpenDNS I don't have a problem with the self signing so much, but it would be nice if I could upload a Bitcoin CA certificate to my browser or use a signed Bitcoin gpg key for monkeysphere.  Does anyone know if these exist? I can see why many would suggest getting a root CA to issue your websites certification because to the average user it looks much more legitimate and secure.  However, there are major problems with the CA system and that is why I think people create their own certificates.  I am still learning about these issues but I found this podcast to be very helpful: http://agoristradio.com/?p=255That being said, does anyone know if there is a Bitcoin CA Certificate floating around out there?  Or is there a signed gpg certificate that I could use with monkeysphere? Haha, I didn't get them all!  Don't worry though, I'll be trading them once the names are transferable. I setup a page which dumps the names here: http://webpagedeveloper.me/name_scan.phpBTW, I'll also trade 50 nc for 1 btc. When namecoind has been restarted you might need to also enter the long string that is returned from name_new.  For example:Code:./namecoind name_firstupdate d/mydom xxxshort xxxxxxxxxxxxxlong "test value"Try the suggestion above of using the long random string as well as the short.  You will need around 45 Namecoins to do the name_firstupdate however. I'll also be selling 50 namecoins for 1 bitcoin.  PM me please. It may not work so well though... Some have been complaining of getting an error: Code:program can't start because libgcc_s_dw2-1.dll is missing from your computerYou're welcome to try this binary (http://dl.dropbox.com/u/2882613/Namecoin/namecoind.exe) if you get the error but I have not tested it. I would be.  I would also be interested in a site to sell and/or lease names via Bitcoin payments.  Although, names cannot be exchanged at this time. Yeah, right now you need to make from the makefile, NOT makefile.unix.  That got me at first too.  Good Luck! Great work Vinced, I will try to keep the Window and Linux binaries up-to-date if needed.  I am not much of a C coder unfortunately so I don't think I will be able to help much with that part. Here is a Windows binary that works as far as I can tell.  I make no guarantees!  http://dl.dropbox.com/u/2882613/Namecoin/namecoin-win32-4-24-2011.zipThe source is included there and I'll upload my source to github here: https://github.com/dmp1ce/namecoin  I made very minor changes just to get things compiling.To run it I ran namecoind.exe in a cmd.exe terminal and then opened another cmd.exe terminal to run namecoind.exe commands like getinfo.  No GUI yet.Happy rabbit egg day! Post your Namecoin addresses.  I'll send each of you 50 Namecoins for a Bitcoin.  @BlueMatt Thank you very much for the instructions, I'm following them to build Namecoin.  Just a note, I'm building on Windows 7 64bit and I had to add the "address-module=32" parameters to the boost build in order for it to compile without error.Code:\bjam\bjam.exe toolset=gcc address-model=32 --build-type=complete stage My only thought was that the amount of money in the system can be a limiting factor on the number of domains possible.  I have not done the math to see if this could be the case.  Or if it is always the case that domains are limited by the block size.I guess it is not a big deal because plenty of coins will be generated within the next 8 to 12 years, but I'm wondering what I'll happen later if there are no more extra coins to afford to buy new domains?  Again I suppose the rate could be changed to constant if this becomes a problem, so it isn't a big problem.It likely makes NC rarer than BTC however since NC is getting clobbered by the name_firstupdate commands.  It may end up that NC is more valuable than BTC or even the domain names themselves.  I just hadn't thought that the system would intend to make the Namecoin currency valuable in the same way Bitcoin does, but I think it could work. I'm looking into the exchanges, but I'm not making any promises just yet.  I agree Namecoin is just an experiment, but it sure is a fun one!!  BTW, it wasn't too long ago that Bitcoin was labeled as "experimental". I have run out of ideas for Namecoin names, I'm uncreative I know, but I have 500 Namecoins still remaining in my account.  If anyone is interested in buying the coins from me, let me know!Namecoin thread: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=6017.0Here is a current list of claimed names: http://webpagedeveloper.me/name_scan.php I feel like a n00b almost all the time, no matter how hard I try to not be one. Namcoins show up 120 blocks after the block is found.  As far as I know, they cannot be spent before then.  If you try to run "name_new" or "name_firstupdate" without enough Namecoins (as shown in "getinfo") then you'll get an error. Maybe we can get you "tester.bit"  
1 Mhash would take you 25 days, 10 hours, 50 minutes on average to find a block at a difficulty of 512.  You can use the Bitcoin calculator here: http://www.alloscomp.com/bitcoin/calculator.phpYes, people are GPU mining.  I am putting 1 GHash towards the block chain. So far for me I have just had to wait 12 blocks and all of my names have come online.  Trying to do a name_firstupdate on an existing name and lossing the NC must just be a bug.  I recommend not doing that!   That would also be good reason to wait 12 blocks to make sure someone doesn't beat you to the name. You won't get the name until at least 12 blocks after the block name_new went through on.  You should get it if you didn't get an error.  I have gotten all of mine.What does "namecoind -rescan" do?   I haven't tried it. Yep, I had the exact same thing happen to me when I tried to register d/q.  I lost 50 NC and got the same error. I'm not sure what happened, but surely there are some bugs to work out in the system.  It looks like what happened is you had a collision with d/q.  I show that someone else has that name as well.  BTW, you can do a complete scan of all claimed names using name_scan.About not having to pay 50 for the second name, possibly the system detected that it took your NC by mistake when you tried to get d/q ?If you are generating blocks then you will get some "transaction fees" from people running name_new and name_update.  I believe the "transaction fees" are one NC cent or 0.01 NC and the "network fees" are 50 NC right now and only occur during name_firstupdate commands.I'll try to test registering the d/q when I get some more NC.  I spent it all already.  So, if we wanted .bit and .web for instance we would run two block chain networks, one for .bit and one for .web?  I can see how that might fit the established architecture better, but why not use the additional namespace in Namecoin to define additional TLDs?  The name server software could simply ignore names that specified a TLD that were invalid.I am probably showing my ignorance here, but why couldn't Namecoin be the index for TLDs that currently aren't used?  I think it would be interesting if there was a TLD block chain, and then owners could have entire TLDs to sell if they wanted to.  Maybe the owner could run a block chain of their own to sell their TLD space, or they could sell in a more central manor.  Then you could get urls like "web"  Or "web.help", or simply "bitcoin".Is this a possibility or am I crazy? +1  !I second this idea.  Much less of an incentive to game the system then. Thank you for writing the software and explaining how it works.  I'd be happy to reserve d/v for you.I had some questions about the faq though, it says:Does that mean I can spend all of my NC on domains and not have to worry about leaving leftovers for updates?  I thought that updates cost 50 NC but decreased over time.About the design questions, I have not a clue.  I think 3 months is reasonable, especially if it auto renews.  Why do we have to decide on the TLD?  Is it possible that Namecoin names could specify the TLD to use as well? That sounds terrific! I think you have a better grasp on the solution than I do.   Tell me if this sounds right:The domain name resolver needs to either have the Namecoin database to query directly or know where to find a Namecoin root-level DNS (which don't currently exist) for information on where to find the full zone file.  Either way, there will need to be code on the client side to tell the domain name resolver how to find .bit domain information. I could be wrong, but I think the names in Namecoin will be used to reference another nameserver where you will keep your zone files.  Here is a short snipet from the domain name registrar article on wikipedia: Names won't be able to be created until blocks mature into 50 Namecoins.  I believe it takes 120 blocks after the block is found for it to mature.  At least that is the way it is in Bitcoin.  After 121 or maybe 133, you should start seeing names from name_scan. Ubuntu 32 binary - http://dl.dropbox.com/u/2882613/namecoin.tar.gzUbuntu 64 binary - http://dl.dropbox.com/u/2882613/namecoin-64.tar.gzI'll reserve Witcoin for you for 5btc.  Once you get namecoin setup you should be able to name_scan and see that I have the name reserved.  Although, I think I have to wait another 80 blocks in order to create my first name.  Namecoin is currently on block 40 and I have to wait until block 120 for the coins to mature. A GUI is on the development roadmap and I'm sure binaries will come available shortly.  What OS are you trying to run Namecoin on?  I have binaries for Ubuntu, 32 and 64 bit. BTW, Namecoin's build process is almost identical to Bitcoin so it shouldn't be too difficult.  Or at least, there is a lot of information on how to compile Bitcoin. Is there a way to transfer a name to another account besides letting it expire? I hooked up one of my mining machines this morning and I have 6 blocks generated so far.  I'm not sure what I'm going to do with them when they mature though.  @vinced  Do you want first pick on a name?  I'll transfer you the 50 namecoins if you give me your namecoin address. I'm having the same trouble.  Is namecoin connecting to the bitcoin IRC channel because I'm getting a lot of "IRC got join" messages?   My debug.log is also returning this error:Code:ERROR: ConnectInputs() : 9d07b96a9f mapTransactions prev not found 6a2ec09d75ERROR: AcceptToMemoryPool() : ConnectInputs failed 9d07b96a9fBTW, I changed the location of the data directory namecoin uses because I ran it once on a computer that had already run bitcoin and it seemed to corrupt the database.  I couldn't start bitcoin again until I removed the database files and allowed them to rebuild.https://github.com/dmp1ce/namecoin/commit/267092456f58e4ecbd7fddf95e13e0042152f341 I can understand it is against their guideline but the guideline is stupid.  Most apps could be written as a web apps.  Maybe you could add some code to use the gyroscope for rotating the charts and then maybe it would get past their review. lol, what do you recommend I use?  I would like to keep the iPhone around for the games, but I would definitely use another primary phone. You could still release the app on an iPhone jailbreak repo?  I have purchased several apps from the Cydia store.
