I meant how would the attack be done... How exactly would this be done? Where are these transactions coming from? Could this "bloating" attack be detected and these blocks rejected?It would be better to prevent this some other way and remove the limit entirely. Well the bitcoin economy is growing and there are more merchants, goods to buy, services, etc. Maybe hoarders are actually starting to spend their bitcoins.This is bringing coins, previous out of circulation, back into circulation. Effectively the market is being flooded with extra coins.Just a theory. https://gist.github.com/gavinandresen/5044482 Interesting... This wasn't the case last time I checked. I'll have to do some more research. Thanks :-) Thanks.So users will may able to vote for fee changes in the future. At least that's some answer. Now the question is about the incentives of the voters and the economic viability of such a solution.I don't see how this isn't a major issue. The fixed fee puts a cap on the price. If NXT is worth $10, that means each transactions costs $10! Clearly NXT will never reach $10 per coin. In fact, it's probably never going to go much higher than it is now, unless the fee is lowered (somehow). So it hit $0.10. How's that fixed fee working out for you?I don't see how it's going to the moon when the fees are prohibitively high. Yeah, yeah, I know "they can change the fee". Right, so how's that supposed to work? The devs just lower the fee whenever they feel like it? Is there some consensus, some protocol?I've never go a straight answer to this. Anyone? It's... difficult. That's the whole point of government. It's not an accident.Bitcoin will be their undoing. Yeah, there will always be some people who will want to use a currency with high fees, limits, charge-backs, suspensions, confiscation and delays; which loses value over time and depends on trusting third parties. Obviously, these people will not use bitcoin   you can't prove atheism doesn't exist. I appreciate all the things that NXT "potentially" solves and I think PoS is very interesting, but if the fee stays at 1NTX it will be completely useless. The market cap will never rise above $100 million.It's fine to say it will have a voting system to determine fees, but the implementation details are kind of critical. How will it actually work? What are the economic/incentive implications? Will it be sustainable? will it lead to centralisation? It's all to vague. It reminds me of the RBE guys saying "well just get a computer to allocate resources", without ever mentioning how this magic algorithm will work. Do you happen to have a link for the voting system?I find it curious that BOTH the major implementations of PoS insist on a fixed fee. Am I missing something about PoS where it necessitates a fixed fee? Why can't we have PoS with voluntary fee like bitcoin? Ideas anyone?... and about this "backbone currency" wft does that even mean? Why would it even be necessary? What is a "backbone currency" that bitcoin isn't? The only solution in that thread that made any sense was the one about leaving the fee at 1 and using NXT as a "backbone" currency. I'm not sure how feasible this is.No one comes to a sensible conclusion about how the fee will actually be adjusted. Labor theory of value?The amount of energy used is determined by the price and block reward. Thanks for the clear answer :-) If the market is free, they have no power. They like power. Nxt looks cool and all, but I just don't get how it's going to work with the fixed transaction fee. If the value of Nxt rises to, say $1, That means the minimum fee for a transaction is $1! This implies a market cap of only 1 billion. How can Nxt be competitive vs other coins with such a high fee?Otherwise, the PoS system looks really interesting. Can't we have PoS without fixed fess, or are fixed fees somehow fundamental to the PoS implementation (P2PCoin has the same issue)? I don't know, I guess entrepreneurs will solve these problems. Are you suggesting that institutionalised violence is the only way? We can't help the poor without theft? So if someone tries to create an account for which the first 64bits collide with an existing account then this account will be rejected? People can pay the service provider/producer. Same way you pay for food, clothing, housing, etc. It's called trade.
Wages may go down, but purchasing power increase. Business profits may be reduced in nominal terms, but actually be growing. This "groups" idea is essentially the same thing as the merkle tree, if you make the group size 2. With smaller group size, you have to resend less transaction hashes in the case of collision. Also, the birthday paradox is less of an issue; you could use smaller prefixes.Also, consider that we can compress the merkle nodes. Collisions in the nodes can be checked with the parent nodes all the way up the tree, but it becomes exponentially less likely that you'll need to resend a branch as you move up the tree. The advantage of this hierarchical checksum is that you can make the prefixes, of the nodes and the transaction hashes, much smaller.I think that re-requesting any transactions is too costly, so we should work out the prefix size so that there are "probably" no collisions, but only just. Someone needs to do the math. The stuff about the market; all true.  Ummm... yeah, I just realised that this1 - e^(-(1/600) * X)is not a linear function. This was the source of my misplaced concern. If we reduce a transaction down to the size of it's hash, this cost becomes extremely small.Thanks for the feedback. I thought of this also. How do you deal with collisions, though? What if the receiver of a hash list knows a transaction whose prefix collides with one in the list, but isn't in the list itself?Would you be including the prefixes of the merkle tree nodes too? These would serve as a checksum, so the receiver would at least know which transaction has the colliding prefix. In fact, with the tree nodes included, you could be much less conservative with the prefix length, sending 2 or event 1 byte(s).Perhaps that makes no sense. I'm pretty noobish with the protocol specifics.I'm very interested in reducing block propagation times because I believe slow times will eventually drive transaction costs to uncompetitive levels. This is due to the inherent cost of "orphan risk" which comes from including transactions. see here https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=334284.msg3669703#msg3669703. Dogecoin is actually pretty funny :-) ... and then the price of bitcoin went up x10.Rises in the value of bitcoin are going to outstrip any of the measures mentioned to reduce the cost of block propagation. OR the price of bitcoin simply wont rise because fees are too high.Tragedy of the commons.The block reward is WAY too high and the reduction rate is way to slow. I still think this is a serious problem. Thanks for the reply.According to the above analysis, the fees are already about 1/30th of what they should be for miners to break even. The skeleton block solution gets us to 1/3. That's just at the current price.Don't you think this is a big problem? I assume that, at some point, economic reality will kick in and miners will start to demand much higher fees. Suddenly bitcoin isn't so great compared to alternatives. Is anything being done about this?Since transaction fees are proportional to the BTC price, this amounts to a cap on bitcoin adoption; less people will use bitcoin as the tx fee becomes uncompetitive. We are already PAST this point, imo. I feel that there is some urgency to fix this problem now.The obvious solution is to reduce the orphan cost. To do this solved-block propogation time needs to be lowered. I don't really understand it, but could CoinWitness be the key solution? https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=277389.0;allI don't know of anything in the development pipeline that addresses this issue. Run on the platform of abolishing the Federal Government and you got my vote. True, eventually 2500 francs will have so little purchasing power that people will start working again. Unless they peg the handout to CPI. Yeah, keep believing that buddy. Organised crime will save us from ourselves! The state funds, academic positions, research and organisations.Girls get paid the same when you control for same role and same level of productivity. Broad aggregates don't tell the whole story. True, but if you believe that then I needn't make a case. What if it's not, though? Shame to miss this opportunity. Both these movements are artificially driven by the state. Basically an excuse for socialism; increased state power. Why is it assumed that the universe was created at all? "It's here, therefore someone created it!". Well, why?Causality is only meaningful within the universe. Check out Marc Stevens. He's all about this shit. It's terrorism! Government is, by definition, not voluntary. So really Voluntaryist society necessitates the absence of a central government.
The finer points of what will be tolerated will be determined by the market. Supply and demand for protection.There are no absolute rules, as with the state, but an ever changing marketplace of social custom based on aggregates of peoples values."Should" spitting on someones lawn be punishable? Depends how much people hate people spitting on their law and what their willing to pay to stop it. It also depends on how much people like spitting on peoples lawns and how much their willing to pay for that privilege. The market will clear and an appropriate level of enforcement will emerge.This may scare you, but what should scare you is the arbitrary and indiscriminate club of state law.So, in short, we don't know what the rules the market will eventually settle on. We just know they will be sane and based on societies values. Really, it's a society of people who don't believe in the state, or who universalise the non-aggression principal. The absence of a centralised coercive monopoly follows from that.Of course it would work. :-) ...and a great deal less theft, though inflation, to fund wars. uh... don't tell Adria Richards. The problem with a fixed money supply is that if the economy grows too fast, it won't grow very fast. Because interest rates. Trololololo Have you considered the consequences of draining an extra trillion $ out of the economy?Have you considered that the government largely causes poverty, is terrible at educating children and is the most environmentally destructive force on the planet? Just curious. What exactly is this supposed to achieve? Yep. I share this perspective. I think the set of people, computers and communication networks on this planet represent a sentient being, which is evolving, learning, growing. http://www.thedailysheeple.com/imprisoned-activist-adam-kokesh-calls-on-american-revolutionary-army-to-march-on-all-50-state-capitals_052013 http://www.examiner.com/article/libertarians-protest-arrest-and-disappearance-of-activist-adam-kokesh http://archive.org/about/faqs.php#311 Every time I see this, it's never followed up with an argument. Hmm... I hadn't read this.So if I trade bitcoins for dollars, I'm a "money transmitter", but if I trade bitcoins for goods and services, I'm not.So I have 1BTC and you have a dollar and we want to trade, why can't I just sell you my phone for $100 and then you buy a phone off me for 1BTC? We have just effectively traded currency, without being money transmitters. Absurd!? How much resources are banks using for their payment network/branches/staff/buildings/computers? Bitcoin will replace this. When the block reward goes to zero, the cost of the network will be the sum of all fees paid. So if people pay 0.01cent fees on transactions, that's the cost of all energy that will be used. Do you have $1000? I'm saying that we shouldn't conflate days and years at all. If you want to measure seasons, divide the year into 4 quarters. Why do we need March and August?We can have a "days" calendar: no. days since Jan 01 0000.A "years" calendar: no. years since Jan 01 0000.A "months" calendar: no of moon-rotations since Jan 01 0000.Weeks don't line up with years and society still functions. oh man do I hate this concept! it really makes various computer systems way more complicated than they need to be. As a software engineer, it offends me.If you want to experience more daylight, GET UP EARLIER (or later)! Don't shift the metric, that's fucking ridiculous!It's like measuring your living room for a new couch and realising it doesn't fit by an inch. So what you do is just start measuring an inch past the wall, yay fits now!also: leap years. The rotation of the earth on it's axis does NOT line up with the rotation around the sun! Stop pretending that it does. Days are days and years are years. Miners will ultimately have to deal with the resources consumed by tx spam. All they have to do is raise the fee for spamy transactions, if they are making a loss on them.
It's the "backing" that he doesn't trust, not bitcoin. All I can say is, great idea, try to get a fixed interest rate. The USD is going to tank some time in the next few years and your liability will evaporate. Basically, the argument is that if prices in BTC rise too fast, people will stop using them because they'll be worth more. They fail to consider that the fact that prices are rising is because more people are using them. The very idea of a deflationary spiral is self contradicting. An over regulated fractional reserve currency is a bit different, but that's another story.... and yes, slashdot is full of liberal retards who think they understand things. The worst kind. Yeah, looks like I missed the identifier. Thanks.Has anyone considered using deterministic wallets for these types of services? Your identifier could literally be your base64 encoded seed. The service would just keep track of your addresses and relay transactions. All I have to log in with is a password, which I specified at account creation time. I didn't create an alias as it was "optional". I can't log in with just this password.I don't have any funds in there, I'm just testing out the service. Just letting you guys know because the service seems broken.Also, does the software use deterministic wallets? Yeah, so you own your property and can trade if freely. That's voluntary trade.What is this "initial distribution" argument? Implying you're going to bootstrap some economy with everyone having the same wealth? What if someone is more productive that others and after the initial distribution he has accumulated more wealth? is this unfair? should force be used to expropriate his wealth and give it to the less productive? is that fair?Wow! quote me out of context, much?At the point of a gun? I see... Much better than voluntary trade.Typically inefficient and unproductive jobs are, yes. These policies divert economic activity into highly destructive bubbles. This is a consequence of the state, not capitalism.Machines don't get paid. The people operating them do. And those people are vastly more productive. Think of a man using and excavator. He is much more productive that a man using a shovel. According to you philosophy, we should stop using excavators and go back to shovels because it will save jobs.I feel so safe now because the violent socialist state which enslaves me has a safety rule. Capitalism is just voluntary trade. This is not "unfair". Theft and violence is unfair.Who cares about income inequality when everyone, even the poorest, are getting richer over time. If you can find a system of social organisation with results in income equality AND sustainable economic growth, I'd like to hear about it. Consider that somehow mandating equal wealth, probably enforced with violence, removes incentives to produce. Collectivising societies wealth this way results in a Tragedy Of The Commons scenario: Why work harder and be more productive when you all get equal wealth anyway. In fact, why work at all? Machines have be destroying jobs for centuries, yet we don't have %99 unemployment. So, what's your point here? Recognise that removing inefficient labor frees up capital for new industries and lowers prices for consumers. These consumers will then spend their extra funds on whatever new industry comes into existence. Automation create jobs too; more productive jobs, increasing the value of the worker, resulting in higher real income.Don't equate democratic government (or any form of institutionalised violence for that matter) with capitalism. They are distinct concepts. Democracy is mob rule through violence, capitalism is voluntary exchange.Capitalism doesn't need regulators. The market regulates itself thought the price system and competition to optimally allocate resources. Hence the rapid economic growth. The limit is completely pointless. It was put there to stop transaction spam, but this can easily be prevented by simply requiring a fee.Why is "remove it entirely" not an option?Ultimately, it's up to the miners, so the debate is moot. If they don't remove it, then Bitcoin was never going to work anyway. Vice versa. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QDK-hLOqZZkHe gives his stance on bitcoin @ 38:40Good stuff on fractional reserve banking too. All round interesting interview. The only think holding back anarchy is the belief in the state. Try telling your average person that we should eliminate the state and they will probably recoil in horror. This is what has to change, it's a battle of ideas. yeah, sounds like anarcho-capitalism. because bitcoin is awesome and everyone wants it.That's true. cool story bro! forced meme is forced dude. it's the government. don't store the wallet.dat. just export the keys into some raw format. The satoshi client can to this. "the economy will crash because it's growing too much!"Price of bitcoin goes up because of real economic growth -> no one spends bitcoins because they'll be worth more. -> economy contracts because there is no commerce so price goes down. -> people spend their bitcoins because they'll be worth less -> [back to start]This illustrates a control system with a negative feedback loop. This is inherently stable (control systems theory).Deflationary spiral argument is complete bullshit invented to justify printing money to serve political ends. Deal with it. It's been many years. Stefan has done allot to promote the philosophy of the non-aggression principal and the move to a stateless society. He's also working on a documentary!Show him some bitcoin love:http://www.freedomainradio.com/Donate.aspx It's a failed science experiment. "kill me... killll meeee!" So no one ever traded 1 cow for 30 chickens and then traded 1 of those chickens for a horse shoe? Chickens are money in this scenario.If he's only talking about precious metals, then okay.
The people in charge are sociopaths. They don't give a shit about people, the country, the economy, human society. they only care about increasing their own power and wealth. They can only do this using state apparatus, which has the socially sanctioned right to use violence.Understand this primary motive and it's easier make sense of the insanity that comes from the government. There is no separate entity "I" that can take any action. Action will happen, but the idea that there is a separate "me" doing it is just a thought. Wrong question.All there is is the fundamental reality, "god" if you want. Consciousness is probably a better word. The world is a manifestation in consciousness, which is aware of all things.You are not "you" or the body or the mind. You are consciousness, which is aware of the body/mind/experience.The confusion comes from the ego. What this means is that the mind of your average human has this idea inside it that "I am this body" (or something similar) and simultaneously holds the idea that this is a true thought. As a consequence, this neural network/learning machine that is the human brain, behaves AS IF IT IS A BODY. This is all a deterministic process. Obviously a brain will behave according to what it believes.The result is a phenomenon where every action that the body takes and every thought that it has is associated with the belief that "I" am the doer of this deed or "I" am the thinker of this thought. This then reinforces the belief that "I am this body". This is the ego. It is an illusion.Consciousness is simply aware of this illusion; it is aware of the experience of believing you are a body. In an enlightened being, it is aware of it's true self as the fundamental reality.There is no reincarnation. Each human is really just a manifestation of the same fundamental reality. A vessel thought which god experiences itself. You're welcome! :-) So they don't have any gold then. What other explanation is there for these shenanigans?Also, is this a sign of global conflict to come? Is Germany just distrustful of the USA with it's gold or are they just making sure they have it at home when war erupts?Also, if it becomes clear that the USA has no gold, how will this influence markets? Could it trigger the collapse of the dollar? so cashiers are "working beyond what they are able", but the company is "overstaffed"? This makes no sense...The point is, the company will make the most economically rational decision they can. If that means they must fire workers, then that's what they should do. If they're making bad business decisions, then they deserve to go bust and let some more productive entrepreneurs buy up their capital. Otherwise they're just wasting resources.Are you going to pay someone to mow your lawn, even if it was just mowed, because they need the work? Yeah, the lawn mowing guy gets the cash he needs, but he's productivity is wasted by your subsidy and you lose that cash. Meanwhile, he should be facing reality and finding better work and you could be paying some other guy to paint your fence, which you actually need to have done. You would just be enabling a poor career path and denying the valid career of the painter. This is a poor allocation of resources and the company scenario is fundamentally no different.The lawn mower will have to learn new skills and that's exactly what he should do. He needs to learn how to produce something that people actually want. That's how the market works.It's simple. If it's a loss for the company, then it's a loss for the economy. This is just robbing savers.You should only be able to consume what you produce. Using force to impose any other distribution system will be less optimal. If an individual is so unproductive that they cannot sustain themselves, they must rely on the voluntary charity of their peers. I think the search volume for "bitcoin" might represent the first derivative of the price.  There is no such thing as "intrinsic" value. Value is subjective, no debate.Bitcoin is valued as a medium of exchange. You can't make zero fee online transactions that aren't tied to your real-life identity with any other exchange medium. This has value!I think the regression theorem doesn't account for the fact that the "initial demand" of a currency can indeed be as a currency. People need to trade and trade is more efficient with a medium of exchange. The market values currency itself as currency. The retrenched workers will find work in other areas of the economy where they will actually be paid to do productive work.Keeping the unproductive people employed is just a lose-lose proposition. The company suffers and produces less goods/services and the potential productivity of the worker is wasted. You say this is greedy and you might be right, but society is much better off for this. The alternative is that everyone suffers; prices go up for everyone.If the recovery is "uneven", it's because the government is intervening in the allocation of capital, such as enforcing the very policy suggested (interfering with the terms of employment). Jobs can't go where they're needed and the economy doesn't seem to recover... huh! Is that some kind of troll? This is an economically destructive attitude. Why pay people to do redundant work when those resources could be spent better elsewhere? Sorry. I didn't read the whole thread. https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=132065.0relevant thread. Close. Anarchy implies without hierarchy (hence the "archy" part). Horizontal structure, not vertical.I didn't read the whole thread, but what you're doing sounds like voluntarism combined with agorism. I approve :-) and think this is exactly the way to transition to a free society: bottom up. Just watched it. Pretty conclusive.Good material to forward to your liberal/gun-control-advocating friends. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Economic_calculation_problemHow will resources be allocated efficiently in a gift culture? Great post!I especially like the "What you see in observable reality" bit. (a) and (b) go hand in hand. This is why we have the mainstream news, to continuously convince (b) that they need (a). I boycotted mainstream news and television years ago. Try looking at the other side of the coin. What are the consequences of NOT robbing people of half their labor to give handouts?- A man can actually support his family without his wife working, leading to better raised children, less strain on the relationship hence fewer single moms needing welfare.- More disposable income/time for voluntary charity. - Stop the culture of dependency that the welfare system creates. These people will actually work and produce extra wealth for society instead of pumping out more welfare babies.- More wealth produced due to NOT reallocating resources from the productive to the unproductive. This will result in lower cost of living.Of course, most of the problems that the welfare system "solves" are problems which are also created by state violence: crime, gap between rich and poor, high cost of medical care/education, etc.You are treating the symptoms of institutionalised violence with institutionalised violence. Hell yes! I'm living in AU and have made the same point.
So the economic growth of the planet is 0? internet == braingovernment == cancer A market, by definition, requires that property rights are respected. Any entity that initiates force is not a part of the market, but a distorter of it. The use of force is the distortion, fundamentally. Please, share your wisdom. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XKWOUu1BA3UTaoists figured it out ages ago. Wu Wei; action without action. Keep in mind that in this environment, a trusted identity has lots of value as an unknown identity is treated with skepticism. If you want to trade of do business, you need at least one identity that has some sort of positive reputation. Child does something I don't like... the only solution is violence. Why do you want a gang of thugs to rob you and threaten you with violence? So you want to use violence to force other people to give to charity. How noble of you. Consider this, if we are all so greedy that we would never help the unfortunate (which there are allot more of, thanks to the state), how is it that we democratically elected a candidate that promised to steal our wealth and give it to the them.Our society isn't based on greed, it's based on violence. Greed without violence is harmless, because you can only gain wealth though voluntary trade, which is win win for both parties. What is a government without tax? What is a tax without a government? Can you really separate the two?You either have some arbitrary power deciding what good cause to spend other peoples money on, or you can have each individual deciding for themselves what good cause they wish to support with their own money. If it really is a good cause, you don't need to rob people to pay for it. The end does not justify the means. It does, and I was there for about a year. However, once you realise that all these functions can be handled by the market, you see that the state is truly ridiculous. You have created an unaccountable monopoly on defense, police and arbitration; all backed by violence. Check out some Molyneux and you'll undoubtedly change your mind. The difference is, I suppose, a fundamental understanding that the initiation of force is wrong. If you look at it from a pragmatic approach and if you look at if from a moral approach, the conclusion is the same. All the problems caused by the state derive from the violation of the NAP; the state cannot do anything without initiating force. A minimal state is still a state and the lack of respect for the NAP predictably results in chaos. These ridiculous hypotheticals prove nothing. The free market solution provides better care in general, because all the right incentives are there. You point to one contrived case as proof that it fails completely. No, not everyone will magically be saved in a free market, but on average everyone will experience much better service.I can play this game too. What if the regulators charged with the job of forcing "morality" on doctors decides you need to go kill some people on the other side of the world? What if they decide you have to go to prison for smoking a plant? What if the FDA approves a drug that causes death? You just take your business elsewhere... oh wait!Stats are easily biased and misinterpreted. The fact is that if you understand that businesses profit ONLY by being the best providers of a good or service in a competitive market place, the profit incentive naturally leads to low prices and high quality. How does the computer industry work? Are the regulators forcing manufacturers to produce faster, more efficient chips? No, manufacturers do this on their own because their customers want it.Do you have to buy computer insurance? No, because they're so damn cheap you can just buy a new one if it breaks. This is the unregulated market.Actually, this kind of overconsumption happens when the government subsidises services. Because the extra expensive lung machine is paid for by the taxpayer and you are not directly exposed to the cost, you "buy" it over the cheap model. This drives prices up in a socialised system. To combat this effect, the government restricts what lung machines are available.Charities, on the other hand, are much more discerning about how they distribute their resources.Except that before the government got involved, they didn't.What has this got to do with regulating markets? This can happen under the state system just as easily.Also, there would be certification institutions for medical practitioners, if the market demanded it. Also, this would be considered fraud and the "doctor" would be liable for damages.  The system is expensive because the government is funding it. Give people subsidised goods and services and they'll use more of it. Remove people from the real cost and you get a miss-allocation of resources. It's "free", but it's really expensive. Not to mention the general inefficiency of government beurocracy.The standard European like health system would not be necessary if we simply allowed a free market in all things health. Lots of assumptions here.Why do I have to go to the local doctor? There are obviously competitors (okay "immediate" care, but this is such a corner case).Why is healthcare expensive? we already discussed the fact that the state drives up the costs in the first place.Why can't charities/family help out? Without paying tribute to our government overlords, we will have plenty of wealth left over to help the needy.Why is the doctor a total asshole who will demand life servitude for saving someones life? Before the government stepped in with it's regulation and licences and general market distortions, doctors did pro-bono work all the time. Now it's too much of a liability. Also, legislation forces liability on doctors leading to high malpractice insurance costs. All the problems with high healthcare costs and low quality are a direct or indirect consequence of state interference. If only we had a free market, health care would not even be a topic of discussion because it would be cheap and abundant.Maximising profit is an extremely cost effective way to serve the market, because a business only profits from serving it's customers most effectively. Except when the state interferes with force. Bitcoin helped to take me from minarchist to market-anarchist. I was infected by the community and exposed to the likes of Stefan Molyneux, who really made the case for no-state. No, it will be vastly cheaper if privatised. See https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Economic_calculation_problem. Also, business are accountable, because I can take my money elsewhere if I don't like their services. The government monopolises its services. So if I pull a gun on you and demand $100 and then buy you a $50 stereo, that's okay, because it's a "tax". Also, you, and a large group of others can "vote" for me or my buddy to point the gun next time, so it's fair.Use whatever word you want, the point is that it's involuntary. Re-read my post and replace tax with involuntary appropriation of funds Is there a difference? 1) wow! so not wanting to be robbed makes you greedy? So if I pulled out a gun and demanded you pay me $1000 so I could give it to some homeless man, you would be greedy if you didn't willfully hand over the cash?2) Naive? like the belief that giving a monopoly on violence to an unaccountable institution will solve all our social problems? Clearly I need some education here.3) Name one thing the government does that isn't bad. The competitive marketplace is always more efficient than some violence funded bureaucracy. If you think taxes are a good deal, pay them, but allow me the freedom to not and forgo the "services" provided.what. the. fuck.Yes, the politicians love us and have our best interests at heart. They don't want wealth and power, they just want to help the poor. Also, everyone in society agrees on the right thing to do and will all vote in unison for the right one-size-fits-all policies. Naive much?"Theft is moral, as long as you spend it on the needy" - ends justify the means. Nice.Limited liability corporations are an artifact of the state. go figure.
Services funded by theft are never going to be efficient, because there is no accountability to the market (competition), there is no profit/loss mechanism to determine if the market is being served efficiently. Yes, the government, in theory, steals our money for services we need (and allot we don't), but do a horrible job of providing that service. If it's such a good deal, then why is it mandatory? I want free choice in what transportation infrastructure I patronise. Healthcare, roads, whatever.I'll keep my %90 taxes and take my changes with the competitive market place, if you don't mind.As for your last point, sure, the money comes out again, but first it's paid to bureaucrats to shuffle papers and hassle productive businesses, paid to others for not working, paid to keep pot smokers in cages, paid to the military to blow up sand, build roads to nowhere, etc, etc, etc. This is misdirected energy which could have been used productively and we are all poorer for it. +1The state is indeed humanities ego: Identifying with the collective. "We", "I", same thing, different scale. The state loves to promote nationalism; the idea that you are the state/nation, the glory of the state is your glory. That's why the Olympics exists. "We one 26 gold medals!". Also, consider that the price of everything you pay for is already inflated by taxes that the business pays: staff, fuel, corporate tax, etc. The government is probably eating %90 of societies production. Not to mention the stagnation of economic growth that results. IMAGINE the prosperity if this burden was lifted! How many problems that the government "solves" would be irrelevant in such a wealthy environment. It would be like The Jetsons!Someone said the corporations were too greedy...? Yep, better give a monopoly on violence to an institution called government... But doesn't the increased value of savings increase demand? If my cash savings could buy 1 TV then later buys 10 TVs, I'm more inclined to buy a TV.But for the supply of goods to be increasing, which is the premise, business must be profitable/growing, but no one will risk investing because they won't profit?So it's a positive feedback loop. Eventually the value of money will be infinity.The number of goods will reduce because the number of goods are increasing. perverse incentives created by the state result in sub optimal behavior of the market. Yep, better give a monopoly on violence to an institution called government to steal everyones money to pay for protection against scammers.What about the scammers in parliament, to whom we have given all the guns?Just because we don't have a state initiating force against peaceful citizens doesn't mean we can't have protection services and defend our property. non sequitur. Besides, is the state protecting you from these scammers now? no. Value is subjective, therefore there can be no intrinsic value. I value entropic loss, it entertains me. Why do you think a monopoly on force can instill virtue?People, for the most part, respect property of others and trade freely. In the pursuit of profit they provide others with goods and services that they need. People cooperate and trade peacefully every day for mutual benefit, do you not see this? If you have a job and buy things, you're "cooperating". All the state does is interfere with and restrict voluntary trade with violence. If humans can't cooperate, then how can a government work?It's not circular reasoning: You believe that coercion is necessary, therefore, to complement this belief you must also believe that cooperation is incompatible with human nature. He's saying the causality is backwards. You don't like force, but it's more convenient, so... So the government will provide a good or service and we can pay for it if we want it. Sounds like Voluntaryism. DMT is released in the brain. NDE is just a DMT trip. If you see a person with limited abilities who is in need, just pull out a gun and point it at the 5 nearest fully abled people and demand the cash in their pockets. Then give that money the the limited ability person and send the fully able people on their way. problem = solved. It's doesn't matter because there will be infinite resources.   Why not. We can't have trade without a violent institution getting a cut? I think we can trade perfectly fine without being robbed and controlled. Seems pretty obvious to me.The bitcoin foundation is not a government entity. They neither taxes me or regulates me under threat of violence. It is purely voluntary.Interesting. Money implies state. Could you justify that statement? The free market is, by definition, non-coercive. That's what the "free" part is about. Again, you TVP guys are blaming the problems with state coercion on the voluntary trade. Big mistake. You highlight symptoms of the state and conflate this with money. We can get rid of patents, legislation, etc and keep money. This is a massive non-sequitur.Servicing profit DOES make things better for people. If a business make a profit through voluntary trade, it is allocating resources efficiently and providing a desired service to society. It's actually an excellent way to "make things better".Prices allocate resources according to subjective values. You want people to register their values with an algorithm and have resources allocated deterministically from that data. Don't you recognise that this is exactly what is happening in the market place right now? The market and the aggregate of all voluntary trade IS the algorithm you aspire to (yet never seem to be able to disclose). You constantly highlight problems associated with involuntary trade imposed by the state and then blame these problems on voluntary trade. Decades? why would it take so long? I think that once you remove the burdens of the state (which are enormous), we will have such services provided with higher quality and lower cost quickly filling the void. They will take time to mature, but will be superior, even in their infancy.You don't seem to realise the inherent inefficiency in a violence based system, which is not accountable to the consumer. I don't accept the premise that we have an equilibrium now. I don't see how this invalidates the moral argument. Once people accept the moral argument, the transition is just a matter of implementation. I don't see what you mean by it being "dishonest"?The moral argument is extremely effective. Whatever pragmatic argument someone wants to make for violence, all you have to do is point out the violence. Most people reject violence, but don't make the connection between the state and violence."We need a social safety net for the disadvantaged". You want to point a gun at me and force me to give money to poor people? Ultimately they are forced to admit that they advocate violence or that charity should be voluntary. better?
The problem with this attitude is that it rejects the moral argument that is central to libertarianism: Using violence to get what you want is wrong. As soon as you allow for a state, you're saying "violence is wrong except when the state does it".From the Libertarian perspective, after you make this compromise, your fighting the wrong battle. You've gone from a philosophical revolution (war of ideas) to a plain old revolution (fighting the state directly, since you have condoned it's existence and rejected NAP). Sure, give me back my taxes. The only difference is that the trade is voluntary. It's a big difference. Quality of life just means the things you value have a lower price. You don't have to "hoard". You could just work less and achieve the same basic necessities. Materialism is an orthogonal issue.Imagine you can buy all the food and shelter you need and basic utilities, while working 1 day a week. Think of the Jettsons, where George had a nice place, family, robot maid and worked 2 days a week just pressing a button. This is a society with high efficiency. So optimised that pressing a button generates wealth to support a family.The problem we have now is that the vampire squid called the state is sucking the life out of the economy as fast as it can grow. Why are first world nations experiencing stagnant growth, with all our technological advancements? Because the government is constantly piling on new taxes and regulations and stealing through inflation. The state cultivates violence. It is a system entirely based on violence. You want to prevent violence by using the treat of violence to remove peoples ability to defend themselves from said violence. Well, economic growth can also be attributed to the manifestation of new resources, such as discovering a coal deposit or an increase in the population, but all else being equal growth is an increase in efficiency.What you do with the dirt matters, but this will be determined by prices in the market. A business will produce [resources out] based on whatever configuration yields the most profit, considering those prices. This process maximises the total subjective value of all resources.People who lose their jobs due to their work being made redundant will get jobs in other fields. The money saved from the new efficiencies will be freed up for other things. These newly unemployed people will have to provide these other things. Having 100 men dig a hole when 1 man + machine can do it is just a waste. There is no point being inefficient just for the sake of jobs. Remember, we want stuff, not work. The end result is that quality of life goes up for all. And of course the environment is completely destroyed due to edge effects, because the environment has 0 value ;-) Someone. [resources in] X [economic efficiency] = [resources out]economic growth is an increase in [economic efficiency]. eg, I buy an excavator and now I need 100 less people to dig dirt. My out/in ratio has increased. Technological innovation (the invention of the excavator) has created economic growth.We don't have completely free trade and never will as long as the state exists. new mafia boss. yay! Yeah, because they're abundant and cheap. This is the whole point of economic growth; producing more for less. The economy grows fastest when trade is free. (3) supplying food. Otherwise the poor will starve. Both are means of using violent coercion to impose your values on others. Bitcoin needs to be defended from votes and bullets. I think you are conflating value with price. People still value the utility of their mobile phones as they did 20 years ago, but the price has come down dramatically.I disagree with the premise. In a free market capital is abundant and cheap, due to the innovations that result from voluntary trade. FirstAscent is a tyrant. He wants to use the force of the state to implement his ideal of environmental harmony. However noble the intent, such an implementation is misguided, destructive.He might change his mind and see that violent interactions are inferior to peaceful ones. He might not. What is certain though is that we have and are wasting way too much energy in these "debates" where he constantly avoids the core principal. He only want's to preach his doctrine of violent control. He is too attached to his regulatory framework to accept reason.If you want to spread the message of AnCap, you can surely find some lower hanging fruit. I suggest you stop banging you heads against this wall of bigotry and find people more receptive to the principals of a free society. I personally, am done.I know you persist because it bothers you that one cannot see a message so clear and pure, but it's time to accept that some people just don't want to understand. We will have to drag them kicking an screaming into a society free from institutionalised violence - metaphorically, of course   How can diverting economic resources to blowing things up create economic prosperity. It's absurd on it's face, hence the Broken Window Fallacy. What good are jobs if they're just oiling the war machine; destroying wealth? We don't want jobs just for the sake of jobs, what we want is WEALTH which the jobs produce.The depression ended after the war finished and government drastically reduced spending and ended most of the New Deal programs which helped to prolong the depression. Yeah, if you think Communism works, what did Soviet Russia do wrong exactly?Fundamentally, if you take away property rights and the incentive to produce, you get poverty. That's why collectivism always fails. So what if I don't want to obey your rules and regulations? Violence!Don't bullshit yourself; you're pointing guns in peoples faces and telling them to hug trees. You wonder why people here are ignoring your "education", because it's education at the point of a gun.Try finding voluntary solutions to environmental issues. Using violence doesn't work. The government doesn't and never will give a fuck about the environment, except as an excuse to grab more power."I can't figure out how to solve this problem through persuasion and cooperation so I'll use violent force" -- FirstAscent Yeah, but prices are set by the market. What one party can "derive near term" depends on how the market values his resources, not just on his personal values. If biodiversity is valued by the market, then he can derive value from his resources as a biodiverse system. So the the values of the market are factored into the price.Similarly, a coal mine only has value to the entrepreneur because the market values coal. So one may buy the land to mine the coal if it's profitable. Profit is the indicator that the markets values are being met.All economic activity in a free society is just a reflection of the aggregate values of the market. With the state, it's a function of a tyrants values.He wouldn't, he would only pay an amount based on what he may yield in return. What he may yield is a function of the markets values. If he can't find the capital for this investment, then clearly society doesn't value the rainforest enough for the proposed utilization.Just because you personally might value it higher than the average market value per individual, doesn't mean you have the right to initiate force to impose your values on others. If you think people misrepresent the value of the rainforest then you are charged with the task of education; a non-violent solution to the problem.It's not a burden to have a valuable asset. You're thinking in a collectivist mindset. If non-fractured forests are more valuable than fractured ones, the market will answer this demand. Again, edge effects are factored in by the market. Easy. The previous owner sells and the owner uses. That is, once we remove the violation of property rights institutionalised by the government.It's really simple guys. If the value of the forest to society is higher in it's natural state than it is in it's harvested state, the forest will be saved. It depends on the aggregate of the subjective values of all individuals. All the edge effects and biodiversity are factored in by the market.Now if there is $1000000 dollars worth of wood in a forest and $1000 worth of endangered species would be destroyed in harvesting that wood, then the species die. But FA values the species at $infinity and is willing to use violence to subjugate others to his value system. This is why he can't accept ancap, because he needs the state to proxy his application of violence.This attitude is everything that is wrong with our society today. Adam Kokesh is considering running on the platform of dissolving the federal government.
But, each brain cell does seek it's own satisfaction. It acts in it's own self interest and doesn't aggress against other cells. They're all happy and the brain is happy as a result of the cell's happiness. Start using centralised force against brain cells and I think you'll find the brain is allot less happy.Apply the same principal to humans and society. You can't create a monopoly on violence and expect it to NOT become corrupt. Like every government that has ever existed.Someone does need to step in and stop violent actors. To conclude that we need a monopoly on violence to solve this problem is a non-sequitur.Health care in the states is expensive because of numerous regulations that drive up the cost. eg malpractice laws, perverse tax incentives. It has nothing to do with it being "privatised".Roads by a million companies might not work, but that's the great thing about the free market: entrepreneurs will find a way that DOES work. The customer is always right.What if i disagree with your algorithm? Still voluntary? Oh man! you said the E-word in front of FA. Big mistake. Now you get to learn all about edge effects and why the state should use violence to force people to hug trees.Love the OP, by the way. Just emailed it to a bunch of people. So taxation ISN'T extortion through threat of violence!? Wow, I didn't know that! I've been paying taxes all this time... I'll never fill out another tax return. Government licenses. I'm allowed to rob you (10 min):http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ngpsJKQR_ZEAny system based on violence is doomed to fail. You can figure out all the algorithms, voting methodologies and systems you like, but if it's not voluntary, it's a lost cause. How do you prefer to apply the violence of the state Yes. Society is made of of interdependent actors trading voluntarily. Well done Obama!The government just stole my wealth to pay for services that we either don't want or that it won't allow others to provide. The parallels are striking. IP laws are actually a burden on the market.Government licenses amount to protectionism.Capitalism functions properly by itself, absent violence. No one "allows it". The point is that there is no institution sanctioned with the right to initiate force that can prevent it. We get there one by having this conversation. one person at a time.What are the "too many things" that have to be just so? In my opinion, all we need is for people to accept that initiation of force is wrong/counterproductive. Most people already believe this, but have blinders on when it comes to the state.Once people see that the state is just institutionalised violence established with the premise of solving social problems, it will naturally fall away.Bitcoin will also help allot (see cryptoananarchist post).As soon as a natural monopoly "changes" it loses to competition. Without the violence of the state to back it up, it has to cater to is customers. Allow me to steal %50 of wealth from an economy and I'm sure I'll produce some amazing technology too.Why don't we give the government all out money so they can R&D us into the future! I will not pay for imaginary property.I will donate an arbitrary amount to a content producer that I like. Esp with Bitcoin. I think that would come under "How will it defend against external threat?", though, a special case.Should pick one or two and start a separate thread for each? Sooo... you're not making a case against NAP with point 1.?I don't know what checkerboard syndrome is. link?How does NAP lead to the environment being destroyed by edge effects? If you own land and someones actions are damaging your property, you enter arbitration for damages. I don't see how this is a problem with NAP.How does initiating force prevent environmental destruction?I feel the same way about you.People pay for the protection of their own property and any natural resources there of. Why is violence necessary?Is it your position then, that the initiation of force will prevent resource depletion?Really, answer the question, Yes or No, and back it up with reasoning. This kind of response gets us no where. Just saying "your wrong, read a book" is a cop out.Resources will be used because we want to use them. How is it productive or desirable to use force to prevent the consumption of resources that people wish to consume? If it's a matter of efficiency then I make the case that voluntary trade is more efficient than coercive trade. If you disagree with this premise, please say so and why.True, but this is a non-sequiter. humans establish social customs in all facets of life. We shake hands when we greet. we put the fork on the left and the knife on the right. We talk the same language. This is not achieved through force. though these customs may vary from culture to culture, still, within a culture, social standards emerge. I see no reason why they should not emerge with regard to "social etiquette when occupying others property".You think that people other than the property owner should use force to impose their own standard of behavior for people on their property?seen what? A lawsuit happy state or a free society where laws are determined by the market?For the first, pretty much every state is like this. The number of laws and lawyers just keeps growing.For the second, see Lex mercatoria.Besides, the point is that this is how the market functions in general; the customer is always right. If you are in the business of arbitration or dispute resolution, you will have "laws" that your customers think are best, if not you go out of business. If the customer wants lots of laws and law suits then this is what they will have and vice versa.The knowledge of the market is enshrined in the price of all goods and services. This is all the knowledge the market requires to make efficient economic decisions. Do you agree with this?Will it be tolls or something else? I don't know. Voluntary trade will most certainly find a more optimal solution to transportation than a bureaucrat with a gun.Seems you don't actually have a response and are hiding behind your dismissive comments. Your whole post was full of "simple little replys".I addressed the point about paying for protection. Sure wealth is relative, so what? It still costs more to protect your property when there is no competitive market for protection. This applies for everyone, regardless of wealth available. Do you dispute this?As to your other post. What assumptions about the free market have I made that are false? Let's get to the heart of the matter here. Are you familiar with Alan Watts? He said the exact same thing about inches and building a house.It's not really the "price of money", but compensation for the opportunity cost of not being able to spend that money. The ability to use some currency over a period of time has value, hence a price in the marketplace.Without a price you get scarcity or surpluses, basic supply/demand economics. In the case of 0 interest rates, there will be a shortage of capital. Business' that really need the liquidity and are willing to pay for it are starved of this opportunity because any old fool with a plan has already taken the free loan. It's basically price fixing and fails for the same reason as with any other good or service. Are you %100 happy to pull out a gun, stick it in the face of the nearest guy and say: "give me money to save the baby or else I'll kill you"? or are you willing to explore non-violent solutions, such as charity.Also, collectivised healthcare is a Tragedy of the Commons scenario; creating scarcity. Which is why, in the socialised system, you have to wait 4 weeks to see a doctor to save your baby. Are you going to deny the baby immediate care because you have squandered health care resources by eliminating the price system?Also, socialised health is a moral hazard; people take less care of themselves because society has "got it covered" if anything goes wrong. This also drives up costs and waste. Also, consider that the victims will probably be members of a protection agency, which will have it's reputation staked on resolving the issue in a responsible manner; preventing activity X or seeking arbitration.Remember, just because the government currently provides a service backed by force doesn't mean social needs can't be met without force. We need to define "NAP society" first. We can't work on the premise that 100% of people follow NAP absolutely, otherwise there is no debate, we live in a perfect world already ;-)So let's say, for the sake of debate, that between %50 and 99% of people adhere to the NAP.Are we going to discuss an established NAP society or how one might emerge from the current statism paradigm, once the majority accept NAP?Important points of discussion could be:Who will build the roads?How will it defend against external threat?What about monopolies taking over the world?"power vacuum" - a new state will emerge as soon as it's dissolved.Resource scarcity.Environmental issues.Dispute resolution.
because of people not aggressing against each other?NAP causes environmental destruction...? Actually, governments are the worst polluters and remove market incentives to clean the environment."provision"? NAP is not an act of parliament, it's not a political system.Protect global resources from what? In a free society resources are privately owned, the private owner pays protection of his resources and has personal interest in maintaining their value.Actually, the free market make the most efficient use of scarce resources possible. It's the government backed by force that causes all the waste as it is unaccountable the values of the market (the price system).Standards of behaviors will emerge just like they do in software protocols eg. bitcoin. The market will solve these problems in an efficient manner. You don't need to violently impose rules that the "majority" feels should exist.It seems that this is what we have now. More laws == more lawsuits. In a free society, where laws aren't imposed by an unaccountable monopoly on force, the laws or "socially acceptable behaviors" will be optimised for economic efficiency. People will only pay for protections that's economically viable and protections will only mean "protection from force".It's appears so at first glance, but you have to accept that the market is vastly more intelligent than any individual and will converge to an efficient solution for roads and any other infrastructure that the government currently subsidies/monopolizes. Destructive behaviors will be rejected by the market, such as building a road that completely encloses a community and restricting travel, this could even be considered an act of aggression.You are free to do as you will, except to be an aggressor against another or their property.Arguing that it would be too expensive is a bit asinine when the government currently takes > 50% or our wealth. You can have mafia protection or buy it in a competitive market, surely free market protection will be cheaper.Are you saying that giving people the right to initiate force will somehow ensure continued survival?You identify some legitimate social problems: Gang violence, environmental destruction, resource depletion. Why do you take if for granted that the only way to solve these problems is by initiating force? Don't you see the causal relationship between these social problems and the existence of the state? The government creates this mess and it does it all by initiating force.When most people accept the NAP and see that the state is a direct violation of it, the state will naturally dissolve. So let me ask you: How will you form a state in a free society where most people accept the NAP? Without the moral blessing of the people, how will you collect taxes? how will you enforce laws? when these things are seen as a direct violations of the core principal of society?Remember, the government NEEDS the perceived moral legitimacy to maintain it's control. That is why we are constantly propagandized by the education system and the media about the virtue of the state. A free society will not only maintain itself, as you contest, but will in fact emerge from statism as the critical mass of NAP adherents is reached. Sure. That's what I meant when I said "should we base social organization on the principal of non-aggression?". Should we from a moral basis. Should we from a pragmatic basis.On a micro level, transactions can be voluntary or involuntary (involving violent coercion). Which is more practical? It's hard to make a pragmatic case for coercion here. In a voluntary transaction, both parties win, there is an overall net gain. In a forceful transaction, one party wins and there is typically a net loss.On a macro level, I've found that all social problems have at their root cause a violation of the non-aggression principal and a disrespect for property. Which makes sense when you understand that coercive transactions pervert the incentive structures. When non-voluntary transactions are acceptable you create an environment where socially destructive behavior is incentivised; the function of the market is corrupted.NAP is not a policy to "implement". It's a principal that people can either abide by or not. Advocates of NAP are not saying that NAP should be some sort of law or decree imposed upon society, that would be contradictory. We are just saying that it's a good principal for people to live by. We are trying to convince others of this, because everyone benefits. Some can't accept it because of their desire to use the force of the state to impose their personal vision of society on others.So, do you think that people should live by this principal? Should people live by the principal that it is wrong to use violence in human interaction, except in self defense? Or is this an impractical principal for people to have? Does it lead to social disorder?There is no such thing as human nature. Humans adapt to their environment. A person growing up in a violent, abusive environment will become a violent, abusive adult. Latest science backs this up. It seems meaningless, but the truth is that you actually don't get it...It's not a law to be enforced. Yes, I know "if no one will force people to abide by the NAP then no one will abide. If people do use force then it's not NAP. therefore it's meaningless.". This is correct in itself, but shows that you don't understand that NAP is a PRINCIPAL not a LAW.A principal doesn't need "a means of remaining a principal", like a law needs a means of being enforced. It's just a principal.The important question is, should we base social organization on the principal of non-aggression? Currently, we base social organisation on the principal that a monopoly on force should be used to organize society and we decide what force gets used on who through voting.Now, most people believe that the latter is preferable. That is why the state exists; it is has the moral sanction of the people. In a free society most people believe that the former is preferable. The state cannot exists in this society because it is entirely based on aggression.So if we're going to have a real discussion we should be talking about which principal of social organisation is preferable. Libertarians are just saying "let's go with the NAP". To them it's just a matter of an ideological shift; a battle of ideas. NAP doesn't need a means of remaining NAP, it just needs the moral sanction of the population, just like the state needs the moral sanction to remain in power.That is why we are here debating with you, trying to get you to accept the NAP as the moral choice. The only barrier to a free society is the majority of people who believe that violence is a moral and effective principal on which to base social organisation. If you are against NAP you are basically saying: there is a social problem, it must be solved by threatening people with violence. The point is that solving problems with violence is the worst way to do it.Some people might not put seatbelts on for their kids. Do you:A. kill them for not doing it. (this is ultimately the threat being made).B. Solve the problem without using violence.In a free market, social values are reflected in prices. Resources are allocated according to peoples preferences. If lots of people want kids to wear seatbelts and they think that it's worth the cost to achieve this, then it will happen through economic incentive. If they don't or if it's too expensive, then they don't value it enough to justify any action. Violence is for the intellectually lazy and the bullies.As soon as you introduce force into the equation, values are no longer reflected in prices. No accurately, anyway; there is the bias of force influencing behavior toward a sub-optimal resource allocation. Instead of the market meeting the values of society, it is now forced to abide by the decree of some arbitrary opinion sanctioned by some politicians. Hence the phrase "an opinion with a gun".If you see a kid without a seatbelt are you personally willing to point a gun in the fathers face and say "put seatbelts on your children or else I will kill you"? Do you think this solves the problem? This is the NAP-violating, state solution. The only difference is you have some institution doing this on your behalf. So why is it "backwards"? The market already solves the problem. You haven't actually made a counter argument, just restated your case. People will have labels if they are willing to pay the premium for labels. If they aren't willing to pay the cost, then what's the point in forcing them to pay for something that they don't want?Why are you "free not to read it"? If you don't have the facts that you need to know on the packaging, you never get the chance to make that choice. The only solution is to use the states monopoly of violence to force people to read the labels, right? People are also free to not buy a product without a label on it. On one side you advocate personal responsibility and on the other hand you advocate coercion by the state. If people want their food products certified in a certain way and are willing to pay what it costs then the market will provide this service. These laws are both redundant and an infringement on property rights. This is Ron Paul's perspective and I totally agree with his vote. You forget that defense agencies, while not elected, are voluntarily paid for. People vote with their wallets in a free market. If a defense agency starts attacking other defense agencies, they will lose members and go broke. People will instead fund their competitors and everyone will stop doing business with them (suppliers, contractors, investors etc). How can they win when the entire mechanics of the market works against them?Your conflating defense agencies with governments, who have the ability to fund themselves with force, hence are not accountable to the market. A defense agency is NOT a government, it's a profit seeking business. Big difference. War is very expensive and destructive for business. what is "fair"? If you don't like the price. Don't buy.Besides, don't you see the symmetry of the situation. Any argument you apply to the sale of goods can be applied to your labor. How many raises will you demand before it's "unfair"? Supply and demand meet at the fair price (as long as there is no monopoly or special privileges, enforced with violence).Fraud is illegitimate. It's an orthogonal argument.That's the beauty of capitalism. The money ends up in the hands of the people who are best at efficiently allocating resources.What good is defrauding you customers with the end of making them better able to identify a fraudster? Let them get defrauded if they will and the end will be the same, except your guaranteeing fraud rather than leaving it to chance. This doesn't help the economy.Imagine there is a flood and the roads are blocked. The corner store can't get new deliveries of milk so they raise the price. This is profiteering. Now less people will buy milk because some will decide that it's not worth the extra cost. Those that really need milk can still get it.Now, if the store is prevented through force to keep his prices stable. All the milk will be bought by regular customers and quickly run out. Now the people who especially need the milk will be unable to get it. Resources have not been efficiently allocated. This is a called a shortage and it is a result of the price fixing. I disagree that there will always be governments. The government NEEDS the consent of the people to function. That's why we are so heavily propogandised in government run education centers and government backed media about the importance and virtue of the state. Once people understand that the government is an immoral institution and isn't actually necessary, it will inevitably end. It's a battle of ideas and the internet is turning the tide. If you're worried about the poor being attacked, pay your defense agency to defend them as well as yourself.If people want the poor to be taken care of, a market will emerge to provide this service. This form of charity will be much more common when the government stops stealing > %50 of our wealth.Furthermore, the poor only exist because of the government. After the end of the 2nd world war, poverty was declining at %1 per year (in the USA), until the government created the welfare programs. After that it began to rise again. socialised charity creates a culture of dependency. Simple dolling out cash to poor people doesn't help them.Consider the massive burden the government places on the economy; diverting typically half a nations resources to beurocracy and other unproductive uses. This inefficiency results in less production, meaning less wealth to go around and therefore higher prices. The poor suffer the most. Voluntary trade results in the most efficient allocation of capital, thus the most production/wealth. When the state introduces force in to the equation, everyone loses. Libertarians believe social organisation should be based on a moral philosophy, rather than some arbitrary rules made by a privileged class. Basically, people just want to be free to live their lives. To have an environment where this is possible, everyone must respect each others person and property. In other words: free to do as you will as long as you don't infringe on another's freedom.Hence the 2 tenants of Libertarianism:1. The non-aggression principal.2. The principal of self ownership.These are not "laws", but moral axioms, according to which people should adhere in order to achieve a free society. Basically, don't hit, don't steal.It is the Libertarian view that all social ills are a consequence of the violation of these principals. In particular, the failure of society to apply this morality (which most people adhere to in their day-to-day personal lives) to the government, which hash been given a free pass to violate these principals (taxes, laws, etc). Nothing virtuous comes from the initiation of force or theft. Once people learn that the government is nothing but, institutionalised aggression and theft, hence immoral, we can progress to a truly free society.Of course, Hawker and FirstAscent will tell you that a free society is impossible, because they believe that people need to be controlled with force for society to function; thus NAP is immoral. Sure. The government is the power broker; selling their power to initiate force. It absolutely must be eliminated. The Banks are just one of their best customers.OWS just wants the force to be applied differently, hence direct their anger at the banks. If bitcoin is what it's cracked up to be ( and it probably is ) then soon we won't be using fiat at all. Goods and services for fiat will move to bitcoin one by one. Every time a new business accepts bitcoins, bitcoins become more attractive, more business are encouraged to accept bitcoins.Once this happens, all transactions will be bitcon transactions with 1/2 cent fees. Services converting between fiat will be redundant. The only thing you said which came close to a counter argument was "Ranchers own land". With the beef example, you're assuming the wolves have value worth saving. Also, the wolves are unowned, hence the problem of unowned capital (assuming anyone want's to own them). Likely, they are a liability, hence there is value in destroying them. They have been priced appropriately.If you are so well versed in Garrett Hardin, perhaps you can condense his central argument into a short paragraph and present it here. After a glance at this http://www.garretthardinsociety.org/articles/art_tragedy_of_the_commons.html He seems to be highly critical of The Commons as the cause of social problems. Which is exactly what I'm telling you; all these social problems result from the concept of common property. The government is one big fat problem of the commons, preventing the price mechanism from allocating scarce resources properly, resulting in environmental pillaging.I'm glad you don't advocate price fixing, but what then do you advocate? If the price of a commodity isn't set by voluntary trade, then by what mechanism would it be accurately priced? If you believe that the market pricing is "inaccurate" then you must be comparing it to something that you believe is accurate. Else how could you make this determination? He didn't attack your character. He specifically attacked a fallacious element of your argument: "You are confusing your own lack of imagination for a immutable law of nature.". You reasoning boils down to this: I can't think of how a market will solve these problems, therefore they can't be solved. This is false logic.google: "conflict resolution in a free society". There's plenty of info on this. "rights" is such a loaded word. If you define rights as: privileges bestowed on the people by the government, then sure, you have no rights without the government.Of course, you can still have a mutual respect for property, which can be enforced by market entities. Hence, the market can operate without a government framework of "rights".We've discussed this before. You have yet to demonstrate why the market cannot provide the services that the government currently claims a exclusive domain over. Your position seems to be that people can't possibly protect their property without a monopoly institution forcefully extracting wealth to pay for such a service. Clearly, there is a market demand for protection of property. Entrepreneurs will supply this demand, just like they do in every other market (that isn't regulated out of existence).It is you presenting the false dichotomy of government vs chaos. For palm oil, blue whale and beef, this is the problem of the commons: There is unowned or collectively owned property (an artifact of government), which prevents the market from pricing the destroyed resources. The problems is government, not the market.For coal, agriculture, solar, I don't see your point. the market sets the price... actually, the price in all these cases is largely distorted by government laws, resulting in massive miss-allocations and inefficiencies.Besides, what are you suggesting; that a collection of bureaucrats can know and set the "true price" of... anything? That the price should artificiality be set using threat of violence? What is the "accurate" price, if not determined by the subjective valuations of individuals voluntary transactions?You sound like some socialist eco-hippy. How does it not? Supply meets demand and a price is set. What other price is there for natural capital that would be more "accurate"? Why is natural capital different from capital in general, in this regard?This has everything to do with government policies. Artificial interest rates, government spending, etc. To blame freedom for this is... naive. These enormously complex problems can only be solved by the market through the price mechanism. Price is determined be the subjective valuations of the individuals that make up the marketplace. So, in a free market, people get exactly what they think has the most value.Carbon already has a cost. clean air already has a value. It's the government regulatory framework that prevents a price being set for carbon (limited liability of corporations. government licensing/sanctioning of polluting industries, etc). This is typical of the government: 1. make laws which hamstring the market causing resource miss-allocations and negative side effects. 2. make another law to fix the problems created by the first law. I'm just referencing an already documented theory.technological growth can be measured in a few ways, for example: computational capacity per $. The interesting thing is, whichever metric you use, the growth is exponential.
You best be trolling.This is a non solution to a non problem that gives the government more power and more tax.The carbon tax is a piece of shit! "a system with a state is more efficient for property rights" - i disagree. the state is immensely inefficient at everything it does, when compared with it's market based equivalent.So you agree then, that a free society can produce defense services?Is your only objection to a free society that it will be crushed and pillaged by non-free societies?The real reason the state exists is because we believe it is a moral institution. As soon as society wakes up to the face that the state is nothing more than an opinion with a gun, it will be rejected.You, for example, are pointing a gun at me and demanding I fund wars of aggression, against my will. Demanding I fund men in blue costumes to initiate force against me despite having infringed against no one. Demanding that I abide by an ever expanding set of laws which represent nothing more that the whims of some bureaucrats. Why? because you think it's better that way and therefore moral. Well, that's just your opinion. Can I disagree without having a gun pointed at me. For the third time, you make the false assertion that the marketplace cannot provide the services provided by the government. Yet all these services have at some point in history been successfully provided by private enterprise. You can buy insurance to protect your person and property, and use arbitration firms for resolving disputes.There is plenty of literature and media on this subject (only a google search away). You seem to be blissfully unaware of it and have no interest in leaning.Just because you can't think of a solution to a market need does not justify using violence and theft to solve the problem. Your whole argument is one big is-ought fallacy: the government is what there is, therefore it's what there ought to be. Again, you are starting from the premise that a free society can't provide the services of the state. Why can't the market provide services that protect peoples property and person?All the examples you cite are occurring in societies with large state institutions.A stateless society is not "anyone who thinks they are morally right to apply their own justice". Do you really think anyone who behaved like this would not suffer any consequences?Learn about Anarcho-capitalism. It's a social system based on a pure free market and is the absolute application of the Non Aggression Principal (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Non-aggression_principle), which the vast majority of people already believe and apply in their personal lives. Incidentally, the state (a violently enforced political authority), by definition, contradicts this principal. Are you claiming that these societies are stateless?Why does an individual need to outspend a state for private defense? But this is the state! The problem is precisely that we have a system where we vote for one of two sociopaths, based on who they say they will apply the violent power of the state to. In this case non-violent drug users.The problem isn't that we voted for "tough drug laws" (i fucking didn't btw), but that we are using violence to solve social problems (ie. the state). You assume that a free society cannot defend itself from outside aggression. If people desire defense, a market will emerge to supply this need. http://www.judge.me/I heard about this on the Peter Schiff Show.The aim of these guys is to out compete governments in dispute resolution services. Could it work?This kind of thing is exciting to me. Governments are gradually losing their relevance as we move toward a free society. Well... a few weeks after that point, it will be x2 per second. So, close enough. It's just a trend line, not an exact mathematical exponential function.I don't think "singularity" is meant to be taken literally. The idea is that growth, at some point, will be so absurdly fast that it will represent an unimaginably profound shift in society/human existence. Think of it in terms of "paradigm shifting events". See this resource to get an impression of this:http://www.singularity.com/charts/page17.htmlAll it's really saying is that the next "event" is coming within our lifetime. Considering the exponential nature of technological growth (growth is proportional to size. f(x) = df/dx), it seems pretty inevitable to me.Sorry for being so off topic. even better (and much more concise):http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1FDbZ4mbkC8 I agree. However, we are forced to use the government monopoly currency; forced to make a bad investment. If there was competing currencies then this wouldn't be a problem. People would just use a currency that wasn't being printed like mad.Also, consider that the government gets to consume real resources from the marketplace with those printed dollars. Forcing the market to accept worthless paper in exchange for tangible goods is kinda like theft. Not literally, but practically. http://miltonfriedman.blogspot.com.au/Free To Choose 1980 series by Milton Friedman. He pretty much lays down the law on economics and the implications government policies. He dispels many commonly held myths, most of which are still prevalent today. You're only thinking in one dimension. For example, we could be mass producing cheap human equivalent AIs, which communicate with each other through networks. They could, in turn, produce who-knows-what.If there is a maximum intelligence, then the singularity is impossible. This is a tautology.@mucus"Technological Progress Grows Exponentially and Reaches Infinity in Finite Time". This is a contradiction. The exponential curve reaches y=infinity @ x=infinity. So the referenced page fails to define exponential growth.You can't have "infinite progress in finite time". I agree that this is impossible.Lets define the singularity as "technology growth reaches the rate of x2 per day.". Do you think that this is impossible? The technological singularity does NOT state "infinite progress". You made a nice mess of that straw man though while dodging the actual question. Do you think we will not soon produce machines that are smarter than humans? Can you not appreciate the implications of this? Yes, Hawker. A free society is impossible. We get it. For what reason do you believing the singularity won't happen? We are already developing rapidly in the field of nanotechnology, AI, 3D printing, genetics, neuroscience ...As far as I'm concerned, the the only necessary element is production of AI machines at or greater than the level of humans. Once we can cheaply produce machines that are smarter than ourselves, or at least augment humans to be much smarter, technology will explode and I don't see any limit. Could be a heavily invested entity keeping the price stable to attract users? Yep, business is thriving in Somalia, but they still "need" a government for "stability". Though the article never mentions what the instability is. Perhaps stability is just a synonym for government? Never mind that the previous Government destroyed the country. Lots of opinion, no sources or justification.I hope Somalia continues it's course toward a free society and rejects the attempts by the UN to install a democracy. THE debate on Venus Project VS Voluntaryism:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hxjwBZjADiM 1.) What I posted was an attempt to show that without money, there is a huge impediment to trade. Since free trade is what creates wealth, there will be allot less of it. Of course, you differ on the definition of money...2.) Money is just a medium of exchange. So, yes; the stick is being used as a medium to exchange a pebble for a leaf. If you have an alternate definition, please present it clearly. Otherwise we are just going to argue over definitions.3.) Sorry, I know. I was just being a dick.4.) Yeah, we don't have a free market. This is why the world is so fucked.I don't think we could have produced this advanced society without the efficiencies attributed by money (as I define it). The earth could never support this population without the technology that the market has produced.
How do you build a house without money?You produce wool. The brick maker needs a jumper. So you trade. How many bricks can you get for a jumpers worth of wool? 3? 10? not enough to build a house. So what do you do.The brick maker might need some eggs, but you don't make eggs. You can trade wool for eggs with the egg maker, then trade those eggs for bricks, but then eggs would be MONEY! And that's against the rules.You could make your own eggs, but the brick maker only needs a few for his lunch. So now you have 20 bricks. long way to go.You just could make everything the brick maker desires until you have a house worth of bricks. But now you have, by definition, removed specialization from the economy.You may have food and shelter, but it won't be "ample".yes, but as soon as I trade that stick for a leaf, that stick is money.That proves it!If you define money as "what the government says it is" then sure, we can have a great economy without money.It's funny that you are astonished by evoorhees argument, because I'm pretty sure you have no idea what that argument is. Read it twice. Still don't know what your point is or even what you are saying. o_OI'm pretty confident that evoorhees believes the FED to be immoral. Excuse me if I'm wrong.As to the topic, it's asinine to blame immigration when we have sanctioned a monopoly institution with the moral right and obligation to initiate force and steal, then not realising that IT is the source of all our woes. Umm... you can't have a free market WITH a state, by definition.The point I'm making is: stop sanctioning the institutionalised violence that is the state.It only exists because you, and most others, falsely believe it's necessary. It's an epidemic of Stockholm syndrome. The alternative is: don't use violence. It's pretty simple.Poor people? no problem, just use violence to help them.Sick people? no problem, just use violence to help them.Violence being used? no problem, just use violence to help them.All state solutions to problems are based on using a gun. Don't say there are no alternatives, because society uses voluntary interactions to solve problems all the time. aka the market.How will people get food if the government didn't run the farms and shops? Oh wait... they don't and yet we have food. Impossible!!! Unemployment comes from the government interfering with the terms of trade. Minimum wage law prevents the lowest skilled from getting jobs. The 100s of regulations dictating how a person may be employed discourages businesses from hiring (eg. bundling health insurance with wages increases the real cost if hiring). Anti discrimination laws discourage employers from hiring minorities for fear of being sued. The welfare system pays people not to work and breeds dependance and entitlement (woman with 37 kids).Likely, this woman irresponsibly spawned so many beggars only because she expected someone else to pay for them. Who's fault is that?Using the state to solve problems through violence is the CAUSE of this and many other problems, NOT the solution. Stop trying to solve social problems by forcing other people to pay for it.Tax breaks are not a part of the free market, unless it's 100% tax breaks for everyone. Theft is not freedom. What's "best" is subjective and up to the individual to determine. No one has the right to tell anyone what to spend the fruits of their labor on. You might think it's best for your neighbor to invest in some stock. He might think it's best to buy that new TV he really wants. Remember, the economy is not an ends in itself, but a means to provide us with material wealth.As for their influence on the economy, if they end up giving a disproportionate amount of their income to payday lenders, great; now the money is in the hands of someone who does know how to invest it. Is there a problem here?If someone puts their money under a mattress for 10 years, that just means the value of everyone's money increases, until that money is spent.Also, spending for the sake of it doesn't grow the economy. Savings and capital does. if you have multiple nodes, you won't need to keep the blockchain on all of them, just on the pool server. This will save butloads of disc, esp. when the blockchain is massive.I could be wrong about that. I'm not a miner. so what is it? a proxy service or something more? the poignant question is: what is the "you" that will be reincarnated?There is no separate self. Separate identity is an illusion; a mental fiction about an abstract entity called "I".Every incarnation is the one; god experiencing itself. dumbest idea evah!  Bacteria can evolve, sure, but not in one isolated "minimal media" experiment. If you put some humans in a box with some food and left them there then your bacterial story might be analogous to that.Means of production is land, labor, capital. In particular, bacterial do not have capital; machines, technology, etc. which can be used to increase the efficiency of production (get more value for a given unit of resource). As physical resources deplete, so will the efficiency with which we use them to produce value to the market. As various resources become more scarce, their price will increase, driving the market to more efficient alternatives (ie. renewables will become more economically viable).This process will not cease; the problem of finite resources is not a problem to a rich market economy, only to bacteria in a dish. bacteria cannot innovate or grow their means of production. false analogy. according to your argument, if we tax 99.99% of oil profits then oil production will not be affected. No, it won't directly affect what they charge, but it will drive all capital away from the industry.supply will be affected and hence so will price. ans: B they could just stop paying people not to work and remove the numerous disincentives for companies to hire workers and repeal minimum wage laws. The market creates jobs all by itself, the only reason there is so much unemployment is because of regulation and taxes. It will discourage oil production, reducing supply, driving up prices. Though, I don't know if this will affect the pump price much, initially. +1To anyone complaining, if what Vladimir is doing is so lucrative, you'll have no trouble starting your own ASIC farm and taking a share of the market. If it's not, then what have you got to worry about.You assume that Vladimir will be the only guy who ever mines on a massive scale. This isn't the banking sector, where GOVERNMENT FORCE prevents competition.Free market cartels are unsustainable, because there is a great incentive for any participant to break from the cartel and undercut their competitors.Damn state apologists make me sick! Stimulation represents a miss-allocation of resources. Forcing the market to expend its scarce resources on something that it would otherwise not have.This is the same problem with any centrally planed economic policy. Once you accept that values are subjective (and thus only individual rational actors can know what their own true values are) then you accept that only the collective values of the market can efficiently allocate resources according to those values. Resource allocation that is a function of a bureaucrats values results in destruction of total wealth (value). aka socialism.Since most people just want to maximize their own personal wealth through the mechanism of voluntary trade, the market results in an incredibly efficient wealth creation machine. EVERYTHING the government does to defy this mechanism (involuntary trade, eg: taxation) makes it less efficient, hence society poorer. Bitcoin value is "tied" to dollars? how do you explain the floating exchange rate? Bitcoin value is tied to the goods and services available in exchange for bitcoin + speculation on future availability of such goods and services."bitcoins store dollar value" wat? There should be no authority. The premise implies the right to initiate force. This is immoral and destructive.
I never claimed that patents would be eliminated any time soon. I just saying that the government is the source of all the problems and it is. The health care system would work just as efficiently as the electronics industry in a free market environment.Sure, price fixing may help, but it's just treating symptoms without curing the disease. I don't ignore this fact, I'm just saying that the patent itself it one of the problems. If you make a law and then a consequence of that law is that you must fix prices, then you really need to rethink the viability the original law.It's the same with deposit insurance. The gov guarantees deposits, eliminating risk of bank runs, then it needs to "fix" reserve requirements to stop the banks from creating infinite loans.It's just making laws to fix the problems created by other laws. The gov removes risk and removes competition, which are natural market regulating mechanisms and substitutes it with it's own misguided regulations. Just let the market work! So do you not agree that any of the interventions I mentioned drive up the price?You think that the cause of high health costs is the fact that there isn't enough price fixing? nothing distorts the market more than screwing with the price mechanism. Price fixing always results in shortages (if too low) and surpluses (if too high). If price fixing worked, we'd all be speaking Russian right now.You ignore the intervention that caused the high prices and then advocate more intervention to cancel out the first. How about removing the cause instead of treating the symptoms."Government is good at only one thing. It knows how to break your legs, hand you a crutch, and say, 'See if it weren't for the government, you couldn't walk.'" - Harry Browne Ever listen to Stefan Molyneux? He's always talking about how sociopaths and criminals are almost always people with abusive childhoods. The government run prison school system doesn't help. I'd pray for you Americans, but I don't believe in a deity.Shit is gonna get ugly. Duality: If everything is perfect, then there is no such thing as perfect. If everything is yellow, then what is yellow?A stateless society would be great though ;-) hopefully Bitcoin will get us closer. The government mandates that employers provide insurance to employees. People can't choose what they're covered for. They'll claim on things they otherwise wouldn't have just because they're already paying for it. It also reduces competitiveness in insurance.Malpractice legislation means that doctors have to raise their prices to cover the risk of being sued.Medical research is heavily regulated. Instead of just bringing a viable product to market, companies have to pass a ridiculous set of expensive, overkill double blind studies for many years just to get fda approval.Patents grant a monopoly on drugs leading to monopoly prices.Medicaid and Medicare hides the true cost of medical insurance from the consumer. socializing the cost is a tragedy of the commons situation, which leads to poor resource allocation.God know what other laws are on the books that I don't know about.So yes, its the prices, stupid., but the prices are the governments fault. What America and basically every socialist country in the world needs, is a competitive free market in health care. Voluntary trade results in a vastly more optimal allocation of resources than any violence based solution the government can come up with.Explain to me why electronics keep getting cheaper, but health care keeps getting more expensive.Also, another take on this:http://mises.org/daily/4434 good thing ben is there keeping the money supply nice and stable for us. High health care costs are 100% the fault of government intervention. why should it be different from any other industry? computers get cheaper every year because the government doesn't have it's tenticles all over it; distorting resource allocation. The market in health care is far from free, that's the problem.related:John Stosselhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3WnS96NVlMIPeter Schiffhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u6eIBvrMY5w Can't we easily solve this problem by convincing all honest nodes to reject 1tx blocks?If this happens, the MM has to include at least one other tx to make any BTC at all. This will force him to engineer some sort of solution to verifying transactions (supposedly he isn't verifying now due to the cost of managing the blockchain). Either he will give up or he'll start including transactions.thoughts? And they got that wealth by controlling the money supply.Basically, you're just bothered by the fact that some people are insanely rich? Should the title of the OP then be: "convince me that the bitcoin early adopters won't become really rich". personally, I don't really care as long as they can't rob me by printing money. As Hazek has already pointed out, the power of the Rothschilds etc. DEPENDS heavily on the centrally controlled monetary system. This is why they are so intent on setting up central banks across the world. You really have to understand this point.Bitcoin is decentralized, can't be printed arbitrarily, market controls interest rates. The fact that early adopters may have huge hordes of bitcoins doesn't really matter. They can only manipulate the supply (in circulation) until their horde runs out. Where as banks can print forever.Also, bitcoin forces the state to tax in a more honest way (no inflation). This puts a democratically enforced limit on the amount they can plunder for wars etc. Both the voters and the market will reject %300 sales tax on all goods, but no one sees the inflation tax.There is a big difference between holding a bunch of currency and controlling central banks. Yeah, I totally get this! The point is to reduce the scope of government so that there is less influence for corrupt interests to bid for. Sure we need some government to protect property rights, but everything else can be eliminated.For every government department that goes, so does 10000 lobbyists. Get rid of the FDA: no more pharmaceutical companies influencing policy to protect their patented, toxic drugs. Get rid of FINRA: no more brokerage firms writing laws that shut out small competitors. Get rid of the EPA: no more special interests shutting down "undesirable" business ventures with the excuse of some bogus environmental disaster scenario. In fact, get rid of any government influence in any form of economic activity whatsoever and establishment type corporations nothing to bribe politicians to do, because it's not in the scope of the government. Get it?Yes, they will still have military, taxes etc. But isn't smaller still much better? That's why the constitution is there, so that they can't create any arbitrary legislation. The American public just has to re-learn their founding principals.You can never stop bribery. There are thousands of ways to pay some one without "paying" them. But isn't this a deflationary spiral? I thought everyone was supposed to stop spending because the value of their money was going up? I think his point was not to ridicule the legitimacy of the attack, but the idea of the attack itself, real or not: Bitcoin is as impervious to such threats as Linux. The Microsoft case that you mentions is exactly what the PP was alluding to. It would certainly change the incentives of miners to accept transactions. A miner will have to add some value to the block otherwise no one else will build on it. He might also reject low fee transactions to put upward pressure on fee prices. These two opposing forces will set a market price for fees, which may also address this problem: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=6284.200It's also a trivial change to implement, although It may be infeasible at this point to alter the existing system. So far it seems to me like a positive alteration to bitcoin. More debate would be appreciated.I only skimmed over the paper. Looks interesting. I raised the issue of nodes withholding transactions earlier in this thread:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=5024.0Some concluded that the market would produce transaction relay subscription services.On a related note; what if the fees were changed so that the miner solving the block is rewarded with the fees from the block that he builds on instead of the block he mined? This would remove the incentive to withhold transactions, because the miner's reward is no tied to the transactions that a miner accepts. So your case isn't against the wealth pyramid, but actually with the lack of investment? Hoarders don't stop anyone from investing! Go and invest yourself if you think it's worthwhile or stop complaining that no-one else is investing.Now, if the economy isn't growing due to lack of investment then the price will stagnate == no incentive to hoard. If the economy is growing (and the price of bitcoin with it) then clearly there is a sufficient amount of investment going on. So who cares if people are hoarding. What's the problem?This is the same self-contradicting deflationary spiral argument in different clothes: the economy can't grow because it's growing too fast.I suppose you'll just hide behind your faux "strawman" accusation to excuse yourself from making a counter argument. your point: hoarding is bad because of low liquidity.How does hoarding impact liquidity? If everyone stopped hoarding, the price of bitcoin would just go down. then it's trading as usual.
Soooooo..... how does it work? if there is no passphrase, how do you spend the coins? how does it prevent the attacks you describe?Your claims imply a grand innovation in computer security! This seems to be working again.Is it related to a huge drop in active clients as indicated by bitcoinstats?http://bitcoinstats.org/count.html How is this a troll?Anyway... This was probably one of the most interesting paragraphs:So is bitcoin "legally" money? ans: depends on courts, national and EU.There were a bunch of other regulations that bitcoin might fall under, but it all got a bit too lawyer for me. The central goal of a monetary system is to provide a measure of value to facilitate trade. What's with this fetish for price stability? Stable against what? Ultimately, all prices are relative and floating against one another.Here's a riddle for you: If corn halves in value relative to cotton, how much money do you print for price stability?This is a total non-issue. No. the economy grows from savings and loans, not by consumption. Growth means the economy produces more goods and services than it did before. It can't do that unless it increases it's efficiency, that is: more output for the same input (labor). To increase efficiency a business must invest in new equipment, RND, etc.If a bunch of hoarders suddenly start spending their money, business will experience a temporary spike in sales and the value of money will drop. Afterwards, the economy is no bigger than it was before and businesses will have low stock.To sustain an increased volume a business must improve it's infrastructure. This requires capital.This is a direct argument against your core assumption. Your forgetting that investment, if done right, will bring nominal returns. Why sit on money when it can earn interest.If you "buy more stuff with your hoard" then you're no longer hoarding. Um... dude. The Silk Road is a hidden service. No exit nodes are involved. Also, you can encrypt your info with the sellers public key. Are you made of straw?If there is a flaw in my logic, please do me the honor of deconstructing it. I think I made a reasonable case for hoarders not hindering development. Why are you talking about merchants? Businesses take loans to improve their infrastructure/efficiency/capacity with the intention of paying if of using the increased productivity that follows. If successful, the economy is more productive than it was before; there is more output for the same input. This is growth.Selling more goods doesn't make the economy any more productive. The input output ratio is still the same. Unless that business saves the extra profit due to increased volume to later invest in equipment upgrades to make their process more efficient. ie. they hoard money then invest it; their input output ratio improves.Just consuming resources doesn't create economic growth. He was wrong about the keyboard and he's wrong about this! Hoarders spending money into the economy doesn't grow it. That's just consumption: taking real wealth out and putting currency in, bidding up prices.To grow the economy, hoarders would need to invest their coins. investment creates or grows new businesses, which is precisely economic growth. The thing is, you can't really loan out bitcoins at the moment, but this is a problem of a lack of infrastructure, which will come with time.Just holding coins forever doesn't impact the economy, except by lowering prices due to reduced supply of coins in the active economy. I think you just attained economic enlightenment! ;-)free markets work. http://www.fluoridealert.org/fluoride-dangers/health/index.aspx I'm still not convinced.If a client transmits a new transaction to a bunch of miners, isn't it in the interest of each of those miners to not forward that transaction to other nodes, keeping the fees for himself for when he finally solves a block? Yes, miners have an incentive to be "well-connected", but that's not gonna make their peers forward transactions.What's worse: the bigger the txfee, the more incentive to not forward the transaction.Can someone chime in on this please. I feel that none of these responses have adequately addressed the issue. Is there some market based mechanism which will counter this behavior? Very interesting.This seems to correspond exactly with the MBTI (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mbti) Intuition vs Sensing dichotomy. According to this theory, what you're describing is the "perceiving" function.from wikipedia:Sensing and intuition are the information-gathering (perceiving) functions. They describe how new information is understood and interpreted. Individuals who prefer sensing are more likely to trust information that is in the present, tangible and concrete: that is, information that can be understood by the five senses. They tend to distrust hunches, which seem to come "out of nowhere."[1]:2 They prefer to look for details and facts. For them, the meaning is in the data. On the other hand, those who prefer intuition tend to trust information that is more abstract or theoretical, that can be associated with other information (either remembered or discovered by seeking a wider context or pattern). They may be more interested in future possibilities. They tend to trust those flashes of insight that seem to bubble up from the unconscious mind. The meaning is in how the data relates to the pattern or theory.perceiving function descriptions (http://www.myersbriggs.org/my-mbti-personality-type/understanding-mbti-type-dynamics/the-eight-function-attitudes.asp)Extraverted Sensing: Acts on concrete data from here and now. Trusts the present, then lets it go.Introverted Sensing: Compares present facts and experiences to past experience. Trusts the past. Stores sensory data for future use.Extraverted Intuition: Sees possibilities in the external world. Trusts flashes from the unconscious, which can then be shared with others.Introverted Intuition: Looks at consistency of ideas and thoughts with an internal framework. Trusts flashes from the unconscious, which may be hard for others to understand.Most people are sensing types and it's really frustrating trying to explain abstract concepts to them, such as why bitcoin will work. Introverted Sensors won't use bitcoin until it's proven itself as a historically sound system. Extroverted Sensors, unfortunately, won't use bitcoin until everyone else is. it's up to us Intuitives to bootstrap this revolution! This.Because bitcoin has a practically fixed supply, prices can only drop if the economy is growing. so (price) deflation, by definition, implies a growing economy. If no one invests in the bitcoin economy, prices (in bitcoins) will go up. The only problems here are economic fallacies. This serves as a mis-allocation of resources and will only hurt the economy. If you have money to give away, the best thing you can do with it is provide capital to a business you think is viable thus generating more wealth for society. Giving it to some random stranger is not likely to produce growth. Wow! You're that hot and a total computer geek! To achieve this, bitcoin will have to be pretty much mainstream. 10BTC will be worth allot! Couldn't any institution buy all the cards on the first and second hand market? This would drive up the price enticing more sellers (many probably honest miners). They would quickly buy 30,000 cards, albeit at greatly inflated prices?Think about it. If a 6990 is going for $2000, how many people are just going to cash in their mining rig?
Could they be your mining payouts? Are you paid to do this shit? Or do you truly have no life? eh...? it was a question. I don't understand your response. "Grandiose idea circlejerks" are what gave birth to bitcoin. Don't stifle intellectual discourse, offer something constructive. How can you be so sure when you don't understand the true nature of reality? Basically, markets will be freer (much government meddling becomes impossible), resulting in greater economic growth, innovation, technology, quality of life, etc. Once again, no argument: "your wrong, just because."You just keep holding on to those $. A lapse in confidence won't stop bitcoin; It's not a fad, it's a new paradigm. Your argument would be comparable to saying that the automobile would never take off because there was some bad press about the Ford Model T being involved in an accident raising safety concerns.It's value may go down to $1, but it will go back up again for the same reason it's at $15 now; it's a valuable tool which frees us from a parasitic system and people desperately want to be free. This is the fundamental driver and it hasn't gone away. If all that was driving bitcoin up until now was a "spike in confidence" then sure, it would be as useless as Virtual Boy.You're treating bitcoin as if it was a fad, it's much more than that. I think that Corner intuitively understands this when he says "I cannot see how anyone is going to be able to stop this.", but could articulate it.If there was such a weakness in RSA, we would have bigger problems. Sure, if RSA was compromised or the internet was destroyed or there was a new world war then yeah, bitcoin would have trouble. Would it be easy to subdivide the kml data into separate files based on regions? You all like to bash Atlas for being 17, living at home, etc. but none have made convincing arguments against his points. IMO.Who is the child here? Where's the content? I just get links to unrelated videos. If you define "the collective" as set of individuals with coincidental interests collaborating voluntarily, would you both agree that the collective exists? There are lots of ways the government can "get out of this hole", but they aren't likely to do any of them for exactly the same reason that they are in the hole.The bond market will probably collapse in the next few years. This means print print print! because politicians don't want to stop giving handouts in exchange for votes.I would be very surprised if the usd exists 10 years form now. Hey, good argument! My turn...The USD is finished; nobody wants to hold a hot potato. Controlled inflation is a bad thing, not a good thing.I puzzles me how so many people can make baseless assertions, while being so derogatory and self righteous. very impressed with the css styled buttons! Who cares. Your whole thread is inane. people will use BTC as they are currently denominated, just like Zimbabwe used 10,000,000,000 notes. It's not going to change just because of your quibbles. Get over it.And moving the decimal place is not the same as inflation.  Still, you choose to answer to this rather than the previous posts which countered your argument. Although, you never actually made an argument.Why don't you tell us what decimating means, in your definition, so that we can be clear about your claim. It sounds to me like you're saying that if we move the decimal place one to the right, this is exactly the same as issuing 9*21million new bitcoins. Is this an accurate account of your meaning? USA, pre 1913. You know, industrial revolution and all that. true. it's more of a "proof of concept" than a thought experiment. 
You'd better cash out of bitcoin now, before you make some money. ;-) Why should we marginalize the productive members of society to help some individuals poor investment decision. Reallocating resources in this manner reduces the total wealth produced by society which results in more people unable to pay back their mortgages.They can default, the bank takes a loss, they rent another place, problem solved. Look, your problem is that you think the state is the solution to the problem of the poor and sick. I reality, all measures the state takes to help them actually creates more poverty. You don't understand how a free capitalist society produces wealth and, ironically, advocate policies which destroy wealth with the goal of eliminating poverty.No, this person should not be left to die, but forcing people to pay a bureaucracy to institute some incredibly inefficient welfare program to help them is a terrible solution. People in a free productive society will help these poor on their own, without state coercion.What to you believe, that if not forced, no one will help the poor? or do you believe that there are people who will allocate some of their disposable income to the needy? If the former, that implies that no one actually gives a shit, in which case, who give a shit. if the latter, then there is no need for coercion. which is it? you can't have it both ways. The "poverty line" would be allot higher if the government wasn't arbitrarily redistributing wealth, stifling economic growth. Sure you have a right to live, but you don't have any rights that impose obligations on others.Illustration:You sit on your ass all day and produce no goods or services that society needs or wants, but you have a right to food and shelter. Where does this food and shelter come from? You're hard working, productive peers are obliged to give it to you through the force of the government. You are a parasite. http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=6284.msg92187#msg92187 Excuse me if I'm being a noob, but as I understand this system, it's basically generating many keys in a deterministic way from a single backed-up seed. Doesn't this make it possible for anyone with multiple public keys generated from the same seed to do some sort of correlation attack and discover the seed?Again, I'm not a cryptographer and could be way off the mark here. I think it's a fantastic idea, if it is indeed secure. Bitcoin is bigger than Jesus!It's okay, you can say that on this forum. or do all your business in bitcoin. austrian school on this:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZQn6W3WwF6g what's the world gonna be like in 300 years???http://www.kurzweilai.net/the-law-of-accelerating-returns "pay taxes in bitcoin" - lol! Miners may DEMAND coins, but if they are not BUYING them then they do not affect the price. Your logic is broken. If I fire up my GPU miner and the difficulty increases accordingly, explain the causal chain that leads from this to a increased price. Er... difficulty follows price, right? Isn't this obvious.Value increase -> mining becomes more profitable -> more miners -> higher difficultyThis is so trivial, I can't believe there is so much debate about it. Miners may have some small influence on the market when they sell their bitcoins, but surely real demand + speculation is driving the price, which, in turn, drives difficulty by the mechanism I described. I've been watching this for months. It's been exponential the whole time. I think this trend will continue until bitcoin awareness reaches saturation point, after which, it will level off.I expect the value of bitcoin to trail this graph. Sheesh! just use the command line client. It has none of this bullshit. Use laundering service. Current ones are admittedly pretty crappy, but it's possible to build one which breaks the transaction chain, completely disassociating your payment from your addresses. Make this a tor hidden service and snack is served! What is zero? how do you measure it without comparing it to something? Yeah, I read somewhere that shred doesn't even work on modern (journal-based?) filesystems such as ntfs and ext3. Writes are done on fresh blocks, leaving the original intact until some other write operation overwrites it. which is why you should stop using the disk immediately.Your wallet should still be on the disk. Good luck finding it, though it is doable. All concepts are referenced in terms of other concepts. Kind of like the way that all words in the dictionary are defined using other words in the dictionary. There is no absolute anything! Value, morality, meaning, truth, identity.
laundering bitcoins is a snack. He's saying that he doesn't believe X and he doesn't believe NOT X. Because it makes no sense.Like if someone asks you: Do you like poiqjwdi? yes or no?well you can't really answer yes or no because that lends legitimacy to "poiqjwdi".and then you basically ask "so you don't like poiqjwdi??"I thought you were being a smart ass... I believe the phrase is "rainbows and unicorns" I assume that bitcoin will grow until the world is using it, how can it crash if it's the only currency? http://www.i2p2.de/http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/I2P I would be building dedicated bitcoin hardware. lol, awesome dude! I can finally buy the kind of drugs I actually want to take. I've been waiting years for this.I don't apologize for bitcoin, in fact I promote the fact that they can be used to buy drugs online.What drugs I take is none of the governments fucking business. Why do you guys think that the universe was created/had a beginning? Seems like a pretty bold assumption....why? Lol! If that was a joke, it was awesome :-) The alleged god either interacts with the universe in an observable way or it doesn't. If it doesn't, then it exists only as an abstraction; it existence or not makes no difference to the universe.If it does, then we are observing that interaction; god is part of the observable universe. Should this be the case, what do we observe that is god? It seems that the universe operates consistently according to some laws (physics). One might say that these laws are the observable interactions of god, then we might as well define god as the universe.Actually, this whole debate stems from the illusion of separation. God is a silly artifact of this illusion. There are no separate "things"; things are only mental objects. Before you think, nothing exists! Tell me what exists that isn't a thought.There is no self and other; all is one. We are not separate from the world, we are the world. When you look into the eyes of another human being, god is looking at god. The only reason the blockchain exists is to prevent double spending. How does your scheme address this problem? When does deflation become a "spiral"? and why should we be concerned about it.I prefer flamewars :-) People develop a mental model of how the world works and identify with that model. When you tell them about something that contradicts this model, they take it as a personal insult. You're basically telling the ego that it is invalid.This is why people become so entrenched in their beliefs. The ego is the sum of the mind's beliefs. They aren't profitable because we have plenty of coal. If/when coal becomes scarce, alternatives will be profitable, as long as there is demand for energy. "total daily volume" - how is this a measure of the population size of the economy? Answer: it's not. Your premise is flawed.The following figures show exponential growth:No. forum usersNo. downloads.USD exchange ratedifficultygoogle trendstransactions per hourDaily volume doesn't mean shit, unless you measure it in USD. There is HUGE market demand for a currency like bitcoin. This abstract force is beyond any government to stop, without destroying itself in the process. sample bias Beautiful logic! Breaking the problem down to it's fundamentals. Awesome quote! So true...
growth of bitcoin is proportional to it's population size = exponential growth.The more people that know about bitcoin (size), the more people will find out about bitcoin (growth).This is the nature of a viral entity. Of course, it will reach a saturation point because the population is finite, but for now, at least it's approximately exponential.Bitcoin growth is so obviously exponential. Implying that the US Government is beneficial to the US... All they have to do is generate a different address for every donation, so the government CAN'T track/tax their income. Like everyone else.Isn't that the point of bitcoin. Well it doesn't really peg fees to anything. Fees will naturally approach the cost of including a transaction, which means miners will have no margin. I'm merely proposing a simple change which will result in fees naturally approaching double the cost of inclusion.I don't think doubling the natural fee equilibrium will eliminate micropayments. all the bitcoin client really needs to be safe for the tech illiterate, is super simple encryption and backup of wallet.dat. I've seen so many hopeless computer users with machines that are riddled with viruses and other who get caught totally off guard by disk failures, etc. There is nothing the government or banks can do, short of shutting down the entire internet in all countries, that will stop bitcoin.Yes, the entire power structure of the status quo rests on control of the currency and bitcoin takes it away. They'll want to stop it, they'll try to stop it, but they will fail. Well, that's a pretty important difference, isn't it?min fees and constant inflation have problems. My solution is market based and scales with increased usage and change in electricity costs and the value of bitcoin. Which is exactly what we want. It ensures a sustainable market for mining, absent block rewards, and it's very simple to implement. Thank you for so eloquently stating the problem. A solution I brought up in another thread goes like this (http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=6284.msg134662):Change the fee structure to pay 50% of fee proceeds to the block solver and 50% to the solver of the next block. This way, fees will approach 2 times the cost of including a transaction. So half the fees cover the cost of transaction inclusion and the other half goes to securing the network.I didn't get a very positive response in the other thread, but as I can see how well you understand the issue, I would love your feedback on this proposal. Thank you. I've been doing php work for bitcoins for months now. Yeah, it's their money, which was stolen from them by the government.You are in favor of government run healthcare and schools, therefore you are a socialist. Seems pretty straight forward.You seem to be seriously deluded about the role that government plays in society. If you don't understand that government involvement in health and schooling decreases quality while raising costs and if you don't understand how government regulations and distortions of the market enable and encourage the corrupted and parasitic institutions we all despise, then I see this as you main failing. I could accuse you of hating the poor, as you advocate the system that condemns them, but I know you are just another righteous liberal who hasn't thought things through.Many here appreciate bitcoin precisely because it takes away the power of the government to persist with it's wealth redistribution insanity.Stop bashing Libertarianism until you can actually make an argument against it. you clearly don't understand it at all. scroll up ;-) ITT: liberals who think government socialist policies benefit society.What rights are they protesting? the right to receive other peoples money?Wealth redistributing policies break the very market forces that produce wealth. You cry about the poor, etc, then advocate a socialist system which creates poverty and enables the likes of JP Morgan to suck our wealth.grow a brain and join the dots. you make me sick! So arrest Bernanke. it does change the dynamics.If we agree that transaction fees will approach the cost of including a transaction (you're in the Vandroiy's "The side seeing a problem" category), then fees will only cover the cost of including transactions. Miners have other costs, this is the problem.Under my proposed scenario, fees will approach double the cost of including a transaction. This leaves some meat for the miners.As other have pointed out, it also creates an incentive to re-process a block with low fees that proceeds a block with high fees rather than building on that block. I didn't consider this; it is an unintended consequence, which I consider undesirable. To mitigate this bad incentive you could make the algorithm more complicated. For example: 10% of the last five block fees + 50% of the fees from the current block.The core idea is that there is some reward that doesn't depend on just the transactions that the miner accepts. Mining will be profitable, absent block rewards.The 50% from the previous block acts as a kind of replacement for the block reward. 50% of the fee goes to the miner that solves the block. 50% goes to the miner that solves the next block. This way, txfees approach the cost including a transaction x2.The miner covers his tx inclusion costs by including transactions with fees that are at least double the cost of inclusion and the profits from the half the fees collected in the previous block.problem solved? I would think that if a pool operator started playing up, the members would migrate to another pool. It's sort of democratic like that. A pools members are a asset which it has incentive to protect. Probably not. Unless everyone loses their wallet at the same time, there will be coins. The amount of coins will reduce over time, but will asymptotically approach 0.For example, if the number of coins remaining is halved every year, will we ever run out? These are artificial limitations on the miners. As you say, the fee schedule will change in the near future: Miners will accept a transaction if the fee covers the cost of electricity to process it and reject it if it doesn't. Do you disagree with this?Give the above supposition, there is no time limited resource! fees will converge to zero. (actually the cost in electricity to process, which itself converges to zero with hardware improvements)Your argument rests on the assumption that miners will maintain a set of artificial limitations on fee acceptance policy for which they have no obligation or incentive to abide. You highlight the flaws in fiat currency then apply them to gold as reasoning why gold can't work as a global currency. Straw man.Not that I'm for a global currency. The free market should decide what currencies dominate, but we live in a world of state mandated fiat paper which won't let this happen, for now.
is zero a place? tl;dr:they created the euro, blah blah blah blah, some shit happened, lisbon treaty, blah blah blah blah, here we are today. If you loans are at a fixed interest rate, pay them off as slow as possible. Inflation will eat it up and, assuming you're in the USA, you're gonna get some serious inflation! If miners are accepting all transactions with fees, then fees are not competing for a time limited resource; They'll all get included in the next block. Why would a miner leave a fee paying transaction for the next block? Isn't this the whole problem of items fitting into multiple categories. Threads should be tagged based on each category they fall under, not exclusively placed in one section.@kiba: your lust for power will be your undoing. One day, the forum will rise up and take back what is theirs! You think you can just push us around, tell us where threads will go? We will not be subject to your tyranny much longer. Sleep with one eye open... Because it's actually a problem.You think that miners with not for profit motives are going to be able to maintain a robust, attack resistant network. Others disagree.I can see this working if people voluntarily pay tx fees. If there are millions of users then they each wouldn't need to pay much to incentivise a strong network of block generators, and indeed, a culture of this sort may emerge. But is is a tragedy of the commons like situation.In another post, you highlighted the fact that there is a transaction acceptance policy encoded in the main client which prioritieses transactions with fees, forcing fees out of merchants needing speedy confirmations, but there is no reason to believe that the mining pools of the future will maintain such a policy when there are fee paying transactions going un-harvested. Luke-Jr, to me, exemplifies the natural dynamic of transaction acceptance policy: accept txs with fees, don't accept txs without fees.I know you understand this dynamic, however, you haven't made a compelling case as to why bitcoin will work anyway. In any case, I hope you're right. Although, I wish intelligent people on this forum would acknowledge this problem instead of stifling debate. If someone writes a WebGL bitcoin miner in javascript, web sites could require the user to submit getworks instead of solving captchas.good idea? I don't see and need for an elastic money supply. Just let the market determine interest rates and the value of the currency.Indeed, elastic money supplies have brought down civilizations throughout history. Stop reading your Keynesian textbooks. Price deflation isn't a problem. Stop trying to fix it. This is the cost to a miner for verifying a transaction. The cost is composed of electricity, and infrastructure, etc. It's a small number, but it's not zero.Now if a transaction fee, weighted by the probability that the miner solves the block that includes it, is less than the cost of verification, then the miner presumably will not accept the transaction.Why else would a miner reject a transaction? If miner decides they will set a fixed floor on the transactions they accept, they are leaving profitable transactions to their competitors, driving them self out of the market. So, Vandroiy's argument, to which I sympathise, is that miners will reduce their fee floor to relative to the cost of verification.The cost of verification will get much smaller with growth in computing power. Pooled mining reduces this further because only the pool operator has to verify the transaction.Higher fee will only be processed more quickly if there exists some sort of tiered fee structure distributed amongst miners. If you believe that fees approach the cost of verification then this tiered structure won't exist. Users will just pay the minimum that the miners will accept, which will be not much more than the cost of verification.What it these fees we see now are just a statical anomaly? people are new to this thing and may pay fees for all kinds of irrational (economically speaking) reasons.I think I have a solution... I'm a bit stoned so this might not make sense.We can incentivise fees but imposing a protocol restriction on how miners accept fees. An idea for this is to mandate that only half of the transactions that a miner processes can be transactions created after the last block (new transactions). The rest must be transactions created before the last block (old transactions). This creates a market to be in the first half, for speed processing. Obviously miners will fill it's first half with the transactions that pay fees. Users will compete for this privilege. Aren't the price of precious metals and energy also fully market driven? Yet if we back bitcoins by one of these commodities, we solve the problem of bitcoin's value being fully market driven?In any case, I don't think the problem you try to solve is valid. Bitcoin's problem, if it has to have one, is that it's economy is small. Bitcoin is backed by the goods and services available for it. At the moment, the ratio of speculative money to that of the economy is high, resulting in price volatility.If a whole country was using bitcoin, you can be sure that the price would be much more stable.Backing bitcoin by anything really defeats the purpose. How can you have a decentralised-p2p-currency that's "backed" by something? Perhaps this is possible. I'd love to hear any answers to this. "consumer abuse" - wat? People trading goods an services without giving the government it's cut. Stop abusing the government, people! haha! I was just going to post this. Unless all governments ban/regulate bitcoin, it will be seen as a success in the nations where it is allowed and it's value will be backed by their economies. Also, such nations will thrive on a sound money standard.The rest of the world will see this and soon governments will be force to come inline and legitimize bitcoin.Also, to be honest, I think Bitcoin is just the beginning of a paradigm shift. Technology, ideas and social structures are evolving so fast that governments will not be able to keep pace. The rules of the game are changing. @creighto: Please, let me clarify this debate.Do you agree that transaction fess will approach the cost of verification? If so, how is it that you don't think this will destroy the network once block rewards are depreciated? If not, what mechanism will influence fees to some sort of equilibrium?I'm with Vandroiy on this. You claim there is no problem to solve. I'm curious to know why you think this? I think he means a new bitcoin address, but the same instawallet address. So, is that old bitcoin address still tied to his account? From the information you've given (you use the bitcoin accounts feature) I would infer: yes.Cool concept. The reason you need a function is because without it you'll need a database full of matching keys to figure out which bitcoin "sinkhole" address corresponds to the bettercoin address. This is unnecessary much overhead. Whereas a hash function can be computed in microseconds and has no storage requirements.The weakness of the dying bitcoin network will be an issue which I haven't resolved. The maintainers of the bettercoin p2p network will have to decide how to treat the blockchain.The exchange rate would just be 1:1 or perhaps 1:100 would be nice if bitcoin were @ .01 = $1. It doesn't really matter though as long as the rate is fixed. If a tree grows 1 inch, is the ruler damaged because you get a different length?If you increase the length of an inch by %10, is the tree %10 taller?It's monetary inflation/deflation that damages the measure of value.If the cost of the businesses product goes down because of efficient competition and it can't stay afloat, then it deserves to go out of business. The market as correctly allocated resources to it's competitor.Where is the miss-allocation?Printing currency and giving it so someone is a miss-allocation of resources; stealing purchasing power from people holding currency, limiting their ability to allocate the resources they command. Really? not feedback on this?bump just like the gold standard days. Free market banking is back! Many people have each revised parts of the code. Every part of the code has been revised by someone. good enough? Let it go.If bitcoin fails because of some wiki, then it aint worth shit anyway.Solution to problem: war of attrition. let them duke it out, wiki style.
The internet could very well evolve into a giant distributed artificial neural network of unimaginable intelligence. A breakthrough in AAN technology could see the such systems all sorts of tasks, in the "real" world and on the internet. Before long these systems will be communicating with eachother, then, I think something amazing will happen.Seems inevitable.What role will humans play in this world? There has been some debate over the ability of the xtfee/mining economy to function. You know, the whole tragedy of the commons thing.http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=6284.0If a solution is found, it may involve a drastic protocol change, which at this stage of bitcoin may be impossible. However, I believe I have come up with a way to bootstrap the new system off of bitcoin, sidestepping the whole get-currency-into-the-economy problem and allowing us to keep our hard earned value.The idea is to spend bitcoins into the new currency (bettercoin). First generate a keypair in bettercoin. There will be a function F, which maps a bettercoin address, x,  to a bitcoin address, F(x). The function isn't so important in implementation except that it's output must be a valid bitcoin address. F could be a hash or it could truncate the bettercoin address (if it's longer), flip the bits, whatever.Now, in bitcoin, to transfer bitcoins to better coins you simply spend your bitcoins to F(x). As far as bitcoin is concerned, these coins are lost forever, because no one has the private key of F(x). This eliminates the possibility of double spends. Bettercoin systems have to read the bitcoin blockchain to check if coins have been spent to F(x). If so the bettercoin address x has the equivalent amount in bettercoins.If bettercoin is indeed superior, all bitcoins will soon be spent into the new system in this fashion. I've noticed some web sites are publishing addresses on their sites for donations, etc. over unencrypted connections. I thought I'd point out, to anyone who doesn't realise it, that you are vulnerable to man in the middle attacks.Any MITM can rewrite your address to theirs and receive all your payments! Especially tor exit nodes, which are known to engage in this behavior. Any payment related pages should be treated the same as a credit card payment gateway, in security terms. That means use SSL! It's true that if users voluntarily paid 1/100 of the typical fees paid in todays systems, we'd have no problem. If they didn't and we lost this gift of bitcoin, it would be truly a tragedy of the commons.I don't think it's too late to make changes. If the "change" is clearly awesome and infallible, then I don't see anyone currently mining objecting to the change.The problem with putting some protocol based restriction on fees is that there is no way to algorithmically determine the value of a bitcoin and the restriction must be a function of value.If yield from fees is too high, we'll have a ridiculous number of miners and it will cost too much. Too low, we have a weak network. But how much many miners is the right amount? This is the kind of equilibrium which can only be achieved by market forces. Any protocol change will need to introduce market forces which balance the number of miners.We need more debate on this. What I've been trying to tell you is that a fixed supply currency precisely achieves the function of measure-of-value. price inflation/deflation is then only a function of supply and demand of goods/services/labour. Whereas monetary expansion and artificial interest rates distort the true price of currency and everything else, necessarily resulting in a miss-allocation of resources that retards economic growth.You seem to have a bizarre concept of inflation/deflation. prices are inherently unstable due to fluctuations in supply and demand. Please distinguish between price deflation/inflations and monetary deflation/inflation.If the money supply is fixed and population is stable then an overall decrease in prices is simply a result of economic growth: Society is producing more goods for the same amount of labor, so the same dollars are chasing an increased supply of goods. Prices will fall. This is the beauty of capitalism, not some evil that you need to negate. Things are supposed to get cheaper! Hmmm... I see, inclusion costs are independent of difficulty and will converge to zero with time. I confess that I didn't really read all of the relevant threads.This is indeed a mathematical/game theory problem. There are too many free variables that need to be tied together. This is a deep problem.I'll put more thought into this before posting again. There will be no block size limit in the future. It's only there to stop spammers at the moment and will be lifted when the network it bigger.Did you read Gavins post (#4) in the thread you linked? I believe he resolved the issue.Transactions aren't free for a miner to include. If people pay no fees, they probably won't get included at all. If miners charge too much, they leave a gap in the market for cheaper fees, new miners will enter the market and accept those slightly-less-profitable-transactions bringing fees back down. This will crowd out less efficient miners."whole system will optimize itself to be wonderfully efficient." - Gavin Bitcoin is getting easier to acquire every month. I imagine this trend will continue, accelerating adoption. The more bitcoin usage there is, the faster it grows, at least in these early stages. This is the definition of exponential growth. To the bears.less than %1 of people on this planet even know bitcoins exist! I expect that many more will discover it soon and want some. Bitcoin is on an exponential trip to the moon!Unless bitcoin gets destroyed somehow (government) or something better comes along, I fully expect bitcoins to replace every currency on the planet. Why wouldn't they? It's different for currency which can be created at zero cost, like bitcoins and dollars. These are abstract things, so creating more of them is not like creating more batteries. It's more like stretching an inch. You can't apply arguments about commodities to currencies. Straw man. True. I was coming more from the angle that bitcoins depend on the internet and computers to be useful, but gold doesn't have this problem. Without thinking too hard about it, I'd just say that I think bitcoins are much better. Interesting idea, though, but once again, I don't feel the need to maintain a stable CPI. All you really want to do here is make sure that prices are the same on average, why? Especially when the only solution is to reallocate resources by giving someone new money.But everything will be rising and falling anyway. The price of electronics goes down while oil prices go up. This still happens with a stable CPI.If there's no innovation and supplies are stable and the money supply is fixed, then prices will be stable. If some innovation means that a good can be produced at half the cost, why shouldn't the price half? Why do you want to inject more money into the economy just so the $ tag on the item stays the same?What cycles? Do you mean the Business Cycle? Austrian economics has it that this is a problem with central banking. Anyone correct me if I'm wrong on that.I don't know about Ripple. tl;dr version?Does this paper talk about anything new, or is it running over the same points discussed many times in the forums?Sorry, I'm just too lazy to read the 44 page document. I assume you are answering to me, but I have no idea what your point is.Gold is practically close enough to a fixed supply to make it good money. The inflation part isn't necessary and only serves to redistribute wealth to gold miners.I'm not sure what your trying to communicate, but yes, I think that electrical energy would make a bad currency.If new currency is created, it has to be distributed into the economy. This process necessarily distorts the market all just for the sake of some useless and unachievable goal of stable prices. Fixed money supply = Let the market determine pricesInflationary money supply = Re-allocate wealth to an undeserving entityInflationary policy is the ant-market solution. And we all love free markets ;-) bitcoin can be transfered electronically, gold can't. gold can be traded physically, bitcoin can't. otherwise, for the purposes of money, they are the same, but due to this distinguishing feature, they each serve different markets for money: the physical and the electronic.Gold and bitcoins are complementary.  Both have different uses and both are usefull. But the baby is apart of the illusion!These guys don't seem to have a problem dealing with no ego:adyashantialan wattsmoojiechart tolleBack to "reality": So what's the problem with nations?I think that if you're going to have governments, they should be as decentralized as possible, pushing scope to the lowest level that makes sense. Putting all responsibility at the highest level of government, currently "the nation", is certainly a destructive tendency. HFT is a market, just like any other. Just because it's "high frequency" doesn't mean it's any different from "normal" trading.How high does the frequency have to be before it stops becoming about supply and demand? Do you want to draw some gray line?I didn't read the article, though. Feel free to ignore me if I'm way off topic or have no clue. This.If you really want to get "fundamental", it's the ego illusion that humanity holds which is the cause of all problems. When you understand that I is only a concept, it becomes clear that all is one and we are just expressions of god/tao. Our problems are only abstract in nature; imagined.As soon as you catch hold of the thought I am, you build a whole belief system upon it and make decisions based on this belief structure. Try to think of a belief that doesn't depend on I. Most conflict or "problems" with humanity is due to people following their beliefs and I'm not just talking about religion.e.g Bernanke: "I believe I must print money for the good of the economy." - Who must print money, Ben? you don't exist! You is just an idea floating around in awareness. see how that works?When I try to explain this to people it usually goes over their heads; no one will admit that their identity is "made up". But that's cool.What can we do about it? only what we're doing now. Who believes it's a problem? It's only a problem for me, you see... I'll go out on a limb here and boldly claim that an inelastic money supply is better than an elastic money supply. Inflation/Deflation is moot. Or, if you really want to get to the root the ideology; free markets in money are better than regulated markets in money.Free market money tends toward using commodities such as gold and bitcoin, which are inelastic, which tend toward deflation (in a growing economy). So deflation isn't "better" so much as unregulated money is better.Stable prices are an illusion; relative prices will always change even though the cpi might be stable. Prices are not stable by their very nature. Why do you want to fix nominal prices? Is it really that important? We seem to be getting by today with constantly changing prices, what's the problem you're trying to solve?People seem to have a real fetish for this "stable prices" dogmahttp://www.economicenquiry.com/archives/75feedback?
... and they get to spend the new money too! ;-) This might account for about %5 of it. You'll have to pull the exchange rate from the server. cross site ajax requests aren't allowed by the browser. Assuming a fixed money supply and fixed population, price deflation can only be the result of economic growth.so...economy grows     <-   people spend         <-   price inflation   |                                                   ^   V                                                   |price deflation   ->   people don't spend   ->   economy contracts...get it?This is called negative feedback and it results in a stable system. This is the bitcoin economy. I expect that in 2 years, yield from transactions fees will be much higher. This should mitigate some of the disruption caused by the reward decrease.If txfees are on average 0.001BTC and there are 100,000 transactions every block, that's 100BTC just in txfees.If there are sill no fees being paid in 2 years then I would worry about the viability of the txfee market and that of bitcoin. Mining bitcoin with a CPU is a tragic waste of societies resources. Do you mop your floor with a paintbrush?Otherwise, cool idea! ___brainstorm___why can't this work just like bitcoin, with the following additions:transactions can include an extra parameter of a domain name as well as any namecoins.you transfer/update a domain by "spending" it do an address with an appropriate fee for the miner. To update/renew a domain you spend it to your own address. To transfer you spend it to someone else's.claim new domains by transferring a domain that isn't taken to one of you own addresses. Problem: how to stop spam-claimers.domains expire after not being transfered for a year and are then claimable by anyone.miners sell their generated namecoins (probably for bitcoins :-) ) and people can use them to get their domain encoded in the blockchain.people can trade namecoins just like bitcoins. Lol, You say that about everything! :-) Actually, there are 2^160 possible addresses. Generate all flippin' day!There are 100 pre-generated addresses in the keypool by default. This is probably what you were reading about.Good luck with your business. It's great to see the economy growing :-) Rates? You mean the on average 0.01BTC fee that miners get for each block? I don't see fees affecting the price. Not yet anyway.Perhaps you mean the ask price that miners set on the exchanges when they sell? This price is not dependent on the difficulty but rather the current market rate driven by supply and demand.Difficulty is not the only variable determining profitability. Profitability could well go up despite an increased difficulty.The answer to the question "do I buy or do I mine?" is a function of the profitability of mining, not the difficulty.I will concede that a low profitability could affect more buyers in the market, bidding up prices. Well if it's for fun, that's cool. Though, it is ridiculously cheap! Hell, I'll give you 1BTC if you want; save you writing 10,000 lines ;-)I'm currently writing code and charging tens of BTCs per hour. No. regardless of difficulty, the number of bitcoins pumped into the market by mining remains the same. The cost of running a rig doesn't change because of difficulty, only the profitability does. Can you explain the mechanism by which an increased difficulty drives up price?1. increased difficulty.2. miners sell.3. 4. price goes up.5. profit! difficulty drives price? wat? That is a super cheap rate!You have to write 10000 lines of code to earn 10BTC! At the current rate 1:1 with USD, this is nothing, unless you live in a really poor country.How do you rationalise this? Just curious. I would agree with that. Inflation is wealth redistribution which, if you believe that the market allocates capital most efficiently, is definitely pareto inefficient.I don't understand. The Pareto efficiency theory is not specific to any monetary system, as far as I can tell. So, yes?If bitcoin reaches market saturation then who cares about late adopters. There's already maximum adoption!Once again, if bitcoins are never spent and there are no new investments, then where does the exponential growth, which makes hording so lucrative, come from? This is a self contradicting argument. Don't you see the negative feedback loop?This may be an incentive to start a new blockchain. It doesn't mean it's a good idea. Best of luck to them.Bitcoin has value in that it is probably the best form of money in existence. This is the only reason people are using it now. Proof of work is the cost of maintaining the money system. Taxes and bank fees are not marketable goods either.I don't quite understand how your system is supposed to work, but some important problems come to mind:- How do you agorithmicaly match inflation with economic growth? (I don't think you can just using the blockchain as input)- Allowing miners to set inflation policy is a big fat conflict of interest.I don't think you understand the benefits of a fixed money supply system. Look at the arguments that gold standard advocates make. Bitcoin is great as it is. "In my world Governments are there to counter act the necessity of capitalism"It's government favors that enable corporate tyranny."Governments can put money where no company or individual would. Cheap energy that no company would invest in because there is no profit"If there's no profit, doesn't that make it expensive? If it was cheaper, the private sector would do it. Government robbing the private sector to "invest" money for us is only counter productive. The free market is best at allocating capital; the government throws money down the sink hole, making us all poorer."But Governments can force Corporations to adapt or die."Governments have a really good track record of doing the opposite. Granting de-facto monopolies and making laws which create barriers to entry and favor specific industries (lobbyists). What will force corporations to "adapt or die" is competing in a free market. If I don't think [what?] is a problem? I know I'm supposed to read the referenced literature (tl;dr), but you could at least restate "the problem" in your post, for clarity.I think the problem you're addressing is the "deflationary spiral" theory; because bitcoin is appreciating in value so fast, no one will spend it. Well, this theory is self contradictory and, as such, a myth, which I shall debunk ONCE AND FOR ALL!In an economy with fixed money supply, deflation is a direct function of economic growth.No growth = stable prices.Growth = falling prices.Contraction = rising prices.The value of bitcoin is fundamentally a function of the number of bitcoin in circulation over the total value of good and services available for bitcoin. If nobody spends their bitcoin, because they rise in value so fast, then people will stop offering goods and services for them, or they'll lower their prices and encourage sales. If the former happens then the value of bitcoin will go down; people stop hording and spend them. So, logically, if people don't spend their bitcoins then they'll spend them?!?! If the later happens then the economy putters along as normal with lower prices and increased sales.To be more concise: The economy is either growing or it isn't. If deflation retards economic growth then prices must rise ( in an economy with fixed money supply ). prices can't rise and fall at the same time. So, you see we have a control system with negative a feed back loop not the positive feedback loop that the deflationary spiral envisions. This is inherently stable/sustainable.deflation is not a problem! Well, that's my theory anyway.like bitcoin ;-) One problem: how does anyone know if a note has been redeemed already?This has definitely been discussed in the forums before. Try doing a search and see what they came up with.A simple solution is for a bank to issue it's own notes backed by bitcoins. Free Banking style. BlockStock I think many here would agree that the drug prohibition AND the public health care system need to go.I Australia, the government steals our money, takes a huge cut and then rations it back out to us in the form of health care. Then taxes the shit out of cigarettes (500%) because smokers are a drain on the health care system and smoking is "bad" (similar for alcohol). I didn't ask for you health care, your moral righteousness or your taxes. Fucking government!/rant
I'm a contractor who needs a bit of extra work at the moment. HTML/CSS/JS are my thing! I'm really good at turning PSD into clean HTML and web related work in general. I'm not a graphic designer, though, but I have a contact that I can subcontract. Or perhaps you can get someone else to produce a psd.Coding in any language is cool with me. I'm also happy to do any continuing work you might have.Please contact if interested.daniel@artemis.mine.nu Openness is fine and so is competition. But forced openness is counterproductive, as is discouraging competition and entrepreneurship. On the contrary, this competitive behavior is exactly what makes a healthy market work. Is competition and trade secrets stifling the growth of the computer industry?Greed is good. I say MORE COMPETITION! Let the games begin! Someone should put this guy's theories to the test and isolate a bunch of people on a planet with nothing but the resources on it.  As their food sources are depleted, their value will rise and I'm sure that before they starve they'll discover new sources of nourishment they didn't know existed before and they'll be better off than ever.A bucket of water and a sandwich are insufficient to sustain one human. you're argument does not follow. Give one man a plot of land and some seeds and we might have a valid analogy. You: "a contract is information. IP is information. therefore any argument used against IP can be used against contracts."What kind of logical fallacy is this?Contracts and IP, though having a common property of being "informational" or abstract, are none the less different things. A contract is agreed upon by consenting parties. IP is not.The sun is yellow. A banana is also yellow. Therefore I can eat the sun. non-sequitur. Cool. I also program (PHP, javascript, sql). I'm happy to do any coding job for BTC. Thanks for keeping me in mind. xyz: Hi I would like a loan of XBTC, will repay YBTC.abc: Sure, here's XBTC.later...xyz: here is your YBTC back.abc: thank you. I and the other forum members will surely trust you now, xyz.xyz == abc. Problem? I sent a private message with my pgp key.I don't have any windows installs and skype on linux is crap, plus I hate skype.Note that I'm not a graphic designer. I can style a web page to look like anything (within reason), but I can't design logos or fancy textures. I might be able to subcontract such work, though. I'm serious about the job. the code in now xhtml complient:http://validator.w3.org/check?uri=artemis.mine.nu&charset=%28detect+automatically%29&doctype=Inline&group=0The page is blank because it's ONLY a layout. It's just to show that I can code. I'll make it look however you want and add layouts for the pages you mentioned (shopping cart, store front etc) if you agree to do business.Please email me. I don't have skype.  Here's a rough sketch I whipped up as a demonstration:http://artemis.mine.nuTell me how you want it changed. Of course, colors and other styles will be added if your interested in making a trade.you can contact me at:daniel@artemis.mine.nu Not fair; It's Saturday here, damn it (Sydney)! Could you be a bit more descriptive? What exactly is a faceplate? Do you just want a proper layout/template for your site? Do you want a logo designed? There's nothing to work with on your existing site; you just have a menu and a grey box.I'm good with html/css and am interested (for 600BTC! :-P~). That's true now, but in the future I expect code that provides an easy interface to managing the withholding of transactions to be ubiquitous.Also, it seems to me that in the future, any node that relays all transactions would almost certainly be generating. If you're going to invest in bandwidth and hardware to maintain a copy of the blockchain, you'd be crazy to not also generate. Will there be any non-miner relays?Sorry to belabor the point. I may be way off target here. viral marketing in action! This process will accelerate, IMHO. This.As long as the government allows the market to function, which it probably won't.Future technology in energy is also a very significant, but rarely considered factor. The market will innovate where needed. What you guys seem to be saying is that there isn't anything to stop (no disincentive) miners from withholding transactions, but it's okay, because they will be well connected and get the transactions anyway. Won't this result in bottlenecks at the nodes that do actually transmit all transactions?What are these non-miner relays? All transactions are encoded into the block chain. You could conceivable write a program which reads the chain and extracts this information. Such a program may already exist. Try digging though this web site:http://bitcoincharts.comAlso, consider that this number does not accurately represent economic activity, as many of these transactions are from people "paying themselves" or moving money between wallets, getting payed out from a mining pool, etc. Not necessarily trading goods and services.Lost bitcoins are lost forever. Since bitcoin is infinitely divisible, this is not a problem for the currency. Lost bitcoins just increase the value of the existing bitcoins; monetary deflation. Backup your wallet!I don't see how lost bitcoins would affect the liquidity. I'm not sure if this has been discussed. I couldn't find anything in the forums.What is to stop miners from withholding transactions from their peers to keep the transactions fees for themselves? They could keep transactions with high fees and only transmit them after they solve a block, thus gaining an advantage.Sure, any single transaction is transmitted to multiple miners, but if lots of miners start engaging in this behavior, then it's conceivable that honest miners will be missing out on lucrative transaction fees.How do you guys see this scenario playing out? I think you'll need to be clearer. What are you selling exactly? China, as in dish-ware?I'm not personally interested in buying anything, but if anyone is, you'll probably need to give them some more details about your business. Hmmm... I'm interested in buying this 5970. how much?
Every time you make a sale, create a new address and match this address to the record of sale in a database.Otherwise you can give the new address a unique "account name" that identifies the sale so you can then match this up with the payment. This would be fine if you're making only a few sales a day. Totally manageable. For larger businesses, you really need a database of some sort.Some people have coded bitcoin shopping cart modules for CMSs like Joomla. This might be helpful. I haven't looked into it though.I can write some customised code and create a database for you for a BTC fee.You definitely want to create a new address for each sale. This will help you for dodging tax if you're audited and I don't know if there's an easy way to identify a payer otherwise. I am experienced in html/css. I've styled many web pages from designer templates (not a designer myself). I've never used Wordpress but am experienced with Drupal and Joomla.I'm sure I can solve your problems, but like 左, I would need to see the site. Fixing the slider module is an issue that may require access to the web host or a copy of your site to work on. Unless it's just another css issue. Bitcoins are infinitely divisible. The protocol currently supports 8 decimal places and can easily extended to support as many as needed.This has been discussed thoroughly before in the forums. The blockchain? Revertible transactions and fraud management inherit in established online payment mechanisms drive up the cost of transactions, which is precisely what makes micro-transactions infeasible.Online payment is hard... because you insist on making it hard. Use bitcoin :-)I didn't read the article, though. Business will fail? but won't that reduce the supply of goods driving prices back up?In a fixed money supply system, deflation is a consequence of growth; the economy is more efficient at creating goods, so prices go down. This is good!In our fractional reserve system, the banks multiply by 10 the money supply. When there is a recession they stop lending and the money supply can plummet back to 1x. This may be a very disruptive situation and some call it a spiral.The value of the money supply roughly equals the value of goods that can be bought with it. If there is deflation and the economy is growing, then who cares, great. If there is deflation and the economy is contracting then deflation will stop, people will spend more, shazam! It's a self stabilizing system.In any case, the problem with deflation is entirely attributable to the fractional reserve system. Inflation is just an excuse for big government. That's it. What if an outpoint never gets spent, such as with lost coins. Will this create a kind of memory leak of transactions that can never be discarded? Is this a significant problem if at all? really? I found the description of INTP to fit me with incredible precision, after being classified as such. And it's obvious to me that INTP would love something like bitcoin.It's really just a way of classifying personality types. Some may fit these classifications rather strongly and some may not be so polarized in all of the four dimensions. Just looks like exponential growth to me.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exponential_growththe more people that know about bitcoin, the more people will find out about bitcoin => exponential growth. expect more. because your proud of something abstract or because the graph looks phallic?  Just email it to her and she can print it. Seems like a much easier/cheaper solution that finding an out-of-print book and then messing around with shipping, etc. I think you're greatly underestimating the growth of the bitcoin economy. the monetary inflation of bitcoin is NOTHING compared with the growth in demand. Growth is exponential at this stage because economic growth is proportional to economic size: The more bitcoin is used, the more people will want to use it. This is true because bitcoin is awesome, as we all know.Sure, there will be double the amount of coins in 2 years (or whatever the numbers are), but there will be hundreds of times the current demand as well. Just look at how the value has increased over the last few months. You think this will likely flatten out, I think it's much more likely that it will accelerate even more and continue to do so, almost until bitcoin is universally adopted. Unless, of course there is some terrible catastrophe which sends the value of bitcoin to zero. Sure it does; it shows a non-linear correlation. @ geneWhen you take away resources from the private sector to fund whatever socialist/liberal policy you advocate, you're destroying the potential of the highly creative force of the free market to use those resources to provide what society need in the most efficient manner.If the government was to tax the private sector to prop up the depressed steel industry, it would be starving the economy of those resources which are needed in other industries. Specifically, in industries that the market has favored over steel. If steel is failing it means that the economy thinks steel is not as important as other things, economic problems or not.There is no positive feedback mechanism; there is a negative feedback mechanism. The steel industry will contract to meet the needs of the reduced market. This is a stable process/system.Private sector would do it better, and if not, then it means there were more important uses for those funds.So what you're describing is the government forcing people to pay for research in X so they can reap the rewards of X. But who are you to decide that people need/want X? Better to let them spend money where they see fit. This is also more democratic as you vote with your wallet.Centrally planning the economy always ends up hurting it. lol. I thought the op's quote was from a woman and meant to point out "her" hypocrisy in criticizing dualistic notions. Without dark there could be no light. Without stupid men there would be no smart women. It's called duality. We create the world of opposites in our mind. Absent that, is pure love.Why do you address this at Anarcho-Capitalists? A cheap solution could be to store your "savings" in an offline "vault" and keep smaller amounts in your online client for day to day spending. this limits your risk. sweet! now do one for Bitcoin. :-) dodecahedron scheme for the win! it's not like the sphere scheme; the corners are cut off. What are the unintended consequences? Any convolution of the protocol runs the risk of compromising the whole system. It's not worth it.Sure some ideas are interesting, but people need to stop having nerd-gassims over it and stick with the game plan.I think it would be prudent to do as much as possible to prevent integrating other systems into bitcoin. Bitcoin should be kept as simple as possible. If you want to do some freaky shit, just start another blockchain.
Not if 1.5BTC is worth $100, as it may well be in [how many?] years. IP is essentially the ownership of abstract patterns. To say you own something that exists, only in an abstract sense, is absurd. An Idea is a pattern of thought. How can you own that and how can you restrict someone else's freedom to follow that pattern.The idea that you can own a pattern just because you thought of it is asinine. Did you think of it in an intellectual vacuum? Were you born an a back box and somehow were inspired with this idea?There is no historical precedent that I know of to justify the case that intellectual property promotes growth. In fact I strongly believe otherwise.  "Intrinsic value" means something. Otherwise the label would be pointless; a synonym for "nothing".Perhaps this is what is meant by "intrinsic value" Global trade is GOOD. Global government is BAD.Government should as be decentralized as possible and limited in scope; it certainly shouldn't be involved in ANY economic activity. The higher the value of bitcoins the more lucrative generation becomes. It makes sense that the value of bitcoin drives the difficulty.This will be the case as long as there is a 50BTC reward for generating a block. When it moves to transaction fees, it's a different story. Watch out for copyrights! "You wouldn't copy a car would you?" ;-) Think of your deposits as an investment with the understanding that the bank will lend out your (and others) deposits to provide capital for business and pay you interest. Now if there is a bank run (the bank becomes insolvent) that's your problem for making a bad investment. You should have picked a better bank or found another way to invest your savings. The tendency to collapse is there, but this doesn't mean it should be banned; you might as well ban the stock market.This becomes a dangerous scam when you introduce the central bank into the system. Now banks don't have to worry about risk so much, because the central bank can always give them a loan to cover excessive withdrawals (printing money). Now banks can reduce their reserve requirements. Now customers don't need to shop around for a responsible bank; no chance of a run. With a central bank (also, deposit insurance has a similar effect), you've taken the capitalism out of banking; removed the market mechanisms.The end result is a distorted economy which is prone to gross malinvestment, leading to booms and busts and all sorts of economic chaos. Not to mention the theft of inflation, as banks have essentially passed on their risks to the savers. But fractional reserve banking is basically just an agreement between a group of people to pool their savings, earn interest and have the advantage of being able to pull out at any time.I had the same reaction, that's why I posted the link. Because the risk of banking has been essentially removed, people have forgotten how the system (FRB) even works and are ignorantly participating in the system.Of course, bitcoin fixes all these problems, which is why I like it so much :-) An interesting article I read recently on fractional reserve banking and libertarianism:http://www.anti-state.com/article.php?article_id=416I don't think FRB is inherently evil, it's the central banking system and money printing that's the real problem. Without the supply of and value of money (interest rates) being artificially manipulated buy a central authority, FRB is relatively harmless. I think he means the central bank :-) This is brilliant!In the future, when bock sizes are huge, this will save a lot of bandwidth and storage. Only one "server" node needs the blockchain and the fat bandwidth required to receive the flood of transactions. Many clients can then contribute to bitcoin without the need to pay for all that infrastructure multiple times. This means that small players can stay in the market and kind of solves the whole scaling problem. Awesome! I suppose you want the system enable you to sign your friends public keys and then store this on the network. Cool idea, but how would you prevent spam?Do you know about the Freenet Messaging System (FMS)? It's a spam and censorship resistant messaging system that runs on top of Freenet. It uses this trust system with "trust lists", you can trust identities and also trust their "list" on a scale between 0 and 100. Then you set a trust threshold for receiving messages from any given identity, thus preventing spam. It's pretty clever. Perhaps you could steal some ideas form this system. We came to a similar conclusion in this thread:http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1847.0;allMy concern is I don't see any inherent force that will stabilize transaction fees.Generators have the ability to accept any transactions they see fit as well as reject any block that doesn't adhere to their "ethics". The question is; will this game result in an oligopoly of price gouging generators, will it result in a dead market where no one generates or will some competing forces reach a common ground of a fair stable fee structure.I'm not smart enough to figure this out. I wish Satoshi would weigh in on this issue. I suspect he may have already envisioned the outcome. all of them... What's the interest on this? is it fixed?I suggest holding off payment for as long a possible. Inflation will soon eat it away. Thanks Bernanke. ;-) This has been happening on and off for a while. Check bitcoinexplorer and it's pretty clear whether it's legit activity or spam. I made a web site for this:bitswap.cz.ccIt's not very popular, but it's free to register and post, so it can't hurt. I don't disagree that there is a preservation motive to rival the profit motive, but I think that the profit motive is far more prevalent. Only some want to preserve the integrity of the chain, but everyone wants to make profit. As it is, contributing as an honest node is more profitable than attacking the network, but remove the incentive of fees and profit motivated generators become profit motivated attackers. Will the network be strong enough...It would only take one non zero transaction to cut out the freeloading spammers. A generator could inject one himself, which would force clients to match it or come close. Anyway, da2ce7 has me half convinced that miners should be imposing their own rules on the blocks, forming a democracy. It's not like anyone can stop this anyway: A miner is always free to reject any block, for better or worse, for whatever reason it sees fit. So, I guess the conversation about block rules is moot and the question of how to keep fees up is in the hands of the mathematical (game theory) viability of the protocol. Has Satoshi already figured all of this out, I wonder? Well that's just fine. if there are no other fee paying transactions, the generator can accept the 0.751 and the 0 and still satisfy the rule, but he can't accept another 0 fee tx. Though, I now believe it is flawed for other reasons.This is an interesting, market based solution. Generators can stop competitors from undercutting them, by "voting" out blocks that don't adhere to their own customized rules. I'm not convinced that it is sustainable. It looks like a problem for game theory.If generators get too greedy, accepting all transactions, They run the risk that most of their peers will reject their hard work generating a block. If they reject blocks that their peers have accepted, they'll waste time working on a smaller block chain.If this sort of thing works, then miners should be doing it now! This will stop the spam problem: If miners start rejecting blocks that are too generous to spamers, we shouldn't need a block size limit. I suppose, though, that the block size limit IS an implementation of a voluntary rule. Though a rather primitive one, it's sufficient for now.Perhaps miners will converge to using an optimal rule, similar to what I've described and I'm trying to preempt this development. This definitely looks like the problem of finding an "optimal strategy" in game theory. All that is needed is a patch to allow for increased precision of transaction amounts. Bitcoins can be divided forever, loosing coins is not a problem at all, except for the person who loses them :-( I just feel that any motive other than profit, will not be good enough. I agree that profit is not the ONLY motive for generation as you have pointed out, but other incentives are just too weak and will result in too few generators. The network will be too weak and will surely fail.How high do you think the difficulty would be now, if there was not the 50BTC incentive to generate? I think it would be < 1000.No one has commented on my idea of placing a rule on fee distribution on blocks to prevent the acceptance of arbitrarily low fees.This forces clients to compete with each other for the current block, eliminates the need for a fixed block size (ie. fixes the spam problem) and scales to accommodate any number of transactions. If a spammer sends lots of small-to-zero fee transactions, only some of them, if any, will be accepted, because you can only include max 50% fees which are below the average. To include more smaller fees a generator will have to include more larger fees.Think about it, clients will compete and a stable market rate for fees will be established. Tiny fees, too far below the market rate will not be accepted soon and fees above the market rate will be guaranteed to be accepted in the current block. It's a simple protocol rule for generators which should be computationally cheap.Do you guys get this? Perhaps I haven't thought it through enough, it's just a proof of concept; the exact details can be refined. Does anyone have a reason that this can't work? Maybe it's just a really crap idea, but I would appreciate SOME feedback, please.
I agree with db on this. The issue can be put simply like this: the generator which accepts the lowest fees, makes the most profit. given any two generators with the same capacity.I don't quite understand da2ce7's post, but he seems to be implying that it's profitable "in the long run" to accept higher fees only. This seems flawed, because in the short run, such a generator will be the first to go out of business.I want to start thinking about solutions.One avenue might be to impose some sort of protocol restriction on the fee distribution of transactions in a block. In such a way that generators can't just include every little transaction in a block or else the network will reject it. For example, for a block to be valid, no more than half of the transactions in the block can have fees below the average fee for that block. So, if 10 transactions have a fee of 1BTC and 10 more have a fee of 0.5BTC the average is 0.75. Now half the fees are already below this so an additional transaction with a 0.5BTC fee cannot be accepted, but a 0.8BTC fee is okay. That's just an example, I'm not sure if it would actually work. How will the fees build up if the smaller generators are constantly processing them. there isn't going to be a sudden influx of high fee transactions... The large generators will simply be leaving all the profit to competitors. And if the competitors are snapping up any transaction no matter how small the fee, there is little incentive to pay a high fee in the first place. This is the problem: there is NO incentive to NOT accept every fee paying transaction, unless the fee is extremely small (ie. it costs more for the ram + cpu time than the value of the fee). Fundamentally, I think there has to be a built in cost for generators to process a fee and this cost must scale with economic activity.Adjusting the block size automatically is fine, if you can find a function that scales appropriately. This creates an artificial scarcity for transactions, so generators prioritize higher fees.We need more debate on this issue. This is a serious economic flaw. It seems to me that the spam issue and the txfee issue are related. Some want to limit the block size to stop spam and some want to limit it to create an artifical scarcity to drive up txfees.The problem, as I see it, is that there is NO incentive to NOT accept a fee paying transaction, unless it's ridiculously small. Once a generator has established his infrastructure, It costs a negligible amount to process a transaction. If you can impose some sort of protocol rule on blocks that makes smaller fee transactions less desirable, this would solve both problems.Automatically adjusting the block size is a solution, if you can find an algorithm that scales appropriately with economic activity. If set too high, there will be too much spam and transactions will be too cheap; generators will leave. If set too low, transactions will become very expensive and people will stop using bitcoin.Also, there is the idea of restricting the distribution of transactions fees in each block. Like mandating that a frequency distribution of fees fit a linear scale. I don't know if this is workable, I'm just throwing ideas around.So, I think that we need an incentive for generators to NOT accept fee paying transactions as they get smaller. I particular, build in some sort of fixed cost to processing a transaction, that adjusts with the market. Okay, I'm starting to like this idea. It could be a bit messy with blockchain splits, but it seems like it will work. I meant:"I'm pretty sure the computation time is linear with respect to data size, for hash functions"Anyway, as theymos pointed out, you only have to hash the transaction once, not on every attempt. So, this isn't a problem. how about making the max block size a function of the difficulty? If there are too few generators, then the max block size will decrease making transactions scarce. This will drive up the txfee and create incentive for new generators to enter the market. vice-versa. Ahhh, okay then. Thanks for the reassurance. Well it's pretty simple really, unless I'm missing something, or hashes don't actually work like I think they do. The more data you have to hash, the longer it will take to compute the hash. Makes sense right? I'm pretty sure the computation time is linear with respect to data size, so double the number of transactions and you double the time to compute the hash. This is a huge problem now, because why would anyone hash more than one transaction to generate a block. They get 50BTC either way, so you might as well just hash one transaction giving you the optimal hash/s.I hope I'm wrong about this, I'd really like more feedback from you guys. Perhaps we need a minimum block size or something. Are you sure? Given any difficulty, you still have to crunch the numbers to solve a block. The more transactions, the more numbers to crunch, thus the longer it takes to compute a given hash. I just thought of something. The time it takes to generate a hash if proportional to the number of transactions you're hashing, right? So, it'll take twice as long (on average) to generate a block with 1000 transactions as one with 500. You're not going to waste precious hasing time on small fee transactions, they'll just decrease your hash/s for negligible gain.Say for example, there are 999 transactions with 0.1 fee to process and one transaction with a 1BTC fee. It's more profitable to just process the one transaction and ignore the rest, because your hash/s will be 1000 times faster!Now if you have 10 transactions with a 1BTC fee, your best off processing all 10 of them, because there's a small overhead in processing a hash. But, including an 11th transactions for 0.9BTC fee probably won't be worth it. 0.99BTC fee, maybe. It depends on the size of the overhead.This implies that generators will only process the transactions with the highest fee! I'm still thinking through the implications of this. Ideas anyone? This is a bad idea. The generators will collude to keep the block size small; transactions scarce, gouging the market. Lack of centralized (government) control and fixed supply.I think that if bitcoin becomes widely adopted, it will severely mitigate the ability of government to raise revenue by force (tax and inflation). This will shrink the size of government and make it more accountable.No dependance on 3rd party for transactions.Bitcoin gives us a way out of the parasitic banking system and limits the ability of the government to monitor/audit our economic activity. This means it will be very difficult to regulate much of the economy leading to freer markets and therefore, greater economic growth. Taking away the power of the government to manipulate markets kills the incentive for corporate-government partnerships.Bitcoin is nothing short of revolutionary. Wouldn't it by much easier to, for example, put a 1 as the first bit of the 64bit int to indicate a 16bit shift in the interpretation of the remaining bits?so if I have 0000 ... 000110101 coins this could also be represented by 1000 ... 0001101010000000000000000, but now I have 16 more bits of low range precision.It's not like the first bit will be used for anything else. no one will ever have 2^64 nanobitcoins. Alternatively you could change the precision after a agreed upon block number.This seems to me much easier that changing the integer size. Clients just need to have a consensus about the protocol change. I didn't read the thread, but you might be interested in the Netsukuku solution to distributed dns:http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Netsukuku#A_Netsukuku_Domain_Name_ArchitectureNetsukuku:http://netsukuku.freaknet.org/ I used e-forexgold to buy liberty reserve using bank transfer. It took 2 days to clear and cost me %5 in fees. Sweet! 17 BTC. thanks Bruce. ;-) Alex Jones didn't seem too enthusiastic about the plan. I would be cool if they actually pulled it off. Go one step further: artificial neural networks are probably going to surpass the capacity of their biological counter parts (humans). Eventually we'll have ANNs designing ANNs! Your Judges could themselves be computers.Sounds like a cool book. Have you read Necromancer? It explores the idea of purely digital individuals. I like the idea of OT cash backed by bitcoins.I suppose you can run an OT server on a TOR hidden server? Throwing TOR into the equation gives us a highly resilient system which that government can do little to shut down. Awesome!Philosophical Tangent...It seems that the growth of the internet and social networks is quickly out-pacing the ability of governments for control them. I think we are going to see some revolutionary shit in the next 10 years. Bitcoin is one example.I think that neural networks are going to be a huge thing. The internet will soon become I giant AI hive mind of neural networks and human integration with this system will become more sophisticated with direct brain-to-computer interfaces. We are becoming the internet; the next phase of evolution. cool shit! :-)
cpu generation is useless in terms of Mhash/s per Watt. You need to use GPUs. I suggest buying the cheapes pc possible that supports PCI Express 2 (the latest graphics card). That means the shit-est motherboard with PCIE2, 1GB ram and the, small cheap disk and the cheapest cpu that this MOBO supports. Don't get an i7, it's useless for generating; too inefficient.So, you need to find out the cheapest deal you can get for this system, figure out how many Mhash/s the GPU will yield, how much power it will consume and how much your electricity costs. then do the math to figure out the cost effectiveness.Try to get a motherboard which supports multiple graphics cards, for optimum cost effectiveness.If you base cost-effectiveness on the projected value of bitcoins, you'd be better of just buying bitcoins and holding them (cheaper).Also consider that building this system will contribute to the strength of the network.Keep in mind that difficulty will rise as the value of bitcoins rises. So the increasing difficulty is not really a factor to consider. What you want to do is maximise your Mhash/s per Watt. OMG! I developed a whole web site for exactly this puropse a month ago and nobody uses it. I didn't do a very good job of promoting it, I have to admit:www.bitswap.cz.ccI would be thrilled if you guys would use this site. If there is genuine interest, I'll be willing to invest more time into making improvements that anyone suggests.It's currently free to register and use. It was a fascinating debate, in any case. I really enjoyed the articulate posts detailing the role of speculators in the market. It was Educational for me. Hopefully Macho learned something too. BTC/difficulty chart would be interesting. You can receive transactions while your client is offline because they get stored in the block chain which you will download and check. All you need is your private key, which lies in your wallet.dat file.However, if you lose the .dat file, you lose the private key and therefore, cannot claim your transaction. This is why people want to pre-generate a bunch of keys to put in their backed up wallet, so that even if you lose your wallet, you can still reclaim your lost coins because the private keys your receiving with are in the backup.In short: you don't want to be sent transactions to keys that you haven't backed up. Anyway, I think that's how it works.I think there is also an issue with sending transactions and backups. biddingpond is an auction site. Bitswap is more like a job notice board.I'm sorry about the login problem. What happens when you try to log in? Did you try to register again? What login did you use? I don't see any new account in the database that could be yours.That's a great idea, but I have only 50 bitcoins and I can't really buy any with the problems at mtgox and bitcoinmarket. Pic will have to wait. Agreed. The reason for your impoverishment is due to the quasi-socialist government parasite sucking the wealth out of the economy with burdensome regulation on business, redistribution of wealth and a bloated corrupt bureaucracy which wastes social resources and produces nothing. The best thing is a truly free market and a small, limited scope government.I recommend the work of Milton Friedman. Check out his documentary series "Free To Choose", where he outlines the failings of socialism and government interference in the economy/markets. You guys ever listen to peter schiff? He'll tell you all about the coming inflation in the USA.www.youtube.com/user/schiffreportHe thinks the dollar is going to collapse and he makes a very good case for this.He'd probably think Bitcoin is awesome too. Cool!There was a bug in the login script. sorry about that. It should be working now. Please try again.I'll add a list of the 10 most recent offers on the home page. I'll also try my skill at designing a picture. Thanks for the feedback. Thanks for the tips. I agree that it doesn't look very good, I'm not a web designer, just a coder. But I'll try to improve the appearance.I don't think trust is a huge issue, because I'm not selling anything. It's a free service. You have nothing to lose by posting a notice. Though, I do intend to charge a small fee for posting if the site grows, but that's down the track.The reason I don't have SSL and a proper domain is because I'm a cheap ass and I don't want to invest money into this thing if it's not gonna get used. Would you use it if I fixed the various issues you mention (get a proper DN/SSL and fix the style)?It's hard to judge if there is a market for this thing and what features would be considered important or useful.Thanks for the advice.asdf I've created this websitebitswap.cz.ccIt's supposed to be for bitcoin users as a meeting/market place where people can trade their goods and services for bitcoins. I'm hoping that it will aid the growth of a robust bitcoin economy where people can easily find and trade a wider range of goods and services, thus increasing the value/utility of bitcoin. So far, no takers. So I thought I'd "plug it" in this forum.Perhaps it's not really what the community needs or wants right now, but if anyone wants to suggest any ideas or improvements/features that will make it more useful to them as a service, please let me know (contact@bitswap.cz.cc). Also, any ideas on promotion would be welcome. I've already added it to a few directories.asdf It's important to be clear whether we're talking about price deflation or monetary deflation. I think we can all agree that a stable supply (quantity) of money is economically ideal and under this environment, rising of falling prices are just a consequence of economic growth or contraction.I think we also agree that manipulation of the supply of money, whether it be by governments or banks, creates a misallocation of resources which destabilizes the economy making us poorer. hey guys! I just finished my bitcoin website:http://bitswap.cz.cc/It's sort of like a classifieds/craigslist thing. You post notices about things you want to buy or sell for bitcoins, indexed using tags (and perhaps later, by location). Please check it out.At the moment it's free, but I intend to start changing a small rate (bitcoins, of course) for notices in the future, if it takes off.I'm hoping this will help people trading bitcoins to get together and grow the economy.Any feedback is welcome:contact@bitswap.cz.cc As bitcoin scales to millions of transactions, the bandwidth requirements of running a generator are going to get quite large. I believe that keeping the transaction size as small as possible is the highest priority.The more competing generators of bitcoin, the better for it's stability, i guess. Bandwidth is going to be the greatest barrier to running a node. just insert "virtual" in front of all those words./debate It add nothing of substance to the topic...add nothing of substance to the topic...nothing of substancenothing. I'm working on a website to do just this. Basically you post notices about what you want of have and any other information you feel like including; essentially a notice board for bitcoin traders.It's encouraging to see interest in my project (albeit indirect). Hopefully I'll have it ready by next week. Voluntary in what sense? I can enter a contract with another condo if I like... So I have choice. Essentially, I see this as competition in governments; voting with your feet. If I am free to change my local government, then this is a voluntary system. This is a vision of decentralised of government, which I like.Really, we're just arguing about definitions. The condominium is not THE government, but it functions as a form of government: votes, taxes, laws, regulations, maintaining infrastructure, etc. So when I say that natural monopolies should be owned by the government, you actually agree with this, but have added decentralisation into the equation. I think you have it backwards my friend. The value of bitcoins will be determined primarily by demand. As demand increases the value will rise and the profitability of generating will adjust accordingly. So, as the number of generators increases, so does the difficulty, thus the profitability levels off at about the cost of electricity/hardware to do the generation.What you're forgetting is that the cost of generation (In electricity) changes. It depends on the difficulty. The profitability of generation will adjust according to demand/value.Satoshi has really thought this one through. How are these not natural monopolies? if you own the sewer system, then who's going to compete with you?What is a "neighborhood institution"? sounds like a local government... ;-)
