Of course the old investors will make the market more aggressive, but the main factors are the fear of missing out people will panic and buy bitcoin more that causes the price to spikes.  No it is not the end but it is the beginning instead, while the price is low this is  the beginning to bull run  again good thing when the price is at low level the opportunity is high to buy cheaper coins But when the price is high that's the beginning to make it lower.  Facebook must think twice before deciding because face book users usually are from young generation, and young generation would probably will adopt bitcoin because it's faster transaction, because of its has the edge among other currencies, if Facebook will not adopt the results would be devastating and it will be left behind.  Im very optimistic that bitcoin will go sky rocketing again and hopefully on that specific period of time the price become more reliable. And the growth will draw more investors and business to use it as the medium of payments because of P2P the transaction is economical compare to fiat money, faster and becoming more secure and safer.  This time is quite good for bitcoin because of stability because sometimes volatility will harm it's reputation, price correction and stability is sometimes good to the system  the price movement is slowly creeping but surely, hopefully when it bounce back the price is more reasonable and not artificially manipulated.  There are businesses in asia accept bitcoins as a medium of payment specially in some resort or tourist destination, because it is a very comfortable for their costumers to use  bitcoin than using dollars because  of risk bringing fiat currency. Bitcoin is faster and reliable and no boundaries.  Yeah volatile is is one of the aspects of bitcoin why investors are so hesitant, about bitcoin certainly for those not haven't tried yet will think of it. But if you look in totality you will amazed how bitcoins volatility benefits others in the process.  Yeah absolutely your right and as what intended to, borderless and P2P, is one of its characteristics in which I believe would bring it in that fame because its one of a kind.  If you develop your  own block chain is these also mean that you will adopt into the mean stream ? If development of your own it is difficult if you're system don't adopt with the mainstream or in the existence.  Yeah don't be emotional but rather you be scientific in approach that s why many  lost their money out of it, you not listen to some  Negative news instead study data why bitcoin price affected in such would you believe or not,  Yeah bitcoin is been  a while  for several years and been through for so many difficulties  and even experience a zero value but still persist.  As what I've look a heads in  coming years ahead bitcoin will be more safe and proliferate as what we had now, because of continuous development.  The government also have a point to to study and be hesitant about  bitcoin, as  part of the process, in implementing, laws but I think in the end up adaptation of bitcoin is as an ultimate decision.  When would that best time will be? I don't think so we gonna do it in a short span of time, and expecting more from cypto was just a mere fact that having stabilized market price nowadays is too hard to experience. And even though we see stabilized price, we tend to have at lower price and not that high expectations. There will be a massive price declination with bitcoin price if an globale economic crash will also going to happen, because our mode of spending money depends on the currency that we're using in a certain country. A lot of financial system will be affected and the entire world is always prone to experience the chaos. Yeah absolutely bitcoin is one of kind that the world needed for change it is more than  a business but I totality  a good innovative currency for  the future, lets promote it to the four corners of the world, being the independent currency no third-party involved and no boundaries.  Real money will still be the same but it will soon be merged with digital money and be more profitable due to more opportunities to come, since its being used for bigger investments of crypto. However the acceptance of crypto will eliminate the cash type basis, because more people will now use and prefer digitized form of payment and they're confident to use it due to convenient way.  This time  the government is so hesitant to adopt because of the different platform bitcoin and crypto currency had, but later on time the government some governments will adopt because it will become a norms and many countries  will also adopt it.  Yeah on line business is the edge on business, but if online business will use cryptocurrency it is  a good development and will increase the value of cryptocurrency and be more precious.  Its really hard if you compare 2017 to 2018, the disparity of both year's if you bought bitcoin in the  highest price then in 2018 market is quite not  good absolutely your loss 
As the time goes by bitcoin having ups and downs when it downs the reason is always breached of security that will elude security, 2018 is quite not good but the reason behind is hacking, in 2020 may be good for cryptocurrency because it is  the results of experiences for the past years.  As of now ots hard to speculate because cryptocurrencies  is still young but the time come some companies will invest, and use the technology fo this kind of online business, because as we know blockchain technology is more economical, agile and fast.  This a good and a big splash to the crypto market, because of these the system and integrity should be intensified and might be developed to minimized the incident of hacking.  There is no doubt that bad news will hampered bitcoin price because investors is very sensitive to any issues that  arises, for us as a believer we should, commit our selves not to believe what ever news arises, we shouldn't give  up and stand for good.   As for my poverty life two years ago, bitcoin provided me a sustainable asset which I called it precious than gold. I've gone lot of business from previous years that was around 3 years. It went low profit gains compared from bitcoin's potential earnings and this really saved me from burdens I had. In depends on how the state recognize a certain currency that circulates the entire nation. Somehow it cannot eliminate the usage of fiat money system, because it's very necessary specially it's a usual mode of payment used on both local and international transactions. Digital only exist with cryptocurrency patronizers but not the whole world. Those attempts is a good signs for us to be able to develop a perseverance towards reaching for the best price to come in the market trend. Set aside the worries, and instead of being worried for the bad things in crypto you expect more great changes to happen since bull run potentially will make every person wealthy in the future. I agree that this was just a temporary situations, but it has a bad effects to other traders who happen to know crypto for the first time. Eventually they'll gaining knowledge through experience and not in a step by step trading activities with good movements. Hopefully everyone will benefit to that enjoyment after all, because once it happens many people will start putchasing bitcoin to fulfill their desires to have profit gains. Anonymous, decentralized, and centralized what so ever, it terms of money evil will take  it chances to take advantage  the only thing that we learn out of these are the development of security system to suppressed these evil deed and greed individuals the big question is the system capable of further development.  You're dedicated will not be unworthy in the next coming days of crypto mate, and those efforts will always be paid enough with such remarkable pumps. Many of us waited for the best changes which may arise with bitcoin and ethereum, and it just so happened bullish market still trapped. Alts also been struggling to pump, but I think plr and other coins is silently gaining good momentum so far. Most probably in the next generation a head of us, all fiat currency will be gone, because in the digital world fiat will  become obsolete and the currency become decentralized this is simply because in the near future people prepare to us crypto currency,  because it is fast and economical.  If you we will look back what is the trend last year we are a little bit behind schedule, during this time the bitcoin is in the bullish mode, absolutely this is the time to pump and start to bullish, the question is are we ready for the bullish  did we able reload our portfolio.  Today's price stagnation will need patience, because if you  really make a false move you might end up, losing and that is not option, but you also be vigilant because the price is very volatile there might be  a sudden swing, but for me as a believers of cryptocurrency while the price is at the bottom you should buy and dump at the right moment that's the basic strategy.  Being cool in this business is more likely successful it has been proven for several years, If you buy amount of BTC  in lower price you have been double your assets during the peak period, But it's often times you can buy lower price Bitcoin if you're were able buy while the price is in the bottom, your lucky enough. Because the possibility of going bullish for  the upcoming week s.  In that case of more volatility due to more people, it's not a big deal if that's the way bitcoin will become outstanding with it profitable aspects of demand. When there's a volatile situation it means people are actively doing trading. This helps the congestion eased and more orders will be sold, in order to bring fort to the circulation of supply towards the blockchain network. I hope everyone will shout out all over the social media, that holdling our asset right now makes price to gain better reputations which will make the market value profitable. If other people didn't have that faith that bull run will come?, let me tell you that I am part of those group who still positively see bull run will soon take over this 2018 market value. Everybody need to realize that bitcoin will always going to pump, and the reason for that stable price was just a part of the possible bull run. However, we just have to be focused on every aspects of a better potential price which our asset always tend to have. Expect for the best and prepare for the worst, because not all the time you're lucky enough to enjoy a good profit. Crypto's volatility could be possible as it always prone to happen after 5 years, and to that statement regarding difficulties of predictions, well I guess that's certain. We really don't know what will happen during that time, but maybe as bitcoin to develop an outstanding demand in the future years we'll be able to  enjoy how much profit will going make us lucky enough. Research is good, and right now I am still on what I see is I am going to believe for. Sometime we tend to have that frustrations become more rampant and very outrageous due to uncertain scenario that lingers on our mind, particular on wrong information. I that's the case with bitcoin for bull run, the big whales will not tell us but rather they would surprise without providing any particular signs. I think people learned from this kind scenarion, which definitely feed them with precautions so that it could prevent them from venturing any scam attempts leaded by fraudsters. If this continues to happen, many people will be a victim, and since were moving forward to bitcoin's progressive world there it comes this problem proliferated by those criminals using bitcoin as their tool to target victims.
Yeah they are prohibiting their citizens to participate some ICOs because of non regulated ICOs, which I think unfair because US is democratic country which means there's a free enterprise among their citizens,  then if their reasons behind is because of deregulation issue, then they should provide, and besides it is the own risk of the investors to invest.  Hopefully positive news will make the bitcoin price movement pimp up to encourage investors to get back and be more aggressive, because the more  the price deepen the more negative news will  grab it down.  Bull run is really an awaited if event this year in bitcoin if so happen. The sacrifices might be so intense but people wasn't giving up, since market now has behaved badly. This is a great rewarding period for the speculators, who been there spreading negative thoughts behind the crypto community. Bitcoin is circulating world wide as we know no boundaries  there's a vast opportunities that still  about to happen, If some countries neglect bitcoin there  are lots of countries who are willing to adopt because of its past and and economical transaction.  Being the pioneer of cryptocurrency no any altcoin's that can stand toe to toe bitcoin now a days, although lot coins exist in the market place but still it is still dependent with bitcoin, as a based currency, because bitcoin is being recognized all over the world.  I think the price is quite stable as of but what I have seen is no major set back but maintaining its level and not showing sign of strength, If you compare it from last year until you cannot predict because as we know bitcoins price is very volatile, anything is possible.  There is no other mean of communication media that bitcoin detractors to express their opposition against bitcoin, if we can hear a news which is one sided and all  the contents is bad news that is fake and block propaganda, because real news should always balance and based on fact and correct data presented.  Yes, it's not fluctuating but as I seen with the current value it has stabilized but not increasing more than $6.5k which hinders the traders to invest for much higher expectations. Anyways there's much chances for everybody in sooner time, and the timeline is our best possible hope in achieving that goals for bitcoin as gaining the solid value. Yeah absolutely  if you hold bitcoin it will contribute price alleviate the price and bitcoin's become more precious, because, the bitcoin circulation remain the same never increasing nor decreasing, if someone body dump it will just transferred to another holder.  As long as you're doing legit to your local transactions, specially on local exchange on a certain country it's not a big deal to prohibit or legalize cryptocurrency. Because, like as what my country did towards local exchange it was already been affiliated with bank transaction and this is really a good business which will bring better impact to the country's economy. Yes, this will become stronger as it fluctuates during unpredicatable market. Right now it stabilized this few days of the start of October, so we will he seeing much better progress during the recovery period. If Bitcoin will be stronger, hopefully people also who have good trading skills should learn to be strong and equipped with better skills. To add up with your opinion buddy, the efforts that we've been exerted towards bitcoin's journey will come to the bottom line of all things that matter's most which is our holdings. As we grow more stronger with our decisions and when bitcoin will be adopted locally and globally specially with banking future, no wonder this become's a strong foundations of our financial growth. Digital and fiat cash exchanges will be more prominent and popular, so more people will become much interested with bitcoin as their biggest asset in life. If  the banking system will fail to recover some  of their loans or they approve loans to some institutions to whom won't able to pay back it would be a big problem, for  sure there is an economic turmoil. Bitcoin and the cryptocurrency  would be the other alternatives that might correct the short coming of the banking system. Because of the technology development their might be a crypto banking system that will correct economic in balance.   ICOS now a days is quite in bad shape but  there are ICOs even against all odds will  definitely surface because of it's integrity and the functioning products and services are really profitable and truly manage by the team of experts that  what's makes more valuable.  Absolutely you should be more wiser in dealing with cryptocurrency, loosing is not an option, If your foundations is weak or you don't have patience you are not  meant for  cryptocurrency business. Every situation in cryptocurrency is an opportunity when the market is red that is the time to reload your portfolio when the prices is green that's a harvest seasons  as simple as that, just rely to the system because it's been for a while the system is still strong.  I think that's impossible to gain that big at daily basis mate. We must learn to observe our coins buy and sell order before estimation of possible profit. If we find it an increasing demand of our holdings, it could have the possibility that we will be earning much higher than 10%. When bull run comes the possible 10% profit could be daily, because the marketplace is on live trading and you could actually point out better trading gains. Everything we say about crypto currency they is a mere speculation even those who claim to be expert who knows   everything about currency is unreliable, because this is just simple as it is that even now they don't know about Satoshi Nakamoto who the founder of Blockchain and bitcoin. Because in crypto world everything will happen. Blockchain technology is unique and unpredictable.  As we all know people's who are always positive and risk taker will  always successful in business or any other undertaking. Tom Lee predictions as I looked at it is still achievable because as we know bitcoins price is very volatile anything can happen from bearish to bullish if Tom Lee is very positive enough then he had foreseen a possible scenario that is why he had predicted.  Hodling is a motivation already, because all of us needs a better and profitable gains on our assets. Skyrocket price can be attained if we trust our holdings capabilities, and as long as you know the community of your coin it's not a problem. In every community of crypto there's a roadmap to look over so definitely you're binded to it if you're choosing to hold your coins for longer terms. Be strong enough and never be intimidated with some fluctuations. There's no fixed profit that will rise eventually in the future, and these people who just joined investments of cryptocurrency, didn't actually learned the risk and benefits of crypto. Given to that random investments for a specific projects which has an involvement of crypto, it doesn't mean all of them can be trusted. Most of them we're scam, and only selected one can be considered future profit gainers. To be careful is somewhat a knowledge learned from a certain mistakes, and hopefully we can deal with it with the next projects to join with.
Yeah I had also observe that situations mate, many people didn't want to sell their asset just because they've been expecting and hoping a lot with bitcoin. To add up an opinion with the declining btc price, it was being trapped by most panic seller who happened to be afraid of possible next crash of btc. Certainly I will encourage them to stop that mentality, because if btc will crash it could not be stable for the past few months and as the market fluctuates new demand still coming in. If I would seek for better opportunity, I would be preferring to buy coins at cheaper value right now and I wouldn't mind those negative feedbacks about the market. Bearish will always be bearish and we can't do something about it, because it all depends on how the demand increase so far. When there's a better opportunity, we should grab it and don't let it go for nothing. We need to change a lot of mind settings we had compared from previous principles that we've got. If we're in downfall right now we need to to stand out and be courageous specially when we're seeing that our holdings wasn't developing. Pursue your dreams on crypto and just hold on and nevermind those haters, because I know someday we'll survive the current struggles that we're facing right now. The decision is all a matter of perspective and as we invest with bitcoin, lots of challenges will give us emotional battles. You'll be stressed out over the risk that our asset has been facing during the market bearish trend. For us to sustain for better future, think more times and if you come up at optimum mindset choose to wait rather than letting it dump. This isn't a certain info to be feed on our minds right now, and with respect to the statements that due to other country's prohibitions really had affected the suppression of potential $20K hit this year. However, even how worst the situation is we still managed to overcome our frustrations over it. If this  is the status absolutely bitcoin and blockchain technology will proliferate  as time goes by, or sooner  it will be more rapidly gaining popularity and will create demand, because if you use bitcoin the transaction is faster and economical that is why it will draw soo much attention to the business community.  Forkdelta can be trusted same as etherdelta did for so long time. We can trade both of them safely as long as you have kept your private key personally, and never expose it with online social media. We don't need tutorials upon the transactions is performed, because their web exchange was having user friendly set -up that will help us learn faster. Yeah daily trading is really profitable because the price seems in a roller coaster ride, if your skillfully enough to do daily trading it is the time that you can earn more because of the price trend seems profitable for daily trading, but for those who don't have an ample time to do trading or people who has a permanent job you don't have  any choice but long-term trading which is also profitable in huge impact on profitability.  Yes that would be a great idea to look forward for mate, let's end those blaming or speculating about negative side which isn't certain for bitcoin because it really make the situations more worst in crypto. In order to help the community grow much stronger we must find better ways to improve our situations right now, and I think changing or diverting every negative mind settings into a brilliant thinking that will help alleviate crypto reputations to 100% trustworthy.    This is a huge problem that we're facing right now, and based on graphical chart trend it cannot be predicted by just how we judge it. There maybe spikes to swing around the price, and as bull trapped by the bearish market I think it needs a lot of patience for everybody in order to overcome this challenges. Certainly it will recover at a right time, well just have to wait. Actually we can't force the market to be stabilized since the bearish trend still moves aggressively. We might see those prices fluctuations kept behaving like roller coasters, but tries to recover eventually. But the main thing here was those panic sellers were not gaining courage to face the current challenge. Most of these people dump coins without even thinking the negative effects. It's not a right mindset for those people who misjudged bitcoin in that kind of scenario, because so far buying demand also grabbed the chance while price was still cheaper. By the time price went up very high, traders couldn't easily buy bitcoin for an expensive value. Always think selling at high and buying at low, so we can contribute to bitcoin's recovery period. There will be a huge demand increase from a lot of traders who used to discover how important bitcoin as an asset. Hopefully we'll be able to see the better effect on our lives, since the market tries to recover day by day yet struggles with the bearish market. Good news will spread around the globe and then it creates positive impact once this ETF will be successful and surely price increase will follow through. Yeah that's right mate, we need to have a stronger team up with bounty participants with their legit support. Although it's not a major focus, the huge marketing plan should be able to have well balanced involvement. Some participants of the bounty doesn't prioritize serious campaign support, so it must be monitored well in order to be the first priority specially those who did signature campaigns and other type of bounty jobs. Selecting those ICO should be in strong and vigilant resources, because as I've noticed most of the projects right now weren't able to become transparent to investors. Upon observations on some platforms, they've been showing up their progress on their website particular on the pre-sale and main sale fund collected. With that strategy, investors and bounty hunters will continue to support the project and yet more new interested people will be wiling to have engagement for the project. Yeah there's no rigorous pumping this hopefully it will just move up gradually and take it little by little but surely no so much correction happens, but in the end of this year we can expect to pump rigorously because many will  buy because of the possibility of a sporadic spikes due to big demand.  Good thing to know that bitcoin has a bigger opportunity for improvement, because it is  cryptocurrency currency and driven computer network, you can put some security features to enhance security level of the technology.  For me everything is  possible because of its volatility in a single minute it will pump or might go back to the lower price ever that the worse things to happen to it, but ever since if we look at the history bitcoin never missed as what is predicted.  Yeah absolutely we should stay positive what  ever happen, because for several years bitcoin price never missed to surprise users and patrons there are lots of who are benefited for holding quite long, for unless the price only deepened but the system still exist and the integrity still there.  What ever the tax category  it may fall they should provide a law on how  to cater taxation that is fair and just to the users and the government because as a citizen we are duty bound to pay taxes, Because those taxes will return to us in form of services. 
Yeah everything is possible because bitcoin is very volatile  in just a blink of an eye the price will suddenly shoot up to the moon but  what happening now is somehow will start to stabilize, the price movement is trying to move slowly but surely. Hopefully in the end of the year  it reaches to the highest level in gradual manner.  Every currency can be used in some criminals activities, in cryptocurrency form or in fiat because we don't have control over it criminal mind is always look for an opportunity to do illegal activities all form currency js no exception,so don't be bother with  this issue.because money is a source of evil.  Being decentralized in nature it is difficult to find stability specially when the approach and applications usually like a block market  system, in which the Investors will buy and  sell in short time period.  Everything is possible in this market place big recover and big dropped it seems normal, many think that  big whales is making big wave to manipulate the price but for me personally it just the demand versus supply  usually matters.  As per experience with cryptocurrency for the last year's pumps, I could view it exactly as unpredicatable, because it do stabilized at random stages but suddenly we can't expect it to fall into unexpected price. By the time bitcoin hits at good and top highest price, I seen other cryptocurrency also gaining a huge profitable value in the marketplace so as stabilized price. Partly that's right mate, we can't be sure at anytime that those cryptocurrency to choose for was certain at least you'll be there to face challenges along with altcoins journey. Be strong enough to handle stress and I know the future is there to reward you. The only thing change is only  the price,  the important things is the system integrity is still there the chance of bounces back is very near in the future, just trust your investment into the system because price is natural to go up and down because it is normal and many will  take advantage in ever price movement, buying while the price is low and sell when it goes up.  Because Russia understand how resilient bitcoin how fast  and reliable currency if your country many bitcoin currency  circulating it mean also that  your country economy is doing well because the economy will evolve because your will have a buying power it will generate jobs and provide people good income.  There ICOs that ate really against all odds will  stand because of its working products that's  really essential to the the life of the people like product that would make life  easier products that promotes technology services and the likes, ICO's like those will  not depend on the price of cryptocurrency movement it become independent to the market trends because many will patronize their products due to need.  Hopefully we will see the good news to be uprising soon anytime this year, I don't even care it that would be december 31 but still this year right? The patience has been to a maximum tolerance here and we couldn't expect everyone to hold until next year if this wasn't a good idea to hang on with their motivations. If we see this bull run happening it can be towards next year 2019 we will experience this great surprises. Indeed, it's a great opportunity for myself to buy cheaper bids of coins and also for those who wanted to invest for a good price. This situation right now isn't alarming, because it's been happening since last year before the bull run of December initiated so far. I loved to see those prices goes down and now being grabbed by new interested buyer, but they need to be careful and should learn to control their emotions for them to avoid possible panic again. Same with me here my country also has no desired preference with Bitcoin as legally being associated as currency. But the most important thing for me now was, because of it's decentralized type as digital currency it remained to be untouchable. Even with countries who banned bitcoin, they had their anonymous involvement with cryptocurrency and transactions wise it can be done discreetly. As a positive motivations, I really hope and believe bull run could start soon. Not a matter of time or any situation it will really happen because the people were started to learn from other stories behind cryptocurrency holders who now started sharing their experiences with bitcoin. However it's not easy to handle things over specially when it involved a lot of money.  This  situation right now can be surpassed as long as you're  having dedicated goals in order for us to survive. We need not to worry of fluctuating effect of the price,  because by the time we will be able  to achieve  our goals we will earn what we been struggling of. Everybody should  learn and not rely on their fears,  because  if they remain to that mindset nothing  will happen but a failure.  I wasn't afraid of not happening yet, and I based all situations in reality so I won't be speculating for bad thoughts. If somebody or there's a group of traders in your community was afraid of such rumors behind us, we can encourage them to pursue for better chance of surviving during their struggles. Most of the people were afraid of price crashes and price downtrend period, but as the day went through we need to be more furious and braver enough to control our emotions. Yeah absolutely bank will always wanted to manipulate the the market place in a certain countries special in block market, now that  there's a new technology that would threat their unscrupulous system in which their aim is to acquire wealth more, as much ad possible they will make everything to pin down bitcoin and the blockchain.  Definitely blockchain technology is the great help for the third world countries specially when their economy is being manipulated by only few individuals because blockchain cannot be controlled by any individuals that why blockchain technology can give each and every one  a chance to create your own business and help others too.  Yes, definitely don't sell if there's a very higher chance that it could rise further and I am very happy that many people believed that bitcoin could reach that potentials even though the struggles of reaching very high value was there. It's been a long time since last January the roller coaster was still bouncing up and down, and day traders played a strong contributions why this happened actually, so I think Hodling was the best options to do for now as we faced the challenging situations. Definitely buying eth at this moment it dips to very low price same with what happened of last year's price outbreak, this moment right now should be grabbed. Considering the fact that this coin always has a very big potential to compete in the market in terms of profitability. Don't ever be afraid or panic while it took the dip, don't think of thus predictions being frustrated because there's no accurate or certain perceptions when it comes to crypto. Yeah absolutely not only Ethereum was affected by big dump last September 5 but also bitcoin as will Bitcoin 13% setback is so devastating, since start to climb to the 7k and it is gradually increasing. 
That's good if we buy neo and include it to our holdings, because of it's higher potential price in the future. Thankfully, I was happy that even we're at the bearish stage we still had the chance to grab cheaper coins price while the market was still turning down. Best opportunity is always there for us in order to provide us better future on our assets. The crypto community became  more aggressive During  the last  quarter of the year,  yeah because of the common speculation that price reaching 20k because of that their might be a panic buying, if its happen the prices would surely spikes.  This is not a general information to be worldwide announcement yet, and it's only specific for those countries who prevent or didn't want to adopt bitcoin. Their very strong reason was due to decentralize body of bitcoin which cannot be controlled by the government system which they're afraid of.  Will that affect the outcome of cryptocurrency compared last year? If so, if it is approved then what are the possible benefits that we can get from ETF in the crypto market? How would investors react then. Still, I am aiming for the success of bitcoin for the coming months not only in September but throughout the entire year and upcoming years. That's too bad to hear though. So is there any solution on how this things work out? To prevent those pretentious or pseudo members or whatsoever they call themselves. It is unjust if that keeps spreading their kind. Only getting tokens without effort at all. Small amounts at the start of the bets, and eventually it will become much higher in quantity due to more desires for winning. Losing streak can be more frustrating, when that eagerness of winning the dice games can turns out a failure. When we play and wanted to enjoy, then go on and don't think for huge profit because there's no better strategy on pre-programmed online dice games. It was just only for the beginning, but in the long run you won't be able to sustain because it's getting harder to win when you're losing those profit little by little. This is a great opportunity for the gamblers to play their games during busy days, and good thing is it can be done right away through internet networks. Bitcoin for betting at casino could help promote gambling operations, into a convenient ways of handling your amusements. This bitcoin casino could gladly provide everybody the opportunity to grow their btc faster, and it has the advantages compared from other online gambling casinos. If that would be the scenario with India's support for online gambling, then it isn't a problem with the law regulations. Stepping forward is the best ways on how people could adapt in the same manner, that online gambling can be done without any negative image despite of how holy is the person on his religion. Having fun couldn't be stopped, as long as performed the right way. If that gambler is true to himself, and thinking for the future of his/her family quiting can be made easier. However it look like impossible when an addicted person, would prefer choosing the right path over the current struggles which could have been digging up for changes. Losses in gambling is a good instances, which every gambler needs to realize every time it happens when they used to gamble the same way. If it works smoothly in tethered connection, then probably it has no problem with your mobile phone's system operation. You need to have a deep scanning or delete those silent running apps on it. Just continue the pc access using tethered mode, so that you'll enjoy playing your favorite sports online bets but after you've done with your activities; have time to clean up your mobile phone.  Being a winner doesn't need to be more aggressive, just enjoy the moment while you play for your favorite betting games. With regards to fiat gambling I guess crypto has more fun bets compared with fiat gambling, because there's a lot of options to choose and you could use small amounts of crypto to bet for. While in fiat gambling, you couldn't leave the game immediately due to more tempting offers like bonuses and other mind blowing rewards. In crypto it can be similarly happening, but you could decide immediately without any hesitations without the presence of real casino staffs. Eth now has the growing numbers of contracts specially when it come to trading, but most of the traders have their own stand for how they handle decisions. That's why we see more fluctuating price, and definitely it made the price dropped always. Eventually after the falling value other traders also holds their coins and wait again for another price spikes, then day traders will grab small price increase profit. If we invest more we could have more chances to experience a profitable gains. So keep that principle of holding your coins until such time it generates good value. The dedication that we been established is our inspirations towards successful trades, so keep on gripping to it and don't easily listen to those bad rumors behind. Having the keys to great achievements is a trusted strategy to fulfill those dreams you ever wanted. More people will have desires for cryptocurrency, and yet it's now gaining profitable price. Somehow it continues to recover day by day as we see the fluctuations roll over with the current situation that we're facing right now. Don't lose hope we'll close to what's been predicted over, and am sure everyone is waiting for that to happen. One of the major reason that i see why we experience set backs this year on the growth of price for bitcoin is no. 1.  black propaganda against it. No. 2.  is banning or control of the media or social against it that it's market has been restricted to grow further. and lastly is because of people who does not understand fully the nature of cryptocurrency and backs out in the first sign of price decrease. Peole believe in cryptocurrency and they will invest time effort and money on this because as we can see it is really profittable.  But we have to be extra careful because many ICOs are also just created to scam others. Lahat ng wallet ay prone sa hacking kung hindi tayu maingat so careful nalang everytime ma6 gagawin na transaction. Maganda na rin ng movement na ito. Pero hindi pa stable talaga hopefully mag increase pa all through this month of July at mabreak na ang barrier amount para maka palo na uli going to the moon. Malapit na ang ber month and im hoping actually madami ang nag hohope na mas mahigitan pa ang laki ng peak price of last year. Sana mangyari na ang inaasam ng lahat. Yes TRUST NO ONE here in cryptocurrency. Madali makakuha ng income dito if suswertihin ka pero madali lng din mag laho ang inyong pinagpaguran kong hindi ka nag iingat. lipana ang scammers hackers etc. kaya do transactions to trusted and legit people lng talaga. May mga cases na rin akong na encounter na ganito madami ang nagpapaadvice lalo na if bago natatakot sila baka na scam or nalimasan na sila kaya malaking bagay na na share mo ito para malaman ng lahat lalo na sa mga newbie.
Tama, nasa huli ang pagsisi talaga. Kahit gaano pa ka promising ang offer or kahit gaano ka legit tingnan ang isang ads or isang tao in this crypticurrency business you need not to trust anyone. Kasi pag na scam ka wla kang mababalikan ito ang downside of this industry naka record ang transaction pero wlang details kung sino, taga saan or of any important information lahat naka code name. so just be careful everyone. This is cryptocurrency world where we are all anonimous. Mas mababa pa ng presyo now and mas malaki ang chance na baba pa ito im saying na talagang sagaran ang presyo now compared to last kaya for sure madami ang nadedesappoint na ngayun. Pero alam ko malaki malaki din ang chance na makakarecover ito pag dating ng month of September. Personally gusto ko man gawin pero reading is not for me im more of raw personal and actual learnings tapos inaapply ko.. Right now dito sa pinas i dont think na may magagandang libro na naisulat regarding how how to effectively become a better entrepreneur or investor of cryptocurrency kasi for one new lng ang cyptocurrency sa ating bansa. and sa tingin ko if mag babasa ako ng aklat  which is written by a foreign person i dont think it is basically applicable for me and of the rules applied didto sa pilipinas and for the basic knowledge i think it is always better to learn form actual experiences than of hypothesis and experiences of other people or of the author.  Aside from that i find books very expensive.. so i make use of the net when i want to learn something especially in cryptocurrency. Sa ngayun puro palang espekyulasyon ang lahat. ang ating expectasyon sa pinaka mataas na presyo sa ngayun ay ang last year pa din so far hindi natin masasabi pa kung kayang higit o tapatan man lang ang last year na price this year hanggat hindi natatapos ng taon na ito hindi tayo makakapagsabi kung moon price ba ng last year or meron pang mas mahigit pa doon at sa tingin malaka pa nag potential ng bitcoin market kahit sa dinaranas nito na pagbagsak sa presyo kaya para sa akin ang last year highest price ay hindi pa ang moon price. Nararapat na dapat may magcontrol sana sa mga pag pasok ng icos ito ang pinaka ideal gawin pero hindi madali kasi a lot of work and money to create a system that would sole check and confirm the authentecity of a new ICO pero sana bigyan pansin at paraan ng mga kinauukulan para malimitahan kung hindi man ma sugpo ang scams. Helpful ito, but Sa tingin ko hindi applicable sa lahat ng tao lalo na sa mga hindi techie na mga tao nahihirapan kasi sila especially if they belong to the age brackets of 45 and above, most of this  age bracket are pretty serious when it comes to invesment but more often than not they did not have the same technology or social networks via the internet on their time so they really need to catch up..I have an experience na tumulong sa mga invitees ko on how  to set up their accoun on tweeter and facebook before and it was very dragging and time comsumming talaga kasi ang talaga bila maka catch up..nahihirapan talaha cila unlike sa mga new ages ranging as early as 5 years old to early forties they are more into social media and its more of a natural thing for them. So totally what you wrote is very helpful though not applicable to all age bracket. The oldies would definitely will have a hard time doing it. Kung baguhan ka at palagi kang nag popost or nagcomments ng mga post which supposely dapat useful malaki ang maitutulong nito sayo personally kasi mas mapapabilis ng pagdami ng iyong most activity and when you reach i think 40 posts of comments (if im not mistaken) ay tataas na ang rank mo to jr member. Doon sa pagiging  jr. member lng pwedi maka join ng campaigns or signature campaigns kung saan makakatanggap ka na ng compensation na satoshi. Ito ng ginawa ko before kasi wla naman akong sapat na halaga ng pera para bumili ng bitcoin. kaya nagsikap ako sa mga signature campaigns at ang kita ay siyang ininvest ko ng lumaki last year was my lucky kumita ako ng malaki at nakatulong sa aking pamilya without cashing out any amount puro tyaga at pagsisikap perseverance lng ang puhunan ko. Going back sa tanong mo if nakakatulong ba ang pagpost or comment ng mga threads definitely yes! Napakalaking tulong nito sa lahat lalo na nalaganap ngayun ang scamming at havking kahit pa nga ang mga matagal na sa industryang ito na nahahack at na scam ano pa kaya ang mga baguhan kaya mas maganda mag karoon ng ganitong thread or topic dito sa furom to get reminded sa mga dapat at hindi dapat gawin para maka iwas. Pretty extensive guide, i commend you for this. Malaking tulong ito sa mga newbies na investors and doon sa mga new members sa furom na nagplaplano mag invest ng bitcoin or any cryptocurrencies so to be guided sa mga dapat gawin at hindi gawin. Naremember ko noong bago pa ako madami din akong mga tanong at looking back tlagang napaka laking tulong sa akin at that time if babasa ko ito. Kaya good job👍 Matagal na itong usapin na ito, this was during the incidents where ang pangalan ng bitcoin ay ginamit ng mga scammers para makapera sa kapwa kaakibat sa pangyayaring ito ang sec at ilang sangay ng gobyerno ay nagpatupad ng regulasyon para maprotektahan ang mga mamayan laban sa mga taong ginagamit ang cryptocurrency para mang lamang ng kapwa. Yes May malaking posibli na nakaapekto ng inncident na ito sa pag baksak ng presyo ng bitcoin pero sa tingin ko hindi naman bago sa lahat na volatile ang cryprocurrency maaring bumaba at tumaas ang presyo.  Sa ngayon ang pinaka powerful social media to promote is Tweeter simula ng nag issue ng ban ang facebook. Pero ang magandang balita ay ang pamunuan ng facebook ay nerereview ngayon ang pag issue nila ng ban sa cryptocurrency especially bitcoin. And possible ipapahintulot uli nila ang pag promote ng mga cryptocurrencies na legit at may mga batayan. If ito ay mangyayari, for sure malaking tulong ito sa pag unlad ng cryptocurrency at pag taas ng presyo. Ito ay napaka magandang update para sa ating mga Pilipino na ang ating gobyerno ay inaayos at pinaplansa ang cryptocurrency guidelines. 1.  magnda ito para sa ating economiya if sakaling ma finalize na ang lahat. 2. mas mabuti na meron talagang magandang guideline kasi alam naman natin in the past marami ang na scam using the name of bitcoin here in the Philippines this will serve as our protection And finaly no. 3. ito nag nagbibigay sa ating mga Pilipino ng isang magandang chance to invest our money, minimize risks and earn profitably. Lahat ng platform dadaan talaga sa mga ganito na incidente and nagagamit talaga sa maling pamamaraan ng ibang sakim na mga tao. Money is evil sabi nila pero sa tingin hindi ang pera ang masama kun d ng tao na nagiging gahaman dito. Sana kung hindi lng nagiging sakim ng iilan seguro hindi babagsak ng ganito kababa ang presyo ng bitcoin pero i am a strong believeg bitcoin at alam ko makakabawi din ito. Yes, but para sa akin dahil din ito kasi mas madami na talagang investors and are really into bitcoin and other cryptocurrency na mga Pilipino. Before kung baga puro ideas lang at wla talagang first hand experience kung ano ba talaga ang platform ba ito. Many has become an investor buying bitcoin at madami din mga nag perform muna sa bounty hunting and campaigns to earn and then use those earning as to buy bitcoin.  Personally there is no sense in selling now. I sure will hold till the end. For many investors this might be hard to do because they invested very much and I cannot afford to lose it all. Trying to salvage what's there to save but actually if you sell now you lose the same without any chance of getting a profit. When you hold you hold the chance of earning a fortune. I think that anyone must be wise enough when it comes to any investment. If you want to try cryptocurrency then go ahead. But invest only on amount that you are ok to loose because in thisi ndustry you can only have two direction to gain or lose. This industry is super risky but if your lucky enough you could earn a fortune. It is also wise that if you are starting you dont rely solely only to this investment you have to find more ways earn and profit. It always pays to have a back up plan. Napaka informative nito lalo na sa mga Filipinos kasi mostly ang most popularly known dito is Coins.ph and personally na try ko na din ang rebit.ph at lesser talaga.. Mostly and widely use dito sa Pilipinas sa tingin ko ay Coins.ph pa din kasi ito ang nakasanayan na now meron ng other choices. Thank you bro. Ito ay napaka magandang idea at talagang malaki ang maitutulong nito sa at8ng ekonomeya. Alam naman natin na mataas ang line of poverty dito sa Pilipinas pero mabibigyan daan na maging legal ang cryptocurrency maraming mamamayan nag mabibigyan ng chance makapag invest at sure ako na if magiging legal ito ay maglalaan ng mga tao or platforms para mas maintindihan ng tao kung ano ang cryptocurrency at ano ang mga benefisyo nito sa isang Pilipino. Dito sa Pilipinas actually hindi condusive para sa mining so advice ko sa mga nagbabalak mag mine wag nalang napakamahal ng kurente sa pinas plus need talaga airconditioned and well contained and maintained ang mga units to avoid overheating or any problem na maeencounter so napa ka risky talaga so if i were to advice those people na gusto mag mine dito sa Philippines much better wag nalang and just venture to other investment.
Sa tingin ko generally ito ang effect ng paghina ng presyo ng bitcoin kasi bitcoin ang pinaka dominant cryptocurrency in the market pero dahil mababa at bumababa ito malaki talaga ang effect sa lahat ng mga cryptocurrencies na available. Pero once maka recover ang bitcoin which im sure na it could by then tataas na din ulit ang lahat ng cryptocurrencies na available sa merkado. Yes dapat mas may kaukulan at sapat na pag uunawa sa cryptocurrency and mga taong papasok dito. Also dapat maintindihan nila na hindi lahat ng panahon ay maganda ang price and sure na sure magkakaprofit agad agad sila. it will take time to finally reap success in any cryptocurrency investments.  Ethereum is definitely one of my bet i like it its more stable especially this past few weeks. But personally I dont think he will leave he might add more investment to other altcoins that are popular and more lively to keep in the game of cryptocurrency but not leave,  i really dont think he will leave. Basta electronic wallet dapat sobrang inggat talaga kasi kahit yung ibang wallets na hindi napapabalita nahahack pa din yan kung d maingat dapat esecure mong mabuti ang private keys mo yun lang talaga an way para di mahack or manakaw ang pinaghirapan mong tokens at pera. Yes true, hindi madali mag share sa mga experiences nila lalo na sa mga times na nakakahiyang eshare kasi na scam ako na uto ako ni ganito ganyan pero may mga tao talaga dito sa bitcoin talk na kahit yun open sila even if gaano na kataas ang ranks nila. Others may think kasi ginagawa nila yan to be able na may mapost sila..pero sa tutuo ang dami naman pwedi etopic and sharing a personal negative experiences are really demeaning for me but alam alam ko  effective na mga learning na ito para hindi ma experience ng iba lalo na sa mga bagohan. kung sa tingin nabasa ko na to kay ganyan kay ganito oh  well please mas madaming newbies na kailan itong malaman. I think ill have to disagree. Because i started in bitcoin without any money at all..What i did first is I work hard on bounty and signature campaigns there where times when all my effort was useless because i get scam along the way many times  but i have earn satoshes with effort and patients and when it was big enough i started investing it to altcoins nd i was lucky enough to earn and i keep doing what i did since the beginning and all my efforts has bear fruits of succes and actually i have join many altcoins.  Infact I make my wife resign from work because what i have earned is profitable enough. i did not have money at first all i have was industry and patience and strong faith. If i can do it so are many other people too. Gusto ko din idagdag na iwasan mag panic selling lalo na kung naririnig nyo na ganito ganyan na mga negative news kasi usually these negative proganda ay pina fund ng mga antagonist ng cryptocurrency kasi ayaw nila na magsucceed ito kasi alam nila nag kayang gawin nito sa recent fiat industry. As much as possible learn through researchin more about the cryptocurrency market and dont just listen to the negative predicaments of other people. You must learn by conviction first hand. Wow this is another milestone para sa bitcoin and other legit cryptocurrencies..Noong una usual na alam ko na bank who are more open to caters on partnering to do business with online marketing businesses is Union bank lang other banks are very conventional and this is good now that other bank has opted to indulged into the online business partnership especially cryptocurrency kasi nga doon naman talaga ang direction natin lahat digital and new age kaya dapat lng na ang mga big establishments ay maging open din dito  Sa tutuo lng madami ng nalungkot at na disappoint na member sa group ng nag karoon ng merit system kasi before napa ka simple lng sana na mapataas ang rank now ang hirap talaga lalo na sa mga newbie. Honestly mas pabor ako sa previous ranking system atleast ang mga newbie magkaroon ng chance na makajoin ng mas madaming campaigns kasi mas mabilis silang maka rank.  Good news ito if this is true.  Makakatulong talaga sa economiya ng Pilipinas if sakaling tutuo ito at madaming pilipino ng maeducate kong ano talaga ang cryptocurrency at paano ang tamang pag imvest or pag gamit dito. Sa tingin ko dapat talagang may proper knowledge kung sino man ang gustong sumubok kasi I have heard that here in the Philippines madaming gumagamit sa pangalan ng BITCOIN para e scam lang ang kapwa nila.  Embis na maganda sa na ang maidudulot may bad image na tuloy ang cryptocurrency specially dito sa pinas dahil sa kagagawang ng iilan lng mga makasarili na tao. Nakita ko mismo sa news itong paggamit ng name na Bitcoin here in the phils para lamangan ang kapwa. So mas maigi may proper desimination of knowledge ukol sa platform na ito para mas maintindihan ng mga tao at mawala ang negatibong impresyon nila dito. Tama ka bro. also sa tingin ko mahirap manipulahin ang value ng btc unless he owns half of the entire btc ever created. Kapag well-known ang nag bibigay ng negative comment on a certain product or service malaki taga ang negative impact. Eh yun nga lang mga tao na nag popost ng kung ano anong negatibong mga comments against sa bitcoin dito sa bitcointalk na aapektuhan tayo in some ways na di nga natin sila kilala ang mga ito pa kayang  mga bilyonaryong na to???!.. Personally i always change my password as much  as every transaction.  I know it is very much of a time consuming task but i dont mind for as long as i am 100% sure my account is safe. Also i dont intertain any unknown message or link sent in my email. My account are very private. For me money is a very powerful tool to make any person endorse something that they dont really believe in and most often than not this is what celebrities do for living once a big company or multi-billionare person will pay them to promote something once the price is right they will endorse it, so basically i dont really think those paid endorser really has strong conviction about cryptocurrency compared to those common people who actually experience the good things it can give. Well i think this news was in the past i actually have read anothet thread regarding this topic. Anyway as long as the market is moving it means people are making transactions and that is generally the most important thing that it has value to people and it its significance will continue so it wont get obsolete. Anytime is a right time to buy bitcoin imvestment for as long as you can afford it. Though when the price is down it is more less and mean the chance of having bigger profit at a less cost is at hand. I just keep my spirit up and have faith and i plan to perservere at the end i invested money that i am willing to gamble at and i have i hopes and belief in bitcoin. I am holding. This type of people who speaks negative comments about cryptocurrency especially to bitcoin are usually the ignorant ones who does not know nor understand what this is all about more often than not they are just people who only listen to people who can pay them for black propaganda so to earn and not really scrutinizing what they are actually doing. The mega fiat industry will not back down easiy without a fight so i expect they will make everything sensational especially when the price is falling and when it rises they are usually the silent ones eating their words. It can be, but i have strong belief that the advent of cryptocurrency is still growing and evolving to becoming better. In the future i can still see many other innovations that could potentially enhance crytocurrency to become a better and diverse platform. I have similar experience i think that this is how ICOs goes there is no guarantee no matter how legit it looks it is not an assurance that its value overtime will kick in some will just be devoured by others and many are just pure scam so if you have plans to invest in the future that seems legit do not invest an amount that you are not willing to lose. because in every investment there is a 50/50 chance of success and failure. Goodluck for your next investment though this will be a lesson learned for you and many others. Thank u for sharing your experience.
Sure it does!  and it will surely promote bitcoin and cryptocurrency once fifa announces their support for it.  Also a lot of wealthy people are attending and fond of these so there is a lot of chance to increase the potential price increase if they give their support. Yes true, and this topic you post is a good information, but personally i experience joing a lot of ICO  campaigns with all the characteristics you mentioned above but still there also cases that no matter how legit it looks it ends up to be a scam at the end.. Anyway it is always better to double check to lessen the risks with the advices given from the members of the furom. If you get easily discourage with the abrupt price decreases then altcoin is not for you.  Because all cryptocurrencies has no stable price at all it can go down at anytime the least you expect it.  How you play wisely and persevere no matter how the price may seem is what really matters most. welcome to the cryptocurrency world where volatility is the only constant thing! Yes i think so, I have invested in litecoin in the past and so far i am not dissappointed with the result. I did not expect much about it when i put my money into it. Actually it was all a trial and error but my decision on that day has a really good impact with my financial income and it has helped me a lot. I am very happy with this altcoin. I think this price movement could not be called a bull run in the making unless the price could actually soar up to 10k past the breaking point.  Once the 10k price increase is broken that then can be called "Another Bull Run In The Making".  The price now is just volatile it could increase and decrease at any moment.. For me bitcoin continues to dominate the cryptocurrency industry. Though other altcoins are making names but it just not beat bitcoin when it comes to the profit it can give once an investor manages to get a good increase. Others maybe working will also but the profit is not the same with bitcoin. This common reaction of investors if the price is falling. Actually we cant stop other people if they would react negatively on the downhill direction of bitcoin's price and actually i dont blame them this is just human nature. To feel fear and panic all the time if we feel our investment is in the verge of collapse, but nevertheless those people who can see past through thick clouds are usually are the people who can see the rainbow that leads to the bucket full of gold. In bitcoin only those who acts wisely anfd persever can really get big profit same as those pioneers of bitcoin. Basically the selling of bitcoin would really affects the market and of other altcoins because this means that its value as will as trust of the people or investors are degraded and with this people will think that cryptocurrencies are in a verge of collapsing. True.  I have experience this before and this is case to case basis.  There are project that gets extended and pays you after you have done the campaign but there are many time i have been left closed fisted thinking how i wasted all my effort and my time because they wont pay after all.  So it is best that you chose the legit bounty campaigns to avoid the same experience. This is human nature to feel unsafe and many others will panic and might shift to other alternative cryptocurrencies. But only those who will presevere will reap a plentiful harvest in the long run.  Those who thinks negatively of bitcoin and sold out might be at lost or did not profit at all and maybe when the price will start to recover and rise up again they will surely feel " if only" " could have been"  feeling. For me i Believe the other way around, if bitcoin will continue to go a downhill trend so as other altcoind will follow in the long run. Yes intially i think the altcoin will rise in the fall of bitcoin because investors will seek another alternative investments but surely if the mother of all cryptocurrency will degrade i believe all the more the reason that other altcoins will follow the same lead. I will choose bitcoin because though i feel that the risk is greater but also the chance gaining higher profit is most likely to happen in 2 years time. Yes this is very vital in choosing and ICO. It must be legit and sure will compensate all the hard works of the bounty hunters. There are alot of scammers and vultures out there who are always scamming others to work hard for them promising benefits and high compensation but at the end of the project just dissappear and all the hardworks are all to waste so yes being selective is very important. If you just join cryptocurrency then you are right leaving your current job is definitely not a good idea.  We all know that the price in the market right now is not good too. But i have seen better days and i think the price can still recover.  For those who are pioneers of bitcoin sure they have rooted into other investments with there profits from this tyoe of crypti and i dont think that people with that sum of money will ever stick to the conventional 8 hour five days a week kind of job. My advice to you if you are new to the bounty and signature campaigns is: first to do: You must do your research, second: ask advice from more experience levels ask for referrals of which campaigns are legit from higher levels such as Hero or senior members or legendary because they know better. Third is do not join campaigns that you dont get referred to because right now there are a lot of scammers.  You cant afford to put your effort and time to something that at the end would not pay you. iIt is very terrible, i have experience it during my early level. Dude you are too harsh on the mother of all cryptocurrencies.  As if it will really die soon. Sure thing the price has a drastic fall in the past weeks but this doesnt mean it will die this has happened many times already.  This is just normal for crypto price increases and it could fall and it will recover again just play wisely. I think that it would be a breath of fresh air if Blockchain technology could also cater healthcare and other necessities in life such education social sanitation and transport. These would really have a great impact into the betterment of our society given our present situation.  I think it is very vital to always look for innovations or platforms that could help heal our ecosystem too. In the real sense I dont think this will be possible. There are countries whose government are now has established the banning of  the usage of cryptocurrencies, and creating one for their own nation is like getting a stone getting a stone and hitting it to their heads.  Also I think with a general crypto such as bitcoin being use by all makes the market world wide thus the price value is much higher and could reach higher potentials. If you have been with bitcoin or the birth of cryptocurrency you would umderstand why people would these even if the price is off. From the beginning the value of crypto was not popular and only few gives regards into it. If you look back and compare the present price there so much difference and a very big market as well as potential.  The price we rise and fall but i dont think the price will go down rock bottom. This is dreadful!! If the like of this seasoned million dollar investors of the cryptocurrency are able to get hacked by this scrupolous beings how safe are we at this point of our crypto investments? I mean there must be actions done by the proper people who handles the crypto space. It is getting so unsafe. We put so much of our money our time our life into this investments and all for nothing because some peice of dreadful greedy inviduals are out there ready to devour our hard earned money. We know that they exist, now is that we must atleast get some protect more of it. The right people must do something about this! If you can fortell the future then you can achieve your goal of getting into the bull 100%. But we are just human being and it is hard to forsee the coming price especially with the volatility issue in cryptocurrencies. It is better to study the market more to achieve better results. Patience and perseverance is also important in this. 
Aside from the fact that i always take a great care in investing in ICO to avoid getting scammed I can totally that it is fun because itso much cheaper compared to other popular cryptos. And it can also be profitable if you have chosen the right one. The risk is by nature cryptocurrencies are very volatile. The price is never stable. It can soar up to the moon on one day and the next it is fast falling.  If you are a person who has no patience then cryptocurrency is not your thing.  With this investment perseverance and patience is very much needed if you want result. If you panick easily this is not for you man..if you have a tendency of  depressive  mental illness this is definitely not for you or else you will have nervoud breakdown..The volatility of this investment might kill youm This is what you need to know Before venturing and investing a big amount of money. Goodluck! Well actually there are a lot of altcoins available now in the market. But we investors must be careful because alot of this altcoins are either scam or tricks to get our money. One of the best alcoin that i could recommend is Ethereum it is proven and tested and so far in ranking it place second or third in the market when it comes to popularity and widely use.  Well for me the most reason why we haven't reach our price expectation now that we are halfway through the year is because many investors especially the ones with higher stakes are getting greedier everyday.  There are price manipulation issues creating false hope inviting more to invest and then loosing at the end making the price flactuate by the minute..This will only change if the dirty players will stop and let the real score precides on the cryptocurrencies especially bitcoin. I hope that i can see the real potential of bitcoin soon.. The price of bitcoin is down and I think with the speculations that the previous month's price increases were manipulation I think the price will have a deeper decrease than of the present situation.  I hope it can recover soon. But with this, I think all ICOs are affected and wont see the light for a long time. I think if you sell you can still recover a bit if you hold you might loose everything.Well, this is how it is in the cryptocurrency we can never tell what will happened next I hope the price will have real price increase with no manipulation so we can all enjoy a real price movement.Nevertheless the final decision is at your hand. Goodluck brother. I agree with you. Everything we do we invest either our TIME, EFFORT & MONEY. Doing bounty and campaign is as hard and as important with investing a capital of finance. For me it is even harder because in bounty there is no assurance if after your hardwork you will get paid of what you deserve. Some ICO who promotes their new coins after the success will not pay I personally experience this. And it hurts..because I give my heart into it my effort my time. With investing money capital though it is risky but you have the power over your investment you can calculate and has control as to when to gamble or when to hold. All in all here in this industry everything is an investment you only have to choose which one you are more good and comfortable of doing. Your right in some of your predicaments but i have to disagree with a few others. Yes it is true that we bounty hunter has to be educated enough to join bounty hunting but we are not to be blame if ICO campaigns does not pay us properly with our service after the success of our jobs. Because here bounty hunting and other campaigns our only assurance is the character of those who employs us that after our hard work they will repay our services.And no matter how educated or mature we are in thid industry if those campaign employer decided to cheat we simply loose all our efforts. I hope that this will change soonest that the people bitcointalk will do something about it. Truely we deserve every bit of our compensation and the respect due to us. Yes I agree with you, cryptocurrencies are just platforms for people to use to give them a chance to elivate their chance of having a better way of living. It is not the cryptocurrencies that are disease it is how people make their interactions with this platforms that are making them sick. If they dont make the best out of any platform it is all the same has a bad effect on their lives. It all depends on how they make use of the chances given to them. Yes, I also believe in Etheruem. It is pretty stable and most widely use cryptocurrency next to bitcoin. But well, for me I have higher trust to bitcoin though compared to this though bitcoin is more expensive and with higher risks but all other cryptocurrencies are dependable on it.  So I just pray and continue hoping that above all other cryptocurrencies bitcoin will stay strong and it's price value will continue to soar up high! Yes I agree with you too, I remember during my early days of my bitcoin experiences I was struggling everyday on how to earn. But I persevered and work hard on it. Luck is just a small percentage in bitcoin. You really have a chance here if you work enough and study the ways of how to earn this is very applicable for the new comers Who are still confuse on how to be able to get a free satoshi. Read more here in bitcointalk, do your research and believe one day you can achieve your goals because you can really gain A FREE satoshis/bitcoin if you work on it just like I did. There is a high probability that it could surpass the last year highest price of 20k. And here are the reasons why. 1.  Bitcoin has proven to be no. one in the cryptocurrency industry. No matter how black propagandas are staining its name still to proves to be of significance to the general populace and it stays stronger every time it is being attacted. 2. Bitcoin is Getting more popular each year to other countries making a bigger and brighter market for it. 3. It continues to dominate the crypto market from the beginning till now. Personally I think we can get 50k to 70k price for 2019  as the highest price.,As we have observe in the past years, the price usually struggles in the first 3months of the year but it kicks in again by the 2nd quarter.,people and industries are starting to realize the impact of cryptos in their businesses and these will lead to a mayor change in the cryptocurrency world. Wow! this is another milestone for bitcoin cryptocurrency. I actually love this brands and im hoping i could by these products via my earnings of bitcoin for a more convenient way of shopping hoping also that soon groceries store will accept bitcoin payments too! I just observe that every time there is a price down trend many posts or subject for posting are saying and asking the same line as this " Is bitcoin going to collapse?" well people needs to understand that since the beggining of bitcoin up to now it has been struggling in the past 9 years but it stayed and dominated. If in time it will collapse then i think it will take a life time to do so. With the advent of technology and the impact of block chain it will continue to evolve into a more better platform to serve nations and people. This price down trend is just normal, we had lower price in the market than this february this year was 6k infact. We have to remember that bitcoin started out to be of no value in the market but it has proven its worth and now against all those negative propaganda it continues to dominate in the cryptocurrency industry and it will continue to become better. hhmmp..government is tightening regulations for jist finiding ways to get more taxes for cryptocurrencies traders and investors i'd say. Always the government hides in their reasoning that they have to tighten regulations to avoid using this platform to illegalities but for me they are jist hungry vultures waiting to get the chance to devour their preys in no time. True, this is the crypto industry and nothing is insured for sure. All are in the lines because any minute  the price could sour high as mountain but vice versa it could drop deep in a split of a minute. I thinks as of the moment the weakness of cryptocurrency is unaddressable because by nature cryptos are volatile. Unless we can make a time travel machine to go to the future and see whats ganna happened then we can never predict what will be the price condition if its going to be stable or go down. Well, for me no matter how literate and experience you are in the cryptocurrency you can never trust fully any predictions coming from the experts you csn make references into it but you dont have to fully believe everything thay they tell will happen just because they call themselves experts. Actually nobody is an expert in the cryptocurrency world there are only pioneers and experienced people who have been in this industry since the beggining but even that is not a guarantee that they can predict what will happened in the future.  So the best thing to do is just listen and learn and be wise in you crypto investments. Yes!  it does !  as a whole it can make a big increase in a country's DGP and it can change the lives of the citizens. Here in my country i have seen very poor families that struggles to survive daily that they even have a hard time feeding three times a day..Every things change when they join bitcoin now they are living a more comfortable and productive lives. So bitcoin has really change the financial status of the people and as a whole it makes the economy of a country more productive. I think the price went down prior to your post..We have better days and bad day and this day is just another of those bad days but im still pretty positive the price will improve soon so I just hold and wait its what i have always do. You could have hold and waited more for a more stable and higher price increase. Cryptocurrencies are volatile and if you set your hope very high you will really get dissappointed. Even if you buy other popular alternative coins at the end all those will be affected if bitcoin price will drop low. The best thing to do is just wait and hold. There will be better days.
Well if this will be pursued I think this will all the more make the market of cryptocurrency a threat to the fiat currency and all the more it will receive backlashes and black proganda against it because it will become all the more competitive with the regulated currency.  I think before creating more currency i think it is best to find more improvements on how bitcoin or many popular cryptos will become more stable and more applicable for all. This price is way better than 6k price of month of February. This is actually good price and even if the past day it had a drop to 8k it has recovered and break the many speculations that it cant reach 10k this month. The price will always be volatile because it is how it is. We investors must enjoy and be wise enough in the ride so that we can profit in the process. For me I only indulge myself to ICO that are popular and widely used by the general public next to bitcoin I only trust ethereum..it is very hard to trust newly proposed altcoins in the market because scammers are also rampant and i have many friends who told me of their dark experiences in the crypto world so I only take ICO that are basically endorsed to me by my friends who were more experience than I am in this industry. It is better to prevent and be careful first hand than be sorry later. This sply means that big industries such as facebook are seing the great potential of block chain technology and they are preparing to indulge themselve into this knowing that they can profit a great deal. This will surely be interconnected to their platform the facebook to make it bigger and continues its dominance in the social media industry. I hope that if this will be pushed through it will be of great help to the development of human civilization. Wow!  this is a great new for the cryptocurrencies in south korea!  If this happens the market of the crypto world will really increase and this has a great impact to the price in the world market too! If this happens this will give a beautiful color to the investors! Sure thing they will expect higher profits too! I am thinking that it can actually reach higher than 10k. The recent drop was just normal. The price has been in a contant rise since April and the drop is jist part of the volatility of cryptocurrency. We are still in the second quarter of the year we have a long way to go to reaching higher hieghts for the price of bitcoin. Im pretty positive it will break the 10k barrier soon. being a bitcoin seeker is not easy on this day as a matter of fact bitcoin price is stagnant in $6k-$7k for straight maybe 4-5 months already, unlike last year bitcoin price rise up to $18k-$19k on the peak of December 2017, yes it is true that this bitcoin phenomenon is far from growing this year, maybe in the month of November to December this year 2018 will be the best opportunity to all of us traders or investors, good luck to all bitcoiners and god bless us all. I guess we can do it at a part time job for you and with regards to an occupation, I don't think so that it will give you a fixed and sustainable income for your family. Maybe it can be an additional income if you've sell your holdings from airdrops to higher price value, but you needed to hold it so that it will gain its higher price. For now don't just rely only with airdrop to a full accupation, find another job like bounty jobs that earns huge reward tokens for you to earn better. Maybe that's a good strategy, and for me a good strategy is you should hold your coins and avoid entering the market like doing day trading. It may hamper the price value to pump, and in order for us to help our coins to grow more often we need to stay calm and don't  sell early. Just wait for the exact time and stay in monitoring tht neo will survive the current struggle of its market price value. The $200 can be achieved if those devs of this coin will continue to support this coin until such it will gain its value so other traders will invest and buy coins for holdings. That is the very good ways to do it and all I wanted to suggest is for the goodness of neo. I just want to inform you that those accounts merited 50 to chachacoin17 isn't my alt. It happened that chachacoin17 was a person I've known mutually in this forum asking merit from me, but I am not aware during that time sending merit of that large amount is forbidden. If possible please remove the red trust in my profile. I'm not sure with that but if there's a chance to get rich with crypto this time then that's good to hear. I don't think of getting rich in crypto actually. I only think that this will be a gateway to become a potential help for our economy. There will be also a possibility that investors will become rich we don't know but a big chance. Great insights brings positive results and as people truly lies in speculative ideas, sometimes good and sometimes bad. Even forecast doesn't gives us realistic results but its a definite reference of everybody to achieve greater hints to success. Listening to brainstorming facts will boost our determinations to face challenges in life, thats why we need to more clever and push through your dedications as holding ethereum might be profitable with the following months to go. If you think you can invest with these two then it would be possible for you to gain a lot of income or the return money which is why it is good to invest first and if it gain you can proceed to holding some coins. This is somewhat fun because the future is always with you not with somedbody else's hands. The wallet that you provide for your investment and all must be safe and stay away from viruses. Of course if there's a big problem with the economy war can really affect also the entire digital currency network. No circulation will happen to the exchanges and people will be hesitant of invedting their money to the trading site due to fears of no assurance. More crypto coins will certainly dump because investors will dump their assets caused by panic selling and the world economy crisis. That's a worst case ever and I think we didn't want that to happen to us personally when choosing an alt especially when a project still on going in an ico project. It happened last time my friend shared to me his bad experiences with the project denaro coin rewarding them a coins that scams investors. The total overview of the project really attracts people but in a long run after ico succeeded, nothing happend to dno's development to trading site. I don't have any predictions about coming months of the market. Usually,market can defend itself from people who have invested to Bitcoin. I'm certain that it goes on whatever the situation in the market. As what I've heard for so many times that crypto market is ceaseless. It could be very helpful in many ways that's why market is weak if few people are not investing. Sooner it will be in higher position for cryptos. Really?So what is the reward here refers exactly? If the reward here points out the bounty token. Well,of course first thing that comes in my mind is to be thankful for it because someone has given me trust in a particular information and that's very fulfilling in my part to be given a reward. Next will be,I will keep my reward as well because that symbolizes and the first thing that worth to be kept. Holding is the best thing to do for that kind of reward I can also give others a reward. It's a blessing so sharing is also part of it. Ethereum has become more trendy now and becomimg so popular in ICO because of its significance to bitcoin nowadays. It's no wonder why some people like it in crypto world. Actually,it changes the crypto world slowly but not in a bad way but a so much promising in the world of currencies. ETH is something to be proud of and,most especially together with bitcoin for they contribute such a big impact not just in this community but also in outside world or the real world of money. As of this time,I prefer holding due to a very important matter which I really need bigger amount of bounty due to building a house. Building a house is quite expensive and I wish for that since then. Also,to save and invest for a business because I'm not getting younger. Future must be well-prepared of everything because life is once given so live life to the fullest. In connection with holding my coins,seems that I'm also holding my future with it.
Brilliant idea from you. You are doing a great job that makes everyone a well informed and inspiring tip. I'm glad to know that you've been doing that way in putting effort for your work in bitcointalk. It is a privilege to each amd everyone of us who are joining campaigns for such a long time. As a whole,I like how true you are with your spreadsheet but next time have a clear illustration for the benefit of visual learners.  I agree with that but the statement is  exaggerating. We think that crypto is like heaven for us but at the moment when there is a lot of problems,we feel bad of course but not to the point of crying. I think we don't have to worry about it because it is just a normal things issue for crypto once the market price hits at the bottom. Therefore,just relax and stay on your track for crypto. When we have an involvement of crypto, the most common mindset that we should be able to learn is self control and determination. The price will have to dip so well and yet expectations will always hurt our feeling if we expect much greater in altcoins. Think wide and don't ever expect for the price to remain at its current pumped value, because in crypto currency the volatile character is always there like a roller coaster that goes up and down. Its by default idea for everybody and this thing is what they called normal in crypto, which has been said in here. It has a big chance for bitcoin to be skyrocketing again to the moon. I think bitcoin can accept mamy challenges and it shows no problem at all so there's no worries when there is lowering of the price just keep the positivity alive. The closest reason for this is the panic selling of the traders. That's why the market is in red. And also the sell order gets higher and the supply gets low so the buyer attempts to do risk even if the price is low. As simple as that. Probably it is because some investors don't mind if the situation is bad at the first place. The positive outlook of them takes higher once others makes speculation like bitcoin. It doesn't matter when you invest in bitcoin this year but you have to be certain that you can handle any risk like the dumps of the trading of selling coins from different wallet transaction. Bitcoin does not always have the fixed price so be aware of that. Don't over think about it it's just it always need rest. When it is time for bitcoin to power up,it will eventually goes high and a stable movement flows with it. Slow recovery is still good though because that means people are trying to build it up and have many hopes on it. And,yes patience is a virtue so we have to be calm and let's wait for the full recovery soon. That's it and yes there are trusted member whom I consider too informative and very useful research just to monitor crypto portfolio that I have. And,yes blockfolio is a convenient app for this which you can feel at ease and secured. The good thing in crypto portfolio is it stores the important infos of your altcoin not literally full info but just a bit of it but what's more interesting is that the portfolio is worth kept. What do you mean? Anyway,altcoin exchanged for bitcoin over dollar for due to profits and gains that will bounce back to investors maainly because there is changes of values everyday. Take ETH as an example, if the value of ETH with btc goes up,your altcoins might doubled its rate unlike USD it becomes fixed price and it is depending on the economy or stocks with less profits. So altcoin is designated for BTC and not for USD. However,BTC has the value of USD wherein the fiat is concerned. As usual as it is rise and fall is the routine of bitcoin and it's not a big issue. As expected cryptocurrency has its low and high value. That's pretty normal thing. If this case happens a thousand times then it's an infinite number. The price may have that random moment in the market but it can't change the fact that once a bitcoin forever a bitcoin.  Technically that is the main thing. Researching several times is a must when you think it is a scam. In other words,there must be trusted person to do a research on a particular thing not just a team but also for individuals,it is not only for own sake but for the sake of members that are involved in ICO. It is a hard task but that is the only way to avoid ICO scam. Who wants to get scammed? Of course,nobody,right? So as much as possible gather all the information from the net or any reliable source to have a security. Whitepaper is a proposal document and a kind of business like ICO that creates coins and others. Regarding this matter about its pro,one of which is if the proposal clicks or if it has a good potential in crypto world. And the bad maybe is if the proposal doesn't fit in or a scam on the other hand. The thing is you can actually do a research if it is not working proposal. In this way,you can actually monitor if the proposal is legit or not at the same time is really time consuming if you keep on tracking about the proposal. So I guess not so much cons of it.  Bitcoin is always the leading one of all cryptocurrencies, but even if ethereum is an altcoin bitcoin was not pumping without those ethereum contracts that's been trading to bitcoin. The market always seeks the prescence of these platforms, but wait there's waves platform also and it remains silence for a while. Even this coin was not yet showing more progress, I guess time will this will over power ethereum. Altcoins really backed up how bitcoin became more popular, and without the alts I guess everything will be meaningless in the marketplace of the trading sites. Some people were in exposed with those phishing sites behind and most probably their private keys were exposed online like sharing with friends or with strangers. Its really a sad experience if it happens you're the victim of being hacked, so one thing I can advise to most who encounter this kind of nightmare you should be more careful next time and the responsibility is always yours, no one to be blame but you personally. Phishing websites can be a replicate of myetherwallet, some characters omitted to somewhat trap every user now and then. But to avoid it you should have more secured antivirus and firewall of PC must be active all the time. I guess many are just bitter because probably they don't know the real story and about bitcoin just because they always hear bad situation about bitcoin. What's good in it is that the more the put issues on bitcoin the more people get intrigued on it and popularity arise to mass media. I'm not looking for it to rise that fast,I know time is always important so I'm always looking forward to have full and stable patience with me. I can wait for it to rise, no worries with it. It takes time to rise.  Sounds good so far. Will that mean that many investors like from Shariaa will invest even more in bitcoin? If that's the case, the increase of price is getting better isn't it? Apparently, the growth is of course having minimal drops but not bad at all. It's good to know that there are still new comers try to invest without fears with bitcoin. If they continue being like that there's no problem to rise. It doesn't make sense actually. And, yes cryptocurrency is vulnerable. I suggest if ever there is an end of this crypto, there must be a valid notice before it will gone in this kind of community. So, if ever technology will definitely shut for good there is no turning back at all,however if they'll end the operation system, all transactions online follows not just about bitcoin. Internet has a very big contribution to make life easier and fast and we are thankful enough so I guess bitcoin as well gives its best shot in the world of cryptocurrency but not the end. Do you mean feeling not felling cause maybe I will misinterpret the info. Actually,I don't feel depressed for holding bitcoin because I don't have the guts to make the price stabilized or fixed. One thing is for sure acceptance is the easiest way to make everything smooth and less worries so that I will not think any deeper and to avoid depression of waiting. I am just a normal being with simple hopes for my future so as much as possible I have to kill my depression and stay calm as always. We can't do something with it. That is the market's strategy so it clearly appears how bitcoin operates to people that's why when it gets low value for sure many are selling it in order to have better profits without regretion that counterflows. Inspite of unpredictable status of bitcoin, people are more eager to cheer for bitcoin because it's just a normal flow especially people from a long term member in bitcoin. So I don't lose my faith in BTC. True enough dude. I spend like for my entire week on bounty campaigns but 24/7? No,I don't wake up that much I also need to rest. Since I'm a night person like an owl does or a bat. I am asleep during the day and I almost always do bounty campaign at night because I have lots of things to do during day time aside from resting. I do believe too that working on bounty campaign is hard but as long as we meet the target per week,that is perfect points.
I highly appreciated your thoughts on this. The thing is the topic says going 1000USD, does it mean going down or going up? Well,I don't mind so far for sure the recovering effect will matter most of the time and I always have full support when investors try to make possible things happen in bitcoin. The inexprienced ones are surreal with their feelings and disposition for they don't have the whole courage to face the new crypto currency trend . So if the price goes higher like it mentions above,then make it real. It could be affected of course because market has played a biggest role in the society. So bitcoin is involved that means bitcoin has shared something to the market and not just a market but a bigger and wider range of markets. Whenever bitcoin goes low,the market also has the tendency to go down especially if the market depends on bitcoin as source of financial assistance or a kind of their asset. No wonder market is affected because of bitcoin. What? Is there such thing that rises to sun? Anyway,bitcoin is made to shine so by any chance,it will have its turn to shine even this year. If cheaper price for bitcoin,it is a bit impossible because it is still expensive due to its popularity and demands of people. I guess it will always shine through coming years and so on. While it is still new,keep holding btc. Saving is better than spending away. It just depends on the sponsorship,I guess. Though it has potentials because of the value we may get with it. It is a kind of an asset which we can be an investment for a long term. It will just go back to its normal pace and in the future ripple will be soaring up high because it gives hopes to everyone of us. Why only in Japan? I really like how this country build up from a very low industry now,a booming country instead. If they allow bitcoin as the capital of the world then they don't have worries and fears because cryptocurrency is very comvenient. As what I notice to their current economy, it is truly well developed now despite many Japanese overthink that their country is somewhat belong to expensive countries already. With that, Japan makes valuable issues to be subjective and that is to be a successful country. And,I guess if they run bitcoin smoothly in their industry and to be permanent then it's their luck and great opportunity is waiting for them. The biggest revelation is,are people ready to continue despite obstacles that bitcoin facing for more than a couple of months. Touching the moon? I guess it's not the right time yet because it is still fresh and new come back for bitcoin which come from a deep sleep. In my case,I only wait and not checking from time to time because it is heartbreaking part to me. So what I do is I skip for weeks checking bitcoin's value and if I'm ready again to view,then that's the only time I guarantee myself that I won't get hurt no matter how many times it dumps. If this touching the moon sense fact,then that's good. I strongly believe in unstable growth in crypto that you've mentioned nontheless, we have no idea when will it stops getting unstable. If we consider ourselves to be well-versed in updating price of bitcoin and be keen in tracing why it fluctuates. For sure,no need to monitor of its kick back because that's a good sign when we want profits and gains of our investments. If up to this time is in recovering mode,then of course that's a possible thing to happen because there is a big population already in bitcoin right now. So the more investors the more opportunities to know for its regaining or recovering value. If only there is an exact prediction for bitcoin status everytime it goes up and down then it would be much better to calculate the price on which why it is very low in some cases and vice versa. In other words, the only least thing we can do is accept the fact that bitcoin's price is unstable. Through investors hands,we can't control the price to decline but what's good in it is that it can regain sooner. And,that's a good impact in the society of crypto currency so just expect the two scenarios of the price of bitcoin,as simple as that. It might survive in the future. I guess bitcoin needs to chill for some time just like people do. Resting for a little bit doesn't need to be a life time for it needs to regain or return its energy that has been lost. That is what's happening to bitcoin right now and the only chances that we can do right now is to wait with accordance to the value of it. Of course, it will bounce back but others are just too excited to dump or sell quickly without any idea that it will strongly affect the value from time to time. In a humble perspective, I almost not do anything about it. Fortunately,my friend always encourages me to pursue waiting for bitcoin to grow and eventually,I I become more eager to wait for any sign of progress for bitcoin. Sometimes,I think about of selling but after all I've been through this month, I have no idea whether I'm gonna use the money or not. Anyway, I should wait 'till infinity. I don't cry just because the value decreases not unless it is a member in the family. To feel sad is a normal reaction when things go bad but doesn't mean I should cry everytime bad situation happens to me. This is the flow of life that no matter how happy a person is there is always a twin effect and that's sadness. So,even if bitcoin has lower value in the market today or even in the next days,I should not cry instead,I just stand firmly and strongly so that everything will be fine.  The main point here is the valued trust given from supporters who never fail to use cryptocurrency up to this time. Bitcoin is the biggest reason why others have hopes in any obstacle that is happening when it comes to get employed and a battle of surviving. Now, if the fail of bitcoin is prevailing,well this is really a big loss to all of us who has reached pieces of dreams through bitcoin. I think this is the biggest challenge for the dumping or low value this time but of course,I'm hoping for a fast recovery of the price,really hopeful. Those mentioned uses of token litterally works in many ways, but certainly trading was the most activities for lots of tokens worldwide. Many traders were buying tokens not just for personal use but for their investments. Holders of crypto currencies always do trading and in most certain cases day traders activity was the main reasons why coins became more volatile. Joining this project is a great choice mates, and in order to view more of it's platform you can visit the website and also read the whitepaper. Many projects of crypto is advertised right now but nothing else beats like this one. I wish more success for this project, so let's help spread the good news. Buying coins while market is falling is somehow effective when holding that coins for longer terms. In general ideas about trading investments it's good to buy at lower price then sell at higher value. So in order to gain good profit you must know when to do it and you should learn how to control yourself. We must be happy of that upward trend so that the investments we had will grow and you can take your profit. This situations that we feel right now was just temporary and nothing to be afraid of. If it goes down, then so be it! Just keep holding and don't panic. The important is you have enough savings to fill in your hungry stomach. Yeah we are always into risk with day trading, but as long as you have your enough buffer which you btc capital you can really choose to buy and sell using day trading. I know its not easy to do that because in day trading you need to closely monitor your altcoin, its more volatile than bitcoin because anytime it may crash instantly. The situations may not be able to be controlled by you, it will change drastically so its good to choose another coins to trade after deciding to sell and earn that quick profit. If I would know the entire character of how bitcoin is defined these days, possibly I will be buying. But I don't think if it has no value to our lives, somebody will have the desire of buying bitcoin because all informations only comes from internet communications. If nobody could share you about the advantages and advantages of bitcoin nobody's gonna be interested with it. That's a reality now, many people doesn't know the true potential of bitcoin because there's no advertisement of bitcoin in the public televisions or in the public transparency it isn't revealed to people directly. Only internet lovers seems to be informative about bitcoin. Indeed, price predictions isn't accurate and we should be always aware of that and as volatility will happens all the time it depends on every trader to decide whether they hold or sell. But as I am able to withstand the current market status this days and previous months, I think its so hard right now to analyze since the whales are keeping silent with the current trend of the crypto world. Holding your coins for years is the one good reason to become rich with crypto world, but you must think first of the coins that you have because not all altcoins will stay productive for years. For me if you wanted to become rich with crypto, you should know the community of the altcoin that you are holding. When the roadmap has its long plans for timeline, then I agree it would definitely give you great future so you will be able to be rich soon as the price of the coin rises higher. Be choosy of your coins and don't just buy it directly without even scouting its platform, it might scam you for the rest of your life. 
For me, I am still a strong believer in crypto that right now this moment the price is still recovering. This days we might experience enormous price changes as volatile price might happens without even noticing it goes up or even down. We need to be strong enough, and control our emotions towards what is going on with both bitcoin and ethereum because I seen the signs that this month there will be a huge price spikes to happen that will give profit to the long term holders. Likewise, I am also confident to say that ethereum is my reliable altcoin for this year 2018. The more contracts that eth had for previous years until now, really proved us sustainability and trustworthy behind how challenging the cryptocurrency works. For now all we need is to wait for further progress on all currencies, and hopefully we really can earn profit in parallel with our desires. I don't think it will compete with ethereum because no other platforms that could make more contracts like ethereum. Indeed this coins really look promising but its community isn't proven to last for several months of pumping period. Even how interesting these projects are, but it still remains a normal altcoins which drastically change its value unexpectedly. Volatile character of digital currency which always dependent to bitcoin economy. It really won't be reached, $91, 000 is too much but I still believe that $60, 000 is reachable. However, I appreciate how everyone here is positive enough to have a high goal. Its so hard for us to wait for that price, but as a conviction of being a good investor we will control ourselves not to dump easily. We should choose to hold rather than sell. The whitepapers or anything else isn't reliable all the time, because you needed to observe how the bounty works for good, and not just through reading it all alone. Most of all you should determine how its community works and the roadmap must be great, and of course bounty softcap must have good outcome. That's a wise and certain choice to have that reputable manager, because not all who managed bounty campaigns were honest. There's no need to be afraid of because that $20K or more can be attainable when bitcoin demand spikes again. Same of what we experience for the past, roller coaster is visible, and same with the typhoon bitcoin will hit a massive damage after the crash and back to profitable value. I think everyone learned a lot after this crash and btc holders together with their altcoins must learn how to hold long term. Aren't you aware of what's going on? Since from the start of bitcoin's existence, it is introduced that it is a decentralized money. It doesn't mean that it has no monetary value but it's pretty obvious that investors are the ones who invested therefore,bitcoin existed in real world. I couldn't agree more of what you stated. Regarding bitcoin is controversial,I don't see it as one because for how many years it is still being neglected by many citizens in every country without knowing that it can help us,our economy to be more developed. The controversial maybe is the way on how other people think about bitcoin especially they are being pessimistic towards it.What's important now, is that bitcoin is still present. Time will tell soon for your turn. For now, let's wait for the progress. We all hope for the same situation to happen for we have many goals in life to build someday. Let's think positively for the market's come back to a greener pasteur.  I am enjoying my job as a full time forum analyst thingy and literally, I am relaxing because I know everything's gonna be okay. I've been a lot of challenges with cryptocurrency yet, it gives me hope even more. There will always be changes in the price of bitcoin but it won't change the fact that the popularity of it continues. Life goes on and so with cryptocurrency. Everything goes fine. There is a time when I need to sell crypto and times when I don't. It's my choice so I do consider selling when it is needed urgently. I would be happy if I help people using crypto through selling it. And,I'm thankful for bitcoin existed in crypto world. Through charts,investors are able to update their trading. There are a lot of differences from time to time when trading bitcoin. So to minimize sudden issues regarding trading,they will just recap what happened to the chart. Why do you think it's early? The fact that we don't even know when will crypto end. The probablity state is too high. Therefore,it will not end that easy. What about the investors who keep investing through the years? Many of them found satisfaction when investing their money to bitcoin and many people are given help because of crypto. So it won't end. This is asked for a million of times or stated rather. As for me, everything goes smoothly with bitcoin and I believe many members of ours are hoping and waiting for its perfect timing to hit a massive amount. I guess that's a pretty normal thing to handle in bitcoin despite being criticized by many citizens who are not into bitcoin. But all those things happened, bitcoin still stands firm and continuously gives bundle of satisfaction to investors therefore, bitcoin is not dead. There are many kinds of altcoins and each of them have different prices or values too. I've been working on it for many years and to the point that I prefer holding them because for me,I feel that I am saving a real money. I entrusted my altcoins to my friend and he will be the one to trade or if ever I need my altcoins for an urgent need so he'll take over the converted altcoins into cash. In that way, I feel assured because somebody else is updating my altcoins while I'm working. And, like what I have mentioned, I do it or treat it the same as savings account. You are having such a nice plan. I might as well do something better on it, but one of my plans is to invest my cryptocurrencies in a lot property somewhere in my hometown. I have been dreaming for so long to have my own land at early stage of my life as an adult. So it is also for my future and for my own family as well. Like you, I'm thanking this chance to be part in crypto and I'm working double time too to be able achieve my dreams someday,hopefully. Why Bitcoin? Simply,it is amazing crypto cash. A very unique type of making money and in using it. It has the edge to be more remarkable in the economy and of course in the market. It strengthens the industry and all the more if the government agrees everything about bitcoin. That's why I chose bitcoin because I can experience things beyond my imagination. That's a sure thing that time is money. Just like me who is into the forum all day and all night. Most cases,I manage my time through the way I am comfortable with. I sleep few hours in the morning to rest and I am much more awake in the evening. It seems like I am a night person so I work at night and energized during night time. My energy and motivation level increases from midnight to dawn. But still,I can manage making money and my time. Putting up any amount will do for as long as you know yourself be ready at any kind of risks. But mostly, from my brother's friends they invested $1,000 and they could get $100 weekly if they invest it in bitcoin. Isn't it a brilliant idea? If only I could have that certain amount someday. I would also invest on my own. That scares me if you think that way but if G20 prevails,I think it will be impossible for all countries involve on this because of different regulation globally and internationally. The more impossible to my country because the government here is not that open-minded. I hope this will not lead to a serious matter. I always go for stabilized market.
A real supporter can't afford to discourage on many things that will be thrown to bitcoin. It is up to the person whether to continue or not to continue supporting because of its freedom to choose. Regardless this matter,I am not discouraged because I believe in all aspect and I give efforts on what I do with bitcoin so that eventually bitcoin will pump up in return. It is just a matter of time. And,I am patiently waiting. Yes Its right we can make income in cryptocurrency especially bitcoin just simply participating the event coming from forum activities. And be realistic enough so that they give you a reward after event was done and it is successfully implemented There's a lot of finding income not only in crypto, but the question is how long you have an income if your not a crypto member!As far as I know if you joined the crypto world many possibilities will happen not only for the huge income but on how you change your personality as a person and responsible enough by doing a positive thoughts in forum activities program. So by investing with trading you can use the btc earned for the future trading investments whatever you wish to have soon. Agree,  eth now like other coin has ups and down rates.  I will say you have to invest eth now. Eth as the second best coin is good enough already. But dont bring your all money to invest eth, as a person you have to balance yourself. Just observe and try to play around in eth,  if you are a good investor then you can have what you want. Risk is always at the tail of your doins. For me, i am holding right now my eth for futures reasons. Phising sites isn't a problem for me, because we as a person who uses our personal computer should be liable for the safety of the web accesses most of the time. We couldn't stop those phisers to attack us by means of sending links which fall us into trap, but one thing I am sure of is we should make the security of our devices or gadget stronger. Everyone should have the reliable antivirus that can detect intruders which may enter our privacy, so you will have a hint of not clicking or doing an access of your personal keys like mew access. Advertising might be prevented if you have strong security in your system.  Some group of traders were spreading fuds with ethereum so that it may affect other people's vision with it. Those were fake news behind and as an ethereum holder I highly push this conclusion to everybody of us here that its a legit coin, and the fact right now was really amazing on all ethereum contracts who've been doing more success through the platform it has. One example of that was with lots of promising coins and one of that is stratis who had gathered a good community in terms of trading in different markets, and so on with other new upcoming coins. Holding long terms can be a struggle and if the price hits the good value, that would be the right time for us to decide of letting go our altcoins. It would take further months to make the price spike again, because its really hard to predict while the demand isn't that into progressive. Most importantly you knew how to analyze the certain situations that may hinder us not dump easily, due to price of btc in the present days fluctuations was highly unpredictable and you don't know when will it change. Its better to hold and stay calm and alway monitor the value of the asset you have, and don't speculate yet.  The risk is always there mate, we could not predict that all of those coins that has been popular in the market isn't going to die. For me its good to invest in an ico that has a well managed platform, and the community was actively doing such intensive breakthrough with regards to how people demand for their crypto platform. However the platform cannot be an assurance, but through the power of social media communications particular in tweeter and telegram I think promising ico will hit its hardcap as well as soft cap will be attained. I guess long term might give you positive results in the future but, the reality to every trader wasn't that good because emotional connectivity might affect a lot. Neo's community as per review has now come to developing currency and the potential is big rather than ADA, if I refer to my analysis right now. That's a great challenge, and as per my monitoring with neo's value I think neo also has been cheaper but other investors never grab that chance while the price was still at lower value. That lack of informations and proper resources of what's happening with the coins community, specially when you're holding huge amounts of an altcoins could possibly lead to panic on traders. I think being informative right now is a good choice to do like having updates on that coin community, for an example of the most popular of today's telegram communication. You can really gather more updates on how the coin went through, so you can build up such confidence by the time you started to have bad psychology. Of course that coins is a good choice because it has visible community, and possibly in the next few months I think that pillar coin also be the most expensive token in the market. Right now as far as most reviews of their community, the wallet plans of improving their security with regards to crypto storage were developing more strategies on how they make a safer world of their clients. That's how I view that altcoin as most reliable for now specially when choosing long term holdings. I agree on how the price of bitcoin drops and everything now was unpredictable, but with regards to the ico I think that the opportunity now at low price could attract good investors. Having those newbies weren't a reliable assurance that makes bitcoin price rise even higher, but the most certain situation was more wise investors waited for that low price to buy. If you think that it will affect the ico, then I guess that's far behind all speculated ideas because most of those who used digital currency now preferred a cheaper bitcoin value for their purchases. **Successfully joined Enkidu Signature Campaign**  I believe that holding and trading is more profitable if we can make both of them. Because before we do trading we must hold our crypto coin for good and it is really a good strategy to get the right timing about selling through a good price, so that we can really gain a huge return of our investment. I believe that trader is also do holding before they do trading for good.  I think people loss in trading because they do wrong decision and maybe they really didn't have enough experience on the trading feild. Everything has a right time if we are not really do not know how to do such gaining process maybe we should do such searching or maybe asking to those who are expert on the trading feild for good, and maybe for us to learn basic on it before we do action or decide to trade.  I believe on that. I agree on that trading and joining a signature campaign is the most common ways to earn in bitcoin feild this was the most known strategy on the feild and it is really amazing. It can really give a huge amount of profit. So then I believe that both trading and joining a different kind of campaign is profitable. Bit in my part I really prefer on signature campaign because it is less risk than trading.   I think we can really gain on buying and selling . If we did everything in the right time, so then if we buy bitcoin bellow 10,000 USD then we must hold and sell if the price reach more than 10,000 USD, that was really a simple kind of strategy yet profitable enough to sustained or gain a huge profit.  Yes i agree on that but everything in this crazy world has a risk, and I believe that if we don't take that risk nothing will change into our life, I believe that we need to take risk for as to get some experience in preparation for making a decision in the near future. We must try both trading and mining for good because even if we can't earn today, I believe that there's still tomorrow to work on and we can put basis on our past experience on the trading and mining feild.  People should invest in bitcoin because it has many advantages and it is also the most trusted among all coin in the crypto world. Bitcoin is said to be the most amazing asset of gaining that is already proven and tested that has a great return. So then if we invest in bitcoin we are really more secure than investing into other coin. I believe that the bitcoin can really give as a profit because I see that the bitcoin has a unstable price which is really good for investing process.  I aslso believe that it cannot be manipulated anymore, the bitcoin price is not depend on the government it is depend upon its market price and volume that is really unstable. It is unstable because of its unstable demand maybe it will really rise and fall because of the changing of the volume of the investors in the market and it is not being manipulated.  I believe that the main reason is the wealth, everyone really wanted to become wealthy and they found out that the bitcoin is the way to get some wealth that is why everyone really wanted to invest in bitcoin, because bitcoin is really amazing and it is really proven and tested that it can give as a huge amount of profit, the bitcoin economy is growing so past because of its built with many gaining process  and it is really simple to used.
 I think tradingvis not a fun games, I believed that it is a serious games that can make us cry if we don't take it seriously. Because in trading we can also loss an amount if we do not work on it in a prudent way because trading is not really a game is is not listed as game it is a money making process and if we don't do it perfectly it can also be worst to us.  I think we can really predict the price of the different coin, but everything is only a prediction, because I believe that no one can ever know the exact price of the corresponding coin every now and then. Because every time the volume of the investors is unknown and maybe the price is also become unknown because of this volume  of investors is also unstable. So then everything in crypto is depend on the patience that we put beyond expectations. I think buying btc is really depend on the amount that we can afford to loss, and also with our faith and trust on the btc. Because if we trust bitcoin we can really gain through holding btc in a long term, because even if the bitcoin today is slowly rising we cannot really say that it will stop rising soon because some speculation says bitcoin will really rise up to $50k  at the end of the year so then if we are going to buy and hold maybe we can get a double profit someday.  Yes i agree on that, we all really wanted to become a millionaire and I believe that bitcoin is one of the way to become rich, That is why I believe that bitcoin can really make us millionaire. Being millionaire is one of the biggest dream of all the bitcoin believer. Bitcoin is really amazing it is really a new hope.  I think we must also support altcoins because we can also use it for gaining maybe we should do supporting it just like any other coin because it is for everyone. Any individual who believe in alt and do productive things on it may also gain a huge amount of profit, specially when they know how to hold and make things that is profitable enoughf for good.  Yes i agree on that maybe holding is the best thing to do but if we are in a badly need of money we may sell bitcoin for good. I believe that holding bitcoin is an advantage, because if we hold we Can really select the right price to sell, we must do monitoring for the price  so that we can gain a huge amount of profit because from the start we all know that bitcoin has a high volatility.  I think bitcoin is really profitable if we are going to hold for a long term. But the profit may depend on the patience of the person, because we all know that the bitcoin is high on volatility and sometimes it will rise like it's price is really on the top and we tend to sell it. So then it is only depending on is. If we do believe that we can gain bitcoin today we don't have to wait and hold for a long term.  I believe that bitcoin is better than the other types of coin because it is really the most trusted from the start and it is really the coin that has a good feedback and the most profitable coin ever. If we take a look at the price of the bitcoin we can really see that there are a lot of opportunity from the past due to its high volatility and huge dropping of the price. I do believe that bitcoin is better than other coin because it is really amazing.  If you want to be a trader then you must know the basic about trading. You have to learn first what was the basic strategy on how to trade to gain a huge amount of profit. Because I believe that most of the expert are onced a student, they learn it first before they do trading that is why we need to learn first before we do such thing to avoid losses.  Yes i agree on that signature campaign is the safest  way to earn in crypto because we don't have to put a Capital on it. But I believe that buying a coin who was in a dropping status may also profitable. Because if crypto coin price goes down we Can only spend a verry small amount and buy more of it, and then wait for the next update of the price and if the price rise that time we may sell our coin for good.  Bitcoin cant be dead anymore because bitcoin is now really start rising from the huge dump. I believe that it is now the beginning of the bitcoin to rise up high. And we don't have to be afraid from the words that this bitcoin is dead because it is now rising, and I believe that in the near future bitcoin will rise up high because of its amazing features and many simple ways to earn a huge profit from it.   I think both trading and investing is a risky type of gaining process but I also believe that it is the fastiest way to earn a huge profit in crypto feild so I prefer to do both trading and investing for good. Because if we do both maybe we can really gain from both trading and investing by then the amount of profit that we can get is also double.  I think selling is really depend on the price if the price will become high that was really a good time to sell but if it will become low that was really their of buying.  We can really make profit on bitcoin if we are more temperate about the price . Sometime people around really choose to hold that selling earlier, Maybe the main  reason why everyone is holding is that they really wanted to have a good timing on selling.  As a beginner I can really say that everything in crypto is not too late. Engaging on crypto today is the best thing to do, the volatility of the bitcoin is the most amazing part of it that is really interesting and many individual gain because of this high volatility that can really give us an opportunity to buy more if the price is dropping. I Believe that bitcoin can really give as a huge amount of profit because of if it's high volatility.  I think even if the bitcoin will experience a huge dump we don't have to be afraid or panic. I believe that if the price will down that was really another chances of buying many more coin. I believe that buying altcoin is also profitable because when the bitcoin fall some other altcoin will also get down and that was a great opportunity .  I believe in bitcoin and it's capability to give a huge return that is why I believe that investing on bitcoin is really a good idea. If we take a look at the bitcoin price we can really see that it is really high volatility which makes bitcoin an amazing way to earn a huge profit even in a simple way of buy and selling. Bitcoin is really amazing it is really a great opportunity and a blessing that we must learn.  I believe that taking risk is also a great way to success. Some people will learn and make a lot of good experience by taking a risk in a different situation. I believe that risky type of gaining is also a great way to earn a huge amount of profit and it can really be the tastiest way to earn. So then I believe that taking a risk is really a good measurement of our faith.  Yes I also believe that before we start trading we must do basic action such as collecting an information and asking a different question through an expert of this field. Maybe we should do basic in every action that we do  we must know first or consider some disadvantages because we all know that trading is also a risky type of gaining process.  I think it is really better to hold bitcoin than holding a gold. As what we all have seen the price of the bitcoin it is really volatile and it can rise and fall on a very short period o time, so then we can also have many opportunities to buy and sell depending on the price status. While in gold we really need to wait for a long time or maybe a decade to gain because it's price is almost stable.  I really like bitcoin because of its high volatility which can really give us a great opportunity to gain a huge profit. I think bitcoin is really likeable than any other coin and it is the most trusted and proven from the start. Bitcoin is really amazing and unbelievable. I really gain on it that is why I love bitcoin.
 Yes i strongly agree on that, the bitcoin is an instrument to be used for gaining but if people didn't have an interest or maybe they didn't used it bitcoin is not really used as profitable asset. World is really big for bitcoin it self to make change, so then I believe that it is not about the bitcoin it is about the people who are going to use it for good.  I think the best thing to do is to hold, becaus rid we hold and wait for the right time we can really select the right price when we sell. I believe that holding is the best strategy to gain in crypto feild but if we are going to hold we really need to extend our patience. But the decision is in the holder because we don't have to wait for a verry long time if we can gain today so then selling and holding is also depend on the price. Cypto currency is now the trending way of gaining an extra money, I believe that many people is now really becoming more interested in it because crypto is really amazing it is built with many simple ways to earn a huge amount of money with a very few capital, I think it is now becoming more popular because of its good feedback and crypto is already been trusted for such a along time that is why it is now really valuable.  The benefit of trading is no other than the profit. Trading can give us a huge amount of profit. I believe that trading has also have many different benefit because we can also learn a lot of things on trading specially when we are going to loss for a moment and we should understand that life is like a roller coaster  sometimes high and sometimes we are in low status the important matter is we learn.  People wanted to have bitcoin because of its high volatility that can really always give as an opportunity almost everyday, The abnormal change of the bitcoin price may lead as to the huge profit, it is really unstable and sometimes it experience a huge dump which is the best time for us to but and sell in the near future.  I think in bitcoin there is no risk at all, bitcoin has a risk if the person used it in a wrong way, so then the risk of bitcoin is really created by our own fault and mistakes of using it. I think we are the responsible of our own losses in this bitcoin feild because bitcoin is only an instrument and we are the one to make use of it. There are a lot of differnece that gold and bitcoin has. If we are going to speak about gaining bitcoin really defeated gold because in bitcoin we just need to get the right timing about the price because it's price is really unstable and we can really gain a huge of profit through buy and selling. While in gold we cannot buy many of it because it is always on a high price, gold is verry risky I believe that bitcoin defeated gold.  I think so, everything is said to be as prediction but the assurance is really under the hopes and the dreams of all bitcoin believer, However looking back on a price is basically the basis of the long journey, The expert has learn a lot and putting a kind of some great basis from the past that is why some of their speculation may have 95% to come true and only 5% for not.  I believe that the bank will not show fear on bitcoin because bitcoin has no taxes while bank is already been taxes from the start, business is always a business and crypto currency is always a crypto currency, both crypto currency and bank has a different way to be handle through limitation and I believe that government has a remedy on this in the near future, maybe  we can see what would happen next. so then all we need to do is to wait for the government announcement or maybe statement about it.  I believe that bitcoin will rise  at the end of year 2018 because I've also seen the potential of this coin that it can really rise because it is getting  more popular. Some speculation says that the bitcoin may rise up high because it is now getting trend and there are a lot of basis that expert can say that bitcoin may rise. Some speculation are getting more transparent because we can see that the. Past speculation is true and we experience it on the past, so we can put basis on that past to make a decision today.  95 % of the people who become successful is a positive thinker because if we always think positive there would be a possibility that we can have a lot of patience and we can really make or do work in a fluent way because of the positive energy, So then I believe that if we think positive possitive things will really come in to our life.  I believe that everyone has allowed to become wealthy, but the difference is that the wealthy person can afford to put a big capital to gain more profit while the simple person cannot afford to put a big capital and only gain a small amount due to the issue of the capital amount. But everything is depending on how person handle their decision on the field because crypto currency is not really all about the issue of pitting a huge capital to gain also a huge amount. I believe that experience and you're way of thinking or facing the situation is really the key to success here because in crypto timing is the best key to success because we can earn here without an amount of capital involve.  The economy of the country is always depend on the governence, if the government is corrupt and unfair maybe the budget of the government for the country is on the hand of few politician, So then the economy of the country will going to freeze and not moving specially when they also corrupt the taxes which is the number one source of the country improvement I can say it is very worst.  I think we have to be temperate and moderatien about trading because not all of the time we can gain a profit on it, So then before we do trading we must know first that trading is also a risky type of gaining process, but  I think trading is really depend on the patience and trust. We must believe on our self if we do some action that includes capital because our fears may pull as down if we don't can't control it.  I agree on this statement the market will commonly grow if the demand or maybe the number of user  increase because many individual or investors will get interest of getting bitcoin as their asset of gaining, if they saw that the bitcoin market grows by then I can see that the bitcoin may grow and maybe in the future it will become more popular.  Yes we dont have to get panic because the nature of the bitcoin price is that pump and dump, and we all know that the market will not really going to dump forever because sometimes it will also pump, I think if the price drop maybe we should consider this as a great opportunity because if the price drop we can really buy a lot of bitcoin with a very small amount of capital.  Maybe after the huge dump there is a huge pump because as what we all have seen from the past few years if the market fall after a few months there would be a huge pump maybe it is all because the market is like a roaler coaster sometimes it will go up and sometimes it will down that was the nature of the market so we don't have to be afraid on that.  People around  may have  the capacity to do work or preform physical activity and work for their own good and I believe that before bitcoin establish people is already  surviving with theirs own so then even if the bitcoin will get lost maybe people can still survive on their own way.  Well I agree on that it is really a good news for us that has really save a Lot of crypto coin becaus rid the price rise and pump we can really sell our saved  crypto coin and gain a huge amount of profit I believe that many people wanted to invest in crypto coin because it is really amazing and it really give us a huge profit.  Well I think low price is now slowly ending and it is really the time to start rising but we can really buy bitcoin for now and wait for the huge rise of the price and then we can really sell for good we Can really have more profit if we do buying this time because the price is rising slowly and we can really select the right time to sell.
 I believe that continuing to gambling really depends on the current status of luck you have you have i think if we are not lucky we must stop gambling for good because gambling can really give as a huge loss if we really continue to gamble even if we are really experiencing a great loss of doin it maybe we should start finding another place to play and avoid gambling works for good.  Well it is not considered as lost if the crypto coin is in your hand because we cannot really predict the movement of the price if it will rise, Maybe we should have a big patience because some of the losses is came from the person who's patience is really small and maybe it will not enough on waiting the right price to gain a huge amount of profit maybe they do panic selling that is why they experience losses.  Well I believe that everything is really depend on the profit the we gain in both  crypto and regular job or maybe office job the decision is really on us but for me i choose job on this time. But if  I will gain a huge amount in by that is enoughf to do another way to survive like building a business I will really choose to leave job and do business with extra income in by work.  Yes i agree on that because some politician is so greedy they are really corript becaise they got tempted if we speak about money because most of the people around is really greedy and they wanted everything. Maybe  bitcoin is really amazing and it will really maybe become more profitable and popular in the future that is why I believe that bitcoin may go run through a decade.  Well i agree on that etherium is really  next to bitcoin but it is also becoming more amazing each day same as bitcoin the bitcoin is the most common asset of gaining an extra income but we can also gain in etherium that is why if we can do work on both btc and wth I suggest to invest in both side for good.  Well I agree on that I believe that bitcoin can really rise up high than $18k in the near future in fact some of the speculation  says that it will rich 50k use in th end of year 2018 so then if we have patience to wait I believe that we can really earn more than a half of what we invest into bitcoin.  Bitcoin is the most popular now a days because because it is tbe most amazing coin and it is really a kind of coin that has so many simple ways to earn that is why many people show thier interest on it and it is really become more valuable maybe it is all because of that bitcoin is really the most common asset of gaining profit that is why it is now getting more popular.  I think people around like crypto coin because of the huge profit that they really get on working or doing such profitable action like trading and investing in the crypto coin feild I believe that crypto coin can really brought a great big profit in me so then I will continue buying and holding some of it for good and in preparation of the near future.   Well I agree on that cashless society is not really getting more popular many of us really used a physical money which is commonly used now a days we can really used ATM but in some other ways we end it all up using the common money because it is really a fluent way to pay  payments.  I think holding is really the  best thing to do because if we sell in a low price it is not really profitable  i think we must wait foe the right time to sell and selling must always be in a high price. And we need to have a big patience on waiting for the right time to sell because selling is really profitable when we really sell during high price.  The bitcoin popularity cannot be loss anymore in fact it is now really slowly getting trend and more popular each day because of its amazing features that makes all investors gain in a very simple way maybe in the near future bitcoin will continue to rise and to become more valuable.  I agree on that the bitcoin price today is the price that good for buying because we can really buy many more bitcoin with a very small amount of capital and we can really less our risk because we only put a small amount and we can really have a big chance to gain a huge amount of profit in the near future if the price rise.  I think it is really too early to predict because if take a look at the price of ETH and BTC they are really different bitcoin is really big enough for ETH that is why I believe that the etherium is really next to bitcoin it can't really surpass bitcoin it is always on second rate even if we put basis of their popularity bitcoin is really the first or maybe the most popular.  Well i think this is really the best time to buy bitcoin because bitcoin is really amazing it is now really dropping like it gives as an opportunity to gain through buy and selling process of gaining i believe in bitcoin and it's capability to rise again it seems like it really almost the same with its price in the past year sometimes it goes down and sometimes it goes up.  Well I think it is all because holding is really a great strategy in crypto field because it's price is really amazing it is really unstable and it also have the capability to give us a huge opportunity through buy and selling process of gaining.I believe that most of us really experience in holding strategy and it is really profitable.  Well I believe that the bitcoin is really a great big help on the  economy specially to those people who really need an extra income to survive because the world now is really suffering from poverty and the bitcoin is their way or maybe an asset of gaining a huge amount.  I think it is not in danger this was really a normal thing in crypto feild the unpredictable price is really normal from the start of bitcoin the price will really always moving  and it's status will always in dumping and rising status that is why if the price change we don't have. to be afraid on it.  Well i also believe that everuthing in bitcoin is not over it will really riae soon because it is really the nature of the movement of the price of bitcoin it is really unstable from the past so then we don't have. to be afraid of its price whenever it will fall or rise because bitcoin is really unpredictable.  I believe holding bitcoin cannot be called a greedy it is an strategic way to gain in crypto field we cannot really gain here when we are going to buy and sell it directly without holding buying and selling with the same price is not really profitable we are just like playing the same game and we all end up like nothing.   Well i think the best answer is it is nkw really tbe best time to buy bitcoin buying biycoin in a verry low price may lead as to the huge profit in the near future it sounds really simple but thjs is really proven and tesred in all bitcoin believer so then we dont really have to be afraid of what we currently experience. base on the dropping of price because tbjs is an opportinity to gain.
 Yes maybe many of us here really experience  like there's no hope at all but if we put basis in the past price of bitcoin if we look at on it at the past few year we can really say that this is not the end because dropping and pumping is really the nature of the bitcoin price and we can't really control those changing of its price so the best thing to do in the middle of a  huge dropping of price is   to wait for a  moment and see the magic of bitcoin because I believe it will really rise  in the next few month.  Well I think if we are experience enoughf we don't really have  to worry about the price of bitcoin even if it is now betting the red line I case of the bitcoin will continue to drop down we don't have to worry intact we must be happy on it because that was really a great opportunity.Bitcoin is really amazing even if it will pump and dump the opportunity is always there.  Well today is really the besr time to invest bitcoin it is now droping .The most common ways to get btc is to investing and trading I believe that this two ways is really the fastest way to gain more profit but it is really a little bit rIsky that is why I really redder on joining a signature campaign to gain bitcoin without any risk of outing a capital amount all you have to do is  to work  and wait for your tokens.  I agree on that tbe market will not really fall forever maybe the coin will be upgraded and the market will rise again ,In crypto feild bitcoin is really unpredictable it almost changing its price  everyday and  we really experience pumping and dumping of its price  this is really the nature of the price that is why we dont have to be afraid of falling because it is not forever.  Yes i agree on that we can really gain if we buy bitcoin today and wait for the right price and then sell for good.The amount that we invest in bitcoin today base on the current price  maybe become tripple if the price will rise  in the near future,because bitcoin is not really in a dropping status until forever because we all know that bitcoin is really unstable and tge nature of it is really pump and dump.  Yes i agree on that it i believe that today is really a great opportunity on buying bitcoin because bitcoin price today is really dropping and we can really afford to buy on it even if we dont have a  big capital.We can really gain through it if we have a patience in waiting for the right price to sell maybe selling should always be  done during high price.  Yes i agree on that this is not really possible fiat  will not going to crashed because it is really supported by the government and  it is really the currency that we all used for a long time,Many people today used bitcoin or digital currency but many more people use fiat yhan digital currency because they really used fiat foe a long tome and maybe they really didnt know about bitcoin yet.  Well bitcoin today is already defeating un employment because it is now giving an opportunity to its believer to have an extra huge and unexpected income that can really use to provide thier daily needs it is now really getting more amazing and many people wanted to have it to gain more profit and for survival.  The end of bitcoin is not written in any book nor publish by the different news it is unpredictable.In my own part of observation the bitcoin will never end this time,i think it will count a decade before bitcoin ends maybe it is now really experiencing a huge dupm but we know that the nature of the bitcoin price is unstable maybe it will rise  someday and that was really the expectation of some expert on this feild because tbey can really put a basis from the past price  of the bitcoin.  Well i dont believe that bitcoin can really end the world poverty because it is just a digital instrument that can be used for gaining.The responsible for that matter is the people who live on that persfective country to act as one and maybe the economy will rise if everyone helping each other to gain profit for good,because even if bitcoin is there and no one will believe on it bitcoin is useless in short the poverty status is depend  on us not on bitcoin.  Yes i agree on that we can really call bitcoin today a big thing  it is not the next big thing because it is now todays big thing many people have seen a new hope because of bitcoin and it is really getting more popular each day because of many good feedback, it really works and many people wanted to have it.it is now really more valueable than the past it is now really the big thing.  Well the majority well choose bitcoin because they really experience gaining a huge amount with the simple strategy many people today get amazed on it and it really make everyone build a new dreams because they really found out a new  hope in bitcoin.Bitcoin is amazing and it can make us rich someday if we do bitcoin in a prudent way by making a right decision with a full basis.Experience  is really a must on this feild  i think we must continue doing such prodictive thing with bitcoin for good.  Well every expert is onced a student and everyone may start in a verry simple way of learning i think if we want to become a good trader someday we must learn trading today in a  verry simple way i believe that we can all become a trader if we have wanted ,if others can do we can also do the same because we are all gifted we have the same brain and the same ability to understand things.  Yes i agree on that itvis really hard to create one currency for the whole world maybe bitcoin can be use as an profiting asset i  the whole world but if we speak about bitcoin as a currency in the world for me it is really impossible and i believe that this will not going no happen.  Bitcoin is really amazing that is why it is really getting more trend each day and i believe that it is really secure because it run until this time with an amazing value and prices  i think if bitcoin is really not a secure type of gaining process maybe we will not known bitcoin today because it will be ban in the past and it will not exist at present ao then i really believe  in the capability of bitcoin and i believe that it has an amazing security.  Yes i agree on that joining a campaign is really the most popular way of getting bitcoin because joining a signature campaign is not risky  you have to work for it you dont have to put up a capital or any other fee's involved and you can really get a huge profit depending on the campaign that was really exciting i really reffer joining a different campaign than trading and investing.  Well i believe that people agree to pay taxes because it is the responsibility of the worker to pay taxes on thier respective country and if we dont really pay taxes the government filled a case againts us that is why we really need to pay taxes for our own good and for the country.  In my part i really didnt  believe that bitcoin become our future money because it has really a big difference to our physical money .Bitcoin is pioneering and i believe that many people really didnt even know what was bitcoin yet ,because there are many places that has no internet connection and people of that places will really ignorance  about the bitcoin that is why i believe it is not really possible that bitcoin can become a future of money.  Yes  i agree on that bitcoin is a currency,a digital currency that can be used as an asset of gaining a huge amount of profit and it is really a great way to help our self to become more prudent on maming some good decision in the near future we can really put a basis on everything that we do in this currency we can really  gain a huge amount of profit.  Will i believe that bitcoin has already defeated gold because bitcoin today is really good in gaining a huge profit because it is really good in investing and trading process because of its amazing future i believe  that bitcoin is really amazing.While in gold we cannot really gain a huge profit because gold is always  high at price  and it is really  risky.
 I think if we  are smart we can have the idea or maybe strategy on how to gain a huge profit because if we are smart we can think an idea that can really help us to gain a huge profit i believe that smart person is also a strategic person indeed ,because smart person has a  power to think great idea that can really make everything productive .  we  cant really print dollar because dollar is sailed by the government and thier  central bank so then of we just print our own dollar we will be punished by the police in prison because you dis obey the law and you can really make a payment on that dollar is not just a  paper it is a  money that has a corresponding value that sailed by the government.  Maybe bitcoin can really surpass its amazing features in year 2017 because as of today bitcoin is really getting more popular and more profitable i think it will really rise continueosly same as the value and the price of the bitcoin maybe the people who really wanted to have bitcoin in the future will multiply because people can see that bitcoin is really amazing.  That was great i believe that money from bitcoin is a blessings in my part i spend my earning from bitcoin through important things that is really usable in our daily life of living and if someday i will gain more profit o will give some part of it to those agency who helps disabled person to make my earning more meaningful.  I think we had to be  more temperate about the flow of the price so that can easily grab the opportunity of gaining and maybe someday we can really easily determined about the right time of selling and buying due to the flow of the present price i really believe that we can really gain on it in a verry simple way through buying and selling.  I agree on that i think we should really set our emotion to make it pair and we should considered anytime that we maybe loss or gain and there is no assurance at all so that we  cant think so much of our investment  i think the best way to overcome our fear is to put it in to our mind that holding is just like a gambling we can really win or loss so that we  can help our self slowly understand that everytbing may happen on this type of gaining and we should be aware of that.  Yes this is now the time for holding i believe that when we are going to hold when the market is down we can really gain a big progit during the market return to its normal movement because everytime it may change and that change maybe the opportunity for us to gain more profit because we can get a huge return depending on the decision on what time due to changing of price we can despatch our coin.  Yes i agree on that i believe that the right time to buy bitcoin is when bitcoin price drop down because it is really the big opportunity to buy with only small capital and we can really make a huge profit in tge near future when we will have patience  and we  can wait for the right time to sell and selling must always be on a high price.  No doubt about it bitcoin today is really the leading currency because anyone  can really use it even you are not in rge same country i believe that bitcoin is really the most leading currency because it really helps anyone who really believe in it maybe  people will really experiebce the profit that is in bitcoin that is why bitcoin today is really getting more trend.  Yes i agree on that bitcoin is really better than gold in terms of gaining process because the bitcoin is really a good source of an extra income because it has  a unstable price which is really good for trading and investing  process and it has really a good feedback from all investors.While in gold we cannot really gain a big amount because we need to have a big capital because its price is always on a high status ad we cant really afford on it.  Well the bitcoin and goldhas really a big différence to each other gold has always in a high price while bitcoin price is really not stable it can really go down and at the same time it can really pump which is really good kind of thing to trade because we can really gain on it because of its unstable price we can really also have the  opportunity to gain almost everyday because its  price may change anytime anywhere.  Well i think it is depend  the decision of the holder upon the corresponding price .Because through buying and selling process we really need to have an update about the price to get a refference on what time can we really do buy and selling process of gaining,; bitcoin is really amazing it is a great big help to ordinary people living in a modern world with the help of internet.  Well i really put may profits on some trusted banka and aome of it will invested.I really put it in a different types of secure places to avoid some looses bacause we are now really now in a modern world and we dont really know if there are somebody hacked our online wallet that is why i really believe that the most secure ways is to put everything on the trusted bank.  I believe that both are risky type of gaining process but it is also the fastiest way to earn maybe the better and less risk is holding because we can really control on what will be the  right time to sell our bitcoin i believe also in trading but i really reffer to the process which is less risk.  Well i believe that the best price to buy many bitcoin is in the low price rate because we can really gain more ptofit if we really buy during low price because the price is really unstable and we can sell our bitcoin during the price rate will rise  because by thrn we can gain a huge amount in return of oir investment .  I choose bitcoin because i believe in bitcoin and it has really a capability to earn huge profit on it many people believe on it because it is really proven and tested by all investors and users that it is really good asset in terms of getting more profit that is why maby people has an interest to have many bitcoin.  Well i really dont believe that bitcoin will be dead because bitcoin from the start has really an unstable price and we can really predict on when is it will be going to rise again but many people really afraid if the bitcoin price drop they do panic selling because they are afraid of the unknown some of us really afraid on things that has no assurance to happen like bitcoin turns in to zero value i think if the price drop we dont have to be afraid because it is nature in bitcoin.  Well i think this is not really the right time to sell because yhe price now is really droping maybe selling must be done during the price is high because we  can really gain a huge profit if we sell it during the high price but it ia really depend on the holder if he or she really wanted to hold or sell for good because we have a different needs .  Well if we put basis on the price we can really see that it is now really the best time to buy more bitcoin in preparation of the next rising of price if we buy bitcoin today which is now getting low or maybe dropping we can really less our risk on it and the capital is also less and we can really have a big opportunity to gain.  well in short bitcoin is really amazing because it is the only coin that has really a verry big price and it is more amazing becaus eit change price without a prior notice to the public which really make the investors profitable because of the buy and selling  process of gaining i believe that bitcoin is really amazing and different from the other coin .
 I think we dont have to be afraid on bitcoin i we speak about the price of bitcoin even if it will really go down it will rise again it is really the same old story we really experience droping from the past and bitcoin recovered from the huge dump it will go pump in the next day so then we can really see that bitcoin will be bitcoin pump and dump is the nature of it.so we dont really have to be afraid. No doubt about it bitcoin is not really dead even if it will experi3nce a huge drop or  maybe it will fall so fast but there is always a capability that it will rise again because we really experience  this dumping and pumping of its price from the start it will really always  on tgis status and we can really see and experience on it everyday.  Well i think bitcoin is really dropping each day but this is not fear as far as we know the  fort and back movement of the price then it can really get rise every now and then because it is the nature of bitcoin price no doubt about it it can really recover in the next day or maybe in the next month or year so then we dont have to be afraid of what is tbe present price because it can be change anytime anywhere. I think buying bitcoin is not requiring a time limit we can really buy it anytime anywhere so tben i believw we cant really become late on buying it maybe we should really start buying on it today because we really have a  huge dump and that was really a great opportnity to gain through buy and selling because we can it on a low price  and wait for the price  to rise and then sell.  Well i think if the price drop that was really not the right time to sell that was a time of buying and saving  and i believe that this was an opportunity to make a huge income in the near future  we can really have a huge money in buy and selling process because we can really wait for the right time to sell specially when it pump.  i believe that bitcoin is really better than gold in a different features and ways of gaining if we talk about business bitcoin is really better because it has a great capability to earn and it is really getting more popular because of its amazing features.gold is good in apaerance but it has also a big price which badly needed a decade to be change and it cant be dump and pump in a verry short so then the opportunity to gain is really verry short. I believe that the most likeable features of bitcoin is the price and the unstable value of bitcoin because if we really put basis from the past bitcoin is really not popular as of today because its price is really not as big as what it is on the present time.The verry exciting is the unstable price of bitcoin it really make all investirs feel really exciting on it and many will really believe on it . #JOINBitcointalk username: chickenadoForum rank: Hero MemberPosts count:  (including your registration post) 762ETH address: 0xD1F9CAA8ddC16c980a1B0b68DB50D7693c855899 Although there's no dominance in main time, I guess its the right time to invest while its price is on its lower value. The opportunity for those holders who patiently waited the declined price to be achieved further. If many alts were dumped, then we will also be expecting another bitcoin price pumps which could substancially a good reason to hold for a longer time as well.  A good platform of a signature campaign sig campaign should be observed, at least you can join a fixed rate campaign with a high payment. Although there's a lot campaigns offering small payments with less amounts of posts. As a legit poster I don't care those amounts of minimum post as long as I am earning good, still I am satisfied to it.  For investors or holders takes a lot of courage to not do panic selling when price dip happened.Price votality will always at stake in crypto business that based on the supply and demands in the market.Those previous weeks that weve celebrated christmas season really affects its price but we strongly believe that it would recover soon that was already happening right now.Bitcoin is back to be the supreme of all cryptos. I havent did it to borrow fiat to buy bitcoin,i can see that it was too risky to do it,we have different ways to earn bitcoin and i rather choose to be patient to earn it.Im here in this forum and joining signature campaigns inorder to own bitcoin..to strive hard is whàt i did and be more patient..but we cant blame anyone who get some loans to own bitcoin they are people who are risktakers and truly believe in bitcoin to be more profitable and has a capability that price will reach to the moon. Being involved in bitcoin at a younger age is a great opportunity for them to start investing for their future.In todays generation most risktakers are those younger ones and very open to internet or social medias that can be used in this kind of business.Lucky enough to know business at a young age so that as early as today they will know the importance of having their own money,they will know its worth because being here nothing comes easy.In some way at a young age they will realize that its not easy to gain profit or money one must need hardwork and patience to achieve ones goal to build a brighter future. Positively i think that bitcoin will remain as the father of all cryptos,altcoins exist because of bitcoins idea though there were hard forks coming in but bitcoins still remain the strongest,BCH  had threatened some investors that might surpass bitcoins standing but it comes out that it was manipuĺated and cause alot of panic to bitcoin holders.Now bitcoin is still on the top though its price is not consistent due to votality but still afford to recover from the dip.I could see that it will rule the crypto world for a long time. So simple op mate all you need is your time spent here to be active always in this forum,make constructive post and be patient.You are just a newbie and it takes time to increase your rank to Member but since i can see that youre eager to rank up its not impossible for you to achieve it. Keep on reading different threads and  create your own idea so that you can make constructive post..this will help you a lot. Most people here have widest interest in success because people believe that bitcoin has its capability of making a person rich as times goes by.Those early adopters who have lots of courage to hold btc even if it is priceless that makes today as the father of all cryptos.I can say that they have brought bitcoin up to these days that has rapid growth in popularity and has the highest value in the market.I thought of that it maybe few who take social responsibilty and share the blessings that they have today but i know there is.If i were an early adopters and have known bitcoin just the way it started and millionaires up to this day i would have shared my blessings and have created a foundation that may help other people who are in needs and its my way of creating social responsibility too. Bitcoins became dangerous depending on its user if it is used in different illegal transactions but if the user used it in a nice way why would it became danģerous as a matter of fact it really helps a lot to those people who were having diificulties on applying a job..but through these bitcoin forum people will know and discover on how to earn money through internet even without investments.As far as i know these site were created because of bitcoin and adds popularity in bitcoin in different countries that is why bitcoin is useful for all of its users. I dont see anything wrong when someone invest in bitcoin its someones choice and its their liabilities on what would happen to their investments.Bitcoin had already reach to almost $20k and if investors had buy bitcoin at $17k that time that it had reach to $19k thats already profitable.We hold the key to our success,we invest and take the risk,we just need to be a smart  in every decisions that we had to made.Still in for a buy low sell high and HODL btc for a long to make huge profit. People sell their bitcoins for some reasons,some aim to gain high profit if the price is right and when they hardly need it.Bitcoins is for long term investments but if it is really needed investors take out their btc and exchange to fiat because we cant deny the fact that even bitcoin popularity spread out there were still less merchants that accepts çryptocurrency most especially in our country that  our countrymen has less knowledge oñ it. Id love to accept bitcoin as a gift its a really big help for me,its been a good idea of giving btc this christmas but you must give it to someone who has knowledge about bitcoin so it can be useful to them.Christmas is a season of giving and if i recieve one  i choose to share it also to my loveones because i always wanted to be a blessing to everybody eventhough life seems so tough but i want everyone to be happy even just this precious day that they can feel the spirit of christmas.
Early to bed early to rise thats my usual thing,but since bitcoin become a part of my life i go to bed 10pm and woke up at 2am to fullfilll my unfinished task in my bounty and monitored the bitcoins price at the coin market cap.At 5am i go to bed again and rise at 7am..to take care of my son..but as soon as i finished all my household chores still manage to sleep..because i know its might affect my health if this would continue. Those people who believes in bitcoin gain more profit than to those who have less patience and decide to sell their btc if its price increases that can cause a correction.Most of investors wanted to profit immediately are those newbies that doesnt want to hold their btc for a long time because of being afraid to drop in its lowest price..holding takes a lot of courage to do it..if investors would sell their btc maybe thàts what they think a perfecr time for them to profit its their choice and we have nothing to do it..even if it affects btc price as a whole. I think now is the perfect time for buyers because  the dip was too much and i could see that it cant recover by the end of this year to reach $20k..but still those are just my predictions anything could happen, it would rise up again or would continue to fall anytime.If investors would take advantage of the price drops most probably it has a chance that it would pump again.Thought everyone is monitoring on the market cap that cause every investors to panic in this dip. Since christmas is fast approaching almost everyone of us were so much busy on preparing in this very momentous occasion and as far as everyone is concern i can sense that most holders exchange their bitcoins into fiat to use it as a christmas presents to their loveones in this matter i think this really contributes to bitcoins price to fall to almost $3k+..but this is being expected by holders of bitcoin correction always happen and we shall expect to decrease more when more holders dump their coins as new year will come. Well if that would happen that bitcoin crashes to $.08 i thought it was the end of bitcoin,holders will feel unsecured and lost their trust in bitcoin but so far in the i can see that this price drops today is just a correction and everyone is expecting it,it is still a big price if hoĺders buy their btc below $10k..$16k+ is still profitable.I think bitcoin will stay for long years for now lets just enjoy the benefit of bitcoins that brought in our lives. Bitcoins votality for me is not a bad thing if there were no votality price would never reach this far.Price depends on investors that may come and go.Bitcoin is not a product that can be easily shop in the supermarket that have an SRP that consumers and retailers follow.More demands in the market makes its price to pumps up thats why in this days where bitcoins so trendy it can never happen that its price become stable due to people become more interested in it.When votality happens and price dumps everyone must be more thankful for a chance to invest in bitcoin..one must take it as a positive thing and not a negative one. Actually alot of us misses the train while bitcoins price is very low..but i can see that its still profitable if we invest now for its price continue to fluctuates and still growing everyday.Bitcoin still doesn't own the whole worlds population thats why i can see that theres still a chance to make profit if we invest this time,while there were huge demands in the market and some countries legalizes bitcoins popularity rises and if it rises demands and price also rises,though no one can predict how much it will rise  but i know it will. $20,000 is reachable till this month end since the current price now is $19450+..but still we cant predict what will happen for the coming days since its price totally pumps up every single day.If this would reach to $20k probably correction will happen again and that depends on holders to exchange their bitcoins to fiat currencies in preparation in incoming christmas season.Every holders has its plan in their investments and i can see that they will spend a bit of their investments in this precious day .  If bitcion would stops many hopes and dreams will fail,though its not possible to happen if we look on the other side in its possibilty these would truly ruin everybodys dreams.Most people who get involved in this business wanted to reach the highest peak even if its too risky due to bitcoins votality thats why they hold their bitcoins and wait for a long time,if sudden dips occur that may lead to stop bitcoin i think investments wOuld be lost forever..really dissappointing. I think theres no bitcoin rush happening today because bitcoins price seems so high and not everyone can afford it..its not everyone also talking about it if youre talking on the whole world.There were still alot of places and races that doesn't know about bitcoin yet,proven that in our country.I guess 10 to 15% only who knows about it and i havent been heard that this make as  the talk of the town..not everyone understand it and if this would be explain to some i dont think they would easily understand..thought that it would need further explainations  to avoid different speculations. . That good to hear that USA show some interest in bitcoin as well as the Japanese that truly adopt bitcoins existence and make it as part of their salary.Though there were risk involved due to its votality but as far as we know Japanese were very confident on accepting modern trends that made their people so productive and made their product with high quality i think thats what they see in the future with bitcoins thats why they wanted it to become a part of their everyday life. Too much risk involved in this idea.I suggest not to sacrifice your house because of bitcoin..there are some other ways to earn btc without risking your precious shelter this is a very great sacrifice for you and your family.If i come out in that idea maybe that time i am crazy because i cant afford to see my loveones living along the streets that is so dangerous.If you want to earn bitcoin work hard on it theres no instant money everything needs long process to earn it just have patience Since i started in bitcoin i have been able to pay my debts,buy my everyday needs without hessitation that i might out of budget,supported my families needs.Eventhough i have a job but living with just a minimum wage seems so tough but now that i have my other side of income i will see to it that i have something to be kept in times of emergencies.Im also planning to have my own business outside crypto but im still thinking what kind of business to invest..that is also profitable. Most probably social media was a great influence in the rapid growth of bitcoin.Most of the people nowadays are being involved in so many trends, and one of the trends is social media like facebook,twitter,etc.if it is being shared with the current price i think that most of the people who  have seen and read it will get interested.Digital currency such as bitcoin is a trend that needs to  be taken advantage through its benefits that hinders in the coming future.The more it will be introduced the high rate that we expect for the coming years. Keeping your bitcoin is a matter of your choice and your needs because if you store it  this would really be your assest in the future that means you can support your daily needs withot needing to sell it,for sure you will gain more profit if you hold it in a long time.I believe that it will continue to surprise us that bitcoins value will keeps on rising because when more and more people knows about it and the goodness that brought to us everyone will be more interested in bitcoin. Very much surprising where holders have different speculation in its price increase..whether it is controlled or being manipulated by big whales or its rises through shortage of btc supplies through its demand.But i think it is because of its popularity that media has brought to become widely known in different parts of the world and also Christmas is coming i also think that more investors willing to invest in btc catching up the opportunity that lies in it knowing that there is future in bitcoin. Yes truly a savior to us whose already been a part of this business,financial problems been solved most especially debts.I find it myself as a savior also simply because i already have additional income.I dont have enough money for investments but i make use of my knowledge to earn bitcoin..as we all know its not that easy to earn btc we need more time to focus on reaching higher ranks  to join signature campaigns just like investment we also need patience and courage to be a part of btc community to be saved. Bitcoin rapid growth had already happening but it doesn't mean it would increase forever,every single minute its value changes depending on the demands in the market where there were investor who want to invest in bitcoin.Bitcoins price is very volatile thats why well expect there would be correction anytime to happen because alot of newbies that do panic selling  due to its votality and cant afford to lose what they invested.Bitcoins price is very unstable though it keeps on pumping these previous days we cant reassure everyone to increase bitcoins price more and more. Long time bitcoin holders have their strategies to hold their btc for a long period of time because they believe in bitcoin to change their life through times.Its price now has truly fluctuated to almost $19000,for long time holders that buy bitcoin in  the most cheaper price already seen the perfect time for exchange in fiat..but i think that doesnt come up with those holders to sell their btc because bitcoins price continue to rise without any corrections for the past few days.. its price has surpass everyones speculations this year and still continue to rise. Possible that will happen,i also have little satoshi from freebitco.in but lately i rarely open that site tired of betting and theres nothing happen..when a friend told me that faucet for now is a waste of time and think that id rather focus on this forum doing campaigns to earn btc but still hoping that 1 satoshi would be worth it in the coming days or years.So far bitcoins value positively increases this will be a big help to those who have little amount of btc in their wallet.
It already surpasses to $15000 and currently it had already reach to almost $17000 what a bull run even me got surprise on bitcoin performance this month.Alhough i have doubts on its price today that continously surge high im still hoping that this rapid growth is for the demands and supply that everyone is looking for and not being manipulated and being controlled by big whales.As i monitor every single days in its prices i have seen in 2 consecutive days that there is no dumps thats happening.If this would continue until this year ends most probably $20000 is very possible to reach before 2018 comes. Possible it will reach to $15k or even higher by the end of this month.Seeing this fluctuations every single hour is very much impressive.Bitcoin really made a history this couple of months.Truly amazing as its price pumps high.Another recognition in bitcoin that attracts investors due to continous high rate in the market.We all know that corrections will always there but based on what happen last night it just decrease to not more than $1k and after few hours it surge to $14k. No one controls bitcoins price it is a decentralized currency and has a very high votality and because of its votality holding of btc affects to holders concept to hold his/her btc and afraid to lose their investments and turn into pieces.Predictions and speculations were always there most especially if the price dumps.Panic selling would happen that would affect its price.The essence of the word HODL were gone and we cant blame them,every holders decision to trade,to invest is their right and we all shall respect it. No you didn't miss the train,wait till the price to pull back  because theres always been a sudden dump in every pump but remember its not that worst just like previous months did but i still do believe that even if you buy today for a price of $12k or $13k and hodl it for a long period of time i think you will still profit.Most holders did this because it is more profitable in the coming years.Another option is there are other altcoins which is more cheaper that has already value in the market and still growing each single day but if you really prefer to own bitcoin you can buy a part of it if you cant afford to buy 1btc in todays price that is very expensive. These things i really didnt expect,were only in a week of Dec. And bitcoins price reached to $13600+ while checking few hours had passed its just $12k it really amazed me and maybe to everyone else also. So for me its possible to reach $18k by this year ends..but we must have to consider that there will still be corrections after it rises things that we will watch out for that.One btc amounting to $10k for me already the best gift for everyone whose been in the crypto business. Different countries have different ways in getting budgets in different sectors.Taxes is the ultimate source of it .Every item to purchase in supermarkets has value added tax.Every employees have also taxes deducted from their salaries.Anyone who will buid a business pays permits..individually we pay in every transactions that we made.Debts from neighboring countries were already there since i was born and i dont think if its already been paid.Countries can be run by taxes that every individual pays if these taxes were being rightfully handled. Yes right bitcoin is freedom and we are so blessed that this digital currency has been created many more people had benefited as times passes,we are free on how or when to use our money in doing transactions without putting taxes in it.Government has no control on bitcoin most especially in our country where bitcoin was not that famous.I dont really think if the government would be interested in it and as far as were earning well just take advantage on bitcoins existence now because we dont know governments plan on btc holders in the future just like other country that make bitcoin illegal. Other people called it a scam or whatever i will always believe in bitcoin that Satoshi Nakamoto founded.Even if it is named a token or a coin as long as it plays a very big role in the market today for its value that continue to rise that really doesnt matter.Bitcoin changes every persons life and financial status whose into this  business.Every individual focus on the profit and the benefit that it brings and not the name itself.What is most important for me is to learn  earn more knowledge on how to earn it to be enable to be financially free someday.  Well aside from crypto investment i wanted to  choose humans daily needs,i wanted to be a stockholder and supplier of rice in the market,there might be a lot of competitors but as long as people need it every single day i am sure i can profit on it,but it really needs hardwork.Since investing in crypto currency is for long term method while waiting instead of getting bored or without doing something i wanted to get busy with my business outside crypto world i also wanted to be surprised on the growth of my coins when its already time to harvest. I think everything is possible with crypto correction will happen anytime.Many people wishes to pullback bitcoins price inorder to buy btc for a longterm investments,but btc price stays at $11k for 3 days by now and i can say that it will continue to rise before the year ends.People also predicts that it will continue to soar high and reach to $13k.If it decreases just wait when it  dump to $6k inorder you to make higher profit in the future. Anything is possible with crypto but if there will be other crypto that can surpass with bitcoin maybe not now.Bitcoin has just started in making history and due to its high rate,high demand and high price makes bitcoin to be always on top,aside from the fact that it was the first crypto currency it is now the widely known and the strongest digital currency ever.Bitcoin has already earned the trust of every bitcoiners  because it proves that it changes the life of every individual whose been into this business and if there were other cryptos that will surpassed with bitcoin i think it would never last that long just like bitcoins existence.  Many people stored their bitcoins in their walletbecause they know the nature of having bitcoin as an investments,they wanted to double or triple the profit as times goes by,thus everyone knows its price is volatile but every investors take risk in their money.Holding bitcoin is like a gamble but the advantage is it has a  great potential that it is more profitable through time and it is more beneficial if it is widely known around the globe.. even if there were downfall most important is it can recover in a small period of time. Illegal activities were everywhere even in our place.In our country i think there were only 10% of the population who have known about bitcoin or cryptocurrency but the existence of criminals,robbers,theifs,transactions with illegal drugs,corrupt government officials were still there.Like for example of corruption,an officials deposited in banks through fiat and not bitcoin  ..another example is robbers and theifs,they all wanted to have instant cash thats why to enable to have it they will get those wallets from their victims or worst is  they will kill,but yes it can be one of a source for criminals to easily do just to have money. Historical days had pass,correction had also passed what we are waiting now is the coming of christmas season,in that time we cant expect   if its price continue to fluctuates due to some activities that this season brings.Everyone thinks it will surpass from $10k and will reach $15k by the end of this year.,everyone was being afraid of the correction that cut its price for about $2k but now it is still on recovery and good things that it went back to $10k+ for just a couple of days. Those times youve posted this i think the right time to buy bitcoin thats what i thought so.You said youve supported bitcoin i guess youve already hold your btc from that moment.Now for me seems not the right time to buy due to is rapid increase in prices.$10k is too expensive to buy for now i suggest to wait till bitcoin drops to  $6k or $7k i guess..but that was just my opinion its all in your hands if you will gladly to buy btc at this moment it was you will decide. The normal correction of price make people panic,knowing that this really affects in the market,when it hits to $11k on those previous days we were amazed by its rapid increase but somehow when it dumps to $9700 some holders think that it will continue to its dip and afraid that it could not recover.Panic selling is what other investors did,for me theres nothing to blame if they sell because every investors looking forward to profit in the right time and if they invested bitcoin at an early age well they can get alot of profit when it hit to $10k or above on those previous days. Its not surprising for people to search for bitcoin than gold because bitcoin plays a big role in different lives today most especially that christmas season is coming and as they discover that bitcoin is more profitable than gold people will really find ways on how to earn it.Bitcoin became more known to our society because of its unstoppable price that keeps on rising.I think most people will go through the new era the new trends of earning money through digital currency. 1. Follow @Binance_2017. DONE2. Retweet the following tweet: https://twitter.com/binance_2017/status/936193080629215233. RETWEETED : https://twitter.com/binance_2017/status/9361930806292152333. LINK OF MY TWITTER ACCOUNT: https://twitter.com/BTChickenado The more that i stay longer in this forum,the more that ive known that there were some of my countrymen who is being  a part of this bitcoin community.I think this would be a good start for our country to finally adopt bitcoin.Through our knowledge and experiences we would be able to introduce it to some of our closest friend or families because cryptocurrecy is not famous in our country and not everyone used smartphones or laptop not like Japan that has its advanced technology that can truly adopt bitcoin as their source of payments etc.Population of Japanese helps alot on bitcoin fluctuations of price.
I think it would be $10k above by the end of this year, maybe after all the ups and downs of its price i think it would still recover and get back to its track,as this peak season that is coming most probably many more investors would invest ,because there were predictions that next year price of bitcoin will rise up again.But still we cant deny the fact that digital currencies has unstable price and everythings happen and we will just hope for the best so that we can harvest the fruit of our labor. Yes i do check bitcoins price everyday because i want to be updated on whats its current price.It really feels good when i see how it increases in just an hour or a day.I also see how volatile its price is when it dumps bitcoin recovers easily,which means more and more people trusted on bitcoins and used it in every transactions and also it has the potential to change someones life in the coming years..most especially if we all have patience to hodl our bitcoins. NASDAQ plans can make an additional popularity to bitcoinworld if this would truly happen.So we expect bitcoins price to fluctuate to its highest level.Another reason to hold btc and wait while it crosses to $30k or to where it goes..speculation will always there,it will be a larger market for bitcoin but we just hope that there would be no manipulation  happen to the bitcoin market..since everyone wish to profit from their investment for futures sake and hopefully 2018 would be a prosperous year for all bitcoiners. Right its votality has made everyones mixed emotions,others did panic selling which made its price to drop, while others treat it as normal for a digital currency to crashed after its rising moment.As of this time bitcoin has started to back on its axis again,anything would happen in this crypto business but i can see bitcoins great potential to recover in every dip that would happen.Some investors monitor the price movement of bitcoin waiting for the dip because probably they will invest in it..and i think that its bitcoins nature of business. Everyone ecpect bitcoins price that there would be a correction after all the rapid increase in bitcoins prices.As it reach to $11k+ for the past few hours and crashed to $9k  at this moment it really shows bitcoins huge votality.I think some holders sold their btc when it already reach to their targets for them to profit,but some would take this votality as an advantage of investing in bitcoin.For holders this is normal the pumps and dumps really happening in this crypto business were just hoping that there will be no manipulation happening in the market...just an opinion. $11023 is on the market cap this time and keeps on growing every single minute.It increases so fast i think more and more investors had invested in crypto most especially those businessman that has the huge capital for investment because of that popularity its price that already supasses to $10k many people were get interested in joining crypto business.It also helps to increase its price to fluctuates are those countries that legalizes btc and merchants that keep on accepting bitcoin. Follow JibrelNetwork: DonePost twitter account link: https://twitter.com/BTChickenadoPost audit link: https://twitteraudit.com/BTChickenadoPost # of your followers: 2144Post BTC Address: 12j2GoULTDm9uLtpnWtae1JUqF46LQcxVnPost ETH Address: 0x3c607631eb4f6C6e66713dD58F244dc5acdEeE70 Link to Twitter Account: https://twitter.com/BTChickenadoLink to profile on Twitter audit: https://twitteraudit.com/BTChickenadoFollowed: DoneLink to custom tweet 1:Link to custom tweet 2:Link to 15 percent off tweet: https://twitter.com/BTChickenado/status/936240910458798082Link to retweet 1: https://twitter.com/Gunbot_Official/status/935613092574191618Link to retweet 2: https://twitter.com/Gunbot_Official/status/935543965620764675Link to retweet 3: https://twitter.com/Gunbot_Official/status/935483194262122498Link to retweet 4: https://twitter.com/Gunbot_Official/status/936185518945120257Link to retweet 5: https://twitter.com/Gunbot_Official/status/935613181841625088Link to retweet 6: https://twitter.com/Gunbot_Official/status/935644790657617921Link to retweet 7: Link to retweet 8:Link to retweet 9:Link to retweet 10:BTC Address: 12j2GoULTDm9uLtpnWtae1JUqF46LQcxVn Bitcoins can be earn through different job offers in the service section if you have special skills and can prove that your work is worth for bitcoin then its your chance to start with it.Not everyone who earn bitcoin in this site is an investor some earning through joining signature campaigns but it needs to increase your rank and learn to follow different guidelines and make constructive post..but its better to have more knowledge first inorder for you to go through it. Its possible to happen due to bitcoins price were very volatile but as of this moment that its price surpasses to $10k theres a little possibility to dump to its lowest price the more that its already known and other countries legalizes bitcoin and uses it theres really a smaller possibility, buy if that would happen its another opportunity for investors to invest bitcoin when it decrease $3000. Most people hodl their bitcoin and wait till prices hit to the highest or to what they aim to their target price and sell.Though youre telling to keep bitcoin for a long time but there are circumstances that some people sell in regards to their needs financially most especially this moment have the highest price and will continue to rise this peak season possible many holders will sell their bitcoins. Bitcoin is the strongest and the most precious cryptoccurrency in the world while its price pumps up to $10k i think many bitcoin holders would sell their btc,what im worried is it will crashes in just an hour or a day but what i wish and hope that it would still continue to rise and surpass to $10k and im sure that its price would become a trend maybe in social media and this would be a big help for bitcoins popularity and be a big help its price to fluctuates  more and more. Yes it will hit to $10k if not today probably this week.Bitcoin now is already $9929+ bitcoin holders were so happy and excited for the continous success of bitcoin because todays price were too close to $10k which almost everyone predicts.This fluctuation of price helps everyone to think that theres nothing impossible if we strive hard for our dreams and this year would be the best year for the bitcoin community because it really excel than any other cryptocurrencies. It is good most especially to those who are part of it,as its popularity rises its demands and price also rises and now that weve reach to $9700+ which is too close to $10k it  really proves that each single day bitcoins demands increases that more and more people and merchants who adapt bitcoin.To becone a part of the bitcoin community is a life changing experience and hoping that it will continue to rise and recover in every dip that was just about to happen. Bitcoin as of now reach to $9040 another increased value of btc so its possible that this would reach $10000 in this coming year end.A very big success for btc holders..we expect that for next days or hours this would lower down but it will get back to its track again and most probably it will surpass to its price at this time.This price increase makes us more effecient on giving more focus on different bounties that were in so that in time after all the waiting we can already harvest the fruit of our hardwork and patience in the right time. A very inspiring story,bitcoins success is our success.You know what op i always thought of that to experience a better life someday and i know it was not impossible,bitcoins is a currency that doesnt matter on different standards of living anyone can change their life and live life to the fullest through bitcoins existence,time is very valuable on this business.Time management ,knowledge and patience are needed to work with crypto to fullfill our dreams in the future. You dont need to quit your job , make bitcoin forum as your another choice of earning.I do understand your part that you are tempted of making bitcoin full time as we all know that if we gave all our time and do our task well most probably we wiĺl be earning more than our company can offer of our present job but still we need to have permanent job because no one can predict bitcoins future even experts cant predict bitcoins survival. Electronic money is a digital currency used to purchase goods through different sites in the net..that requires username and password in every transactions, a product of the advance technology created to make our life easier and lighter in which we can do transactions without to be in line in malls or in public places..making us more safe in doing transactions as well while physical money or paper money widely used of all people in the world  the one that we always put in our wallet. Its like a  heroin because a person become addicted but not to the point that its about making own self crazy or out of control that was the effect of heroin while in bitcoin a person get addicted in earning money, got addicted in reading threads to learn more about crypto business,addicted on believing that everyone who wants to be a part of this botcoin community will become rich or to be financially free someday..positive side of being addiction on bitcoin.Some also get addicted on gambling because they thought that its just an easy money but without knowing how far money goes if a person get hook up in gambling it might reach to a point that a person will be bankrupt if he can control hiself..thats also addiction. Possible it will reach through $10000 bitcoin already reaches $8000 its factor that it will reach this far is that its popularity and demand maybe that time there will be more interested if it will widely known in the whole world.Everyone is Looking forward for a better life someday,lets be more positive through bitcoins weakness most probably it will rise up in a little span of time.
Buying this moment with the price of $8200+ is not what i think the right time.It is too expensive and as we all know that as its prices rises It decrease also in a bit..and that is the bitcoins way,just wait for it lower to $6000 i guess or $5000 because almost everyone predict that it would reach to 6 digit in that way you may profit   for the next pump next year. Japan legalizes bitcoin because they were specific in the new trends of this new generations,though im from different race but i see that japan adapt its new trends to be enable   to go with the future flow,and understand how beneficial bitcoin is to their countrymen..even in producing products they tend to be the most successful and promising producer with high quality .Their government already know its disadvantages but still they accept it making bitcoin in their country legal. In every business theres always a competitions,even in the real world,in jobs or in technologies there were also competetors,anywhere at anytime there is competitions its up to you on how to make a strategy to make your business or job to survive,but in technologies we cant predict anything because what can make bitcoin much stronger today is its popularity..its believers,supporters,investors..we as a bitcoiners were responsible of bitcoins fuctuations of prices if we stop believing on bitcoins then most probably its will dump as early as we dont expected. It might that happen that it falls 20% a day and thats the end of bitcoin but for this moment in time thats impossible even its votality its still the strongest crypto,if its price decreases the next few days it pumps up again.It can regain its loss in just a matter of time so id better hold my bitcoin and dont do panic selling because i believe in bitcoin as proven in its long years of existence which have made people whose into this business become rich and millionaires. Its not that easy to explain to people about cryptocurrency most especially bitcoin some would be skeptical,speculates that its a scam.Some would listen but dont mind to understand.Most people need some proofs just to prove that bitcoin is real,i try to make an effort to make them understand but if i can see that they are not interested thats the time that i   dont have to bother anymore if they think that its a scam,changes would be seen in a naked eye that a person who participate in bitcoin forum would never be the same anymore.If they will take the opportunity that comes their way then ill be glad. Nowadays women started to open up their world on cryptos but maybe not like men who were so dedicated and interestes in this kind of job where they are looking for great success in this business,but as a woman i prefer to do online job its just need time management by doing household chores,taking care of kids and doing job in this forum because i wanted to prove that this job is for everybody and i believe that if bitcoin would be more famous and widely known well im sure there will be no more differences between men and women because every person have the same purpose to PROFIT for families sake. USD were widely used in the whole world thats why it is very prone in using for illegal activities or transactions but every currency can be used in illegal works such as illegal drugs,human traffecking,corruptions.terrorism etc..Even cryptocurrencies cannot escape this kind od doings and government cant control this kind of matter for digital currencies were not that traceable. I am not hooked in the internet few years ago and if i have been well i guess ive known bitcoin that time.Strategy wise is to hold it and i dont think also if i have all the patience in the world to hold it until this time,maybe i have already sold it if i have bitcoin.Too late to realize until this moment came were its value rises to about $8200 if its converted to fiat that was about almost half million for just only 1BTC. I think thats a good idea that bitcoin should be a part of teachings in college but in my place i never heard it but still if ever bitcoin would be taught in school most probably students would become interested on it,bitcoin is for everyone as long as a person wanted to learn from it,if they would take the opportunity then they will have a brighter future even if they were just a student they can also help their parents because they can already support their needs in their education in their own. Actually it helps alot,there were jobless people who hardly get a job even if it possess the  qualifications that a company or firm need maybe its all because there lots of jobless people in our country,the choice would be first come first serve policy,but in the bitcoin world it doesn't need to dress up like a pro and travel just to apply for a job,one must need is a source of communication and knowledge to find a job on this site..once get accepted expect to earn more than working in the company it just need time to learn more on the crypto world where you can do business with different people in different race.Great opportunity for all of us. One benefit that a bitcoin holder and user right now is a low fees on transactions and if government put taxes in it well we dont have any choice but im afraid if this would happen some government officials might take any advantage on its price that are not stable,but being a decentralized currency i think the government might be skeptical on putting tax in it and its very impossible of doing every transactions made by an anonymous and cant be traced  holder,pretty sure they can't control it. My prediction would be $8500 or higher than that..price now already surpass $8000, it already reaches $8200+ seen on the coinmarket cap.Even if it changes every minute almost everyone were very confident that it will reach to the top..we all have the same predictions that its price still continue to rise so we must watch out for that moment because we are already a part of bitcoins success. If government already knows about bitcoin and knows how it helps our countrymen..in my opinion i think it would be a bitcoin friendly government.Ive just heard few weeks ago when our president convincing people to be a part of a digital world to use digital currency,but we cant deny the fact that there were government officials that will make rules in using bitcoin as a digital currency.Knowing the fact that they cant control it and can't benefit from it there were also big possibility that there were rules to be implemented taxes i guess.. but if they just look on the brighter side that anyone who would wanted to learn on how to earn most probably they will support bitcoin to be a part of our life because it might be the reason in decreasing criminality..Hoping that the government wont be greedy as other country does. This for all of us not just for newbies because there are people who already have lots of knowledge but they still do panic selling afraid of losing their investments..Bitcoin has not yet spread around the world but it really proves that it is worth for a long term investment..its trials thas being surpass by bitcoin and started recover  just keep on buying and wait until its price will reach through it highest level. Thats what everyone wish for.Bitcoin success is also our success.Prayers were one of the  reason why things keep fallin into places even if we are facing many circumstances,those greediness of others has ended and expect alot more but we are all hoping that we can conquer it all and hopefully next year would be a great year for all of us.For everyone who keep on praying bitcoin success lets continue doing it so that we could take away every schemes of other people who wanted to take bitcoins place. Eversince it started bitcoins price is like a roller coaster and  we must have courage to take the ride even without the knowing the possibilty to to succeed.,but this time it seems that it was very clear that everyone already succeed with their investments, more investors profit well.It is the currency that made someones life wealthy and were hoping for the best and everyone can achieve it. Yes time is money so we must manage our time  properly,we must not forget that we want to make money for our family to be financially stable someday.So we must make our family as our inspiration in doing the best that we can.Our time is very valuable to  us most especially when we join this forum,like for example bitcoins investment..we need to have more patience inorder to profit,making ranks higher it also acquires time and effort to earn money from it,so we must manage our time,money and responsibilities to make life easier and lighter. If you have bitcoins and wanted to double it just hold it for a matter of time,have patience,everday bitcoins price is rising just wait for the right timing.Most people choose to buy low and sell high.Once btc price drops more people afford to buy and hold it,its their way to gain more profit,their strategy isn't that bad for me..its their money so they are the one responsible for it. More interest more investments and with more investments bitcoins price will rise again,pretty sure there will be more merchants that will accept bitcoins as a payment.People will never get interest if bitcoin doesn't prove its worth for 9 years now,though bitcoins have issues or maybe different speculations bitcoin stand still.Lets all watch and stay calm we all just have to believe in bitcoin that it can give us a brighter future.  link=topic=2288551.msg23224507#msg23224507 date=1508402414]Bitcoin/Coins.ph are so many way to make our life easier specially for OFW. *They can use it to remit a money for their family in Philippines in a very convenient.*Bitcoin is also way to earn extra money by using earning some satoshi or faucet. Please share more on how bitcoin can help.[/quote]Its actually a big help to filipino people who are working abroad who knows about bitcoin,theres no need high fees through sending money when using coins.ph.Those people who have knowledge on how to earn bitcoins would probably return to their families,when they see that it has the potential that they can earn the money without being away from their loveones.For me being here in this bitcoin community brings me the faith that we can overcome every trials that we are facing most especially financial problems,i cannot say this is far from reality because i have already seen someone who become successful in this kind of business.No matter who you are,where you are as long as you will strive hard for your dreams i think theres nothing impossible with it.
Bitcoin really has a great potential to reach $10000 before this year ends.It would be a great success for everyone whose been into these business.Bitcoin made another history in this crazy week where everyone is afraid it might dump to its lowest price,but somehow we all amazed that it totally recover in just a matter of days and hopefully it will fluctuates next month to $10000,so we all be merry in celebrating  this  precious birth of jesus,and a bountiful new year to all of us. Yes we are confident enough to think that bitcoin is for long term investments than any other cryptocurrencies,its already proven from time to time..It is widely known and used in the market through its existence until now it proves that it really make people profit.Litecoin or some other cryptocurrencies will never exist without the idea and platforms of bitcoins thats why bitcoin has earn the trust of people than any other altcoins. The return of the king,bitcoins price as of this moment is $7248.33 while BCH $1232 remains constant, big difference though...so why people panic when we know bitcoins capability would still recover in just a couple of days,im not being surprise because i am i confident that it will be back on its track again so lets wait for the next pump aiming for a range of $8000-$10000 by the end of this year and i know some of you also see its potential that bitcoin could possibly make it. I don't see any signature campaign that accepts newbie,just take time to make your rank higher to be accepted,higher ranks pays good salary so better to wait until your rank goes high.Just keep on reading to earn more knowledge about cryptocurrencies it helps you to make contructive post which is a very good preparation to be in the campaign.Just as i remember when im a Jr.Member i also see less opportunities joining signature campaign,so id rather make my rank high taking chances that i might be accepted once i'll apply. Bitcoin is for everyone who are willing to learn,the fact that im not a degree holder still manage to make contructive post..its not about how educated a person is, as long as a person strive hard to research,read and discover what bitcoin is then theres always a great possibility that you can use bitcoin as one of your source of income.There is no less opportunities in this forum if you have patience because many bitcoiners started from a humble beginning and everyone of us started as a newbie. Bitcoin is the father of all cryptos and its fluctuations of price attract people than any other alt coins ,also its popularity,its existence helps many people who were in the crypto business,that is widely known to productive countries.Some other existing coins have less merchants than bitcoin..if you have bitcoin it would be easy for you to buy anything because alot of bitcoin merchants spread around the globe. 1BTC  is too big as a gift and if i receive it from someone i will convert half of it to cash,because i always dreamed to start my own business outside crypto,i will hodl the other half for a long term investment,as i have seen bitcoins potential to make me profit in the  near future,in this case the person who gave it to me the 1BTC will see that i have use the money in purpose and make him/ her realize im worth enough for the gift. In my opinion bitcoin can't replace fiat,though bitcoin nowadays became more  popular and trendy but people get used in using fiat currency,even though we have bitcoin in our wallet alot of people want physical money that can be hold and seen rather than an adress seen through a phone application or in a bitcoin wallet.Fiat will always be there especially to those countries that bitcoin is unknown to the society. By bitcoins your money is secured,safe from harm while paying on transactions without bringing cash with you,its value increases everyday,if it loss its value it can regain sooner,through investment in bitcoin pretty sure to gain more profit.A cashless society with no hassle when buying  product or gadgets  even in the internet.There were many merchants thats beggining to accept bitcoins. Bitcoins popularity continues to spread that affect the fluctiation of its value while cash remains. Posting reach to 30 your rank become Jr.Member..keep increasing post to make you rank higher,lower rank have less opportunity to participate in a signature campaign.Most campaigns looking for is a Member,even Jr.Member have also less opportunity to participate,and if you've already participated don't forget that your post must be contstructive and follow instructions very well.To know if you're already earning make a bitcoin address and copy paste it to your profile information.The one that made the campaign pays you through your bitcoin address. Agree with you mate even though bitcoins price goes down no altcoins have surpass its price,yesterday the price of bitcoin is $5349+ if im not mistaken and it is still leading from etherium and now seeing the market cap it pumps to $6300+ so theres always be a big capability that it will reach higher even if there were lots of speculations that it would be replace by any other cryptocurrencies.Its price movements is very volatile  and it regain dominance in the world of crypto. Most probably its price will  going to the moon,there maybe great competitions with the other coins or altcoins but its better to HODL it and sell it in a perfect timing.Many bitcoiners believe it would recover sooner..bitcoin cash is not a threat to bitcoin,its just that  its only making its own history as well..and those coins that have just started is a part of bitcoins history and look up on bitcoin.It would pump high and get back to $7000 sooner or later. 5 years from now for me bitcoin still would be the most profitable than etherium,though  there seems to be a competition between the two but bitcoin has proven its worth for investment for a long time.There maybe a lot of  changes in the near future but bitcoins value will fluctuates sooner,we all just have to wait.At the coinmarket cap bitcoin really soars high than etherium so better believe that bitcoin can make our life to be financially free someday. Its never too late op mate since its price as of this moment is $7000 there still chances to profit to the next pump,though its price will lower or gets higher there is big possibility that it will reach to $10,000  or more through its demand,even if its too risky to invest in bitcoin for as long as you take positivity there will be good profit in your investment.Im sure its not just only you who is willing to invest as of this moment plenty of us  who wants to invest in bitcoin and believe that bitcoin is the strongest among cryptos. Trading is once you own some coins whether you earn it from your job or simply you just bought it in a low price and sell it to the highest price,its lies everything in your hands once you trade to make sure you'll profit.A short term method.Investing is you'll give your money to someone or deposit to a legit company and wait for a long time when it will profit waiting for your money to grow..its a long term method.I hope i explain it well and make you understand the difference of the two..what make them similar is that you earn money through investing and trading. Convincing is never that easy,but if they take time to listen then i'll try to explain how powerful bitcoin as of this days,it wasn't a scam where everyone is afraid of and i would try to let them see through the access of internet how to use and to earn it and tell them its advantages. At some point if all my explainations doesn't work i will show some proofs of my earnings,for someone who'll be interested but with hessitation im sure they will make their very own reseach and its up to them if they would dig deeper or just let the opportunity to pass by. In what i see in our country it was not possible that government would have interest in bitcoin as a matter of fact government officials were busy resolving their personal issues,problems of terror attacks, illegal drugs and corruptions and bitcoin here is not that popular,most people do not understand its functions,for me i don't have to worry for now that bitcoin will be banned or put a law through our exchangers or traders because fiat curreny is still valuable here and only few of us knows about it and if it happened maybe it takes alot of time,in the future. I agree with that, it really helps alot to those unemployed nowadays plenty of degree holders  struggling to find real job,applying in a company is not that easy it requires alot of sacrifice and efforts to be able to get a job,some of them just to get hired applies a job that does't suit their courses, being in this forum is a big help youll find comforts in getting a job even if youll stay at home its really possible to earn most especially if you have special skills it pays the right price.Some people focus in bitcointalk full time because bitcoin gives financial freedom to those who pays much attention in this cryptoworld. I never bother myself explaining what bitcoin is if the person that im talking with is a close minded person,no matter how far your explaination goes if he thinks negative his mind cant absorb it,negative thoughts can lead us to negative outlooks in life,those person are those who take less opportunities in life,where in bitcoins was one of the opportunities knocking our doors for a life changing experience,to be financially free and can do and buy anything we want but there are people who were just  want just to live their life the way it used to be because of being afraid of taking risk. Payment via bitcoin seems to be the easiest way,you can buy anything even if you dont have fiat money,as we are in the digital world digital currencies also exist and this would be a great advantage to be safe from any harm to those people who always look for an easy money.Cashless society lightens up the burden to everyone of us who doesnt want any hassle.Since not everyone use it as a mode of payment i just hope that all of us would be out  from our comfort zone to be open minded with the new trend which is the use of cryptocurrency especially those senior citizens and person with disability for a hassle free transactions.
Well that might be due to less informations fed to those individuals and we can't blame them actually, because fiat cash money has been circulating the government for so long time ago. In crypto currency I agree that crypto currency has really a great advantages compared with cash today, because there's a good business with it and also this now became a widely known trading platform.  Well that's a good opinion and with an increasing price at every second, I think that showed promising price ever because if we have to look at the months that price of bitcoin progressively developing so well; we do experienced it smoothly even the great challenges also in danger every person's investments. That's how newly incoming investors appreciated it so well, and these people also came from fiat money trading platforms like the stock market but they have decided to divert their assets to a digital currency idea which they believed to be more profitable that the old tale trading. If the proceeding is going on and my ex half doesn't know about it well i probably keep it as a secret,it doesn't mean that you don't have the right to keep a secret just because you are married,i believe that though im into a relationship i still manage myself not to tell everything it doesn't mean that im being greedy or unfaithful there are really things we have to keep for our self..To op mate,I can see that you are referring to a husband but im a woman/wife here entering in a crypto world wanted to earn bitcoins for future use.  It will survive as long as people use,trade or invest it,its tough times is when those days it started,just like investing in a business there is fear if youll profit or not,if those would be accepted by people or not but what i see nowadays bitcoin is the strongest of all cryptocurrencies,alot of cryptos has just started and it seems that its value slowly goes high,for me as long as there is bitcoin it would be easier for us to earn so we must take every step to earn it. Everyone of us wanted to get rich and bitcoin was one of the reason why people wanted to own this cryptocurrency but it doesn't mean That we need robots just to do job..like for example a doctor,as we all know almost all of them who take these courses has their capability to pay while they're studying that means they are wealthy enough to afford the said course but we can see they still work maybe not just for money but its all about "self worth" even if they have money they still do their job because it is their passion of helping  other people. I think there's a problem with that account because if minor problemas occured that would be easy for the admins of the trading site to fix the circumstances. Bittrex has their own strategies to follow because poloniex exchange differs from bittrex rules. Users cannot trade if they violated the rules and regulatios  of the site that's why the account disabled wouldn't be recovered. The site doesn't care if those traders will not trade, there much more better traders than them.  Well thats misconception about bitcoin to be compared to gambling,  because investing with it isn't the same ways how gambling works like betting in short time but win or lose right aways and you can't even revover that losses. Eventhough its used for gambling but maybe that's the ony strategies of other people who wanted fast profit but also quick losses when they failed to win. The volatility of bitcoin is not the reason it's compared to gambling, that was just their impressions.  In my opinion maybe only few who hold their bitcoin few years back its all because cryptocurrency is not that known  for all of us,only few who has knowledge when it comes out,i've heard from someone how ignorance he is when he heard about bitcoin when a person asking him to change it to some stuff i guess,he accept it but doesn't know about bitcoins out of curiousity and lack of knowledge he sells  almost everything and only few were left,it was too late he realizes how precious bitcoin is in this period of time, if i were in his position maybe i also did what he does because waiting its value to fluctuates is a very big question in my mind "WHEN" i might always think of losing it in the future,as bitcoin also experiences its value to goes down that why people get panic,waiting and holding bitcoins in this moment in time seems the hardest a person could do,to take a risk,patience and  faith in bitcoin leads to a persons success. In my own analysis here people were still seeking an easy money that's why they kept having an involvement with genesis mining. Most of these people were lazy and being banned on the forums, and I've heard that most of them were spammers of the forum. That's why they don't work for signature campaigns or any bounty related forums because of their greedy attitude of interest to earn bitcoin in an easy ways, so thinking about an easy source that mining investments is their mindset. But certainly they're wrong about it because it's a ponzi or scam type of investments, which eventually make them regret in the future. Well I see it to be a better effect of bitcoin when integrated to amazon, hopefully it's happening in sooner time. Yeah that's a good market for business and I am sure that it will make the demand of bitcoin to rise even more. Fluctuations will always be there and we shouldn't be worried because it already existed since the beginning of bitcoin's journey towards trading and investments. I'd love to hear more progress with amazon's adoption on digital currency and that's a certain visions that will make progressive outcomes of bitcoin as more years to come will be more valuable always.  No it wasn't just a prediction, but the reality on how people is going to demand to invest or buy their holdings for future profitable return of investments. The economy of bitcoins really depend on how people could have their fate towards the progress of bitcoin, and if they have a passion to do it like investing their wealth. Its a good idea and I believed that having mindset will eventually make every person rich from their holdings.  For me I am holding my coins in my offline eth wallet which has it's own private key and it's own downloaded file back up. Its same as the wallet that you mean of like the desktop wallet, but I think having that ether wallet is more secured compared with other types. I can trade those coins easily just using their private keys or their file back up offline wallet.  If we wanted the corrections to happe, then I guess every minute corrected it's value, because as price fluctuates dumping of holding was happening. That's been the outcome of many people whose selling early compared to those who wait. That idea about bubble was still a rumors behind digital currency, because its not proven due to bitcoin's popularity now. There's no wonder price can reach that highers price value ever, and will attract more investors on the market places.  Same with what you've been earning from any signature or bounty campaigns you can hold your mined coins, and wait for the next pump. Future sell value rise will be into effect for the coins that you are investing for so it will be rewarding when it hits the success. All we need is to control our emotions in order to prevent panic selling and you can decide what's best decision to have.  That's right. I don't care if big players buy bitcoins because of profit but I care most is the status or the flow of bitcoin's rate or price. The tendency is when bitcoin can't be bought by other big investors,there will be a scarcity of bitcoin. So in order not to drop off its price, bitcoin needs investors who are very particular with the price and must be strategic in terms of trading or selling. The institutions aren't really changing bitcoin forever but it's the other way around. Definitely I don't use BTC as for payment online because I don't have an important thing to buy and also,the quality is not satisfying. Most of the time I use bitcoin as fiat after it has been a digitized currency for some weeks in my wallet. Through physical money,I can see and touch the products that can't be possible online. I prefer touching and looking at the products physically rather than just seen on screen. So what do you mean then?if this about only the hackers issue why not use other ways not just focusing on computers? Hacking is always there but the main thing the economy that is functioning all the time. Most probably the future of bitcoin economics is upgrading knowing that it is a subject to make it better. I believe that through bitcoin economy will be in good hands. Yeah,so far so good if that will prevail someday. If bitcoin will kill the income tax,many of us will be at ease on payments such as the goods,electric bills,water and the like. That support from bitcoin also that you mention will definitely be useful in the economy that we are involved. I think it's better if there's no income tax and it's up to the person if they'll give some amount that is reasonable for them to share.  This isn't a bad idea though but the counter attack of this if it is advertised on TV is that the news will make many issues on this. It just happened a week ago when local news spread about bitcoin is a scam and there's a big question why it happened such information. They were asking how did the government allow it without any official acceptance in the society. The bottom line is, they are trying to remove bitcoin and the worst will be,many of us are affected. We bet our lives here mostly and how could we defend that? 
I guess you have a point there. Nowadays,people are so narrow minded when it comes to earning money. Otherwise, other companies expose bitcoin for the sake of discrimination. Recently, I received a news about bitcoin on TV and it says, bitcoin is a scam. I felt bad about it because bitcoin didn't harm people but because of our government, they're teaching my fellow countrymen to be ignorant. This is the issue which the exposure of bitcoin becomes bad to others. If they only knew how promising it is to everybody and in different countries. I agree on your point of view. As for me,In oder for me to store my bitcoins safely,I have to change it into a real money which is the physical money or we call it as fiat. I definitely like tp store it in a wallet first that is of course a digitized money from bitcoin. It is true that saving is very hard to do but if you have determination in saving your money as well as bitcoin,there's no problem with that and it's a good discipline to not spend things which are not inportant. So from the exchanging real money from bitcoin,I store it in my vault or in the bank. Through these,I can store my bitcoin into cash in the best way I can. Actually mine is not as the same as other's investment I made. I did a small investment with a business and that is raising hogs in the farm and a cattle. This is a kind of interest for me because I know others usually invest in ethereum and similar to it which I am not so expert with it. So instead of doing that investment,I do it in another way because I want to see something physically that I do with bitcoin. It's like a living proof that bitcoin really do exist and changes people's lives. Indeed. This idea of passive income is so interesting and wonderful because it is accessible and convenient at the same time. It's an effortless transaction once you are paid. Not only that,but also There are many things to explore with bitcoin as digitized money. Technology has been a wide range of putting a good start for every people who are into bitcoin. Through internet we can access money and that is because bitcoin is there. Was it very low before? Did I miss something? That's good news that it has arrived in Thailand. I wish my country would be stronger with bitcoin. With that recovering mode,it can help thousands of people in the world. Little by little people are trying to exert more effort to fulfill every step of the way to make it happen on the top and to have a brighter future in the industry. Through bitcoin,economy will boom and that recovering can tell a lot. Well,in my case I secure my bitcoin through cashing out all my money from my wallets and then it's already a fiat so I can now deposit it in the banks and the rest I put it in a safe because no one can touch it instead of me nor open it. We don't even know what will happen in the internet connection so I prefer withdrawing because I would be glad if I already hold my cash in cold. I think many of you here also doing the same thing. This is the best method I think in securing bitcoins. I hate to hear panic selling especially those people who believe right away from the speculations that spread everywhere. There's no point if you allow negativity to yourself. You are in safe hands with bitcoin and stop panic buying. Make use of your time to secure even more of your bitcoin but don't do that again and again once you hear something bad about bitcoin. Always make sure that there are many reliable and fact information from the head itself to avoid panic buying. Yeah that's right. On the other side,bitcoin is part of cryptocurrency. I get curious when the inequality existed among the two. Maybe others say not equal due to the value is reaching so high and sometimes not. Certainly,there are different coins that can't be the same level as bitcoin because those altcoins don't have much big profits that you can get. Fortunately,if it is converted to bitcoin depending of stakes that the coins have,for sure it's a big value coming from bitcoin. Inspite of inequality of bitcoin to cryptocurrency,they are just related to each other and a partner all the time to make it equal. Definitely that's a good view of yours. Who says bitcoin will end? Only stupid can think of that way and there's no assurance that it ends right there and then. They don't even know what it means to be successful not destroying. This month is very important to us because there are lots of work to do and it shows how strong bitcoin in our country despite the fact that it's not official yet from the governments we have all over the country. Yes it is surely unstoppable now because of the growth it shows in statistics. It will be more and more successful because investors keep coming back to invest with bitcoin. They can see how worthy it is to invest. If were them I would also keep going unfortunately,I don't have that huge amount yet for me to buy bitcoin with the price right now,it's hard for me to buy. I know one day I would also be an investor. I use my bitcoin for the sake of my family and I think this is also worthy. I know bitcoin will continue to grow and no one can stop it as Bill Gates mentioned before. I somehow agree with that and this time is a modern era which we definitely see changes in every country that adapts different methods of earning and paying bills it's either from the bank or from the salary they receive. Now,talking about USD and BTC,I don't have any problem with that because they are both money and they should not be competing from each other. We all know that both are profitable to us and there's no need to put barriers with the two. As for me,I don't mind if bitcoin price will go down because we knew since then that it's just normal and if goes down,then eventually it goes higher or even higher. I don't see any problem with that though. The recurring situation is like a dejavu to everyone who knows well or the ones who inlvoved bitcoin from the very beginning. It will just keep on increasing this time since winter is coming. I think it will have a very nice bubble and the energy is there. That's right sir. Actually,there are so many ways to invest money but there are big investment and small investment. If you prefer big ones make sure you can provide all the needs of a particular investment like a real estate. On the other hand,if you invest in a small thing like a small office business,there will be few things to consider. First,be innovative since there are many competitors that surrounds every business. Second,location wise and manpower wise. Eventhough it is small,there are also several risks to take. Plan ahead for your investment before it happens and you can invest your money. Not that much because I spent some of my bitcoin due to important needs for my family. I save but next time I will save more because I badly need to refurbished our home away from the city. I see how difficult it is to live without a strong roof and ceiling in the house. So if ever I can get big amount of bitcoin,I would extend my help to my family because I love them and I would do anything for them that's why I am here. I'm eager to learn more things from here and I won't stop. I want to save more and more.  Without a doubt yes I am a true believer. I know it is a big adjustment for us all to use crypto instead paper money because the system will also be replaced just like in the movies that we've watched,it looks so easy for them to spend and to cash out money everywhere and anytime so since the world of Science is evolving,technology is winning our hearts for that and that is bitcoin. I like their idea with this kind of crypto but at the same time a bit worried because some elderly people have a difficulty in making money and using bitcoin. It's fine if there is trusted assistance. All in all, I am still a true believer despite any issue that is being posted everywhere about bitcoin. Really? I haven't tried the cold storage and what's with that?Well,if I mine I will save my coins becauss I know how important is earning a kind of coin. Everything that has a value for me is too important so I must keep it or even safe it. I don't mind how small it is because I know where big things starts from. I always think the postive sides of each coin and it plays different functions as well. Therefore,I won't be that picky in terms of earning any coin. Everything has its purpose and importance. Therefore,make use of it while it is still there. So I don't sell mining coins. I would definitely do the same. Since then I have no problem with bitcoin. So if ever it will be replaced by another cryptocurrency, I think that will be my end. I mean it would be hard for me to give my trust on particular things because I want to make sure that it is safe and certain on things that I expect. Bitcoin has given me so much challenging tasks everyday despite how weak I am,I became strong and face the challenges in earning it. I know that this time I'm experiencing storms in life but someday that storm will have a fine and cloudy day.  I also do it. My family bet it some on bitcoin not yet all because the income from work is not that baig so we can't afford. Also,we have own families to spend for the basic needs and other expenses. If we have a chance to bet it all we will do that next time. We have to save our bitcoin first and with full force we will bet and we have this fighting spirit to grow open mindedly and optimistic in what we do about bitcoin. We disregard the negativity or issues about bitcoin that's why we as family should move forward to have profitable life to our future. We invest because we believe and I guess that's the most important with bitcoin. I believe in what you say. As far as bitcoin's concern,quality users are notjust showing how good they are at selling,holding,trading and a lot more. They are also particular with what they experience in handling bitcoin for years so that they can share to others on how to dome techniques in dealing with bitcoin. It's not that we don't get quality users anymore but we are preparing users to have quality with regards to bitcoin. Preparation is very important so that there is still quality users with bitcoin. I think it's the opposite way around. Digital to fiat is the better one. Have you already tried that one that you mentioned above? It also confuses me too. I guess it's better if cashing out money from crypto to make it fiat and that's the time you start your bank account,not the online banking. I think it's a lot worth it so that you can ask more information directly to the bank or if you have complains. As you mentioned,the balance is changing and it needs cash that's why I prefer to fiat money first so it maintains the balance and with less worries. 
This is something indescribable information. Why is China involved in here? I guess you are referring China as a real example of what manipulation is about with bitcoin. I can see no difference even without China if they really manipulate bitcoin there should be many rukes indicated with it or the system has broken. What scene are talking about? It should be the people to see before their eyes how bitcoin slowly creates a big scene in the world and that is by helping one another. The manipulation issue won't happen. We can't manipulate bitcoin either. People have different attitudes and different responses when talking about bitcoin. We can't blame the fact that we are created individually. No wonder some will believe about bitcoin or don't. Bitcoin prices rise high because there are many of us who keep believing in it and this may affect the price. Some become wiser and deep thinker when it comes to holding or selling to aim higher profit. This will define how true you are with bitcoin and it's just a normal reaction of the prices of bitcoin whether it goes high or low but of course higher is better to have a profitable result. Absolutely true. Working online with bitcoin isn't a bad idea. My neighbors keep asking me about this job and how to earn bitcoin. They also have family to feed so they are the ones who get interested in it. I spread bitcoin if the person is willing to help himself/herself with determination. I won't spread info of bitcoin if the person is not willing to give their time listening and asking about bitcoin. I wanna see how hungry they are about bitcoin and by the time they are eager enough,I spread semi-detail information about bitcoin and the rest will be history. I think half and half of people are against but some are nust confused about bitcoin. Maybe they are against because they don't know how to deal with it right there. On the other hand,confused because how and where does the money come from.  In addition,others are against due to scam that is happening mostly from the internet or even fake advertisements that turned into a general information including bitcoin or they think as a whole thing or maybe they already experienced one time and don't want to try another experience but they are not sure if it works on them or they'll end up the same thing.  I'd rather save money than invest it because if I fail for investment it's hard to regain with what you've lost. I like saving because I can plan more on what should I invest in the future and by the time when I'm ready to invest I can immediately use the money that I save and it saves my time and effort in putting up for what kind of investment I want. It's like a matter of planning that's why saving is very important because you plan slowly for the future and you can use money without any problem. I also don't keep buying because the price is too high right now and I can't afford yet. Maybe some other time or if I have enough income I will buy for it. As of now I keep holding because it's way too low for selling and I'm running out of budget. Holding is good only if the price doesn't reach my expectation because I also think for a profit so that it will be more useful for me in the future. The money that tampered will be in fiat money so I could buy basic commodities and help my family financially. That's why I don't buy bitcoin all the time but holding it. -Yeah,we know that bitcoin can just have a rotational flow of price but the mere fact is that it isn't about the way how easy it is to invest. Due to this matter, we can't predict whether others are just hiding themselves or pretending to be part of bitcoin. If bitcoin will be in next level so that only mean that it is an effective and becoming more successful for many years now. So in other words,there is a big possibility that bitcoin could be in next level. That's right. Laptop or desktop are both important and with regards to the compatibility of software,it needs a secured antivirus to control or remove unnecessary files that will automatically installed. The question is,Is there best antivirus software and most trusted? If so,what is it and how strong is it?But I would prefer to laptop because it's more convenient and easier to use than desktop. Moreover,laptop is accessible and easily be compatible with different softwares for security assistance. Exactly mate! That will only possible to those people who have been with bitcoin since day one that's why they become rich but for new ones I'm not so sure about that. Maybe it will happen to the recent time if you have a very big salary which you imvest in bitcoin I think that's the quickest way to be rich and of course say thanks to bitcoin for making a fast response of becoming rich in the society.If I were in that case,I would also do the same if I landed a good job and a greener pasteur with bitcoin's hands. If it is my chance to be rich I will not remove bitcoin in my life and I will be forever grateful for I can help many people and my family. I have one word for that and I mark it. That's normal and tax is everywhere.If Korean government already embrace and accepted bitcoin officially in their country so that's not a problem and it can make happen if they want to. It's their choice and if it helps their economy to be more successful then they have to do it. I think it's not a problem after all. The thing is how can they immediately put an action with that if there are irregularities to happen for just a sudden situation fo instance,electricity and no internet connection or even calamities and disastrously environment to happen can they still manage to tax bitcoin? What do you think? Definitely with hobbies we can make money and that's what we called the spirit. Ability and confidence at the same time are theys to succeed wherever your path takes you. When a land for a job it also makes you to earn money and at the same time get many priorities for you value time and making money together. We make money for a living,for a cause and many more but one thing is for sure is for survival. Making more money in many ways are fine but not for dirty jobs. Though others find it easy to make more money but it's a matter of choice so it's really up to the person whether commit illegally or do and make more money professionally. Honestly,I have never ever seen one in my entire life of bitcoin cash nor experience about it. I really thought that bitcoin cash is gone. As I keep on checking information,I was shocked that it is still existing? Or it reallh exists. We should always remeber that without bitcoin,there will be no other coins or cash. Most friends I know say that bitcoin cash can't level what bitcoin have right now because the value of bitcoin cash is not permanent unlike bitcoin despite the changes of value it still keeps on fighting or pumping when the demands go higher so I don't think if I'm gonna use bitcoin cash. I will stick to bitcoin alone. Indeed. Why take for a course if online searching is enough to know more about bitcoin. Invest your time surfing the net all the time so if you wanna know something you can immediately ask anyone from the forum and those experts already. Bitcoin is a vague discussion and it takes patience and a lot of effort. The main purpose is for you to be more knowledgeable and can share ideas to others who are interested about this. Don't spend for any amount in order to learn bitcoin instead,spend a lot of time for you to grow and ripe the knowledge that you'll get from bitcoin. Of course as expected bitcoin price goes down every minute of the day or an hour. Gradually,it will increase and that's the cycle of bitcoin's price. We know the fact that it keeps on increasing and decreasing but one thing that we don't even know why it happens. Actually,I'm used to it and I can't change its way of movement. I can see how it progress in the last 8 years. And,all the more for this year and the following years to come. I think it's fine with me because I want to have a free society and at the same time it is taxless. I can see how the world changes slowly with bitcoin so there is a big possibility if this will happen to us all. We all know that tax is from our own money that circulates to everything and to use for the maintenance of the road,help other workers specially those climate victims but if we do it for ourselves to donate and support only people's movement for a particular thing that needs our small help then we can do it. Tax is a burden to us everyday because when we eat,buy groceries,go shopping and the like it always have taxes. So I agree with the idea of a Taxless and a free society. Not really because if government can stop bitcoin it should be from the very start when an operation has made. Somehow governments are wise to give their support to bitcoin but at the same time they don't really accept it officially in our society. They may control the flow of bitcoin's rate hence,they can't totally omit bitcoin because it is getting stronger. Certainly,many researchers of bitcoin who are protecting behind them so that nothing will happen eventhough it is controlled. The only reason why governments keep on stopping bitcoin is the chance that people will be more provided for themselves financially and I think it isn't fair. Governments should support all people's aim so that we help each other more to build a better country someday and stopping bitcoin won't help us to develop our economy into a successful and good economic rate. As far as I've observed,Bitcoin price reaches 5,400 USD and I think the growth continues. I can see clearly that there's no final worth of BTC. If it keeps on getting higher,let it be. Maybe there's no difference if it keeps on pumping because we all get paid from BTC. In other words,this will help us to fulfill everybody's goals in life. No matter what price it gets,we will still be part of bitcoin it doesn't matter if others stop buying but what matters most is the worth of paying your attention to bitcoin everyday. It's a big privilege to be part of bitcoin because as you mentioned above,I was having the similar hobbies like the usual we do with our gadgets or computers. I admit that I was also addicted in social medias to the point that I became dependent on the internet. I would have regret if I didn't believe bitcoin because it slowly captivates my dreams in life. I started from a scratch like I didn't know about it and when I know details little by little,I became more eager to learn about bitcoin by myself and with the help of my co-members from here. So finally,my journey begins when I met bitcoin and I will continue believing until tomorrow comes for my dreams. I got your point of view here. Well,I think they have this brilliant idea that starts from a small republic but would simply change their status through bitcoin because it may somehow give them a good foundation someday. This potential cryptocurrency becomes precious to them and they are aiming for a good start for their country to be known its potentials with this coin. It's like betting their own country for the sake of economic growth and stability. If this happens,they would really owe their lives to bitcoin for helping them financially.  Will this be a good news? I can sense the spirit of Christmas. Anyway,whichever the case I can see that bitcoin will keep on increasing by December. Holding is also a good way to double up investment. Maybe this will happen because it is a recurring situation that's why bitcoin goes up so high. We can't stop the rate to increase higher and higher because the demands is also increasing. Whatever the case,success will be in bitcoin's name soon. Let's waith for the 25th of October 2017 and if there is changes and what can we do on that day.
Partly yes. Before bitcoin existed,gold was the first good investment of a lifetime. Aside from its appearance,the longer the years you keep your gold,the higher the value of it. Compare to bitcoin,it may go down its price but eventually it goes high. It is unstable yet if we can point out the nice rate of it then we can get higher amount. Unlike gold,we wait for many years before we see the changes or the growth. We don't loss any amount for gold but it takes longer time to see the result but for bitcoin immediate result is effective but we are careful everytime we work for bitcoin because it is upredictable flow. All in all both have similarities and it's up to you to choose. Seriously,95 bitcoin? How could that possible? That's really big amount. I can't imagine if I lost 95 bitcoin with just a blink of an eye. I think this is unbelievable and if this happens to me,I will die. I will get frustrations,suicidal and anything bad that I will do. Too sad to know about this issue and I hope security for this will be complete and stronger so that it won't happen again to you and to other people who are into bitcoin earning. Right. I see no difference at all. Actually,$10,000 is not that big issue for everybody I guess because no matter what happens,it will still pump higher on the next it drops. The good thing is that it won't be affected its value. Therefore,fiat will not be worthless. It continues its journey to become more successful in the cryptocurrency world. Investors won't change their minds investing to bitcoin because they already experienced its result and this won't fail them for more or upcoming investments they are going to make. It could happen maybe. If all the system will be cahnged into a very modernized technology like the banking system so it is possible to happen. But if they don't change it then it will just be the same. There's no improvement at all and the money that will be transacted won't that be easy to access. However,if bitcoin will prevail as a replacement for fiat then that's a great idea somehow. There will be no problem for any cash out. On the other hand,there are many things to encounter like hacking info from the internet system. There must be security assistance on this or they must provide so that many investors will trust in bitcoin system as digitized currency. Money above all things is impossible because if we choose money over things,there are also other important needs that we want. I think skill first before we get money above all things. If we have skills and talents we can get money from those abilities that we have but if we don't have the skills in trading bitcoin,we don't know how to earn it more and be more profitable. Yes we need money for food,to buy important things but we also need skills if we want to work and we can't go to work if we don't have abilities to work for a certain job position. That's why money above all things is not possible. It's impossible to know how many is the exact number of people who left their full-time employment to go into Bitcoin. Maybe it is not a half of the population in bitcoin because there are still who keeps on working while engaging in bitcoin for extra income. This is a nice technique also to have higher income to invest more money so that it will work its capital that you put up if ever you want to. Someday,I will put up or invest if ever I work again. It is such a good idea of yours. I also want to secure my fiture with bitcoin and I know that it will help my investment to grow and be successful someday. Planning is the very first step in order to succeed and I believe that I can achieve success if I do it step by step with bitcoin. For now I have to be very patient in earning because I want to see myself conquering how to earn bitcoin with my own sweat and hardwork. I already fill up google formUsername: TwittckenadoLink: https://twitter.com/BTChickenadoEthereum Address: 0x3E7144A8fC23bbD0C61c262a02Ab0a815be83EA2Retweet:https://twitter.com/iQuantChain/status/917236865106718720https://twitter.com/iQuantChain/status/913273972237598720 I guess there's no such big difference between the two but these two are important in our daily living now. Why? Because with these two how can we survive without money in our pocket. At first I could say that bitcoin is a currency at the same time because it has a total package of currencies involved so we should be confused of these two for they are both profitable and useful in the world of cryptocurrency. But we can't say that bitcoin is no longer a currency it is still and don't change that. How certain are you that bitcoin prices won't get low or drop of $4000? As the chart is concern that shows the drops of bitcoin,there's no issue that is being posted regarding on this case. Somehow this won't happen that it will be on stable flow. We can't buy bitcoin right there and then because we also think of our profit. If next month's price is increasing,so this is a good news for us because it will keep growing the population of bitcoiners and the trust is always there. And,I don't keep buying instead,I keep saving. Actually,I have experienced this already and I found out that I wasn't paid so I was disappointed. What I did the next was I reject some offers on facebook because all the details might be shown in their and easily get hacked. So I'm avoiding this kind of threading but maybe there's a significance on this to twitter but I hope not because in twitter you only like and retweet and there's not so many info to be posted. Anytime,you can just click the buttons and less worries. Of course it all start with the operators or drivers because they are going to receive the payment. Nonetheless if the operators reject the payment and need for a physical money. They also think wisely and think over and over again before they agree upon payments.Other asian countries would have difficulty in accepting it maybe. On the other hand,Americans have no doubts in accepting bitcoin because they have more advanced technologies and budget wise for their establishment so anytime they can do that kind of payment in taxis.  I also think the same mate!In addition to that,I keep my patience all the time when I hold my altcoins because when I have patience with me,I don't worry a lot of my coins. I know that it will just pass the consequences with its drops of value. It could be unpredictable at times but this will help you in time on how to manage the worth of your coins. Bitcoin and altcoin are precious coins in cryptocurrency so they are just related to each other if there are changes of its value or prices.   The more it will be popular as ever of course.The stability of the price makes it more worthy because it could give more profit so that if it is stable then your income is also stable.  I think more people will invest if they had a stable price and the rest will follow. Like me, I chose bitcoin for I believe that this idea will help me grow more in business. I want to be open minded in every task I deal with. The more with others who join in this crypto world. I will continue exploring ideas in bitcoin so I keep on reading interesting info in here. I see. Do you think in December will the price be much higher? I don't spend a lot in bitcoin as well because I badly have to save more. Now that I have many expenses at home. This month has given me headache because my two families are having problems,financially. I don't know what to do and I'm hoping bitcoin will solve this problem of mine. Therefore,I will wait for the nice kick of bitcoin soon. Upon checking their ICO promotion like here in the forum , there were no updates for those who wanted to participate their bounty campaigns. I guess their just focused on advertising and not by bounty pools advertisement through campaigns. Maybe many bounty hunters were losing hope for their campaigns because there is no serious motivations coming form the campaigns teams of bitcointalk. Well,if that's a big possibility then how would our country will look like if that case is a kind of unacceptable in governments? If banks will collapse,then what about if bitcoin will manage which is similar to banks but I guess banks won't collapse that quick. I agree on the part that you mentioned on taxes, taxes are everywhere and it annoys me all the time. If only we can suggest to our presidents to which country we belong and have a votation or survey of this matter. It does have future and to prove on that,many secret millionaires from altcoins started. It is of course from a small value of crypto money but if you hold many kinds of coins then that would give you a high profit soon. Buying altcoins don't mean a quick cash but this simply means you are growing coins gradually because it is intended for trading so by the time when you're ready to sell it,you would have a higher income if lucky you get one. Exactly! And,I guess many of us from here are reading a lot of information about bitcoin. One thing is for sure is that we tend to believe in who's higher than us so the information given would be that sincere and certain in giving us details to grow in the world of crypto coins. Personally,I also check from Google if it's too broad for me to understand and I will find out that every information that I need would be complete and without complications or confusions per se. It is such a good information. For me, I don't worry so much about the depreciation of current supply of coins for I know that it will just go back to its own and normal rate. Come to think if all bitcoins will be lost that would really affect many investors. And,if internet connection becomes weak,then we can't do anything about that. Could we have an invisible connection to operate? I guess that's too impossible. Let's be all thankful to Satoshi.
I'm not crazy yet to buy drugs with bitcoin buy if it is a drug that is intended to cure illnesses they I would think of buying with bitcoin. Drugs is not that harmful thing if it is a good purpose in buying it. You can't say that it is a waste of money after buying it for you know the fact that it is only for your own good. We have different views on this for we don't even know which ones it is referred to whether buying legal or the illegal ones? Anyhow,I would only prefer buying drugs for medication and not for harmful ones that could make someone miserable. Somehow yes but it is a case to case basis depending on what view you take as reliable source that fits in. I believe that for the following years that bitcoin's journey has been changing to better outcomes from investors who take part in providing such big amount in every transaction they have to deal with bitcoin. The digitized money is quite convenient and accessible in terms of buying products. However, if others don't take bitcoin seriously then don't do a thing that make you regret. So without a doubt bitcoin is the strongest currency in this generation. How could that be? Honestly,as I've worked before in a company wherein I met and got to know many Koreans and I learned about their country. It's not that they depend on China it's because they always feel awkward when they meet people from China which only means that they are a bit of hating Chinese. In connection with the products that are China made in Korea,those would be banned in their country but banning all initial coin offerings is another thing. Koreans are too smart for investment and I think they are just very particular in what kind of coin you are offering. They aren't that rude to ban right there and then. Just in my humble view on this thing,I can say that bitcoin may improve the economy of a country for a reason that many people are using bitcoin as for business transaction. For example,one of the investors is already successful in a particular business. So the willingness of the investors will encourage the growth of the economy of a country specifically in terms of goods or products that uses bitcoin for purchasing them. It won't be that quick for the economy to improve yet it will be in gradual mode with full of adjustments of the system. Precisely bitcoin has its own range of rising and falling value but the risk it has is minimal. Maybe not necessarily you will put all your money instead you make it a half. A half means the rest of your money will be invested in bitcoin while the other half would be for your personal expenses. For this reason,you won't feel difficult or having risk of your money but you are favoring both sides just to protect your money in case of some irregularities that you badly need to cash out your money. Therefore,that would be a better way to think wise for your money. In that case it might happen,I guess because people are trusting bitcoin already though they are a few of them but at least they keep on using bitcoin. One million is really big but who knows those promising millionaires are now becoming hopeful for this thing. Chances are quite easy for investors who are for long term holders and a trader itself. It isn't a fiction if only the person knows well about bitcoin,I mean every detail of it. After which,it will become a reality soon. I guess mining on mobile phone is totally a good way to create a smartest and easiest way to exchange currency with the help of ethereum and bitcoin. It will also show how your investment grow slowly. Despite having battery drain from mobile phones,it will be worth it at the end of the day. I think this will still be profitable. There are many ways also on how to keep your battery alive for many hours just like what I do everyday, I don't turn on my social accounts and other browsers so that my battery won't drain fast so my mining still works well on my phone. Everyone knows how worthy bitcoin is. Bitcoin shares us a lot of strategic ways to complete the value of other coins which are valuable as well in cryptocurrency field of digitized money. I believe that this will give us more efficient work to do to earn bitcoin and to invest it also. I'm gonna invest bitcoin for a particular business someday and I know this will help me more to continue make a living with bitcoin and in this way this will make it more worth to have. I keep to myself that bitcoin is with me throughout my journey. It really is a currency for it holds a lot of different currencies itself however, it can be also called asset at the same time due to its significance of the ownership of investor's property within a particular establishment regardless of the price that it has. Though it has an unpredictable status that may drop its value at times but then we always make sure that we meet the value onwards through using other coins or the rest of the bitcoin for trading or holding.  I guess it won't. It would be hard this time for bitcoin to replace dollars but the better idea maybe is just make the two currencies depend on each other. I think this will help the growth of each rate which come from people's labor. I can see that bitcoin has been proven a lot to our society wherever you come from or whatever your races are. Someday,bitcoin will put a big mark on our hearts forever because it gives importance in our daily living and we can survive because of the benefit that we can get. Of course we have many ways in withdrawing our bitcoin and one of which is through wallet to wallet. Having said that bitcoin has catered a lot of information in earning it and in cashing it out. In a certain wallet you use,there are options in which you can access via wallet to bank,remittance,money express,direct payments of bills and a lot more which you find more convenient or suitable for its use or the you are going to withdraw or use depending on the amount. For now I guess it can't replace fiat money but in long run maybe it could because the prices are much higher than what we expect. Only then we have to admit that this won't ever change the fact that bitcoin is better than fiat money now that it gains a lot of trust from people who have been a member for quite some time now. This shows the gradual success it gets from bitcoin and how it develops its strategic convincing power wherein people can fully understand the cryptocurrency and a digitized money in a fast and convinient transaction. Whether number one or not,it won't change the fact that bitcoin keeps on soaring high as years go by and many people have put their trust on no matter what circumstances may come. For now,let's continue what we've started as part of bitcoin participants and also soon become good investors. We have to keep the fire burning for bitcoin's continuity of success. It's only us,bitcoiners who can surpass this challenge of bitcoin to be acknowledge regardless of the rank as number one. I guess it too. It seems clear that government won't cooperate for the betterment of each country and that is some kind of difficult to handle about money matter. Obviously governments want also percentage of having the benefit of bitcoin wherein they can negotiate in terms of taxes but I guess it isn't fair for that thing. In terms of paper money's future,it will continue its process of using this and if they insist to change the way it goes instead of paper money then that will take a very long time and too much adjustments of people who get to used to old way of money transaction and the appearance of real money. I agree china has really been doing a good part of bitcoin's progress and until now it's been worth trusted and even if currency was banned, people in that country was still unstoppable due to this currency is decentralized. Ico ban hasn't been affecting that worst lately and in fact price now started to recover as well of its value. I guess those recommendations can really help a lot to those who failed on their investments like buying and holdings. Lately I observed that there were more dumpers at the trading sites, which I seen it those people were not traders actually. It seems that they are those who dumps immediately and that's what bounty hunter did, who didn't think for holding. I already paste my Extensive Coin Wallet Address in my other contact info and I filled up the GOOGLE form.this is my profile link.https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?action=profile;u=1779Thanks EXTN.  #JOINBitcointalk username: chickenadoForum rank: Hero MemberPosts count:  541ETH address: 0x13aA508b5F1717C67dfB949F27102c00FB115873 I think it's not all the case. Life goes on a step by step process from the time we were born till we grow old. Working after we finished a degree is our real cycle of life before bitcoin existed. We all have the same path after we studied for many years in school and got a job even if we get smaller pay from the company we've worked for. However,bitcoin can assist us if we need to. Working in a particular job could only mean that we follow the cycle of life and bitcoin is our partner in order to sustain for something that we want to achieve. If being unemployed has something to do with our health then bitcoin is our hope. Really? If that so then what are things that we are going to fight back? If governments aren't cooperating,it would be hard for them to trace bitcoin's footsteps, now that it keeps on rising in the cryptocurrency world.  Actually,every small beginnings keep going,so we can afford to make things possible in bitcoin. Let's think positive that it will continue to boom soon. There will be less worries for you don't need to put up such very big amount. Let's just wait and see for the upcoming good news for bitcoin. We have to discharge negativity outlook.
You have a point there mate! We all know that everything about in bitcoin is unpredictable. We all have ideas on how to advice yet we lack of information to predict things for we don't own the world of bitcoin. With regards to putting all the lifesavings that is above mentioned, it's not a problem if you think it's right then follow people's advice. It's only you who can weigh things out and soon enough you will realize if your decision is perfect for you. Bitcoin investment or for savings is a good idea. If it's not, why would investors keep on entering the world of crytocurrency in bitcoin?Simply because they can trust bitcoin since then. I don't think so. Other country men know the fact that China has been making a bad societal view and more or less of their population is getting abused. So there is a tendency that it will affect their name for somes investors in bitcoin. Being trusted is too important ang geographically speaking,this is a way too far to be expected that their country has bigger amount of bitcoin. What about America? It is the biggest continent ever so I think it would be America over China to have higher amount of bitcoin. That's impossible because normally bitcoin has its recurring effect every year since it started. The drop of price is just a typical one for bitcoin and therefore it won't be affected for the drops in case it happens soon again. For now,it won't take effect now that December is coming few months later. There will be a dramatic change for bitcoin's value and for sure many investors or newbies will love to. Bitcoin's popularity gains a lot of praises and prestige soon. Though others think this means nothing or obsolete but we, as loyal ones,keep earning and take control of ourselves where success knocks to us eventually but certainly. As of now,no one can beat bitcoin. The better the situation this time,the chances are more interesting in the eyes of investors. Ethereum somehow may destroy bitcoin but bitcoin balances the the system. Without bitcoin,ethereum won't exist. The two must cooperate for both are promising in the crypto currency world and also for the business minded people that are trusting their names. Big outcomes are waiting for bitcoin and ethereum in industries. So in the future it will make the economy grow and develop well. Well basically sometimes that's the case but others do have rules and regulations to follow. At times when it is risky there are also chances that you can get a huge money from what you bet or invest for it. It all depends of what kind of gamble that has a requirement for any strategy for example you want to play game cards,others are so good at it and with secret techniques depending on the player itself. If he is willing to teach the person then probably he could get the same idea to win. On the other hand,we may say it's evil game but if you use the money for bad deeds it will surely become bad after all. But if you use it for a better purpose then there's nothing wrong with that. Simply,you have to think more on the good purposes of gambling or the good sides. Talking about addictions a bad things, well it is certainly annoying activities that others also considered non sense and money wasting. That justifies the fact of repeated gambling activities while losing and kept on betting due to addictions getting worst and beyond control. Most of the addicts bare in mind that those past losses will be recovered, but they always kept failing of their expectations; that's why they really end up losers and bank roll's getting out of funds. I do believe that banks from past years of old times really accepts only one currency, but as of todays modernization of banking technology, banks were more aware and accepting exchanges from digital to fiat currency. Sometimes it's getting redundant to read this questions so far, because bank will not be eliminated due to it's purpose is highly recognized by people around the world.  I think it's not too late for him to show off his move at this modern days of basketball, and as I see if he join OKC there will be a great game. Based on Wade's record of the basket, it seems awesome plays and so entertaining particularly his assists to team mates which brought good records in time of his you career. I think those newbies isn't trusted by those campaign managers, but maybe there were some who happened to have another newbie account due to being banned from breaking the rules of the previous campaigns. Not all newbies post is not constructive, only that the ranks is lower for the current profile but in a long period of time that they've been active in the forum; rank will be stepping up and will be eligible to join lots of bounty campaigns. Yeah trading bitcoin like peer to peer transactions is a good strategies that other investors benefited from the earning they had from bitcoin. Also with another crypto currencies, many investors also gain good income from selling another coins just to earn much more bitcoin in order to boost their income and grow their holding investments. I guess they don't understand what's really going on with signatures and emails. Talking about freelancing was not that easy because most people were taking part of most of the campaigns, participated well with the projects and paid in bitcoins. No investors will donate but they really wanted to earn profit as well.  Myether wallet is confirmed to be reliable and safe when we store out token and it's right that it an ERC20 token standard compatible. That must be according to what type of required wallet and it's specified to what requirements whether it's a waves of eth platform. Yeah I agree there were lots of wallets to store your tokens as well and it can be deposited at trading sites. Maybe it will have the good possibilities to reach that price at $4.5K, and hopefully it will be lesser that two week price will fully be recovering. That thing about china isn't bad, and if you have purchased a cheaper price from china better hold your coins and wait for the next pumps. You can gain your profit exactly next year if I am right with my ideas. Well, that sounds better if government will donate the money to the poor community instead of burning it literally. I don't think it's good that it will be legalized in the country and tax implementations might be abused. I may lead to over taxation and corruption will really take place for that in the future. I think those spammer have no such ideas about the forum, their greed about what they can get with campaign and not thinking about the entire goals of the project. For me if you're following the rules of the whole campaign, I believed that there's no difficulties being a part of it but to know the difficult things on it? is how to know if the campaign is successful or not. Some of the bounty campaigns will fail and project will be unsuccessful, which is so stressful to think. That's also impossible for but not an idea of replacing dollar, because it's really hard to replace dollar fiat nowadays due to bitcoin's price was based on the dollar currency exchange market. The scenario is this per bitcoin is really been price and related to dollar currency, same as other countries currency exchangers bitcoin price depends on the fiat buying value. So there's no reason that fiat dollar currency will replace bitcoin.  Maybe he's trying to define that the other part of his winning will be used to gamble again for another chances, same as what you are saying about 50/50 % allocated for another gambling investments and personal expenses for personal needs to buy for. So I hope everything's been clear now and I appreciated much those nice ideas coming from both of mates. Most of the comments here is with negative thoughts and I came up into conclusion which can be agreeable to the majority who read this thread that cloud mining is certainly having bad reputations. For me if they invest with cloud mining, they'd better stop it and divert with actual minings because if their electricity is cheaper in the country they lived, well that's much more profitable than any so called mining investments. If you see there's no chance of getting lucky winnings for an expectations of getting rich, I think leaving gambling all alone might be the best solutions. That's very important for a gambler, they should choose wisely and briefly because in a long run loses will become bigger. These factors includes low volume due to more dumping rather than pumping of price value, and if you have to study the market value you can't predict the actual situation specially when fluctuations isn't that certain to conclude. As others been saying patience is the key to have good trades, so waiting can be that challenging behind all obstacles and you should for the right price to come.
For me, those who haven't got the best chances of investing from previous low price now is the time for them to buy an asset for holdings. If they will save their coins in their wallet, the price will grow for several months but price fluctuates in the same manner that it will change always. Unpredictable situations might happen, but you needed to be calm all the time just be positive price will rise substantially. I think Angers will be the best in this game and followed by Nice, and in the future game breaks they will be able to surpass all the difficulties of the moves of their specific teams. Much better if they will have their teams timing of aiming for the best goals and assist of while taking the smallets minute pass. If they maintain this kibd of gaming performances, that's a good assurance that they can reach the top game standing and go for the finals of football.   I agree and confidently believe that bitcoin will not lose it's value after 100 years, but if ever it sustains good value I think when that time will come bitcoin that time will be reaching at $10K. If ever that price will be a reality most of the long term investors will have to sell their holdings and take the profit, that's why price will not be stable as previous times of digital currency. Maybe those fast GPU processors was so expensive and not a good idea to those countries whose electricity is expensive. Of course if we wanted good results on mining, we should invest for a reliable hardware like miners. To those mentioned parts I think everything will went well if you had good budget for that, so better think about it prior investing with mining. I think your activities were far away of being addicted. Doin that once a week is an acceptable reason for any stress reliever from stressful work, unlike other people whose always having alibis and their excuses of that is for fun. Actually having fun at night time with gambling is very nice, because at night time all work has meant to be free of obligations that's why we really needed diversions.  I think those spreading rumors against bitcoin that it will be replaced came from other coin creators. This current wouldn't be defeated because people were almost exchanging their alts to bitcoin and this will be increasing the asset of what bitcoin has right now. So we must be having that ideas that we will surely believe that bitcoin is a lasting currency as long as people were using it for their financial aspects. I thinks bitmain now will still be loyal to china even though the chaos happening is more like a funny tale. Well that's been part of the game in digital currency, spreading rumors is the strategies of bigger whales in china and maybe we can give them such respect even though it's a challenging part. The banning might be just a good ways for other people to become more aware that investing here in digital is not that easy. No one will be benefited with gambling and in fact many people were bankrupt because of it. More life will be always be a mess specially when losing in all bets is possible all the time. Definitely it has no significant provision of finances, but rather a waste of money, so it's suggested to quit that kind of activity before it's too late. I would strongly agree that it will not replace fiat because for now while it's currency behavior been always volatile, there's no reason to replace fiat at all. But if ever there's a possibility that the government will adopt this currency, I guess it will become stable of it's price value which merely beats fiat money and people will patronized the usage of digital currency.  I agree that making people happy is good but if happiness tend to make people out of money isn't good. Having good entertainment can be good as always but in casino fun games involving money despite of a newbie player, that wouldn't be a profitable idea particularly when got lose with casino fun games. The signs is showing positive trends right now of you will have a check at coinmarket cap value online. Looking at the graph, bitcoin jas significant way of achieving it's higher rate in the future due to the demand eventually rising after the time of crash last week ago. Price will have to surge at that rate of $5000 again and if ever value will pump and pump more than $5000 is merely possible.  I think having a reliable wallet with complete options of exchanging bitcoin to fiat can be the best way to do prior sending amounts for you bettings. With that it's a very fast transactions to have and sportsbook gambling games will be much more profitable, although losing is prone always.  Yes I agree people in china has to become freely despite of the resitance of the government, and I don't think exchanges can't be stopped now. I am certain people will eventually invest and will still trade their holding as there were many ways to access the net anonymously. So I believed another price surge will happened going october this year and hopefully we are at $5000 soon and success will come to all of us here.  Those person whose addicted with gambling is the expert of it, and more knowledgeable of every aspects of gambling bets. As experience lead them to more knowledge I think that made them confident on particular decisions, specially the betting strategies they had. But it doesn't guarantee them  an assurance to win even though they're skillful enough, because gambling is unpredictable all the time. Because of their aggressiveness for winning, they might lose more amounts rather than low level skills gambler.  I think that a good strategy for you now since you are having patience I am confident that you can surpass your struggle to decide on how to sell your assets for profitable earnings. We must act and decide what's better and you should not dump your coins while price is low, because by the time it gained a good price you will be able to have confidence in deciding to sell your holdings. I know were closer already but those china banning had affected large investors in the country leading them to sell at their end at lower price. Maybe we can reach the higher price the current tension of china's bitcoin economy will be fixed and those bigger whales from other countries like Japan will invest with bitcoin and will buy their assets at lower price. If that will happen price will start to pump again and attracts new investors so we can reach again a better bitcoin value. That's great if the price will be heading that way of $7500, but we maybe delayed the process of reaching that for now. Although most of us were eager to achieve that goal, investors decisions will take place and we couldn't blame them of pulling out their bitcoins and exchanged to fiat currency. The current situation of china's bitcoin exchanges really did affect the price and this has been pulling the price down again nearing to $2000. Everything should be according to schedules and it shouldnt be mixed with your main activity which is your work or school. I guess its just a sort of mind settings thats why other people became late at work or in school, most of the important time is wasted just for gambling because theyve prioritized it most of the time. We should have to change this scenario now and act mature enough to handle activities within the right a period of time. Thats not appropriate if you are selling while the price is at struggling stage, but the greater chance will be in the highest sell value. If you really needed it for important purposes like emergency expenses, then you can sell 50% of it. Well the opportunity of the next pump might be greater and people now started to realize that those speculations were just a tactics of several investors seemingly wanted the price to drop down it value. Hopefully this will become tremendous idea and be funder by bigger whales soon, and if those bullies of bitcoin did something unfair act like spreading bad news about bitcoin then why not we should spread advertisement about bitcoin. With the help of those who has bigger funds, and promoting more altcoins projects; this digital currency will be gaining much more popularity if advertised on tv in the future.
Don't just focus on ethereum, that's too old coin to invest for and other investors were now pulling out their assets and sell due to it's dropping price specially bitcoin crashes slightly nowadays. You should look with other coins, their were new promising one and it also showed greater potential it can be litecoin and lately there's pillar who successfully launched in the market with huge supply. That's nice idea, bitcoins shouldn't be spent along with gambling and your visions of holding is correct. Planning to let is grow can be so hard since you have lesser idea for what will be the ways to do it, and my advice is you should study trading because if you are learning with it you can invest and start trading your bitcoins using alternative currencies. I must agree with you mate, this is now becoming chaos to everybody whose closely engaged to bitcoin. Can we just let those speculation let go and we should move on with the visions we wanted for bitcoin? well it sounds funny but lately bitcoin price dropped at worse due to paranoid holders. We're already nearing to reach our goals but sadly frustrations prevails. For me those things about scamming using bitcoin is not a new story since other anonymous persons viewed it as an easy way of doing such unrighteous ways on how to victimized using digital currency. All we needed to do here is, we should be vigilant and don't easily get fooled of some any investment offers that involved a collection of money as part of the so called business partnership. If you see this scheme to be familiar like that, well I tell you one of that tactics is a ponzi scheme that eventually scams people in a long run. I agree with that idea, sticking to one campaign will give others the opportunity to participate with other new campaigns. Greediness of joining one to another campaign doesn't seem to be fair and well appreciated, you made other felt it's more like your closing other members door of gaining chances for profitable income. Every manager of the campaign you had will have to observe you current participation whether you're taking part of it until the end of the campaign, that's why some applicant wouldn't be accepted because of that records of not fulfilling the entire campaign period. You can't assure that holding for long term can be so easy because some investors will have more panic when this current situations here with price will got wost.  Even with altcoins it's getting lower with sell price value and investors were into fears of great crash. Although were positive enough to face this big challenge, but we can be confident all the time it may come to our thinking that huge fulctuations might occur. For now those who haven't given chances to buy bitcoin from past months, this is the great opportunities for then to invest now.  It's normal to panic but of course you have to be strong despite of the fears that you have for what's happening with the btc price. I know it isn't easy for us to handle stressful decisions, but you should listen to the advices here in the forum and never make a quick conclusions over it. Since the current situation is conditional, never lose that goals and plans for it will fall you to regrets by the time pumping until $5000 will be happening again. I admit that it's hard to join for that rank for now but it's a great chance to learn and develop your ideas as being a part of campaign goals. You may encounter lot's of topics to interact with and share your point's of view. Patience can be rewarding by the time you reached that bigger rank and you'll be expected to be accepted on lots of campaign, it can be at bitcoin service sections or altcoins bounty signature campaigns. I agree that we'll have to wait again for the price to surge it's higher value, so it's recommended not to sell all your holdings for now. Future rise could not be expected and it could rise abruptly in a couple of minutes or an hour. All you have to do is have a greater plans for your holding and having self control is the number one way to do it. That's another plans for those bigger whales whose having huge funds in china, and this showed greedy acts which has really affected the economy of bitcoin so far. Even though it's not having good scenario this will really give another chance to other new investors to invest, so it's not just the end of everything and we can gain our good price soon at the peak of our goals.  Yes I agree that it's extremely difficult for the govenment to intervene, but the most certain cases that government will not hesitate to implement strict regulations in it is; both btc community and government system will be integrated. With that idea, that would be a great development for digital currency and no wonder people will amazingly adopt the system in the future. I don't agree with your idea my brother because if you look to the currnment scenario nowadays, one of the example of that is china they're banning bitcoins. If we believe that ideas that it will replace dollar that maybe impossible because there's a disadvantage of it to economy due to it's volatile. For me poor people could not easily adopt the system and bitcoin will just remain as to it's recent type of currency an encryption of money which has it's unique value to be the sources of fiat cash. I guess that's to harsh if there's massive fork during this year and many might pull out their investment if speculations continued to rise. But I don't expect bigger whales who funded more of it will allow that to happen since their profit always aiming for higher returns. All I am hoping for that the fork will be as worst as expected, just like what happened last August 1 many were surprised and other were such a failure due to investment sites diverted their investment platform one example is ethtrade. The pump and dump has something to do with the status of bitcoin that is encountering every now and then. However,it's been so hard to monitor it's ways and purposes why it has sudden dumps. On the other hand,the pump is a great news for investors because the money that they've invested will certainly have a good return which doubles up of the amount they put up. How lucky they are. I think five years from now I will use bitcoin as my life saver money. I will only uss it for an investment as savings account like an ordinary banks do. It will make my savings grow more and more I guess so intentionally this will make my future business successful,I hope. On the other hand,I'll make sure that this will give me a satisfying goal someday. How could that be possible? Well,for me if bitcoin prices is falling ,I would rather continu and hold my bitcoins for the mean time and if it gets back to its normal price that's the time I'm going to trade my bitcoin. It is only a matter of strategy so that I can hi on with the faling and rising ofthe price itself. Maybe in that case it would help many of us. That's a very tough question to be answered. Retailers are depending also to the main dealer. So if the demand id high from the main,it will also go along perfectly with retailers. If ever they use bitcoin instead of real cash then it's time for the government to change our system to pay everything. As a result, it retailers will get a higher income soon. I love the way you think though. Both cash and bitcoin are equal in the eyes of people though it is digitized yet it can be used for purchasing goods or anything. I strongly believe that people are not hypocrite. No matter what appearance of money still it is profitable and for the sake of survival. Both are good with special needs of it. More powers for bitcoin. I think the same thing on that issue. Bitcoin has reached more than a profit to us. So there is a maximum of chances that it can reach in that amount. In most cases many people will be having great benefits specially those who invested a lot of bitcoins. I'm kinda envy for those who have several of coins already but I will just wait for my turn to have coins for patience is a virtue. The time when I know bitcoin for the first time is that I didn't mind if it's new to me. It was introduced to me by my siblings and i didn't hesistate to try something new that involves money. I know it is risky to try on something which you don't know how terrible if I don't always think for the possibilities to occur once I join bitcoin. As years pass by,I feel that it's really profitable in terms of trading it. I sometimes trade through ethereum wallet and you will be amazed of the outcome. For now,you have to know the basic steps which I experienced before I did trading. Skills is very important because you will lose money or coins if you do some wrong acts about the transaction. Always be careful so you won't regret it.
I don't consider myself to be an expert in predictions. I don't even get its increasing point and how it increases because I am obviously not the one who made all about bitcoin and definitely I can't predict any situtation. Well,who does? I think it's impossible to predict now that it keeps on increasing the price. I agree with what you said,we should not be panic and yes bitcoin is now getting more powerful or stronger whatever it is. I just noticed how the demandof people is too high for this.  Right. Bitcoin is a lot better than banking system. It is definitely a total package for us users through wallet basis. It seems like I can't find any other comparison of using bitcoin alone . It varies with transaction method and it's quicker than what I've thought. When we use it in banking ways then probably many of us will adjust all over again with the system since we've already started which we think is best. If bitcoin bank prevails,many banking system for sure will close because as far as money and investment is concerned, people are having good interest with bitcoin which normal banks can't offer. In addition, investors most probably quit saving in banks and will transfer accounts through bitcoin which will make them more profitable and that is the main reason of common investors. Profit is necessary of every business minded people and the rest of the people who will be saving to bitcoin banks. Yes it really has. It cares a lot from bottom to top of wild and interesting information about investment. Speaking of internet,it wasn't existed in ages for normally people have already few info depending on their status which they can adapt through the environment that they live in. Let's say the person has a skill in trading and it's by the genes itself. The fact when you yourself try to make up things about investment for sure you will always imagine things first. In modern days that we are up to,we are now being so dependent in the trends on social medias. Well,we can't even deny that because most of us are using technology for different purposes. No matter what you portray in your investment it the mind that has the power to create,specifically to undergo many things provided that bitcoin is involved in any investment. I definitely agree on that because the situation right now is somewhat in a cycle only. The important thing there is that the sense of being imaginative and creative in selling,trading and buying bitcoin. We all know that many of us are depending on it while working our different tasks on a daily basis. Yes it's true when there is financial crisis that is going on with our main problem in the society. People as we are having hard time to negotiate face to face especially when we deal with many newbies to invest. On the other hand,I can see a progress with the crisis that each on of us are facing because it can truly help us. The coin that we earn is really precious and it can even save someone's life. I know some of us here are telling that it would turn down but for now let's take it easy. Confirmed here mate based of the price personal price monitoring I had, there's a bigger potential that nearly $5000 has a possibility to be achieved since price now is continually uprising after fluctuations did happen lately. The people doesn't really care for the rumors and negative taught, all they wanted is profit and long term investments is the greater way to make it. They don't dump unless their goal isn't achieve and no reasons to do it such us emergency spending is not that needed, they will continue to hold their assets. I don't think bitcoin will crash as above mentioned, correction is happening little by little already. This doesn't mean that it will forever be gone but this is only a challenge or somehow a strategy to make the demands more stronger for bitcoin. Recently, the price has reached to 220 thousand dollars above. Then, that's a lot difference after August 1st came. Probably it will last till the end but not too close this year because many of us have invested our time in earning our bitcoin. Sooner we want to become more successful people, together we can make it.  We have a similar point. In addition, maybe because Satoshi doesn't want to be famous. Not all millionaires are flaunting how rich they are in the society. Maybe Satoshi is one of those millionaires who are very humble in dealing with money. Also, he wants to extend his or her help to others on how to have a better living despite how difficult to handle life everyday. Commonly, money is the main source for basic commodities or maybe he has experienced how to be poor in the past that's why he created bitcoin. Indeed. Let's aways put in mind that when starting a business, you have to think the location all the time so that customers won't be hesitant to purchase of the products yoi are going to introduce. For instance, you already have the budget for a particular kind of business but what if the customers don't like the products so it's still a waste. So in order to not to be wasted for your effort. You have to consider the accessibility of customer's security whenever they visit a shop. If all coins will disappear then that's the end of all hopes of everyone when all of us dream to end our poverty. It's difficult to start life again without the digitized money. Though there are any sites like networking which gives an extra income but that's not really profitable than earning coins through bitcoin's outcome. Like me, I hope that one day I could have my own lot area because it's really hard to earn money in my place despite the competition of job application. I almost lose hope when bitcoin didn't exist but because it came to my life, I find a new companion in achieving y dreams in life. That surely is. There's no wonder if bitcoin's future is upgrading.  The digitized money elicited supporters from other people who became part of the phenomenal cryptocurrency in this generation. Normally, we only use cash on hand but when bitcoin came, it plays a wonderful role in every places you live in. When we talk about business, bitcoin can relate to it and even in trading. It's an edge for everybody's life to join the world of the newest money through wallet just using a phone. This will give people a break in using the easiest moneye instead of using bulk or tons of cash in your pockets. For me, I don't underestimate bitcoin because from start of using it, I became satisfied and alive because I can now help my parents in my own little ways. It may be not full but because I can trade bitcoin it makes it more profitable so I have no worries on that. On the other hand, it takes some risk because of many speculations that surround so as of this time we take consider of the time that we have to spend on so that you won't regret at the end. Underestimating a new thing like bitcoin is just throwing away a new blessing. Yes, sometimes it makes someone tired especially if you are working two things the same time in other words,multi tasking way. For example, working in a company and after work, do the things in accordance to bitcoin'standard for sure you'll do it at home so the pressure that you got from work may brought home. So in dealing with your time management, make sure you have everything you need. Set a goal when is convenience for your time with bitcoin and make sure to complete everything in hand before the deadliest time for the campaign for it is difficult to retrieve. I haven't heard any news about bitcoin in my country that is discouraged. As of now it is really lenient towards others. I notice several times when I share my story about bitcoin with others make the uncertain to believe because they were once a victim of scams so they are particular of suspecting the kind of monkey business that it brought to us bitcoiner. I guess it will change their minds if I will show many proofs and will help them on a daily basis in discussing bitcoin to them in a gradual mode. I think it's the new era currency. The main problem is other people don't consider it as money. They are always hesitant about bitcoin's achievement for many years. Not all people are open-minded regarding this matter. They have to think more and more before they finally engaged in bitcoin's world of earning cryptocurrency. The fact that they always think of the risk might stop them from believing. In addition, they always expect for higher profits even if they haven't started yet. Furthermore, it's difficult for them to entrust the name of bitcoin in the society. I think it is good because bitcoin has proven a lot already for years onwards. Same situation of my brother, he hold his bitcoin for three consecutive months and he didn't mind for the drops because he knew that it will still increase at the end of each months. Until now he continues to hold his other bitcoin's have because he also put up a sort of business and negotiations with the rest of his profit. He keeps doing it for the sake of future needs for his own family. It's hard to earn from his job knowing that deductions of his income bloat. Therefore, he chose bitcoin as his partner to live in a balance mode. How did you do that? You got information that is really interesting that has percentage of fluctuations and the rise of the price. I hope not too much high because others can't get enough payments and can't afford. That's a sad thing to make it work. However, if you offer to have seasonal increase and fall that would be better so that we can be ready for the upcoming risks in order for us to be aware at all times and nothing to worry. In that case, we are going to be well corporated in terms of discussing other people about bitcoin's world. Same here and also I was a bit scared and happy at the same time to be a member of it. It is really challenging because I have many dreams that's why I chose bitcoin for the sake of investment and fun at the same time. Everytime I post about bitcoin, or other information related to it, makes my day a great deal because I am not expecting that I will be paid for it. In my mind, it is new and unbelievable for me to get some cash from it or I'm earning from it. I'm thankful enough that I become one of the millions or billions of members in this cryptocurrency world. Statistically speaking, if location wise perhaps this is a minimal case on that since North Koreans don't have a strong economic system. They are known t have a less fortunate part of Korea with their President who abuses their rights most of the time. That's only a probable cause and thinking about the brighter side of bitcoin now means so much satisfying for it booms farther more than the war that will happen in Japan versus North Korea. However, Japan has a nice administration so definitely, it would be hard for North Koreans to attack Japan in that sense of stupidity. Crashing down case is highly not sufficient in that state because of war, bitcoin will still sojourn whatever incidents may occur in a certain location because it's not bitcoin's loss it's both countries that wants war. I knew it and I think the rest of the countries not only in Asia. Though I really don't know where is bitcoin originated from or who is the founder of it. Why is it a delicate thing to handle everyday and being skyrocketed price nowadays. I wonder if how will it change the lives of people in centuries if eve bitcoin would be accepted all over the countries. Maybe, it will go through a lot of hindrances specially from the hands of governments since corruption is rampant until now. How would it be secured 24 hours and the changes of the economy since it is a crypto currency. Will it be rewarding until years pass by or will it be neglected from government for they can't have a percentage of the income from bitcoin. That's a long process for the said continent the more in other countries Right. When I was working, I keep on dividing or have a fair share for my salary because it's difficult to manage if you have a small amount of salary that you can only spend for a couple days which only enough for your meals but since I have many mouths to feed including my family and grandparents, I should better divide it in order for me to discipline over spending. I had spent a lot of unnecessary things when I have still enough money and I wasn't able to save for my future use. When problem strikes me, I had no other choice but to give up worthless things that leads me into distraction. So as early as you can, keep saving money and keep dividing your salary while you are still in the spot of bitcoin world.
That's too much. If that's the worth then probably people are having hard time to sell and if somebody to buy for that amount too. It would be hard for people to make that worth and could it be possibly increasing still? Because 500 thousand dollars is really big to buy if the person mostly depend on twitter or trading site. Of course it will give impact to them not just because of the amount but also the status that they are facing in the economy better if they also have other sources like own business or a job. Lucky if the investor has enough amount or has already have wealth since from the start. This is a lot of decisions to make. Well, actually based on we've noticed nowadays, since bitcoin has contributed a lot in the economy I think we should reward it because it's been years since it's spreading good things about value of money and more on the side of people's needs and goals to make with their life. It gives hope to the people who almost gave up battling crisis everyday but because of bitcoin, they started a new life. In connection with dollar over btc, I think they are now fair because they are both profitable and they are money. Money with different transaction method. Nevertheless, they are just collaborating money so nothing's gonna happen. It's either people prefer btc or dollar. As for me I will use them both to make it fair. I think that way too. One bank that I know in my country is innovative and very open about bitcoin because it funds them and also investors go directly to that particular bank and now, it is listed as top rated bank in my place. It wasn't recognized before when it was new but because they strive hard to find ways on how to make it better for its service to people. I think not all banks fear about cryotocurrency it's just they are worried on how to deal with bitcoin specially not all governments accepted bitcoin in our society because for sure tax is always there. How clever they are. Maybe the fear of many banks are the investors trust on the money they put up for savings. We expected for a higher interest but it's not happening in the bank. Yes it is a trap. Making non sense story which needs to be thrown away somewhere. The fall thing is them. Considering the demands of bitcoin will continuously higher than expected because people's trust are getting many. Others might think that it is the end of bitcoin's popularity. Some loser investors just envy bitcoin's success nowadays because it is not only trading system it can do a lot of things with one coin for it can be used for many transactions by using wallets into real cash. So that's precious with just one wallet to another wallet basis-the easiest and fastest way to pay bills, produce and so on. Are you still expecting for the fall of bitcoin? Well, it won't happen. It seems clear to me that bitcoin will even more successful in terms of investment in the long run. It has good demands from people who are loyal in using bitcoin. This is the good sign of many developing countries worldwide. There is a big chance for our country to be more successful also so that means many will be given help but of course it should be educated ones to perform any case of bitcoin. We have to meet and work on the possibilities that may happen to bitcoin but as of now there many good things that are happening because of bitcoin and for sure everyone will agree on that. To infinity and beyond! What do you mean fum? So you mean in OX there is a classification of coins now? So far bitcoin is a good coin but that's normally the case of it. Other coins are also good but choosing better coin is difficult to decide for as long as it is useful and profitable. I can see how each coins are related to each other and therefore it will be more sustainable in every purchase to make. Why is there a trap in the altcoin vortex? Will it affect other coins that we are using? or what I'm using bitcoins all the time will it affect the value itself? How could this be possible? What do you mean with bitcoin is much weaker? I guess banks can have a collaboration with bitcoin I think there's a bank already that joint with it. I can see how good it is to be part of bitcoin's group. Maybe sooner or later banks will all adapt bitcoin as means of investment and trading also. Most probably it will gain prestigious name of their company even more and at the same time the name of bitcoin will be recognized. This will give a big impact of each country if ever it is freely accepted and there's nothing to worry about that anymore.  You have a point there. I think buying also is good because we know the fact that in long years it will grow. I mean in months, if you hold bitcoins, then the value will keep rising and the rest of your profit will be saved. It's a nice idea when you buy it first because as of this time many sellers are selling it and the more they sell it the more it pumps higher. Definitely we won't regret if our coin is bitcon for it has a higher value crypto currency in today's trend though others are not accepting it but soon they will realize how profitable it is. Now, that banks are being more competitive for the investors for their company. I also think as well. However, be cautious all the time because we don't know what are the possibilities that will occur soon. No matter how strong is our password that deals or links with money, always make a point that they are changes to happen specially if the person involve in a particular trading system.Make sure that you can detect its security purposes in order for you to be aware of everything that is going on. We don't know someday if someone will falter or betray you. Just be wise and so far bitcoin is secure. Yeah. I don't even understand why they are doing this to us. Aren't they contented of what they are posting every now and then? Definitely, I still believe that it won't gonna happen that it will drop to a hundred dollar. As I've noticed also to other threads that they are too consistent in putting bitcoins' name down. Well, they don't know the future. I guess there is what we called spy and to tolerate this matter in whatever cases it may be. And also, maybe they are paid for it. It won't give a damn benefit on them if they keep doing that. They are giving themselves a bad model in this currency of bitcoin world. We know the fact that there will never be successful spoilers when the good side is rising all the time. It depends on the kind of dogs. If I have an expensive breed dogs then I would definitely sell it and I can't take care all of them so I would only choose the ones that I give importance or as family members. I also love dogs but if that dog is not profitable for me,I would just give it away. You also need to feed and maintain dog's cleanliness just like human beings and they can feel love and care also. The more I hold them in my side the more I keep on taking care of them and if one day they will be hit or have accident, that will be costly for medication so better sell it anyway. Well, both of you have a point. We all know that altcoins are profitable already and at the same time you can hold it for quite some time because it has the benefit of becoming a good coin for the reason that it also recovers the prices. About selling them, of course you have the choice to sell if it makes you comfortable with that method. Some investors prefer holding for they have enough or more than  enough of altcoins so there's nothing to worry for that and they are particularly open-minded and can take the risks in long terms. That's what we called spirit! Some are just speculating so that they can also get money from putting down bitcoin's name though they don't even know the future of it. The point here is that maybe they've lost a lot of money when they made a wrong decision in selling or in trading. The mere fact that it makes them frustrated and  having  emotional instability. I definitely agree that it will bounce back as always. Through the years, the situation is just normal for us members and who are willing to wait patiently on something that is to testify if you are truly consistent of your loyalty being a bitcoiner. So to those speculators, don't make yourself welcome in here if you can't control your emotion. It can be both since it can serve as an investment. At the same time you can hold it for good. I somehow agree with that when it comes to direct transaction case. The good thing with bitcoin is that it will have a great amount of profit if you hold it and pumps higher for some months though it's not fixed but keep on updating while for some ways if it's like a gold,the value keeps rising for ling years without fluctuations. Gold is a timeless asset which can't be gone in the world of trading and in business. It is what we consider as constant thing and still the best. Bitcoin is somewhat promising to be like gold. So both cryptocurrency and asset. You mean 1st of April this year,2017? That's so nice of them in Japan. How I wish it would happen to all banks in my country. Actually were only few that is merged to bitcoin. The competency of banks in country is too high especially those big companies that run for over a decade already. However,this past few months some banks in here are having few investors because of the said bitcoin value or the crypto currency involved. This is a good opportunity to some long term investors in banks for they have seen the big difference of its profit and security but also the quickest transaction that is only digitized way. So perhaps in the long run bank accounts will be obsolete. I agree with you. Maybe you say that it's fucking coins because you didn't think wisely before selling or trading it. Technically you always have to think before risking something. We all know the fact that some coins aren't fixed or the value itself. We have to bare in mind that it is a delicate circumstance of every trader or miner. When it comes to this let's all assume that we deal on things that are precious. This will serve as a lesson for you so that next time it won't happen again. Needless to say,keep your feet stand still and be ready for every battle that you encounter with other coins. I notice the fluctuation these days though. But I guess it will still rise again because it's just a normal case. As I've seen the fluctuating effect there's no problem on it as it keeps circulating. The movement of the coin won't get affected the investors' investments and therefore it will be growing even more. For now let's keep on waiting for the better changes of bitcoin's price. It's either it rises or it falls we can't stop the benefits of it for it is still profitable. I will wait for more great side of bitcoin. Btc for me is everything. Why is it everything? Because it caters something which is not the same as other transactions. I live for it now and everything runs smoothly from the time I started joining campaigns and so on. I eventually learn the harder way and everyday my life keeps going with the help of bitcoin. I can see difference with my life before I worked and my life now as a member of bitcoin world. It seems that it was just yesterday but now I can see brighter days that it brought to me and it's surreal. Same as mine here, I have also more goals and motives to do with bitcoin. That's I hold such values of coins for the future and that purpose of having an apartment and a car were just a bit of properties to own. More of that could will be with you if you believe and always bare in mind the trust that you have with bitcoin in terms of profitability, and when price will hit the peak of it's success you can enjoy the bigger profit that you been dreaming of.  That's a wise idea for now, buying is a better decision to do today. Grab the opportunity while it's there so when time comes you will enjoy the profit you have. Don't ever worry if dumps happened because price will pump back again and if fluctuations will occur it's a normal scenario in the system of bitcoin for the past several years.
#JOINBitcointalk username: chickenadoForum rank: Sr. MemberPosts count:420ETH address:0x11bb6BecF09034d5BE7c4D1A2AD9cd4341D9089f That's sounds nice for those Korean people out there and I really appreciated their government system, because of their good and profitable industry. I think it will even more expand and boom their economy especially they provide high quality products with their cosmetics and food. Their lifestyle is also trendy the more with their fashion. If they allow bitcoin to enter to their economy it will become bigger,closer to American's economic status. As we all know Korea is known for their cute stuff and good k-pop stars or celebrities. Since their movies or dramas are so popular, if bitcoin is one of the sources for their income, for sure they will always have top rated films and be very successful in their career. Username : chickenadoCurrent Rank: Sr. MemberCurrent Post Count: 415Bitcoin address: 12j2GoULTDm9uLtpnWtae1JUqF46LQcxVnWant to avail for avatar bonus?: Yes Username: ChickenadoPost Count: 415BTC Address: 12j2GoULTDm9uLtpnWtae1JUqF46LQcxVn Thar certainly proved that panic selling is already happening to those investors and we cannot control their emotions specially when they are using their personal funds. For me as an investor, I should have that idea of stay calm and control panic decisions because price of your coin sell value will rise in the future.  Exactly, the income depends really on how you decide and enough knowledge is better in order for you to stay focus and informative on which coin to invest in crypto marketplace. Certainly 100% guaranteed realistic money will come in your hands personally and that's proven myself because I am a crypto trader. Holding your bitcoin is the best and ample strategies to do and those segwits and other speculations will not surpass this bitcoin challenge. After those series of challenging history near August 1, price of bitcoin really proved how strong it is to break those hindrances. Doubling bitcoin amount can be done also from trading investments through altcoins exchange market, whose known to be much more profitable rather than investing with other suspected ponzi. Saving the money from the winnings you had is a very brilliant idea to do since we all really knew that gambling lucky chances is not consistent, or I call it temporary. You should be more eager to manage the funds you had and don't ever think that there's more to be used for your investments in gambling. All you needed to do is to control your excitements for what winnings you have and think about for the importanxe of money; be responsible enough.  That's right you will possibly grow your bitcoins rather than what we expect but it's not that easy compared from other options specially when we need money on a rush days. You really have to be patience and if ever you generate money from other invrstments you had do it so that you won't sell your holdings in an earlier time. You should hold your investments, be strong and be determined in all circumstances may take effect.  Well it's our own personal impression if we consider trading as gambling,  but in a good sense of insight here gambling is not as profitable as trading. You are likely to lose your funds instantly with gambling,  and in trading it's not that similar to gambling itself because when you invest with the coin type you trade, holding your token is a long term waiting time and you really see the actual price movement that's why you sell at the right time if the price rises high.  I used this escrow before and the transaction went smoothly. Thumbs up.  Yeah that should be our motive here and the trading technique we have in the market must be practice most of the time so that profit will be he gained. Don't ever buy at higher price because it might drop suddenly, rather buy at lowet price so thaf you will benefit when it come a time that it will rise again so you CD an sell at a right price when it eventually rise higher.  The most important thing to do here is you should not get yourself get drowned by the activities that you commonly do while playing gambling. Even though you got the highest gambling analysis and strategy you can't be certain at all times with your bets, still you may lose in a long run of your game. It was just a sort of lucky chances of winnings if you view gambling to be entertaining you must not think profit in a first place, but instead think out the from it. Your correct about that mate, there is no difference between fiat and bitcoin it it became stabilized of it's price in the market. For me, bitcoin should not be stabilized of it's price value because it's a most trusted trading system which appreciated by most investors due to it volatile character which really moves unpredictable fluctuations. Being a participant of the ico project of altcoins is a good investments without any fiat cash involved and you earned a bounty to be used for your trading practice. In that certain point of money making, you now have a bigger opportunity to learn and earn at the same time and the bounty token will be sold as btc and can be exchanged to fiat cash which can be ised to spend for the needs that you want like personal gadgets and other valuable things. When you are the stage of learning process, I guess you probably experienced some trade loss, but no hurt feelings at all because there's no investments at all. For me there's a lot of option to not invest of any loans jus to get bitcoins to hold for an investments. Yes it's right thar bitcoin really needed to be saved for better future purpose, and having loans is just a stressful obligations to pay for and you cannot have the assurance for your invested profit to benefit you in an instance. Btc price will not increase immediately, you may encounter more fluctuations and might provoke you to sell at an early stage. Twitter account: https://twitter.com/btchickenadoAddress: 12j2GoULTDm9uLtpnWtae1JUqF46LQcxVnTwitter followers count: 2,098Tweets:1.2.3.4.5.Retweets.1.  https://twitter.com/monkeycapitaico/status/8825168076340961292.  https://twitter.com/monkeycapitaico/status/883224860394217472 I definitely agree on those points mentioned here and that actually happens wrong if you've been through failures of losing in the bets. I've heared this cases which mainly same comments that gamblers considered wrong always same as those who doesn't bet for gambling. Everything here in gambling was just a lucky expectations behind the impressions which only depends on the personal opinions of every person.  That's a very good recommendations as well, because being informative can help you analyze whether you buy more or be lean at a certain point. Having strong decisions can be helpful for you to decide for your holdings in order to avoid panic selling,  and it's true based on my actual experience from previous days past, welk I really survived and controlled myself behind bitcoin price up and down fluctuations.  After this price fall happened I see it as a big opportunity for us to buy since price will rise successively behind the circumstances of some speculations which hinders the price development.  Although as everybody saying it's unpredictable with regards to investors who became discouraged but later on realized the actual scenario. We must hope for next price spike and maybe we can now be at $3000 sooner. 
Well the playing style he has definitely made him who he is, and I believe timberwolves will make it for the best season meet. I hope that they will be into championship soon, because it really need to have a new fame of nba in order to give opportunity for the other best players to rise on their career. Although their career has very hard times to play, well I guess hard work is the best keys along with descipline.  I guess it wouldn't hurt the company and in fact it will give the company and income profit with highly appraisal and will help also to boost the demand of bitcoin in the market. By the help of those alt coming from bitcoin like ethereum. This will help to boost the supply of the btc market as well as exchanges was concerned.  Actually we can't really force those newbies to understand in urgent ways, but through their constant participations of the market trading acticivities; like buying and selling. If that person who is new with the system, it should have a proper guidance of those friends that has been older with trading investments. That opportunity after price decline is so big and probably it will hit the market soon.  No sarisfaction of a person leads him to come back to gambling game and don't matter how he or she losses their money. They failed to have self control and kept on betting until the end of the game. More stories I heared that these people who really been dependent to gambling even sells their wealth just for the betting hobby.  For me I believe on your thoughts regarding bitcoin stability, because price changes smoothly. Eventhough fluctuations affects some of the investors decisions which sometimes lead to panic sells, that eventually decreases the price in the market. We will notice after that, the price climbs again to top and influenced more investors.  Well that really proved how venus play great with limitless strength all the way. If those british fans see the actual performance, they really can give up and let go that venus really deserved to win great. I guess that wins at fist of wimbledon brought a good experience which made venus a better player.  It's hard to find bitcoin wallet who doesn't charge fees for sending bitcoin. I think the best way is to find an altcoin, convert your bitcoin to that altcoin,  and use this altcoin to transact to the person you want. Bitcoin as a wedding gift is a nice gift for me. If my friend reading this post/reply. I want to receive this kind of gift If I am going to have a wedding someday. This gift is rare gift in my country that many people knows bitcoin dream this gift. I hope someday I received this gift even if 1 bitcoin only   For me bitcoin is for all. It is not only for middle and upper class. In that case why some lower class don't know this because they not always using internet, or they busy in their work. Many in my country too don't know bitcoin because mostly of them don't know bitcoin and they're busy always in their job to earn money and to attain to eat 3 times a day. Trading is good than investing. I agree that your money can grow 50% easily in trading. But you can lose easily too. So if someone choosing if they trade or invest.. Just choose what you know, and what you prefer. because both of them is profitable, and risky. I use this coins.ph too but now I'm not going to put all of my bitcoin in that wallet. Coins.ph lock your account if you have many bitcoin in your wallet, if you send big amount of bitcoin in other wallet or if you send bitcoin at gambling sites. I don't want this wallet but I'm still using it, to cash out my bitcoin. Thanks to you Makka, now I know some sites that I can replace to coins.ph. I'm using Coinbase or exchanger like poliniex or bittrex to trade altcoin and use this as wallet.  My Ethereum address is correct and It's from MyEtherWallet. I want to ask if our stakes will change after you removed few participants in this signature campaign? Thanks Sylon. And I want to know when PBT token will be distribute to us? I am not addicted in Gambling because I can stop my self in betting even if I did not lost big bitcoin. I can control myself to stop in betting when I feel the next thing will happen is to lose. So what do you think? I am betting once a month sometimes, and sometimes I did not gamble anymore, why? Because I don't want to lose or I am busy. I bet only when I'm bored, I want to feel the thrill in betting even if I lose only small amount of bitcoin. Some of my friends that is pro in trading is buying base on the news. Or base on the updates in twitter of the coin you want to trade. And try to join in the community of that coin who dump and pump, some of them say's that when or what price is the best to buy. I will buy many clothes, appliances, or Foods after I win in Gambling. And I will bet or gamble again if I already spend all my winnings so that they can't retrieve the money I won. If my winning is big amount of bitcoin that can buy a house I will buy a house and I will not gamble anymore.  For me it is depend on the person for me I have money before. But I'm always sad because I don't have girlfriend but Now I have girlfriend, I feel the Happiness that I want, the happiness of life. But I'm not saying that all people happiness is Love, many people nowadays happy when they have money.  If I have money now I will buy bitcoin and Wait August 1st to know what is the effect of it. And If in August 1st the bitcoin price will dump then I will hold the bitcoin i bought and wait that bitcoin will pump that's it. Just buy and hold if the bitcoin price will dump but If the price will pump then sell if you contented to your profit. No money will lose if you invest in bitcoin, just don't sell in loss price. In this twitter campaign I want to know if How much the allocated amount of Bitcoin to distribute to the member who joined this? I think the information in your post is not complete. And I think if we know how much is allocated to this campaign many will join.  Para sakin mas maganda padin kung bumili ka nalang ng account na high rank tapos isali mo sa magagandang campaign, mas malaki ang kikitain mo. At kung ako naman ay may account na ganito mag lalaan nalang akong oras kaysa irisk ang account ko sa ganito. Isipin niyo ha? Ang mura ng bayad sakanya 0.00035 per post pwede naman niyang kitain sa campaign now ay 0.0007 btc per post, bakit hindi nalang siya magpost sa sarili niyang account?  In my opinion regarding in Bitcoin reduces unemployment is Fact. Many of my friends in My Facebook Account that don't have work, get some bitcoin online in trading. And many of my friend is earning here in bounty of an ICO too. So this is a fact statement. I hope this bitcoin can end an poverty
Bitcoin, other altcoin and Fiat is used in illegal transaction. Authorities do some moves to prevent this happening but of course not all the crimes they can prevent. I think this will not lead to decline in the price of bitcoin. This is the reason why some country before not accepting bitcoin.  Nice question. I want to buy tickets too using bitcoin but unfortunately I don't know if some airline accept bitcoin as a payment mode. In my country I know that there's no airlines accept bitcoin because only few people don't use it, and don't know this bitcoin. But I'm hoping in future, bitcoin can buy tickets worldwide. Bitcoin is a good investment. Try to search the price of this last year, Do you see the difference of the price last year and now? But this is my advice in investing. Don't invest the money for emergency, the money for school, the money for bills so that you will not pullout your investment . That's the reason why many newbie investor did not get any profit. they can't wait, they need some money for bills. Maaari bang magsuggest na iresolba ang problemang nakita ko sa Application sa phone? Bawat nagloload ako sa phone napakatagal mapunta sa confirmation para magbayad ng load. Antagal magloading para dun at nakakapagtaka may internet naman bakit napakatagal dun sa bandang yun, tipong mababadtrip ka kakahintay bago lumabas yung confirmation na babayadan mo yung load. Sana maresolba niyo ito. Maraming salamat. If you want to earn more bitcoin in trading try to buy undervalue coin. Trade it. I am suggesting that monitor the price of that coin. So that you'll know what price is the best to buy and best price to sell. And buy altcoin for short trade and for long trade. Poloniex for me, I want this trading site because this is complete trading site. And Many traders are here trading altcoin. Bittrex is a nice trading site too but this poloniex have a troll box. This is a nice way to reduce the price or fee for transferring your bitcoin, but this is a risky too if you convert your bitcoin in altcoin because there's a chance that the altcoin will dump. So if you send it and the price will dump at half price your bitcoin will lose at 50% too. So goodluck choose a nice coin too so that your bitcoin will not reduce higher than the fee of transaction.  Just wait to reached that price. Don't lose hope your bitcoin price will pump soon. Bitcoin is unpredictable so who knows today or tommorow this coin will rise at $3000 price per bitcoin.  Interested to build din pang mine no? Ako din sana pero sabi ng iba hindi daw profitable nababasa ko dati sa mga comments dahil daw malakas ang consume ng kuryente nito. At balita ko sa mga kasama ko na pahirapan makahanap ng mga Kailangan pang mining. Pero malay mo makahanap ka ng ganyan sa lugar mo Goodluck nalang.  Copywriter job is not so easy job for 2$ per 1000 character and The rank of this Op is just a Newbie, so don't trust this Op so I recommend to all before joining this job please use an escrow so that your effort will not waste. And lastly I suggest to you that put it in service section. I think many there want this job. Who knows someone wants 2$ per 1000 character. We don't know what will happen in the price of bitcoin so I can't say that this is the right time or not. We can't predict what will happen in the future. So if you want to earn risk your money and if you want to playsafe wait the dump before buying bitcoin. More risk more profit, less risk less profit. Almost all of the answer is the same. But It is fact. This bitcoin is secure when we base on the system of bitcoin but when you base on the other earning ways of bitcoin many of my friends already quit in bitcoin because their bitcoin invest it in HYIP and they don't want to remember their losses money. Even if I said that I have another way of earning that they can get good amount of bitcoin.  Bitcoin is convertable into cash so bitcoin is best for me. In my country I can convert my bitcoin into cash and this bitcoin give profit to my cash if I invest it in bitcoin. So in this side the bitcoin is better than cash in my own side.  This primalbase ICO I think will be the best ICO in this Year 2017. I hope I have Bitcoin to invest in this ICO. I'm sure if I invest in this project I will never regret because I see clearly the project and intention of this PrimalBase. I can't wait to see it in future. I'm agree to this statement.. But I will try to grab this oppurtunity even if he is a newbie. The Job is only easy and so effortless for 0.015 bitcoin. But Of course I will try to convince this newbie to use escrow before doing this job.  Nice Primalbase Advisory Board Update After I read it. I'm very interested about What will happen next, About how they patronage this Primalbase project. This is a really nice project because the advisor of this primalbase is Sasha Ivanov. Please give an live update or live telecast to us so that we will know what will happen in June 20. My friends in Facebook starting to ask me If I'm earning in bitcoin, How much I earned in bitcoin? How to earn in bitcoin and Etc. But the most I can forget people who ask me is my professors in my school. I said to them I'm earning big money in bitcoin, But I don't think so they believe with me. Because I'm the student who don't have a high grades so they think that I can't earn big money. The minimum required Amount should be 0.01 bitcoin or lower. Because for me if you are a newbie I will suggest you to try trading with small value of bitcoin so that if you lose you will not lose many bitcoin. I will suggest this amount till you understand or master the trading. If you are good to trader now you should risk the bitcoin that you can afford to lose.. So that your income will be bigger than before. But of course not always you will gain profit. Sometimes you need to wait your coin til this pump. You are in Trading discussion so trading is you need. The risk is high if you want to earn easily but you can easily lose it too. Trade with altcoin that has a good future project that's the best Advice. Buy low and sell high, if the coins dumps just wait to pump. It will pump sooner or later so don't sell it at dump price. I agree that many people lost their money in trading but it is on the people who trade. You will not lost in trading if you didn't sell your coin, you just wait to pump it before selling it. Because when you sell it you already lose money. Fight your fear. I'm a trader too but now I dont lose money or bitcoin? The secret is buy the altcoin that you think it has a future so even if this coin dumps it has a good future someday so it will pump sooner or later. But of course before I lose money too, I trade shitcoin or coin that don't have a nice project. So I leave trading and find another way of earning and now I have funds I'm going again to trade.
My mentor said " Don't fear to trade top 10 coins in coinmarketcap " If you buy high price sell them at higher price. If the coins dump at lower price wait til it pumps. Fight your fear. Now I'm trading Humaniq, Xem, Ripple, Ethereum, STR, and Etc. Trade the coins that pumps and dumps everyday so that you can roll everyday. Right there are many ways but you only suggest one strategy on how to double your money using bitcoin. That's my earning technique right now, many of the altcoin dump and this is the right time to buy yours and wait only days or weeks to earn your profit. If I will choose, I will choose them both. Because it's not about the high price. It's about making profit. You choose bitcoin why? Because only high price? What if trade altcoin so that you'll know how much profit you get even if the price of bitcoin didn't pump.  Right now this is the biggest problem of bitcoin. The question is how to resolve that problem? Ofcourse if we can't resolve it right now many people will change their bitcoin into other coin. So how they will choose this coin if other coins will be greater than bitcoin? The fee is high too not like before.  I think the biggest disadvantage of bitcoin is only used online. But I think this is the advantage of bitcoin too. So For me the biggest disadvantage is we can't use this bitcoin to buy in onlineshop company even if this coins value is high. For me There's no difference between Investing and Trading. Both of them need funds, Both of them have risk, both of them will gain profit or lose funds. If it is in altcoin, both of them buy and sell their altcoins if they have already profit. So for me there is no difference Why you conclude that obtained from bitcoin? Do you have any idea if you friends using this bitcoin to earn that money? Because some people that didn't work some of their income is from illegal. If it is from bitcoin that's nice, because bitcoin is very profitable if you know how it works. Because When I'm new in bitcoin I don't know how to earn here and lost some many money. Hi Campaign Manager I would like to ask if posting in this thread and Posting in Off- topic is counted ? I want to post in many thread but I don't know where's thread is not counted. Thanks In Advance Countries? So even if the government will join to launch a cryptocurrency? I think if that happen of course this will have an effect in bitcoin. And of course many people will become interested in bitcoin.  Me too this is my first time to see like this coin. We should believe that this Initial Coin Offering will become succesful 😊. We should do our best to this project so that the project of this coin will happen. If you want make people interest why not do some advertisement not ATM machine so you just build ATM to advertise bitcoin? Hmm I think it will cost many money than Television ads. But I agree in Bitcoin ATM Machine so that when I need money you just go there and withdraw some fiat money. The function of bitcoin for me is Capital in trading, use this bitcoin for my daily expenses, use this bitcoin to convert my altcoin into money. And many more. And some of my bitcoin is for my future. I want to use this coin for my future expenses like building a house or buying a house.  I join to your bounty campaign primalbase because I really hope that this Initial Coin Offering will become succesful. I'm happy to be part of this campaign. Thanks for accepting me in signature campaign. I want to join in social media campaign but I can't join in your social media campaign because my twitter followers not meet the following requirements. Bitcointalk username: chickenadoForum rank: Senior MemberPosts count: 335 including this post.ETH address: 0x3c607631eb4f6C6e66713dD58F244dc5acdEeE70 Maybe they based it on ethereum on the supply but it will never be ethereum and will never ever be the same.They are two different coins in the market.but i think pumping of price by now is just  caused by some hype on the market If this such thing will really happen i will fully buy with all my money on cryptocurrency to eth if eth would be still alive in that times,also litecoin maybe an option too if ethereum will be gone too Check youre feelings first before getting into it,check the plans main website and ann thread of the altcoins you want in this forum (if they do have).Check all informations about the coin before getting into it,to be short analyze it fullly Yeah deciding on open sourcing your code on your coins is really a risk because any good developer or company may easily counter or delete and defeat you in the market using your own formula so everything must kept secret at all Pretty normal scene in this current  state of bitcoins and bitcoin network,new big exchange in japan and australia are already launch so expect huge amount of transaction being added making network slow plus spam attacks For me this sounds so good to be true but i dont know this ico so im not countering your part,give me some links of their ico website and their future projects and all the information about their coin
Give proof that this coin and project is launched for scamming purposes?its the developers and the teams choice to  use this kindof logo and name not for a purpose but just to make it cool i think,is it illegal to use that as a logo and name?im pretty sure they have the permission from tor developers to use this logo and name I have one comment saying that you can get free torcoins  at https://torcoinfaucet.com/ but i have never tried this faucet and i dont know if it is paying or not so you willbe needing to gamble onto that site. My Advice is Research, Read, before you invest in Altcoin. That's what newbie need to do to know more about Altcoins. All of traders strategy in altcoin is buy low sell high. Now Almost all of the altcoin is at low price so it's time to buy. If I'm in your place right now, I will hold this altcoin until it will pump or until I get my fund without loss. I feel you right now, because I have that altcoin too. and I advice to you that hold this, or else you loss some bitcoin funds and you loss the provability to earn in future.  You already have waves, that's what I want to hold not for only 6-7 months, good choice. Many Altcoin now already dump so this is the right time to buy Altcoin. This is  what I want to buy and hold for many months XEM, XRP,LTC,STR,CLAM, CRB, EDG, and HMQ. But of course invest at your own risk, do your own research regarding in this coin.   I love bitcoin too so If the price goes down I always collecting. You are right, if you have bitcoin now you're so lucky because your money in bitcoin right now if you invest, already double or already have profit. But the hard thing if you have bitcoin right now is the time when you sell it. Why? Because we don't know if the price will still pump or will dump so when you sell it now. What if the price will double ? Hi I luvbitcoins may I know the notes *? And why three bitcointalk's accounts have that sign in notes including me?What is the meaning of that sign in notes? I guess i didn't make any bad things to your campaign. I still not seen my bounty humaniq in myetherwallet https://etherscan.io/tx/0x7430da3c0b03a3bb158a996ded4cdf1f8addb26b52b8a9aa72dfd752653356e9Can someone understand this trnasaction if they sent without a problem? I already open my wallet and didnt receive any HMQ bounty, but i try to send some in my wallet I received my 2,000+ HMQ. Please help me I have some edgeless and I think this coin have a great future. I will add some coin if the price will dump again, but I hope it will not happen and pump to the highest price right now. Buy now yours who knows this coin's price will pump in future. Okay thanks I will try to join in their slacks to update my humaniq bounty. I already open myetherwallet, and I see that they didn't send my bounty for this signature campaign.  Out of Gas but why ? They can't buy Gas ? Oh my now I'm not feeling relaxed anymore. I need to get my bounty please humaniq. Send my bounty, It's easy to buy gas but why you can't buy? Why you can't send? Hayst. How many days Do I need to wait my bounty? It's unfair because almost all in the list already got their bounty but mine. Where?  I think no, The price of XRP will not high or pump like bitcoin's price. But we don't know what will happen in future who knows. But what is your basis in your speculations? Do you see xrp as bitcoin? Hi ETCbets comWhy I can't play in your site? It's always says " Sorry, Parabolic is currently under maintenance." After I register in your site it's always maintenance. Until now? I want to try your site and bet. Twitter account: http://www.twitter.com/BTChickenadoBitcointalk Name: ChickenadoTwitter Audit: https://www.twitteraudit.com/BTChickenadoNo. of Followers: 1835I hope you will accept me Campaign Manager. Hi I already submit my application in translation bounty. I don't have previous work in translation before but Can you accept me? I want to try my skills in translation, if you didn't like my translation then don't give the bounty for me? Deal? Okay Humaniq, Thanks for your update always. We are hoping that you will send it all today.But If you can't send the bounty today please update us again so that many members here that didn't receive their bounty they didn't panic. I think there's no exchanger that you don't need to verify. If there's a exchangers like that your money or bitcoin will not become safe. Why you don't want verification? It secures our money or bitcoin in our account so why? I think this topic should posted in Bitcoin discussion. I agree that the ethereum should be faster than bitcoin because bitcoins transaction nowadays is too long to confirm, but You don't like it to confirm your bitcoin in short period of time? I think you should be happy because bitcoin already confirmed, In ethereum just wait this coin it will confirm sooner or later. What kind of future you are asking? If you are asking bright future, I think yes because in many exchanger dogecoin is one of the coin use to convert many altcoin. Not like other altcoin that only capable to convert it to bitcoin. But I suggest if the price will dump again Buy some doge who knows if this coin's price wil pump higher than before. The best altcoin you can see in coinmarketcap. Invest in Top 10 or Top 5 altcoin there and wait years or months before you sell your altcoin, but be sure that if you sell it at high price but if the price is the same just hold it and wait to pump. 
Hi Moneybadger. Why my withdrawal in your site is always error and its says "Error! Verify all details are correct and try again, or contact support@moneybadger.io" I check all details and I'm sure that it's correct so Why I can't withdraw my bounty? It's problem of your site or It's problem of your code? Please help me, Thanks In Advance. Okay thanks for the update sorry I didn't notice before I message you Humaniq. I hope we will receive our Humaniq soon. Thanks for the update  Okay thanks Arwin100. I didn't retweet their tweets before but I already follow their twitter account thanks for your instruction. I'm waiting now for their pm in my tweeter account thanks again.  Hi May I know if Moneybadger will give 1$ if I follow their twitter account now? ThanksEdit: My twitter account is @btchickenado and I already followed your twitter account. I hope I will receive my 1$ bitcoin. Thanks  Then what will happen after this poll? Even if we know the average of bitcoin owned per user what will happen? Do you think all of the answer in your poll is right answer?  ethereum-wallet net? that's the only ethereum wallet I know, but I don't know if it's best ethereum wallet because I don't use it. I'm using MyEtherwallet because I can store here some altcoins. Now I'm holding XEM, STR, CRB, FCT, XRP And Now I'm collecting Tor coin for long term. Because I believe that all of this coins will pump this year or next year. I will wait til the price of this coin became like ethereum. What do you think about my coins? ROUND 2Bitcointalk Username: chickenadoFacebook Link:  https://m.facebook.com/andrew12castilloTotal Facebook Friends: 2286FootballCoin Username: chickenadoPost Links: https://www.facebook.com/andrew12castillo/posts/1356694777740940https://www.facebook.com/andrew12castillo/posts/1356430084434076https://www.facebook.com/andrew12castillo/posts/1352750848135333https://www.facebook.com/andrew12castillo/posts/1352163934860691https://www.facebook.com/andrew12castillo/posts/1355433751200376Share Links:https://www.facebook.com/andrew12castillo/posts/1356695664407518https://www.facebook.com/andrew12castillo/posts/1356695407740877https://www.facebook.com/andrew12castillo/posts/1356695374407547https://www.facebook.com/andrew12castillo/posts/1356695347740883https://www.facebook.com/andrew12castillo/posts/1356695294407555Bitcointalk Username: chickenadoTwitter Link: www.twitter.com/BTChickenadoTwitter Audit Link: https://www.twitteraudit.com/BTChickenadoTotal Followers: 1283FootballCoin Username: chickenadoTweet Links: https://twitter.com/BTChickenado/status/864908723893948416https://twitter.com/BTChickenado/status/864802590374023168https://twitter.com/BTChickenado/status/864300716109602817https://twitter.com/BTChickenado/status/863450951927029761https://twitter.com/BTChickenado/status/863268327052820481Retweet Links:https://twitter.com/xfcfootballcoin/status/863866188245479424https://twitter.com/xfcfootballcoin/status/863863902861504512https://twitter.com/xfcfootballcoin/status/863849498409390080https://twitter.com/xfcfootballcoin/status/863844497293234183https://twitter.com/xfcfootballcoin/status/863804776118714368https://twitter.com/xfcfootballcoin/status/863790488226287616 Okay thanks. I'm new in this kind of computer wallet. If I already installed this Tor Wallet. Can I use it right now or I need to set up something? before, I always use android application for my bitcoin address so It's my first time to use this computer application so please someone teach me. Bitcoin transaction is becoming so slow because there are many transaction. I think that's like a traffic in our highways if there are many bus, cars and other vehicles the traffic is so slow moving. But if you know another route your transaction become faster.  So what wallet can you advise for me to use to your signature campaign?Can I advise too? What if you add some avatar campaign to your signature campaign even if the logo of the coin, so that many people will see the tor coin logo and they will think for this coin to invest? Just an advise thanks.I already watched the first mining video, It's funny haha the man digging soil and found one onion. If the price of bitcoin is too high and the price is ready to dump I will stop buying bitcoin because many big whales will sell their bitcoin.  And I will start buying again if the price dumps, that's the right time to collect many bitcoin.  Try to buy here in forum if there's a seller here of bitcoin. But ofcourse you should send first. And follow they're rules because In paypal and creditcard you have the advantage to reversed. But I suggest if you have friend try to ask them if they are selling their bitcoin so that you're transaction is safe. I would like to join in this wonderful project. I hope you will accept me. ThanksPost: 294Tor Address CCEX: TXYXtXipf1dj4TzdCU5pMyVYicRvuj9Uqk TOR ADDRESS windows wallet: TLrfzJirV1RSafzcdwpvMTv3C2iDkoLynXThis wallet is from c-cex and we know sometimes they're wallet is maintanance so I would like to apply with this address and change it if I already have the Torcoin wallet. May I know if we can use the exchangers wallet to receive the Signature campaign bounty? I am interested to join in your project. And I hope you accept me in signature campaign.Edit: I already joined signature campaign.  I think it would be popular but not so popular not like now. Many bitcoin user want this coin because of it's price that's not stable. So if the price is stable, only few people wants to use it like in deepweb. Because they need this coin to buy, trade in darweb.  Nice question. I think the campaign will end too after collecting $3m. Because the campaign is establish to get more investor, to aware more people in their project. So if they collected the max cap the campaign ends too. Some people prefer bitcoin over fiat because there are many reasons like they can earn here in bitcoin, they can transact worldwide legal or illegal transaction without trace. I prefer using bitcoin because I'm earning here without doing hard job not like in fiat work you need to work 8 hours in small profit.  I agree to this statement, many reasons why we need cash but For me the best reason why we should use bitcoin is It's easy to earn here in bitcoin than offline business with cash. And The best reason why you should bitcoin is you can earn here with or without funds.  Bitcointalk Username: chickenadoFacebook Link:  https://m.facebook.com/andrew12castilloTotal Facebook Friends: 2286FootballCoin Username: chickenadoPost Links: https://m.facebook.com/story.php?story_fbid=1351450628265355&id=100002012923245https://m.facebook.com/story.php?story_fbid=1349170911826660&id=100002012923245https://m.facebook.com/story.php?story_fbid=1349586678451750&id=100002012923245https://m.facebook.com/story.php?story_fbid=1350564685020616&id=100002012923245https://m.facebook.com/story.php?story_fbid=1350928931650858&id=100002012923245Share Links:https://m.facebook.com/story.php?story_fbid=1351448884932196&id=100002012923245https://m.facebook.com/story.php?story_fbid=1351448448265573&id=100002012923245https://m.facebook.com/story.php?story_fbid=1351448418265576&id=100002012923245https://m.facebook.com/story.php?story_fbid=1348344281909323&id=100002012923245https://m.facebook.com/story.php?story_fbid=1351461514930933&id=100002012923245https://m.facebook.com/story.php?story_fbid=1351461478264270&id=100002012923245
Bitcointalk Username: chickenadoTwitter Link: www.twitter.com/BTChickenadoTwitter Audit Link: https://www.twitteraudit.com/BTChickenadoTotal Followers: 1283FootballCoin Username: chickenadoTweet Links: https://twitter.com/BTChickenado/status/860708903637499905https://twitter.com/BTChickenado/status/862717766268108800https://twitter.com/BTChickenado/status/862506271974367232https://twitter.com/BTChickenado/status/861979490905333760https://twitter.com/BTChickenado/status/861789334369746944Retweet Links:https://twitter.com/xfcfootballcoin/status/860539184511057922https://twitter.com/xfcfootballcoin/status/862699583587201026https://twitter.com/xfcfootballcoin/status/859473478973607936https://twitter.com/xfcfootballcoin/status/862717144081027073https://twitter.com/xfcfootballcoin/status/862707294034907136 You can earn bitcoin without investing your fiat. Like What i'm doing always. There's a risk in investing so I joined to the Bounty campaign to get altcoin without investing. You just need effort because posting in different topics in forum in english languages is Too hard for me Haha. What kind of advertise do you want to do in Television? Many people will impress if they think they can gain more profit here but how? I think you need greatest Idea to impress more people to use bitcoin. And Who the sponsors of that ads? Ofcourse you need big money to do this Project. If this coins will become popular ofcourse poloniex will add this coin in their site. I hope it will become one of the coin in poloniex because this coin have already good project. Congrats to your SUCCESS, I hope I will be part of your campaign if you already create an bounty campaign. Thanks Humaniq. I already change my signature code and Avatar campaign.  Bitcointalk username: chickenadoForum rank: Senior MemberPosts count: 278 ETH address: 0x3c607631eb4f6C6e66713dD58F244dc5acdEeE70I hope you will accept me this week. I can finish the 12 post 😊. You will never regret if you accept me. Thanks Thanks for your response, But I want to know How many weeks already left? I know that all altcoin signature ends when Ico ends. Please be specific. HI Campaign Manager,I'm interested to join to your Signature campaign. I want to ask if how many weeks this Signature Campaign? I really want to join.  Buddy you should update your signature code and avatar logo so that they will give your bounty for joining humaniq.We need to wait an update in our campaign manager. I think he will give as an update about the distribution before or after april 27 But the signature campaign is much better than other way of earnings. It's not enough to sustain our needs, in investment you can sustain what you need but if the investment will only succeed. Many investment there are risky, so you need to choose wisely the best of the best investment so that you can sustain your needs. yeah I agree too, people attracts to invest because of it's price. And many people here earning bitcoin because the price is too high per bitcoin. If the bitcoin price is not high I think many people will snob this coin. You can earn 0.1 Bitcoin per week if you have Big funds to invest in Cloudmining, but you should invest in the legit investment, not in hyip that only promising big income but if you already pay in they didn't pay out. Or do some works like Campaign manager I think they're per week income is bigger than 0.1 bitcoin per week.  I see that altcoins helping bitcoin to increase more user. Some investors in altcoin now uses this bitcoin as mode of payment to buy and sell their coins so I can't see the chances of any altcoin against bitcoin. I already send the information that you need. Please reply I really need your help. I want to join in your bounty program with my Social media account. And join your signature campaign after humaniq campaign. I believed that this project will be succesfull. I want to know who can help me here. I create my account in exscudo site but I can't login because my password is wrong, then I try to recover my account in recovery address, I didn't receive any emails from exscudo. Exscudo advice me to create another account in exscudo site. So I create again another one and Incorrect password again. I want to join in your bounty but I can't. Please who can help me? If you love bitcoin no matter how long it takes, you will wait until it confirmed. Like in love, if you love someone you need to wait for it. I'm using bitcoin almost years, and I experienced that problem too, but If you can't wait you can change your coin to another coin so that you don't need to wait. How!? May I know if corruption is only for government? And If they corrupt using bitcoin. How? We all know that when you send bitcoin you have TxId which is like an online receipt, so how they can corrupt in bitcoin ? I already wear the new signature code and Avatar. It's nice to hear that Junior Member have chance to join this nice project. Goodluck Humaniq. Just suggestion OP I it will be nice if you put (New signature code) in your topic so that other member will be aware in this update. If I were Satoshi Nakamoto right now I still hide my identity in bitcoin world and enjoy my life being an normal person. Normal person that's not fame, normal person that don't have death threats, Normal person that has a freedom to travel all over the world without hesitation.    Just listen to him bro, what if he is right? What if he hate it because some people use it in bad things. I don't hate bitcoin I love this coin, but If I were you I will listen. But if he say a thing that's not right I will say what I know so that he will see his wrong about bitcoin.
I want to report a problem in your site. I already create an account and confirmed it already via email. Then Suddenly I forgot my password so I try to recover my account but I didn't receive any email for recovery of my excudo account. Please help me, I want to join in your bounty program. And Lastly I want to join in your translation campaign but I don't have previous translation.  I'm not a troller buddy, I'm just saying/ posting the things that I know, And I want to share it to other bitcoin forum members. They use bitcoin for they're safety, terrorist not using it just because government don't use it, dont accept it.  I thinkt if you start another bitcoin forum you just waste your time, you just waste your effort. You can't copy this forum, your forum can't be bitcointalk forum. This forum is trusted, you can't get many members here if you're site is the same. But if you're site is another way of earning. I think there's a chance that you can get many members. Bitcoun is already used to support terrorist. Terrorist, drug dealers, killers, gun dealers and many bad people used this as a mode of payment because this is tue safest mode of payment in our world. This is the reason why some country didn't accept bitcoin.  Sometimes I bet with strategy. Then when I loose the bet, I will bet the team that low chance of winning, because the odds of this if you win is higher. And sometimes the team that low chance of winning win the game. I already private message my ETHethereum ADRESS in edgeless email for my facebook bounty, but in spreadsheet my ethereum address didn't show ? And I'm waiting for the email for my twitter bounty. Please help me. I don't have 1 bitcoin yet. But I'm hoping this year 2017 I will earn 1 bitcoin not just 1 but I hope more than 1 bitcoin. After the year end I will post it here, If I already earned 1 bitcoin. If you have any way to earn that please let me know so that my chance in earning 1 bitcoin will increase. Ganito umpisa maging active ka daily dito post ka lang hanggang magrank up account mo para mas malaki ang kita. Pero habang nasa mababa kapa pwede ka naman din sumali sa mga campaign may mga tumatanggap kahit newbie ang rank mo. Ang pinaka pinagkakakkitaan ko ay ang Signature campaign at halos iba ding member dito sa forum ayun ang pinagkakakitaan. Kung ako sayo habang newbie ka palang matuto ka nang magbasa basa, kasi ayan ang kailangan dito, may mga nagtuturo pero halos lahat ng nagtuturo gaya ko ay nagtuturo dahil sa post count. Para kumita. Mas madami kang matututunan kung ikaw mismo maghanap ng kasagotan kasi halos nasagot na lahat ng tanong mo sa forum na ito. UR coin nakikita ko dati pa yan, Tinatamad lang akong magsign up. Ang tanong puwede bang ipalit agad sa bitcoin yan? Ano ang kailangan na details sa pag sign up? Kasi dati may altcoin din na nagpa sign up pero kinuha lang details ng mga user at balita ko tinangkang inopen ang mga email nila. KAYA INGAT SA PAG SIGNUP MGA KABABAYAN, PAYO KO NALANG DIN NA IBA IBA DAPAT PASSWORD NIYO.  Thanks buddy, but I already see the email for my facebook campaign they mail to me to get my ethereum wallet. I will try to private message them in slacks or here, to know if they already mail for twitter campaign. Because now It's just an email for facebook campaign and didn't receive any email for twitter camapign. Post twitter account link: www.twitter.com/BTChickenadoPost audit link: https://www.twitteraudit.com/BTChickenadoPost # of your followers: 1039Post btc address: 12j2GoULTDm9uLtpnWtae1JUqF46LQcxVnFirst WeekTWEET1. https://twitter.com/BTChickenado/status/8500251928688967682. https://twitter.com/BTChickenado/status/851296640652660736RETWEET1. https://twitter.com/ByteballOrg/status/8496015451215216652. https://twitter.com/ByteballOrg/status/8496029436241141773. https://twitter.com/ByteballOrg/status/8502978281486950404. https://twitter.com/ByteballOrg/status/850442033068199937Second weekReTweet1. https://twitter.com/ByteballOrg/status/8523261019636899842. https://twitter.com/ByteballOrg/status/8526336894649835523. https://twitter.com/ByteballOrg/status/852280615307288578Tweet1. https://twitter.com/BTChickenado/status/8539488768432414722. https://twitter.com/BTChickenado/status/853949406743150592 I joined in your Twitter and Facebook Campaign but I didn't received any email? I want to ask if there's not qualified in your Twitter and Facebook campaign? I just share and like all of the post in the page of edgeless, In twitter I just retweet all your post. and Now I'm not receiving email for getting my Ethereum wallet? Medyo malaki ang naipon ng matchpool, ginto ang sasahurin niyong mga translator ganun nadin sa mga kasali sa signature campaign. Congrats mga kababayan, Sana sa susunod sabihan niyo ako kung ano ang magagandang pasukang campaign para naman makatikim ako ng mga sahod na malalaki. Congrats ulit sa mga nakiparticipate. I do my online shopping from lazada, they didn't accept bitcoin but they have many big discount per celebration. I don't want to try other online shops that accepts bitcoin because i don't get any discount in their shops and some items are high price than the market price. You don't have the knowledge but you have the management skills? I think you need knowledge to know how to manage this bitcoin gambling site. I don't know if what is the minimum capital required in gambling, I think it is depend on the owner of the gambling site who need investors. Yeah almost all of bitcoin user is from this way. In the first try almost all are hard in trading almost loosing some bitcoin, in gambling don't know how to deposit or don't know how to bet, In sending bitcoin don't know what to do, until  years passed all this hard things in first day or first weeks become easy.  Ilan naba ang kumita dito? Interested din ako kasi medyo kailangan ko nadin kumita ng mas maganda. Nagsubok nako sa altcoin trading, nasubukan ko nading mag trade nang may signal ng mismong dev, kaso maliit lang kinita ko. Ilan naba ang nakatry na kumita dito? Ano mapapala niyo pag sumali kami sa trading na ito? Kasi yung iba may mapapala lang sila kaya tumutulong eh So do you think that cleaning browsers everyday will prevent that malware? what if that malware or virus is from the casino? I have many friends here in forum using bitcoin everyday, but it seems they didn't encounter it before. So I think it is from site that you always browse. Oh really? We should share this post if this is true, many will be victim if many will not aware with this virus. How to prevent this virus? And what is the ways to remove this virus in our pc? Is there any anti virus to prevent this malware? Please answer my question so that I will teach my friends who uses bitcoin. I'm saving bitcoin for my future purposes. Like buying a land, a house, or for my study purposes. I save bitcoin for my future because I don't want to depend to my parents all the expenses even if they should pay for it. I want to help them to lessen their problem in our family. 
Oo tama, may kakilala sana akong nagpapapalit baka naman mascam lang mapahiya pa ako sa kaibigan ko. Hanap ka nalang ng papayag sa ganyan. Pero sasabihin ko sakanya baka may tamang diskarte siya para hindi kayo mag ka scaman. Para safe ang isat isa. Kung maganda ang proyekto nito na gaya ng edgeless, yung tipong proyekto na kakailanganin at gusto ng mga tao. Mahirap din kasi talaga malaman ang coin na magpupump ito, halos parang sugal lang din kaya hindi nako nag iinvest kundi sali ako ng sali sa signature campaign para lamang makakuha ng libreng altcoin na sa tingin kong magtatagumpay. Congrats sa project ng edgeless at sayo. Sana matuto din akong magtranslate ng maayos para yumaman ako gaya ng iyo. Ilan pala kayo maghahati hati sa bounty ng translation? at paano ang hatian? Twitter https://twitter.com/BTChickenado/status/841511358034190336Facebookhttps://m.facebook.com/imfreus.anonymous/posts/660793957437861btc address: 12j2GoULTDm9uLtpnWtae1JUqF46LQcxVn Follow Done!Post twitter account link: https://twitter.com/BTChickenadoPost audit link: https://www.twitteraudit.com/BTChickenadoPost # of your followers: 791Post btc address: 12j2GoULTDm9uLtpnWtae1JUqF46LQcxVnThanks for Accepting me.1st week March 2-8 Retweet1. https://twitter.com/sportsbet_io/status/8370690325871534092. https://twitter.com/sportsbet_io/status/8372646260142489613. https://twitter.com/sportsbet_io/status/837787221977489408 Tweet1. https://twitter.com/BTChickenado/status/8370831583277547522. https://twitter.com/BTChickenado/status/837277019545051136 Times You've Participated (including this): 1Twitter Link: https://twitter.com/BTChickenadoTwitter Audit Link: https://www.twitteraudit.com/BTChickenadoLink to Tweet: https://twitter.com/BTChickenado/status/836572940460163073Link to Re-tweet: https://twitter.com/BtcDragonCasino/status/833950000509972480BTC Address: 12j2GoULTDm9uLtpnWtae1JUqF46LQcxVn I want to try and to earn 1$ but I'm from Philippines. Is there any site for my country? I want to earn Bitcoin so If you have please tell me.  We can encourage anyone to develop self control in order to minimize gambling. If they want to. But If they don't want we can't encourage them. Just show what is the advantages of minimizing gambling, just show some proofs so that many will encourage to minimize gambling. I don't know if bitcoin can replace fiat place. Because government not allow bitcoin to become currency, of course they can't get some tax if you use bitcoin instead of Fiats transaction. But if the bitcoin replace fiat, government will step in wiht new ideas that they gain more tax than fiat. If they buying some items online they use it even if they are not interested they can use it as mode of payment. Many people here in our country that using bitcoin use this as investment in MlM, Use this as mode of payment. use this to transafer their money. and many more. I just hide it in my wallet. And I'm ensuring it daily that my bitcoin wallet is safe. Many hackers can hack wallet but Make sure that your password is not the same in the other site. Because other site is not safe and if they hack that site they can get your password and use it to open your other account in other website. There are many ways to earn even if you are in other country. Actually you can earn here in forum in many ways. For Example, Promoting bitcoin site and altcoin ICO in your Signature, promoting it in Social media. You can earn here and the rate of your earning is from the manager who controls it. But there are many ways here just find out, what you can do and convert your service to bitcoin. You can trade in many exchanger site, like c-cex, yobit, cryptopia, and many more. They don't need your age just create account and trade. I don't know if there's a rule in their site that under 18 is not allowed. But I have account there without knowing my age and i can trade altcoin. of course It is legal to sell back to coinbase. Coinbase is a digital asset company. It operates exchanges of bitcoin. But in some countries i don't know if they are supported to exchanges it to fiat. It's hard to buy bitcoin without passport and video chat verification, because some of the site that don't need it, is not safe. or some people is not legitimate. It's either you risk your money, or you'll buy in that site with passport and video chat verification. Or try to find legit person here and buy to them. Bitcoin can't take Fiat's place, Fiat can buy anything around the world but bitcoin can too but need exchanger to convert it to Fiat. Government can step in accept this coin, but they can't stop this program because they don't have control on this program. Of course if they accept bitcoin without having a tax they're country will ruin. But I want to know How many percent tax they'll not get if bitcoin become a currency of one country? What if the government add some tax for the bitcoin? How? By adding tax in any person in their country. They can get many tax from that idea. But of course many will not agree in that case, so government will not accept bitcoin as a currency of their country. Hi Signature Campaign Manager,     I want to ask if I'm in, in your signature campaign? I'm searching my username yesterday and today in your spreadsheet but I didn't see my name. I want to start in posting but I don't know if I'm in.  Now I see my name thanks Read the post carefully.  Kaya naman sa ating bansa kaso nga lang iilan lang ang umaasenso, iilan lamang ang nagtatagumpay. Maganda ang kita sa ibang bansa dahil maganda din ang kanilang economiya. Maganda ang kita nila kung ilalagay sa ating bansa, pambibili nila dito madaming mabibili, pero pag duon mo ginastos konti lang ang mabibili dahil nga iba ang halaga ng pera nila sa pera ng ating bansa.sabagay halos ibang lahi ang kumikita dito, bakit kaya? Siguro dahil sa mga bagong ideya sa kanilang bansa ay ginagaya nila dito upang kumita din sila. Dahil siguro nakita nilang tinatangkilik sa ibang bansa na pwede din ditong tangkilikin kaya halos lahat sila ay maganda ang kinikita. Tama, Halos hindi na profitable ang mga ICO kung mag-iinvest ka sa mga ito, at halos iilan nalang ang profitable gaya ng ICN. Ako bibili lang ng altcoin pagkatapos ng ICO dahil magdudump ang price nila at dun magandang bumili. At minsan kung wala akong pambili sasali nalang ako sa mga bounty hehe gaya sa ICN.
Malabo atang mangyari yan. Magparegister daw edi wala na hindi na tago ang identity ng mga user. Siguro sa mga exchangers kaya nilang maregulate pero yung magparegister malabo yun mangyari. Pero atleast napansin din ng BSP ang bitcoin, haha ano kayang magandang epekto nito? Bitcoin system is 100% safe now, but we dont know if someday they can hacked this system. But now this system has never been hacked before. Some accounts and site of exchanger have been hacked. I think it is Not because its not safe, it is because their security is not enough. I think you need to find a person that has a knowledge in doing a site and a person that know how bitcoin gambling works. And why yoh want to create your own site? Its not easy bro, you need to find trusted worker, and You need to fund your gambling site huge amount of bitcoin. If you want gambling why just play in other gambling site?  I play dice and I almost using analysis when im playing this game, but when I reach the play that there's no pattern, i just bet that theres no making analysis and I trust only on my luck. After that I end to play if I win or lose, because in the next play surely i will lose many times. If United state declare that  bitcoin is illegal, many country will declare too, so there's a chance that bitcoin will become a illegal money in whole world. All of the investor will sell their bitcoin at low price and the price of this will dump in zero. Even BlackMarket Will not accept it because it has no value. Learn to control yourself, in trading you need to control yourself, you need it because sometimes dumping of your coins will cause you to sell your coins at low price. you need to control yourself and wait to pump back but you need to be wise in choosing your coins, some coins dump and didn't pump so be wise, And set some strategy if your coins dump, you need to have plan so that you won't loose many of your fund.add more funds, or risk more money, Making more money is making more risk in trading. For me burning Bitcoin coins does not make any sense , even if the price of Bitcoin goes to Zero, if that happen it would be better to hold and be hopeful to back it at the price. If the bitcoin will dump at that price I will get many Bitcoin so that if the price will back, I have earned too much bitcoin. I convert my bitcoin at $800+ then I regret because the price pumps at $1000+, I never thought the price will increase in that price. So now I am ready to buy at dump price. May I know if what price is the best to buy bitcoin? So that If the price of this coin will pump, I can gain more profit. Hi Jamalaezaz,May I know if I am eligible to the payment for the first week of this Signature campaign? And Lastly can you put check list in your spreadsheet for the last week, and put yes/no, so that we know if what weeks and how many weeks that we didn't post, or we don't eligible for the payment. Thanks Its easy. Pay high fees so that your payment will approve. I think if this will happen that we use this bitcoin daily, blockchain will improve their system so that the bitcoin will send faster. Like us when upgrading our cellphones, if we need a faster phone for gaming we need to buy a gaming phone, but if we don't need, we didn't upgrade it   My good intention regarding in Bitcoin, I want to earn many bitcoin and help my parents in their expenses. why? because they cant provide many money that we need, so I will help them to sustain our expenses. And if I have many bitcoin left after i helped my parents, I will stock it and wait to pump the price of bitcoin. I have friends in facebook who knows about bitcoin then I asked him, then he want me to join in their Facebook group, so I join after they accept I read and I research about bitcoin. Before I want only to know about his money, and I want to know If i can earn that money too in just sitting in front of computer. Nice thread bro, please put their rate per tweet and per retweet so that we can see here all what We need to know in their Twitter Campaign. I hope many twitter campaign participants will be thankful to you, it is helpful to many of us, if they have multiple twitter campaign they dont need to visit in many twitter campaign threads. I am using this bitcoin to buy things I want, like gadgets, foods and clothes but ofcourse I cant directly use this coin to buy so I will cashout first, then I order in online shop, after receiving the item i will pay for it using fiat from bitcoin exchanger. Some Onlineshop from Facebook accepts bitcoin but im not surely sure that this page will not scam so Even If i want use it directly I cant. Tama, nasanay kasi tayo sa bctalkaccountpricer.info na porke mahaba ang post maganda na Quality post, kung naabutan niyo dati may makikita doon na quality post kung saan doon binabase kung maaaccept ang account ng sumasali sa isa signature campaign. Kahit pa walang kwenta dati ang post, halos nakakasali parin sila. Ngayon sobrang pili na ng mga camapaign, pati altcoin na dating hindi nag dedenied ng mga sumasali, nagdedenied na.  But in business they need the payment immediately to use in their businesses, and sometimes the price is not stable so even if you convert it immediately the payment is not current sometimes it higher or it lower. And if you are the businessman, if your customers pay you now, then the payment does not reach the capital and you need to buy another product because you already sell your item at deficit price. What will you do? you will loan? or you will convert it ? You dont need someone to teach you about bitcoin, If I were you just read some article here and join some programs to actually realize how bitcoin works and to earn some bitcoin. Many of my  friends are newbie before and actually I dont want to teach them, so I said that they register here, read some articles about bitcoin, and ask if they have want to ask. Then after months they know how to earn here, by designing in altcoin programs, joining some programs.  No We cant encourage them by experiment with it. If i am a business man, I want to have an advantages to encourage me to use this bitcoin. But How will you encourage me? What is the best advantages using this coin? The price of this coin is not stable so if they pay using this bitcoin, and the price decrease i will lose some profit. Thats not good in business  Just Read Ask Read Ask Read Ask Read here in Forum. Im just like you before, many articles or tutorial already post in this forum just search it. You just need to be patient if you are newbie, because if you dont know how bitcoin works, i think you will be longer need to read before you earn in this forum. Right! Before, I dont know how to dance because I closed my ear to not hear the music. But when I realize that the musics can make me happy and make my life enjoyable then, I opened my ears and I explore on how to dance with it. I saw this forum and I read many topics on how to earn with this bitcoin then I Finally knew how to dance with it.
The price of bitcoin will dump so this is a good news in bitcoinworld many traders want it so that they can earn many bitcoin at low price. But if this reason continue to many countries i think many businessman that using bitcoin will regulated and need license to continue their business. So we dont know what will happen if this dumping will dump too much or this dump is only creating of whales to gain profit. Wallet can be lost? Yup, If you forgot your password. Your money will lost if you didnt secure your wallet, you didnt activate 2FA ofcourse many hacker can easily hack your wallet. They banned bitcoin because they knew that this coin is usually using in illegal transaction. I already joined your signature campaign and filled up the form but before the avatar campaign didnt show in form I already filled up. I want to join in your avatar campaign. So I need to fillup again or you will edit my form? Please Edit it or just reply if We need to fill up again. Thanks campaign Manager. What exact time is the deadline of this campaign? I want to ask if im qualify to get paid? I think it is nice if we have a spreadsheet so that we can see if we are qualify or not. Normal lang naman yung price na magdecrease. Wala sa transaction na hindi naconfirm yan kasi dati rin ganyan din naman di naapektuhan ang price ni bitcoin eh. Siguro epekto narin yan ng mga big whales baka dinump talaga nila. Halos sila din naman ang may kontrol sa price eh. Tyaka diba pag may pump susunod ang dump. Sa mga Altcoin ka muna kung magpapaactive ka palang sa Bitcointalk account mo kasi halos lahat ng campaign manager na pasahod ay bitcoin medyo maselan at hindi ka isasali kung ngayon ka lang naging active. Sa altcoin kasi medyo hindi maselan at halos di namimili basta mataas ang rank mo. Oo ito palang siguro epekto ng halving. Bababa pa kaya ito? Grabe nung pumasok ako napakamura palang ng bitcoin compare sa ngayon sobrang taas na. Akala ko walang epekto ang halving sa Bitcoin noon kasi inaasahan ko noon na pagkatapos ng halving aangat ito kaagad.. Ngayon palang pala umangat ng sobrang taas. Hanggang saan kaya aabutin? Sino mga kasama ko dito na nakaconvert sa 30k+ ? Haha Nasasayangan ako umabot ng ganito ang bitcoin huhu. Nung minsan pa yung red niya, pero bago yun bibili sana ako buti nalang busy ako sa lamay ng kamag anak ko. Buti nalang tinignan ko yung account niya bago ako makittransact. Ingat baka may ginawang ano. Sa mga may binebentang mura paki pm naman name nila sakin bibili sana ako para sa kaibigan ko, tinatamad mag pa potential eh. I follow all and i didnt receive any amount of lithium. What do i need to do? I do all the steps yesterday but now i didnt receive any amount of lithium. Please help i want to get free lithium and I want to try to trade it. Ngayon pwede na sakin magconvert, medyo gusto ko n ang price ngayon kasi hindi naman nating alam na kung bababa na o tataas pa. Madami maghihintay pero konti nalang naman ang aking bitcoin kahit umangat pa konti lang din makukuha kong tubo. Kasi 30k+ palan naconvert kona 2 bitcoin ko.   sana naghintay ako huhu  In my Opinion, if im a hacker even if the price is too low i will hack what I can hack. Then i will send it in another bitcoin wallet and wait the right time to convert it. And this is not a right time , ofcourse if you have many btc you will secure it now when you will know that the price of bitcoin is high.  Risking your bitcoin can give you a benefit. Like in trading, and gambling. if you are wise, and good in choosing good cryptocoin you will get a benefit for it. Like in gambling if you bet, risk and know to bet wisely you will win a btc and you have benefit. Bitcoin will not having a tax in my opinion. If we are anonymously using this bitcoin they cant know if we pay or not so tax is only for the people who want to pay for it. Siguro meron din, haha pinoy paba ang papahuli sa kitaan? Haha Kahit nga ponzi na scam tinatangkilik pa ng ibang pinoy so kahit scam yan meron mga pinoy jan. Subukan ko yan sayang din yan kung pwedeng pagkakitaan. Sana nga may option na btc para mas madali kong maclaim sahod nyan. Anong mas maganda steemit? O bitslander? Mukha kasing magandang kitaan sa bitslander pero hindi ko alam kung legit at kung magkano sahodan duon. To not loss many bitcoin. And many dont have trust in the coin, and many small whales dump the price so that many dont have trust the coin, sell their coin at low price and the whales wait to pump the price and gained more profit. Many Altcoin now is not succeeding so many didnt trust coin and sell their coin at low price. Nice Idea but how do we trust you that you will not scam? 0.002 btc per member is huge amount if many will participate this Pumpcoin community. and how you will earn 0.005 btc per refferal by voting 5 private voting? so per vote they need to pay? If all vote 5 private voting then they join 0.002 btc how you will gain 0.003 btc per member?  For me ICOs is woth to invest but you need to choose wisely and you should know how to wait because earning in ICOs is not to easy after investing waiting only to have exchanger then convert this is not good because you cant earn good profit here. For me in ICOs investing is long term of investment so you need to wait to have big profit.  Ofcourse they didnt support a thing that dont have profit for their country, and they didnt support this bitcoin because they aware that this coin is using in illegal transaction. They jail some bitcoin user in their country because they know only bad things about bitcoin. They dont know they can earn here in good ways.Dont mine if you dont know how it works, if this is unclear. Study first about mining before mine so that you will not loose money, effort and time. Yup because its cryptomoney or online money so internet holds it. But the question is "Who Controls the Bitcoin?" So the answer must persons, or manipulator of this bitcoin. For Me all people have bitcoin controls bitcoin. Because he/she can control her/his bitcoin so they can control their bitcoin. Ang salitang kumikita, siguro ang kumikita dito yung mga nagpapasugal din. pero kung nananalo meron din namang nananalo sa sugal gaya ng mga kakilala ko, may mga settings sila ng chance tapos meron din silang style gaya ng pag natalo ng ilang beses tatayaan ng medyo malaki tapos pag nanalo tataya ng maliit tapos pag natalo ulit tatayaan ng malaki. Halos paulit-ulit lang wag ka lang mag-pakagahaman kasi napansin ko sa sugal pag medyo nananalo kana, kahit anong taya mo susunod talo na. Kaya yung iba ang solusyon nila, ititip nila sa iba nilang account tapos laro ulit pag nanalo ulit lipat sa kabilang account ulit. Can I join in your avatar campaign? without joining in your twitter campaign? I dont have twitter account that has 50+ followers. So Im asking if I can join without Joining your twitter campaign. Thanks.
Im In in lithium signature campaigndo i need to post it ? Full Member175Lr0kHnd1GuUvVxEu7fS74LXSwxgoKvEiXE Hi Signature Campaign Manager,       I want to know if theres a slot for me? Because i read your post that in the title we can see if theres a open slot but in your post is 40/40. So I think You dont have slot but im not sure. So Im asking if I can join Thanks. Malabo ang 0.001 BTC ang isang Fm Dati nga nung bumibili mga kasama ko ng Pot Fm ay nasa 0.015 pa ata ang pinakamababa nuon tapos ang FM ay nasa 0.03 isa. Mura nayan paps ipon kapa madali lang ipunin dito sa forum yan hanap ka ng mga post ng mga nagbibigay ng btc madami dyan. Grabe kamura na pala ng mga account now, May mas mumura paba dito? Bibili ako ng Pot Full member. Pwede bang malaman kung nasa Smas itong mga account? At kung nasa farmed accounts? Mahirap isali kasi pag nanduon, at pahingi nadin ng link ng bctalkaccounprice info nung account. Interested ako so Sa mga seller jan pm niyo ako kung may mas mura pa kayong binebenta. Thanks Wow sosyal naman taiwan kayo pupunta haha kami nga kahit anong bakasyon wala eh. Kahit sa bahay man lang ng nga kamag anak kaso wala di kaya. Swerte kayo magiibang bansa kayo, pero samin okay lang kahit ganito atleast kumpleto kaming magpapamilya at may konting salo salo okay na kami. Duon. How to joinName: chickenadoRank: Full MemberPost Count: 172Wear Sig: YesBtc Addy:12j2GoULTDm9uLtpnWtae1JUqF46LQcxVn If you want not to lose customer and you dont want to send first. use escrow there are many trusted escrow here. Its either your customer send first or use escrow and use your customer to give feedback to you, so that if your new customer see that they didnt think that you are scammer it becomes slower because many bitcoin user now not like before. But if you want faster than other transaction you can choose but higher fees. For me it is okay even if fast or slow because bitcoin is like now a currency that almost all in cyberworld knows this mode of payment. Hey Cunicula, Your post for twitter campaign and Youtube campaign are deleted. Just want you to know. Because I want to join in that campaign. I want to apply but i see it that it was deleted.   Big thanks for accepting me in your signature campaign.  Nice Project. Many will invest soon or later. This coin's project will help a lot to investors, and bitcointalk members.. Investors because they earn more here by investing now, Bitcoin talk member because theire bounty is big so it will help a lot to me, and other members.Why the twitter campaign post gone? And youtube campaign gone too? .I want to join in twitter campaign to earn more. I want to know, If how many members allowed in your signature campaign? Twitter campaign? Profile Name: chickenadoRank: FullMemberInitial Post Count:166 Madami pinagkakakitaan dito like Twitter campaign, facebook campaign at signature campaign na pinaka common na pinagkakakitaan dito ng marami. Pwede mo din gamitin skills mo sa pagdedesign ng signature code, o kaya photoshop skills mo dahil maraming nagpapacontest dito ng logo ng kanilang site. Kung ito lang ang pagkakakitaan mo para mabuhay kailangan magsipag ka pasukin mo narin mga facebook groups madaming pinagkakakitaan sa cyberworld gaya ng bug sa globe, pagbebenta ng points at pagcoconvert ng load to bitcoin.  Para sakin coins.ph ang mas maganda kasi subok na. Mas sinesecure lang nila ang coins.ph kaya siguro naglagay silang selfie verification at iwas nadin sa pang rerefferal ng iba na gagamit sila ng id ng ibang tao para sa 48 pesos na kita. Yun nga lang mas mahihirapan mga kabataan sa pagcashout na gaya ng mga kilala ko. Nakakainis sa group ng tbc kasi sinasabihan ko na ngang scam itong coin bili pa sila ng bili. Tapos nagagalit pa daw ang admin sa pagbebenta ng mura ng iba. Edi bilhin niya kung di scam itong Tbc sa murang halaga pero ano, hindi niya binibili kasi nga alam niyang scam yung coin niya. Naaawa ako sa ibang nagbebenta ng lupa, bahay para sa tbc na scam na yan. Madaming nabulag sa pangako, Silay lalong mapapako sa pagiging mahirap kung ganyan sila.  Wow, Say thanks who sent it to you because other bitcoin user didnt receive free money in bitcoin. So be thankful. Dont be confused if you dont sure that this is from Opair or in other campaign that you participated. Wait The campaign manager to send their payment to you, dont be confused because if they dont pay you in the right wages , you can give them bad feedback.  r33sCkwCG4nQ64ibGnDavtUXC7FNiKPRmf Crowdcube are currently looking for investors on their own website:http://www.crowdcube.com/investment/crowdcube-limited-10475They have been very successful in raising money so far.  Who still wants to invest needs to be fast.I am temped to invest because I think the idea has huge potential, but I though that the equity offered is a bit low.What are your thoughts? Would you invest? I did. Yet another non-economist spewing out ignorant opinions on macroeconomics, based on nothing but his personal microeconomic experience and anecdotal evidence.Then the author going, "oooh listen to that guy, what he is saying must be true, I mean he is RICH after all".The arguments presented are so crude and simplistic that even Krugman could point out flaws in them. In fairness, the article is right about one thing: The indiscriminate spending it advocates would create jobs of SOME sort.  But if the author had even a minimum of economic literacy he would know that indiscriminate job creation is not the POINT.  The point, and the big challenge of economic policy,  is the creation of useful, productive jobs. Here is a better proposal:People should vote for policies, not politicians. Votes should create a contractual obligation for politicians to deliver what has been voted on. If a politician fails to deliver, resignation is mandatory.Each policy's success should be measured by an idependent "supreme court", according to criteria defined clearly before the voting process.There should be a "vote deposit".Votes should be weighed according to how much money each voter deposits for that particular policy voted upon. This deposit will only be returned to the voter after X years if the policy has been deemed successful. If the policy is deemed unsuccessful, the deposit will be used to compensate those who voted against it. ... and Synaptic cursed himself hoarse.
Name the laws that specifically exclude bitcoin.  This is nothing but an assumption on part of Wikipedia.  An assumption that goes against its own philosophy: "be bold".As far as I can tell, it is not illegal for a charity to accept any valuable as a donation that isn't fiat money, as long as the charity declares it. Also, laws differ from country to country.  WMF has 38 local chapters. Perhaps we should try our luck with those? Ultimately, it is always YOU who creates your job.If you can think of ways to be valuable to rich people, they will gladly employ you.  I'm a bit disappointed at this. Wikipedia was a disruptive technology desperately trying to find ways to bootstrap itself, not even a decade ago. Back in 2004-2005 large organizations didn't take Wikipedia seriously just like Wikipedia doesn't take Bitcoin seriously now. Wikipedia also had to face their fair share of excrement being slung at them from the mainstream media, when they were new. They should know what it's like.  Why don't they give Bitcoin a chance? It isn't any more of a hassle accepting Bitcoin than accepting other non-monetary donations.  Ideologically, Bitcoin and Wikipedia are quite similar and could benefit each other tremendously.   500k BTC are uninsurable, because it is practically impossible to replace them once lost. Not everyone is interested in Bitcoin for political reasons. Libertarians tend to be the most vocal proponents of bitcoin, especially on this forum, but I think there might be a a quiet majority of users who really couldn't care less about our libertarian "cause".  They probably just like playing around with new technologies or see a new business opportunity.Chinese people are people in the end of the day, and not machines.  Just like any human population, they will have a fair share of geeks, technophiles, visionaries, and experimenters among them.  Just like any human population, the majority of them will be conformist and risk averse.  Perhaps curiosity and questioning of authority is more suppressed in Chinese culture than in American culture, but that doesn't mean that millions of Chinese people don't do those things in private.  By the way, similar things could be said about German culture, yet there is a very active German speaking bitcoin community. high inflation? 25% APR is tiny considering how new bitcoin is.  Most disruptive technologies fail. But the ones that don't fail, usually grow a lot faster than 25% APR in the first few years.   Gold is manipulated by the Chinese government. Are you selling yours? It is impossible to "take control of most bitcoins" using computing power alone. Most bitcoins are in cold storage.  A double spending attack would affect only a small fraction of bitcoins, or it would destroy the current block chain altogether if it persisted for long enough. In which case you are talking about outright destruction, not "facing up to existence".Either these people failed to RTMF, or this is a bad translation, or it's a fake.  equal access falls under "equal rights", so no, that's not what I am stating.What I mean that there is a trade-off between having fewer single points of failure and having too much of the network critically dependent on vulnerable nodes.The casual user is more vulnerable to scams and other attacks than a power user. For example: If all peers were miners and had an equal chance of solving a block, it would be relatively easy for an attacker to do a double spending attack by setting up a fake download site for a corrupted client and promote it heavily.  That's why it's actually a good thing that professional miners have more power than casual miners. Rationally speaking, this is a false dichotomy.  If I am holding bitcoin for speculation, and at the same time I want to buy some stuff with bitcoin, nothing prevents me from buying more bitcoin just for spending. This will not affect my savings stash.This dichotomy would only be true if I had almost all my liquid wealth in bitcoin, which isn't true for most people at the moment.Emotionally speaking it's a different story... I think that there are a few people who are so consumed by greed that they forgo purchases paid in bitcoin.  But I don't think this effect is huge. Decentralization in bitcoin means equal rights, not equal power.Equal power for all users is  not even desirable; it would give too much power to parties that have little stake in bitcoin and it would make it less secure.There is an optimum amount of centralization. Both too much and too little are bad. Paying people to do useless work is worse than paying them to do nothing, because in the latter case, at least some of them are going to use their free time to work on their own projects (eg. rearing children, composing an opera, starting a web business) that will create at least some value for themselves and the economy as a whole.   "Make work" schemes on the other hand, actively prevent people from creating value.I don't understand how any rational person can support that, unless they subscribe to some kind of twisted Protestant morality that "Work for the sake of work is intrinsically good". At current difficulty, a Butterfly Labs Bitforce unit takes about 8 months to earn back the 230 BTC that it cost to buy.  Even if the number of miners remains equal, I would expect difficulty to go up as a result of miners switching to Bitforce units.  So a more realistic amortization time is about 12 months.This doesn't seem like a very good bet to me.  12 months is like a century in the bitcoin universe.  My prediction is that in the next 12 months, bitcoin will either a) experience another huge growth spurt, perhaps by 1-2 orders of magnitude, or b) continue to shrink until only a handful of diehard enthusiasts use it.   I don't see very much room for stagnation.If case a) materializes, the Bitforce unit is a bad investment because it will never earn back the 230 BTC.If case b) materializes, it's also a bad investment because then you can make more money by selling those 230 BTC now and buying them back when the price is hits 0.1 USD.Even if stagnation materializes, it's a risky investment because the unit could be made obsolete by superior ASICs much sooner than Jan 2013 when it finally starts to return profits.If you are one of the buyers, I am curious: What are your motivations? Where I live, an employer is required to do keep records indefinitely, and to do paperwork not only for its current employees, but ALL previous employees in its entire history, if requested.For example, I could request a reference letter or pension contribution confirmation from some summer job I did 30 years ago, and if that company doesn't reply within a month I could sue them!That's why larger companies have whole HR departments just do deal with this kind of legacy paperwork. No wonder everyone is sooo reluctant to hire.  Each extra employee will leave behind a small amount of bureaucratic "nuclear waste" that the company will never be able to get rid of.  It may be small per employee, but it accumulates over the decades. When I point out this ridiculous situation in my social circle, I usually get the answer, "but it creates jobs for HR people!".  *facepalm* a) It's not going to be a huge industry, in relation to the bitcoin economy as a whole, just like gold mining isn't a huge industry.  b) If you want an example for "a huge industry doing nothing that needs to be done" then look at the marketing industry!  Both Coca-Cola and Pepsi "waste" huge amounts of energy and labor on marketing and all it achieves is to keep their market share approx. constant.    If both of them mutually decided to stop with all the aggressive marketing, they could probably keep their market share and all those resources could be used for something "useful". Capitalism is suboptimal.  Deal with it.  Such a market wouldn't be practicable because Bitcoin is not perfectly anonymous, it's only "good enough" for most purposes.If an assassination is ever successfully funded by Bitcoin, we should expect some serious forensic analysis of the block chain and the biggest exchanges.   Then, "good enough" will no longer be enough to protect the hitman's identity. +1This is already happening. Buttefly Labs is bringing out specialized hardware that can mine 1 Gh/s @ 20 W.Expect energy consumption to decrease as difficulty increases. 5 years from now, most mining will probably take place in specialized complexes in Iceland comprising data centers and geothermal power plants. This is not a very good analogy. Switzerland is not as economically free as it looks.  Sure, taxes are low, but the labor market is heavily regulated, heavier that in some "socialist" countries like Denmark.   It is almost impossible for employers to decrease nominal wages, even if the employees voluntarily agree to this. Also, firing and hiring at a lower nominal wage is difficult and costly.Because of this inflexibility the Swiss economy reacts very differently to deflation than a free economy would react.Prices in Switzerland are sticky.  There are a few exceptions, such as electronics retailers, who are already used to sector-specific deflation, but most businesses are not willing or capable of lowering their prices.The results have been twofold: People buying more stuff from neighboring countries such as Germany, and International companies (who make up a big part of the Swiss economy) have slowly started to relocate their workforce to cheaper European countries.That is why the strong CHF is generally perceived negatively in Switzerland.You can't really compare the bitcoin economy to the Swiss economy. The Swiss economy is static as treacle, and the bitcoin economy is dynamic and adaptive, and so far almost completely unregulated.  Until people earn a large proportion of their income in BTC, deflation is not an issue anyhow. In my estimation mtgox has approx. 10k active users, which means an average of 43 BTC per user. I suspect that a large part of that 437k belongs to day traders, who are well aware of the risk.  After all they continue to use mtgox even after being goxed several times.  They are the only ones who stand to incur big losses. The typical, non-speculating mtgox user would probably only lose a handful of BTC.I lost a handful of BTC with mybitcoin, which was annoying, but not the end of the world. The solution exists. It's called fully homomorphic encryption.See:https://researcher.ibm.com/researcher/view_page.php?id=2661If you combine a) fully homomorphic encryption with b) mutation, genetic algorithms, and mitosis you could end up with truly autonomous software agents, that collect bitcoins entirely for their own benefit.They would be the bacteria to the computer virus.The interesting thing is about these "computer bacteria" is that, just like real bacteria, they don't need complex AI to be successful. They could do something relatively simple like the example of inducing people to solve captchas, mentioned above.  So this would be almost possible using today's technology.As long as they keep finding people (and other software agents) who help them spread, they and their offspring could survive for a very long time and collect a large quantity of bitcoins that "belong" to them only and not a human being, not even the original author!I'm not sure to what extent fully homomorphic encryption is resistant to brute force attacks though.
 Apple were never great innovators. Apple's strength is not fundamental research. Its strength is design, ergonomics and taking known innovations to the masses.I've seen a few truly jaw dropping innovations come out of Google and IBM, for example this:https://researcher.ibm.com/researcher/view_page.php?id=2661Apple's "innovations" are pretty humdrum and banal in comparison, like "let's just put one button on a smartphone instead of 4". This has been said so many times that it's almost a universal truth by now.  I'm not sure if this is true though. I don't see bitcoin competing with traditional payment methods or replacing them 1:1. It has too few advantages to the average merchant and average consumer.Where I see bitcoin succeeding is in killer apps that were not possible before bitcoin, eg. distributed contracts.  The nice thing about Bitcoin is that it doesn't need a whole lot of infrastructure to stay dormant for a few months and weather out the storm. No kill switch is 100% effective. Even in the most repressive regimes, people somehow manage to connect to each other.  Even in countries where encryption is banned, people manage to use it. Also, it is almost impossible to hermetically seal a local internet from the outside.  For bitcoin to continue working locally, all it needs is a few leaks to the main chain in free countries, perhaps via shortwave radio.  A kill switch could seriously slow down the bitcoin economy and hurt the price of bitcoin, but there will always be a core of diehard supporters who will keep the block chain alive, and enable access to those who  think it's worth taking the risk.In that way, bitcoin is similar to gold, only better. There were times in history when government banned the private possession of gold, which made it almost impossible to spend and practically worthless short-term, but people held on to it anyhow because they knew that normal economic activity would resume sooner or later. The only way to completely destroy a cryptocurrency is to ban computers outright, North Korea style. What do you want, cheesy corporate pictures of businessmen with fake tans striding down a glass corridor?   I like the hipster look. Hipsters can be professional too. Yeah, I don't get SolidCoin. If you reintroduce a "central bank", then why the hell do you still need proof of work?  They could just have a distributed database of signed transactions, and then use the "central bank" to rule which transaction came first, in order to prevent double spending. That would be a lot more efficient.It seems that SC is somehow trying to combine the best of both worlds, but the result is the worst of both worlds: A currency that is both susceptible to corruption and volatile.  Quite right. But there is such a thing as memory-intensive proof of work and non-memory intensive proof of work. A chain that alternates between both will eventually lead to the development of two types of specialized hardware, manufactured by different industries. That seems like a more robust currency to me. Don't take my word for it.  Take just one of those stupid assertions, "Minimum wage causes unemployment", and do a little reading on the topic. This is actually a well studied question: http://scholar.google.com/scholar?hl=en&q=allintitle%3A++unemployment+%22minimum+wage%22&btnG=Search&as_sdt=0%2C5&as_ylo=&as_vis=0You will find that many respectable economists, among them several Nobel laureates, agree with this assertion and can back it up with evidence.  And the vast majority is at least undecided in this issue.  But I guess they are all stupid.  How many medical scientists, on the other hand, claim that "smoking is good for you"?Hawker, I have the impression that you get your beliefs from group loyalty rather than independent thought. This is fine, but calling opposing beliefs "stupid" really isn't helpful.   If you think I am wrong, give me compelling arguments, and if I find them compelling enough, I might even change my mind. finally, a short quote:It is no crime to be ignorant of economics, which is, after all, a specialized discipline and one that most people consider to be a 'dismal science.' But it is totally irresponsible to have a loud and vociferous opinion on economic subjects while remaining in this state of ignorance. Are you serious?Safety regulations make the workplace less safe and create unemployment.    Work hour regulations create unemployment.Minimum wage hurts the unemployed and creates even more unemployment.Caps on water prices create water shortages and underinvestment in vital infrastructure.Artificially cheap electricity leads to wastefulness.Actually, it's more democratic.  When I'm pissed off with Sony I can stop buying Sony products and Sony will feel it immediately. When I'm pissed off with Obama I have to wait 4 years to exert my "influence", and that is if I am lucky enough to be a US citizen. And don't say that I am "forced" to buy certain things from Sony because the same can be said for government.  Democracy is a teenage dream.  For a fictional world in which everybody puts society above self.  It's time for the world to grow up, or else it's in for a rude awakening.Note that I am not talking about perfect anarchy. A practical approximation to perfect anarchy is however both attainable and desirable. Depends how it's done.  Instead of perfoming SHA256 and Scrypt in series, you could use just SHA256 for even blocks and just Scrypt for odd blocks. This would ensure that ordinary users still get a chance at defending the chain, while making it hard for CPU botnets.  I'm pretty sure Wired was aware of all this and showed Bruce deliberately because of the controversy that surrounds him.  Makes their stories more juicy. You could say the same about GPU based chains.  There is no technical reason why GPU botnets aren't feasible.  With GPU mining, most ordinary users are excluded from defending the chain. CPU isn't less efficient than GPU, it's just less efficient at one particular algorithm. The safest would be a proof-of-work that requires both GPU and CPU.  But you are not sending money from US to Iran.You are sending money from US to US, from Iran to Iran, and from btc address to btc address (A btc address has no geographical location of course).Note that no fiat currency ever needs to leave either the US or Iran for this to work. I just had a look at Litecoin project, and I was perplexed that its susceptibility to botnet mining was listed as a "disadvantage".I see botnet operators as petty criminals who have managed to find a large number of victims.1. Most of their victims don't even realize that they are victims. 2. The damage per victim is small (a few extra dollars a month in electricity bills)3. A clever botnet operator doesn't get greedy and causes as little disruption as possible to his victims.  The "market" weeds out the ones who get too aggressive and only the stealthy ones survive long term.  The guys who start stealing CC numbers in addition to mining will inevitably attract attention from their victims.  The "nice" botnet operators, on the other hand, can continue mining for months without being discovered.4. It's not in the interest of a botnet operator to do a 51% attack because that will make his booty worthless.  Unless he gets paid by someone whose aim it is to destroy bitcoin. But that someone could just do the 51% attack himself without going through a middleman. Sure, botnets are a "disadvantage" for the victims, but not for the cryptocoin itself.Should it bother me that a part of the bitcoin network is being secured by criminals, and that when I buy freshly minted coins, some of them come from criminals? Perhaps.Here is the thing though:Almost everybody I know buys their fossil fuels from criminals, without even giving it a second thought.  And we are talking about real criminals here, people who commit mass murder and torture, not some nihilistic geek living in his parents' basement who causes a barely noticeable inconvenience for a few million people.This is why I don't understand all this moral outrage about miner botnets. First things first, surely? It's the other way around. And obviously I'm not talking about those corporations who are in bed with government (pretty much all large ones in the US).I don't deny that a lot of individuals working for government are well-intentioned and earnestly "in it for you". But who is government as a superorganism in it for and who are private businesses as superorganisms in it for? To answer this question, you need to look at the incentives and not at the intentions.Government (as a superorganism) gets rewarded for expanding its powers, by violent means, if necessary, and punished for surrendering its powers.  Regardless of the utility to the citizen.Private business gets rewarded for providing value and punished for failing to provide value.   It's not that people think the USD is superior.  The USD is just a convenient proxy for the value of a basket of common goods, since the USD price, priced in terms of that basket, is pretty stable and only drops a few percent per year, not 50% in a single weekend.   And that is only the stuff that happened after Jun 2011Before that there was:1) Network barely alive all through 20092) Wikipedia article deleted 3) People losing all their bitcoins because they didn't back up wallet after every send.4) Serious security holes discovered in client v0.35) "nenolod" attemps DOS attack6) Flash crash from 0.06 to 0.03 USD, market manipulation?7) Faucet abuse GPU miner monopolies9) GPU miner bounty scams10) Paypal chargeback scams11) Mtgox frozen for 3 weeks in Oct 2010 because of Paypal scammers. Funds forcibly converted to LR.12) Credit card scammers13) Paypal boycotts Bitcoin14) Satoshi disappears suddenly without even as much as a goodbye.15) Bitcoin 2 Credit Card shut down.16) btcex scandal...I call it healthy evolutionary pressure Of course nobody can predict this for certain.Perhaps Bitcoin will turn out like the automobile. Perhaps it will turn out like the airship. Still, it would have been exciting to be part of the airship industry in the 1930s and I would not have wanted to miss it if I was born back then. Life is all about the journey.  1860 What is the point of electricity?  Those stupid light bulbs are bulky and burn out after a few minutes. Candles are much more reliable.1890What is the point of automobiles?  They break down frequently, you can't buy gasoline anywhere,  and the roads aren't suitable for them.1980What is the point of mobile phones? They are too heavy to lug around and phone booths work just fine.1992What is the point of the internet? Nobody has an email address that you can sent an email to, and it's not like it's ever going to be used for anything serious like commerce. 2011What is the point of bitcoin...? Banks already do this.  Here in Europe, SEPA transfers are generally free, and just as popular as credit cards in some countries.  Bank transfers are already practically non-reversible.  It's very difficult for a customer to persuade a bank to revoke a transfer. This will only happen in exceptional cases such as phishing. Even in those cases, it's the bank who takes the loss and not the recipient.  As far as I know, a bank can only truly reverse a transfer if the recipient bank (and all correspondence banks in between) consent. That's what commodities, metals, real estate, etc. are for.  Banks already offer plenty of portfolios for those.I don't think that Bitcoin is in direct competition with banks.  Bitcoin is going to find applications that are as different to traditional banking as the internet is different to the postal service. At this early stage, Bitcoin is little more than a curious invention.  A solution looking for a problem. This is true for a lot of technological breakthroughs. Electricity was at some point no more than a curious invention.
Just because it's a restricted democracy doesn't mean that it is, in principle, any more right than an unrestricted democracy.Bullying is wrong, period.  A lenient bully is better than a brutal bully, but that doesn't make him less of a bully.Those state protections are arbitrary and create some classes of people that are more equal than others.For instance, certain religious minorities are permitted to take illegal drugs "for spiritual purposes" but non-religious minorities who take them for equally spiritual purposes go to jail.Wouldn't it be better if those protections weren't needed in the first place?  My opinion:  A true Bitcoiner takes his private keys to his grave.What I like about Bitcoin is that it already has an archaic type of "social justice" built in:The only way that you can call your Bitcoins truly yours is to store the password to your encrypted wallet in your head and in your head only.  Any other storage method is corruptible. Attorneys can be bribed, Bank vaults can be plundered, loved ones can be conned.So de facto, you can either assume full ownership of your BTC or you can have conditional ownership with the chance of passing them on to your heirs (and various degrees in between).But you can't get more of one without sacrificing the other. stronger network is a side effect, but it's not what the individual user is buying from the individual miner.If a user doubles his fees, he is not going to double his security.   Bitcoin induces severe cognitive dissonance. For example, this is what might be going on in the head of a typical left-liberal:BELIEF 1"Privacy is a human right""Spying on private data is wrong"BELIEF 2"Free speech is a human right""Censoring private data exchange is wrong" BELIEF 3"too much personal wealth is wrong""taxing wealth in order to achieve equality is right"     THEREFORE          "spying on private wealth is right"       "censoring private wealth exchange is right"NEW FACT"wealth is just data"THEREFORE"Right is Wrong"Bitcoin, by introducing a new observation, "wealth is just data", exposes to some people that some of their most strongly held convictions are contradictory.  They were contradictory all along of course,  but their practical day-to-day experience hadn't yet provided them with sufficient observations for falsification.   Cognitive dissonance takes hard work to resolve. Sometimes denial is easier.Also, giving up those beliefs means a significant personal loss for some people because it results in exclusion from their social group.  The reward scheme is not optimal in Bitcoin. It relies on charity in order to produce some "public goods", thus they are underproduced.This doesn't make Bitcoin unviable though. Bittorrent also works in practice even though seeding is pure charity.Note that the reward scheme for mining isn't optimal either.  Once the block reward approaches zero, miners get rewarded for faster transaction processing, but they don't get rewarded for securing the network, which is their main purpose.  Securing the network is just a positive externality.    The initial block reward is a direct reward for securing the network, however it is somewhat arbitrary and it ignores how much security consumers want and how much they are willing to pay for it.  It could be too high or it could be too low. You can't give a direct reward for relaying because that would be too easy to abuse. Someone could just set up 1,000,000 clients on 1,000,000 IP addresses relaying among themselves, with a few outward connections, yet that wouldn't contribute much to the resilience  of the bitcoin network. The topology and connectedness of running clients needs to be rewarded as well. In my view, all laws must pass the "Robinson criterion" and the "drop dead criterion".Robinson criterion: "If this law were passed on Robinson Crusoe's island, it must not interfere with the way Robinson would have acted in absence of the law."drop dead criterion: "If I were to drop dead tomorrow, and this doesn't make you worse off, then I am not indebted to you".IP laws fail on both counts, especially proactive IP laws.If you own property, it's your responsibility to defend it. It's your responsibility to pay for the cost of defense.  If you accuse someone of a rights violation, the onus is on you to prove it.The purpose of a legal system is not to defend people's property.  The purpose is to settle disputes where a rights violation has already provably occurred.If I park my bike in a shady part of town, I can't force the local residents to buy me a bike lock because it's more likely to be stolen. It is my responsibility to pay for the lock.It is not the responsibility of ISPs to pay for the defense costs of copyright holders.  Neither can ISPs be forced to spy on their customers against their will, on the mere suspicion that a rights violation is occurring.   Wealth isn't finite.I presume you are only talking about finite resources, such as land. In principle, I think that inheritance of finite resources is immoral. But it's a problem that no political system can resolve. If you have a system where ownership expires upon death, people will simply transfer ownership to their heirs before they die.  Even if that were prohibited, people would find a roundabout way, like selling the land to an agent who sells it to the heirs for a steeply discounted price.Another option is a system where land titles are inalienable, ie. where you are assigned a land title at birth and stuck with it for life.  But that creates a whole new set of unfairnesses. How are land titles assigned? Randomly? Alphabetically? Who gets how much land? How is the land valued?  What about people who want to exchange their pieces of land but are prevented from doing so? Dollar voting costs.  Ballot voting is cheap.  This is the key difference.  Even Joe Sixpack is not a fool when it comes to spending his money.  He may not care to research the difference between cholera and hepatitis when he casts his vote on public health policy, but he will probably research the difference between a Sony and an LG when he buys a flat screen TV.Dollar votes are likely to be more rational and less capricious than ballot votes.Also, it's amazing how quickly people forget their "moral objections" when a substantial financial gain is involved. Yes, you can use "scientific" measures such as child mortality, which even the most hardcore subjective value proponents will agree is something that 99.99% of us value. Minimizing child mortality by increasing spending on public goods is all well and good, but there comes a point at which each additional tax dollar will buy an increasingly smaller reduction in child mortality.  The problem is that governments don't know where to stop and have a tendency to increase spending forever.  Zero child mortality will never be achieved, but a lot of governments set these kind of aims, regardless of the cost.  The mistake they are making is that they are only measuring what they choose to measure and ignoring unseen effects.  Spending on public goods always comes at the cost of something else.  Perhaps reducing child mortality has the result of increasing road deaths, because there is less money available for traffic lights.These "scientific" measures only measure isolated sectors; there is no good scientific measure for the utility of the entire economy.Needless to say, child mortality would also be reduced in a free market.Btw, the above is the best case.  In practice, governments often consciously enact policies that are scientifically proven to be unfavorable in terms of above measures because they are pandering to the caveman instincts of ignorant voters who have little personal stake in the public good.    A classic example is the blocking of cheap and highly effective needle exchange programs by right wing politicians, even though needle exchange is scientifically proven to reduce the chance of catching hepatitis and hiv, even for non-drug users. These ridiculous ideas don't come from a featherbed but from my personal experiences.  I used to live in a country where I suffered from heavy air pollution, where the trash piled up in the streets, where the sewers were simply emptied into the sea, where I didn't feel safe in the street because the police didn't do their job, and where people died from treatable diseases because public hospitals had 10 years waiting time.Despite the fact that people are forced to pay 1/3 of their income for those "services", as soon as they can afford to, they get private insurance, send their kids to private school, and move into gated communities that do a much better job of providing security and trash removal.   A free market doesn't do a perfect job of providing public goods but government does an even worse job.  Pretty much every Social Democrat party in Europe... Statism is Peter Pan Syndrome.This is fun. Yes, public goods will be underproduced in the absence of government, BUT:1.There is no objective way of measuring the "optimal" production of public goods.2.There is no objective way of measuring to what extent something is a public good, as ALL goods are to some extent public.3.Government is likely to take advantage of this and start to produce goods that it has no business producing, leading to excessive taxation.Your coast guard example can be resolved with private insurance. Wanna be saved from your sailboat? Get insurance beforehand.  The advantage of this system is that you can choose a higher quality rescue team if you're willing to pay for it.  Presumably, there will also be a basic rescue package financed by charity.This is exactly how it works for extreme mountaineers, by the way.  So why can't it work for sailors?I'd rather have an underproduction of public goods than overtaxation.But that's just me. Really? How come then, that parties with "tax-the-rich" policies often win elections? "Tax-the-rich" is more proven to reduce economic growth than abolition of IP. Voters are often aware of this, but to them reduced social inequality is more valuable than increased personal material wealth.Here is a quote from Rothbard's Ethics of Liberty:quite deliberately and expressly, political parties have sacrificed the immediate material welfare of their members in order to prevent, or at least somewhat to retard, the complete industrialization of the country. A more agricultural Switzerland, though poorer, such is the dominant wish of the Swiss people today.a) Nobody knows what the economic impact will be.b) This argument is not about the legitimacy of democratic government.c) see articles: http://www.usatoday.com/news/politicselections/vote2006/NH/2006-11-08-initiatives_x.htmhttp://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2011/sep/18/pirate-party-germany-berlin-election Or you can try doing something that makes a fucking difference, like tax avoidance, aka dollar voting. (though if you want to do that legally it will most probably require leaving, at least for certain amount of days every year).Voting doesn't create any contractual obligations whatsoever, neither for the voter nor for the politician.  That's why a vote is just about as worthless as a Don Juan's marriage proposal.  The day that it will be possible to create full copies of people, including the momentary state of their synapses, IP will literally amount to slavery.This scenario may be a "fantasy world" case against IP, but it certainly is a future possibility and it doesn't violate any known laws of our universe.Rights should be universal. They should hold for all humans independent of place and time, present, past of future. Define poverty. My cat is worth more to me than almost any amount of money in the world. If someone took away my cat and gave me $1M in compensation, I would still consider myself a poorer person than before. A system based on voluntary exchange is guaranteed to maximize the total utility in society.A voluntary exchange between two people can only take place if it makes BOTH parties better off.  A non-voluntary exchange (such as eminent domain) always makes at least one party worse off  (from their subjective perspective).A system based on non-voluntary exchange is not guaranteed to maximize the total utility in society.In practice, railways would probably still be built in a world without eminent domain (this is a huge topic that I won't go into here).In practice, people would still create information goods in a world without IP.  There are other ways to make money from information  than forced monopolies.Information goods are a type of public good in that they are characterized by nonexcludability and non-rivalrous consumption, once the creator has chosen to divulge them.A much discussed example of a public good are lighthouses. The interesting thing about lighthouses is that they used to be built by private entrepreneurs, and run profitably, even before government started running them.How did lighthouse operators deal with the free riders? They didn't. They just accepted that a certain amount of freeridership would be unavoidable, and that with the right business model, profits could be made nontheless.Actually, free riders plague all value creation, not just information goods.  When a carmaker sells me a car, there is nothing the carmaker can do to prevent me from lending the car to my mother on weekends, thus causing her not to buy her own car. Working well for whom?Patent law is such a byzantine mess that high tech companies have taken it as a given that they will always be breaking some patent or another.  They don't even bother to comply with the law anymore, and instead adopt a reactive strategy. It's all about damage control and not good faith.  Patent disputes are usually settled in private and rarely taken to court. Nobody, not even the judges, have a clue where the limits of patentability lie.  This is likely to result in court battles that drag on for years.A system where most parties are criminals by default, where rules are not clearly defined, where bullies and gamers are favored over honest people, sounds like a broken system to me.Of course IP works extremely well for some people.You know, the Chinese high speed rail network also works very well indeed.  It gives millions of Chinese people unprecedented mobility and has resulted in some positive economic effects, no doubt.But to build that network, the rights of a minority were trampled upon.  People had their rightful property taken away by force.  You are probably going to say that this is ok because "society has decided" (double speak for "alpha male has decided") that the rail network is more valuable than the rights of those people. This is where we differ. I am not a utilitarian like you. The most magnificent high speed rail network in the world cannot be justified if it violates the rights of just ONE human being. Evil cannot be quantified. Everybody is equal under the law. No exceptions.Imagine if you are that guy in China who spent his whole life building his dream house and then it was demolished against his will because the rail line is "good for society".The difference between you and me is that you have the arrogance to decide for that guy how much the house was worth to him.   I believe that only HE can know that.  I find it useful not to think in terms of labor but capital.Labor is just the act of transforming and mixing the capital that you own, to form new capital.You can only own capital.  You cannot own labor because labor is an action and not a thing.Hawker, when you pay your computer programmers to make a product, do you really think it is a product of their labor?Really? Do they start from scratch and write it in machine code?No, presumably they use a higher level language such as C++. Well, C++ is information capital that was created by somebody else.  Do you pay the people who made C++?  C++ itself was created from previous capital. C++ was written in assembly language. Do you pay the people who wrote assembly language?Presumably your programmers use libraries. Presumably they use design patterns.  Presumably they use concepts like recursion that were invented by other people.   They make liberal use of information capital that is not owned by you, without compensating the creators.What percentage of the final product is really a result of your own effort rather than the effort of others?You claim exclusive ownership over information capital the same way you claim exclusive ownership over you car.  I will respect that the day you grant others exclusive ownership of information capital, ie the day you write all your software in machine code and use different programming methods from the ones taught at universities. Someone could copyright the pattern of tire threads in your car and then prevent you from selling it.  Assuming that the tire threads were "unowned" when you bought the car.Thus they are infringing on your physical property rights. They have been allowed to homestead property that was previously homesteaded by you (let's just say for the sake of argument that you built the car yourself).  You give an example of how people exercising their rights doesn't contradict the simultaneous validity of IP and PP(physical property). But exercising rights is not the same as having rights. Rights grant you a maximum scope of action. Whether you chose to exploit that maximum is up to you. In practice people rarely do.  That's why contradictory rights can often work so-so in practice and give an appearance of of being consistent.Simultaneous validity IP and PP creates a legal mess. It is always up to the subjective whim of some judge or politician to decide which right comes first, and which one is to be violated.  It opens up the door to corruption and to a situation where some humans are more equal than others.  I might consider it immoral, depending on the circumstances, but it's not aggression.as I said before,Morality != Justice A reductionist approach to political philosophy if i have ever seen one!It might be too reductionist. I think that property rights do exhibit irreducible complexity sometimes.I don't agree with 5). That would imply that a vacuum is ownerless, in which case you could homestead the inside of someones vacuum chamber. Space must be part of the definition. But which space? Einstein tells us that all inertial frames are relative. There has to be a third component: scarcity of properties.Real life example: sattelite slots in geostationary orbit are traded like real estate.
apples are not composed of oranges and oranges are not composed of apples.   apples can exist in the absence of oranges and vice versa.They are independent.Physical matter and information are NOT independent.  information cannot exist in the absence of physical matter. information cannot be created or modified without modifying physical matter.So your analogy is invalid.Do I need to spell it out?Physical property = Right to exclude others from controlling a finite, delimited amount of matter. IP = Right to control ALL physical matter in the universe in a finite, delimited amount of manners. See how the two rights cannot hold at the same time? If that is true, the statement "stealing physical property is not aggression" must follow. by homesteading "intellectual property" you are staking a claim to ALL physical matter in the universe, whether previously owned or unowned.  If someone is persuaded to invest money in a monopoly of burger joints, enforced by a local protection racket, and if a competing burger chain manages to break up the racket, the investor isn't a victim of theft. He is a victim of a bad business decision (and possibly an accessory to an act to aggression)btw it doesn't make a difference whether that protection racket tries legitimize itself by using fancy names or appealing to collectivist myths.Don't put words in my mouth. I never said such a thing.  I said that my caring about causing "harm" should not be relevant for social ethics.  I care about reducing my CO2 emissions because I think they cause harm. Others don't care because they don't believe in climate scientists. I shall not force them to reduce emissions because those are NOT social ethics.Btw, I pay for movies because I'm a nice guy, not because I believe it's a crime not to.  I disapprove of assholes, but I don't believe they are committing a crime merely by being assholes.   You obviously don't consider that a crime. (See above).  I never made such a claim. The concept of "harm" is irrelevant to my argument.For the purpose of social ethics, I don't care whether the act of copying patterns is "harmful" to others or not.  All I care about is whether someone's life and property is being aggressed against.The concept of "aggression against life and physical property" is 1) precisely defined and  2) objectively measurable with arbitrary precision.The concept of "harm" is neither.  It could mean almost anything.  (though I would be delighted if you could come up with a precise, measurable definition of "societal harm").That's why it can't be used to derive social ethics. Rights are meaningless if there is no objective way to discover whether a rights violation has occurred.Not that I don't have my own personal views an what is harmful or immoral. For instance, I believe that procrastination is harmful to society. Does that give me the right to aggress against people who procrastinate? No, because it's a personal ethic and not a social ethic.   Also, you are confusing "not doing X",  with "doing the opposite of X".  The opposite of giving is taking. refusal to give is not the same as taking.  refusal to take is not the same as giving.  The opposite of positive 1 is negative 1, not zero.If I drop dead tomorrow I am not in in any way "harming" Pfizer through "lost sales" of Lipidor.  I am merely ceasing to benefit Pfizer.If Pfizer develops a life saving drug, and refuses to sell it to some people, Pfizer is not "killing" those people. It is merely refusing to benefit them.  You claim that the rights of the collective ought to trump the rights of the individual because humans allegedly "work like that", ie. because that's the way it is.What did I get backward? Or did I misunderstand you?What "harm to society" means is also just opinion. Every member of that society of yours has a different opinion on that.  Some people think that drawing a cartoon of their imaginary friend causes such "harm to society" that it must be punished by death.Whose opinion is valid? Everybody's? Then surely I am "harming society" whatever I do because some people will have contradictory opinions. Not Everybody's? Well then I'm not entitled to my opinion, am I? My belief in the NAP might "just" be opinion, but at least it's consistent with everyone being entitled to an opinion, and encouraged to act on it as long as they don't aggress against any individuals. See, no internal contradictions in my opinion.Your pro-IP stance is also "just" an opinion. But if that is your opinion, you cannot simultaneously hold the opinion that theft of physical property is a crime. Or at least not without contradicting yourself.   Wrong. The first thing people try to do in an emergency is to save their own and their immediate family's ass. Yes, people often form groups in emergencies, but they do so voluntarily.  Those who have more to gain than lose from joining the group, will choose the group. Those who don't will indeed rush off and try to fend for themselves. In practice, joining the group is the decision most will make because of the huge benefits that the division of labor and voluntary exchange have to offer.  But the reason they are making that decision is ultimately selfish, not to sacrifice themselves for the survival of the group. The decision to survive as an individual, the decision for autonomy, thus comes first. How exactly is this established? Must it be an unanimous decision? Or will a majority vote suffice? Or perhaps it's decided by an elite of self-appointed expert philosophers? A roll of dice? Or perhaps it's the biggest bully who gets the final word? What about those who disagree? Will they be allowed to leave this society? Will they be allowed to live unmolested by whatever arbitrary societal good comes above their right to use their body and property?  Is/ought problem. Humans also actually and habitually steal, murder, rape, torture, and  commit genocide on scale too big to be ignored as unrepresentative of human nature.  Sometimes endorsed by a majority who has decided that initiation of force is "for the good of society".   That still doesn't make those things right. The purpose of individual rights is not to eliminate those evils from the word.  The purpose is to do justice, where they are committed."Bad people will always do bad things, good people will always do good things, but for good people to do bad things it takes the myth of virtuous collectivism*"* take your pick: government, religion, culture, "society", nation, tribe, personality cult.  Fundamentally, they are all the same misfiring of our hunter gatherer instincts, the same tyrannical myth used by the strong to manipulate the weak. A friend once told me, "Nature is murky and complex, therefore ethics has to be murky and complex. Everything in ethics is a grey area".I don's see how the latter necessarily follows from the former.  The whole point of ethics is that is not natural. It's a purely artificial, abstract set of rules created by humans. A bit like mathematics.Besides, even the most "mature", "moderate", and "sober" individuals are idealistic teenage extremists on some issues.  Usually the ones that have been resolved by said extremists in the distant past.I have never met a "moderate" who isn't absolutist on the topics of slavery, women's suffrage, or racial segregation for instance. No stance other than Total Abolition is considered reasonable by them.  Dwolla is more of a transaction mediator than a bank.  Margaret Thatcher's quote comes to mind, "there is no such thing as society, there are only individuals".I don't agree with that quote.That would be like saying "there is no such thing as biology, there is only physics". But there clearly is such a thing as biology. Biology explains emergent properties that physics alone cannot explain.  Biology is an abstraction layer built on top of biochemistry, which is an abstraction layer built on top of chemistry, which is an abstraction layer built on top of physics.  What biology cannot be however, is in violation of the abstraction layers it was built upon.  All biological laws must also obey the laws of physics.  All macrobiological theories must also obey the theory of DNA, and so on.  Any putative theory that doesn't obey the lower level theories can be discarded a priori.  Conversely, it would be fallacious to take lower level theories and homomorphically apply them to the emergent phenomena occuring at higher levels.  Organisms don't behave like cells. Cells don't behave like atoms. Atoms don't behave like subatomic particles.Analogously, There clearly is such a thing as society. Just like there is a swarm of birds.  Society has emergent properties that can't be understood by looking at nature of the individual alone.  These "swarm effects" affect all of us deeply because we are a social species. It is important to understand those effects and plan our lives accordingly. But while we are doing that, we must always keep the following principles in mind:1. Societies are not individuals. Societies do not behave like individuals.2. Before we can establish "rights" for society as a whole, we must establish rights for the individual3. Any societal "rights" that violate the individual rights established in principle 2 can be discarded a prioriWhen people talk about society, I constantly come across the the fallacy of personification. "Society wants".  "Society needs".  "Society feels".  "Society has decided...".   These phrases are nonsensical.  Society doesn't want, need, feel, or decide anything.  Society is an abstract concept and not a person.Some persons can perhaps claim to represent groups of other persons, but they are still persons, and not societies. Even if society can be considered a superorganism, it's a "dumb" superorganism, in the sense that it displays behaviors and reacts to stimuli.    But society does not have dreams, desires, feelings, free will, or a consciousness. Individual rights can never be overridden by a tyrant, a minority, a majority, or a plurality.  Individual rights can only be overridden by unanimity.Conclusion/ tl;drIt may well be that IP is beneficial to society, but none of us can pretend to know this for certain.If that is your belief, join a group of people that have mutually agreed to honor each other's IP, and if it really is that beneficial your group with thrive and others will attempt to copy you.  But in the mean time, do not initiate force against those who disagree with you.  I see this as THE killer app for bitcoin:http://www.mondonet.org/It doesn't have to be mondonet specifically though.  It could be any network that must fulfill all of the following 10 properties (quoted from the mondonet website):    DECENTRALIZED    UNIVERSALLY ACCESSIBLE    CENSOR-PROOF    SURVEILLANCE-PROOF    SECURE    SCALABLE    PERMANENT    FAST    INDEPENDENT    EVOLVABLEI would go as far as saying that any network that has all the properties stated above, cannot be and could not be built before the invention of a p2p cryptocurrency.  Most of the people who call themselves the 99% are still in the top 1% globally.By their own logic, they should withdraw most of their savings and donate them to slum dwellers in Africa. I like SR, though I have never used it. What is there not to like about Pareto efficiency? We may have empirical evidence for correlation, but we don't have empirical evidence for causation. The societies that excel at innovation, already excelled at innovation before the introduction of IP laws.  This suggests a cultural component, and it suggests that IP laws were a reaction to the big role that innovation already played in those economies, not the other way around.   A law that regulates civil aviation, for instance, would be nonsensical in a society where manned flight hasn't been invented yet, and just as likely to be passed as a law that regulates time travel.  It would be a fallacy to conclude that just because a country has laws regulating civil aviation, those laws were the cause for the invention and bringing to market of manned flight.    Copyright law, in particular, was a reaction to the invention of the printing press. It initially aimed to restrict its effects on society, not enhance them. This is all conjecture of course, but the point is that there is no conclusive proof for either position.  Economists don't seem to have reached consensus on whether IP law does more harm than good, macroeconomically. There are plenty of excellent, peer-reviewed empirical as well as ab initio studies to support both sides. To quote from an earlier poster, a law that can't be proven (beyond reasonable doubt) to be beneficial, has no business existing.   By definition. Which is silly, because building a bitcoin business is a wiser investment than just buying a bunch of bitcoins and saving them.If bitcoin succeeds, you are going to be rich in both cases. But if bitcoin fails, in the first case you will at least come out with some useful skills and experience, while in the second case you will come out with nothing. economic growth in rich countries is mainly driven by productivity gains, not by growth in resource consumption. Reversibility comes at a cost. A reversible transaction is essentially an insured irreversible transaction. Insurance isn't free, you know?  Some people would rather not pay insurance because they trust the merchant.  With your Visa card, you are forced to purchase this insurance and you are forced to bail out people who use their visa card irresponsibly.Real life example: The shop where I buy electronics is a "bare-bones" merchant. Very limited customer service, very low margins, and so on. That's why they can afford to charge 10-20% less than the high street merchants.  The also charge 3% extra for credit card transactions as compared to cash-in-hand because that is how much it costs them, and it's the type of shop that likes to pass the savings to the customer.  Some low-cost airlines do the same thing.Just because most merchants effectively subsidize credit card customers, don't assume that all of them do and don't assume that some customers don't want that choice. Extraordinary claims require extraordinary evidence. What if the substitute is inferior to the product offered by the monopolist?I'm not saying this is always the case, but if if was it the utility-maximizing justification for state intervention would still be valid. The purpose of property rights is not fairness, it's justice.The purpose of property rights isn't to "fairly reward people for their work", "create incentives" or any utilitarian nonsense like that.  These modern perversions of the concept of property come from ignorance of what property means in the first place, and where it came from originally.  Property rights have nothing to do with morality. Property rights are nothing but a way for humans to settle disputes over who controls scarce resources.Property rights serve one purpose and one purpose only: To answer the question, "when is violence justified"?  Property rights are strictly negative rights, ie. the right not to be interfered with while using one's body, whether applied to physical property or information.   The modern concept of intellectual "property" is a positive right, ie. the right to arbitrarily violate other people's self-ownership because their behavior is deemed immoral by some central authority.  Thus it isn't a property right at all. The pro-IP brigade fails to make this distinction between morality/fairness and justice.When a kind stranger helps me with directions on the street and I return the favor by being rude to him, most would consider that behavior immoral or unfair.   But that alone doesn't give the kind stranger the right to force me to say "thank you" or to return another favor.  Though he certainly has the right to ostracize or denounce me.When I make money off an idea that I "stole" from a friend without giving him credit I might be an asshole,  but that alone doesn't give my friend the right to point a gun at me, or steal my physical property as "compensation".The concept of physical property is everything but "fair". A poor peasant might work 20 hours a day for a few dollars, while a rich land owner might earn millions from rent and live a life of leisure, simply because he owns capital and the peasant doesn't.   So why, then, intellectual property should be "fair" is beyond me. This thread illustrates the problem with the Bitcoin community.You are all a bunch of arrogant, naive, utopian amateurs who automatically dismiss any good advice from people with experience.  That's why Bitcoin businesses are bound to fail.To make it in the Real World of entrepreneurship, you must resort to deception, blackmail, and nepotism.  Only in the fantasy world of immature idealists does honesty, customer loyalty, and creating real value get you anywhere.That was all the Venture Capitalist was trying to say to you, and your knee-jerk reaction was to gang up on him. How predictable.   
What about the train crash victims in China? Don't they deserve a thread too? Life isn't about the amount of time you spend on earth. It's about what you do with the time you've got. She lived her short life more intensely than any of us corporate zombies ever will in our 80+ years.27 is a good age to go out in style. Thanks for being with us, Amy.  Mininum wage only "protects" people who already have a stable job.But it hurts those who need the most "protection" - the unemployed. It lessens their chance to get their foot in the door and pushes more of them into a vicious cycle of long term unemployment.Minimum wage is regressive and anti-social. Who cares?Tatoos tell a story, and if you are involved with bitcoin you are making history.  Bitcoin will be part of your story, no matter whether it still exists 6 months from now. For a beginner I would recommend Ruby because it's human-centered, while most other languages are machine-centered. It's quite simple really:I understand bitcoin, and I don't understand regular forex.I have been following bitcoin for almost a year. I know the technology, the community, and the bitcoin economy inside out.   The bitcoin exchanges may be flawed, they may be more risky than other exchanges, but at least those flaws and risks are 100% known to me. Regular forex lacks transparency. The murky, insider-dominated fundamentals that affect regular forex seem too inaccessible to an amateur trader. Bitcoin is not ready for this yet. Before this can happen, user friendly tools for wallet security and trust need to be developed. Exchanges need to become more professional. A futures market needs to be established to stabilize prices on the side of merchants. Lots of work still to be done. Give it at least another 6 months before bitcoin is ready for Joe Average. This precedence is setting up a legal nightmare when the semantic web arrives and a "website" gets pulled from 20 different domains and 30 IP addresses "located" all over the world.  Statists will agree with you, except that their concept of property is more fuzzy than yours, for instance they will say that in some circumstances your property rights extend into other people's bodies and the other way around. One thing I learned about my short stint in academia is that most scientists are not so much concerned about truth finding as fulfilling arbitrary publication quotas and intellectual feather puffing.  Forget the pursuit of knowledge. Science is primarily about egos!The incentives of the whole scientific establishment are screwed up.  Even  scientists themselves admit that the majority of publications are trash.  In an inexact science like climate science, bias is almost inevitable because there are few rewards for objectivity and big rewards for exaggeration and populism.  I'm not saying that there is some great conspiracy; most scientists are probably biased without even noticing it themselves.Having said that, there are a few notable exceptions (the true geniuses), and there is some objectivity to the scientific consensus.  It should just be taken with a great deal of skepticism.Anthropogenic global warming probably is real, it's just far less predictable than climate scientist would like it to be. Predictions that don't cost you anything are pretty much worthless. It's always easy in retrospect to brag about your predictions that materialized and stay quiet about the ones that didn't materialize.I dare you to make a public bet of $1000 that bitcoin will drop below $3 by the end of August (I'm sure you'll find many takers here).  Then I will take your prediction seriously. I personally can't be bothered with spending my whole weekend trying to get a webcam, scanner, or mobile broadband modem to work under linux, acquiring lots of technical knowledge that is practically worthless because it will be out of date in a few years.  I mean, don't you have better stuff to do in your precious free time?I know that this  is not entirely the fault of linux but of the peripherals manufacturers who don't make drivers for linux, but what can I do about that?Generally, linux sucks for multimedia stuff.I like to use linux for coding though. But for that I can run it in a VM.For secure stuff like online banking, I do use a separate linux netbook anyhow.Why not benefit from the best of both worlds? If you are going to use a utilitarian argument in favor of patents then at least  weigh up the benefits of patents with their detriments.  Don't just cherry-pick examples where they (may) be beneficial.Even if patents are beneficial for some people in this particular case, they are still unethical. Slavery was beneficial for a lot of people too.  In fact, anti-abolitionists used to bring up utilitarian arguments similar to yours. "Nobody will be able to afford to pay for all this work", "it will ruin the economy", "slaves don't know how to take care of themselves", etc. On a more practical level, if people really care about some drug being developed there are other models apart from patents to incentivize this.  One is a bounty system, where potential beneficiaries of the drug pay into a fund and whoever develops the drug first gets paid the prize.  The people who paid into the fund perhaps get the drug at a discount rate for a few months.  Yes, this creates more free riders but most economic activity already has a lot of free riders anyhow. Outside a statist context, property rights only serve one purpose: To settle disputes over scarce resources. They have nothing to do with the notion of "labour", whatsovever. We wouldn't have free software licenses.  But we would still have open, collaborative software development.Most software doesn't need copyright in order to be profitable.  That's why so many software companies are moving from the software-as-a-product to the software-as-a-service model. Humans aren't good at keeping secrets. All secrets leak sooner or later as soon as >100 people know about them.  Almost all big inventions require the collective effort of >100 people. My smartphone is an HTC.  Most of my non-techie friends don't recognize that brand. The HTC's quality is awesome, and superior to the iphone IMO.  It needs to be, because the only reason people buy HTCs is because of their superior quality for the same price, not because of brand recognition.  Also, brands will lose their meaning a decade from now when the semantic web really takes off.  People will no longer purchase stuff based on packaging, but content.  Information cannot be protected by regulation from third parties.  It can only be protected by personal measures.It's not a question what information "should" do. It's a question of what information will do, and how we can adapt to that inevitability. We're not gonna create more Einsteins by producing another billion people living in abject poverty.  Einsteins aren't born by chance. Well, at least the Einstein creation rate is very low if you just rely on chance. No, Einsteins are made.  Einsteins are created with the correct stimuli and environment. There are just 13 million Jewish people in the world, yet they have produced almost half of all Nobel prize winners. How many Nobel prize winners came out of ethnic groups with high birth rates, that far outnumber Jewish people? Culture and education is everything, not brute force numbers. Well perhaps the world needs more Jewish people. It's a shame they are a "by invitation only" club. Or at least the rest of the world should emulate whatever they are doing right.In any case, scarce resources should be spent on giving fewer children a quality education, not on quantity. That way we could easily go from 1 Einstein per century to 10 Einsteins per century. No, stop having children because it's idiotic.Kids means sacrificing and compromising at least part of your dreams and goals.But you are sacrificing your life for what? So that your kid can sacrifice her life for her kids, ad infinitum?  That's absurd. When having kids, you are not acting in your own best interest, you are acting in your genes' best interest.  Well guess what, your genes are not conscious or capable of reason or compassion.  They are completely "dumb" and they will discard your body as soon as they have fulfilled their primitive mission.   You are just the sucker who they need for replication.  They have no "deeper purpose" other than replication for the sake of replication.  That's why I say: Outsmart your genes and don't waste your resources on kids,  use them to attain immortality instead (or at least life extension and human enhancement). The problem with this line of reasoning is that there always are secondary and tertiary consequences to every action you take.  We live in a highly networked, complex economy. Everything you do has knock-on effects. A lot of them are counter-intuitive. Most are unknown or unknowable.For instance, smoking cigarettes may decrease the cost to the healthcare system because you die earlier, or it may increase the cost because the cancer rate increases.  It's an ongoing debate among experts, yet government slaps on cigarette tax as if it was a proven fact that smoking creates a net cost to the "democratic community"You can't use this type of consequentialism as a basis for coercing people. Otherwise you end up in a police state where every tiniest of your actions is monitored and micromanaged. Food for thought: Governments ban cocaine because a considerable proportion of  cocaine users end up dead or crippled.   But so does a considerable proportion of motorcyclists. How come there isn't a War on Motorcycling? It's just arbitrary and ridiculous...  The biggest flaw isn't lack of an education, but lack of a personal stake in the issues that people cast votes on.Even the most uneducated person in the world would vote wisely, if he had to pay personally for cleaning up the damage of a failed policy that he voted for. The concept of democracy is fundamentally immoral. It is better than monarchy but it inherits a lot of the evils of the monarchies that it replaced.I realize that complete anarchy may not be a realistic goal in our lifetime, but democracy should be reduced to a bare minimum.Eg. what you and I do with our bodies, or in our bedrooms, should not be decided democratically. 
Not sure about that. Scandinavia is doing pretty well, but so are Australia and Hong Kong, which are more on the libertarian end of the scale.And what has allowed corporate money to corrupt democracy? The fact that it lacks accountability. That is exactly the point  I was trying to make in my first post.  If there was a price to breaking election promises or misrepresenting voters this would never have happened in the first place.Perfect anarchy is an ideal that can never be attained in the messy real world, just like perfect democracy has never been attained. But that does not mean we can't achieve a practical approximation to perfect anarchy.To me, the bitcoin economy is empirical evidence of anarchy working.  That was also the point I was trying to make in my first post.And I applaud those people.  However, they were fundamentally fighting against tyrrany, not for democracy. Democracy is of course vastly superior to the systems it replaced, and that was good enough for those people.  But that doesn't mean we can't do better.Except it isn't accountable. Nothing stops a government from becoming corrupt once it is elected. It's an extremely fragile system.  As I said, perfect anarchy might not be attainable.   In democracy, sociopaths and populists end up in power because most voters put very little effort into researching who they are voting for.  This is no surprise, because voters have no incentive for this, financial or otherwise.Plutocracy has its flaws too, but in a free market, people who make a lot of money tend to be people who create value for society. There are exceptions of course.  I would rather have those people in power, with a few bad apples mixed in, than sociopaths in power, with a few well-intentioned idealists mixed in.Also, I would argue that in plutocracy, the common man has more democratic power over the elites than in democracy itself.  "Dollar voting" is felt instantly by a service provider being a jerk.  Ballot voters, on the other hand, are powerless once their vote is cast. When a politician becomes corrupt after that, they have to wait 4 years to express their dismay.  What is the morality of carrots?What is the morality of automobiles?What is the morality of email?Bitcoin is just a technology.  There is no such thing as a morality of bitcoin.  There is only a morality of people.  But that is not a bitcoin-specific topic. Most people don't carry a personal gun for the same reason they don't carry a personal dentistry kit.  They suck at defending themselves, even with a gun.  So they outsource security to people who are good at using guns, usually by joining a guarded territory.  In most European countries, where governments have a quasi-monopoly on guns, this guarded territory tends to encompass the entire nation.  The quality of service provided by government is variable though.  In Latin America, and to some extent North America, there is an increasing trend of joining gated communities because government sucks as providing security.   I would say that most rich countries are reasonably "civilized". I agree with the statement in the title, though "The Gun" does not necessarily mean a personal gun. Division of labour isn't always a bad thing, you know?  I have come to realise that democracy has a fundamental flaw:Democracy is cheap. The voter isn't accountable to the politician and the politician isn't accountable to the voter.If you vote for a really stupid policy that is going to ruin other people's lives needlessly, you are not liable to compensate them.  Somebody else will always pick up the bill. On the other side of the coin, votes create no obligations to politicians. If they fail to keep their end of the bargain, there are no or few personal consequences for them.    Being part of the Bitcoin community was the final straw. Here, if you feel strongly about an issue you don't vote for it. You offer a bounty.If you are dishonest or make a stupid choice, you pay with your money and reputation.  If someone is a jerk, you don't complain ineffectually. You ostracize them. If you make a risky investment, and it tanks, you suck it up and don't whine for someone to bail you out. And so on...The Bitcoin community has a beautiful way of putting its money where its mouth is.  It has proven to me that superior alternatives to democracy really can work in practice. When I was younger I had a love affair with the concept of democracy. (brainwashed by school I guess)When I got older I felt that democracy was a necessary evil.Now I think it is just evil.Democracy will never work, except perhaps on a very local scale. It's time for society to move on.    Now I feel very lonely. I see everyone around me still worshipping democracy like a religion.  I hope Bitcoin will make them change their mind too. Here is how Bitcoin could be modified to solve this attack (mentioned several times on other threads): 1. Transfers to young addresses incur high transaction fees. Transaction fees drop as addresses age in block chain. 2. Users cannot make exact transactions.  Say, for example, that I sign a transaction for 1.0000000 BTC.  This will only be included in a block if the miner also signs it. However, by default, miners always reject my first proposal and send back a signed proposal salted with a random number, say 0.97429313 BTC. I can then choose to sign this, and commit it to the block chain, or make another first proposal.  The whole thing can of course be automated in the original client. Blocks that contain transactions not signed by both parties are rejected by the protocol.Thoughts?  The funny thing is, I have never done any mining because it's just too much work!I may as well use my unemployment benefit to purchase BTC on mtgox directly.  Yes, perfect anything is an untenable abstraction. Imperfect voluntariness is attainable though, just like imperfect freedom of speech.  The problems is that we don't even have imperfect voluntariness in many parts of our current system. It is far more coercive than it practically needs to be, for historical reasons alone.  Bitcoin could be a great tool to achieve more voluntariness in society.  This poll is just about sentiment, not about what can/should be done about speculation.  The point of asking? To get a feel where the Bitcoin community is going. Some forum members have already talked about forking or rebooting the block chain because of what they perceive as excessive speculation. *For the purpose of this poll, speculation is defined as buying/selling BTC with the intent of making a profit on the difference. Hiding money is easy. Even before Bitcoin it was easy.Spending that money without detection, that's the hard part. That's where they are watching you.   He strikes me as a bit of a hot-head.  He comes in here and right away insinuates that most of us are criminals.  What kind of reaction does he expect after that? That everyone just gives him a big friendly smile? Anyhow, I thought that most answers were factual and addressed his arguments, ignoring the serious insinuation he made in the beginning of his post.  That is far nicer than most forums I have experienced. Here's what's just around the corner: Poker sites. A volume of 4M USD per month, that is peanuts for a Poker site. [edit] Also just around the corner: Remittances. The global remittance volume is 300 Billion USD per year.  As long as it's difficult to get hold of enough BTC to buy a house, it's undervalued.At the moment, you can get a hold of approx. 260k USD worth of BTC on mtgox. Perhaps another 50k on otc. The monthly volume on mtgox is merely the price of 4 houses in city such as London or New York ($1 M). If just ten people wanted to pay for a house in bitcoins, this would have a major effect on the exchange rate.Therefore, undervalued.  Here's a thought for you:The amount of data stored in the block chain grows linearly (once the user base has stabilized). The capacity of the internet to transmit, store, and process data grows exponentially. In the long run, we're gonna be just fine.  Perhaps a normal end-user won't use the original Bitcoin client, but rather a lightweight client or a web interface such as mybitcoin.com.Remember that Bitcoin is not just a software but also a protocol. Other, more user friendly clients that adhere to the Bitcoin protocol are likely to be developed in future.A web interface solves all the problems you're talking about but is less secure. I guess for small amounts that doesn't matter.  Bitcoin makes it to the front page of The Economist.There are more people with a Bitcoin address than a Facebook account.There are more people in Africa with a Bitcoin address than a bank account. There are more people in the world with a Bitcoin address than a bank account.Paypal supports accounts denominated in BTC (just kidding, this will never happen!)A major bank supports accounts denominated in BTC.Iceland holds BTC reserves.Bitcoin replaces WoW gold.A major university offers a Bitcoin-specific graduate degree. Bitcoin is used to pay for a kidnap ransom.A Bitcoin bounty is awarded to an anonymous player who correctly predicts the time and place of death of the kidnapper.The first block is generated in space.My hairdresser recommends that I should invest in Bitcoin. There was guy selling them on [you-know-where] for 10.6 BTC for 10.  Liberals are concerned with purity too, see the organic food craze.I think we all have a deep instinct that tells us "If it disgusts me it must be bad/immoral", though this is probably stronger in conservatives. This instict gets it wrong a lot of the time.  For example, people can be conditioned to be disgusted by almost anything during their upbringing. But even such a primitive instinct gave us a survival advantage in hunter gatherer times when a lot of things in daily life could get you killed.  It was advantageus to have an over-sensitive instinct that gave a lot of false positives.  It was better to run away from the grass rustling in the wind 100 times, than being killed by the lion the 101st time because you thought the rusting in the grass was just the wind."Shoot first, ask questions later" is of course a terrible strategy to follow in the modern world.  Very few things can get us killed, and anyhow it's not the ones we usually worry about. Modern life is a constant battle to use reason to overcome a misfiring of those evolved insticts.Conservatives suffer from a misfiring of fear and disgust. Liberals suffer from a misfiring of love and envy.  Not that I know of.  Most women hate money, you know?  So on Sunday I finally told a relative who works in finance. To my surprise, his reaction was overwhelmingly positive. He agreed that Bitcoin was a brilliant idea, but said that he won't be investing because high risk investments are just not his thing. Fair enough.  When I told him about the price development of my investment, he told me that I should sell all my BTC immediately.  I didn't take his advice, but it feels good to have "come out" anyhow.
Radio waves are electromagnetic radiation.Electromagnetic radiation is very physical indeed.  Anyone who ever got a sunburn will agree.  Let's get back to your stealing electricity analogy. The only way for someone to tap into your electricity cable is to physically interact with it and to modify its physical properties (in this case the current flowing through it) without your consent.  Ergo, property rights violation.What if someone obtains the contents of a book you have written, by photographing it with a telescope while you are reading it in your garden? This time there is no property violation because the physical properties of your book have not been modified without your consent. It's still exactly the same book. You could argue that the light bouncing off the book has been captured without your consent, but that light (and the information contained therein) stops being your property once it leaves your land.  It was your responsibility to ensure that doesn't happen if you want to keep the information secret.   I'm an anarcho-fascistWhere does that put me on this graph??   That guy from the free state project presented an argument that went something like this:Everything is just information. Even physical matter is information encoded in a certain way. Therefore, if physical matter can be property then so can information.Though experiment: Imagine you can upload your mind into a computer simulation, Matrix-style. Then some day, a hacker/troll creates a copy of you, without your knowledge or consent, and uploads it into a different simulation, where that version of you gets locked into a prison cell.  The first version would never know about this.Does this constitute a violation of property rights? If yes, of what version of you? Of all versions? Just the version in the second simulation? Just the meatspace version?Of course you could argue that whoever owns the computer hardware owns the information on it, but imagine that the hardware is a cloud of self replicating robots owned by nobody.  This isn't hard to do with Bitcoin.The block chain is already public.You could for example use a single Bitcoin address for each bank account. The customer can then simply use the block explorer to see if her coins are still there.  You could also publish ALL Bitcoin addresses owned by your bank, but without saying which one corresponds to which bank account.You could even prove that your bank has X amount of Bitcoin in the vault by digitally signing  requests from inspectors, journalists, etc. with the private keys of your Bitcoin addresses.This degree of verfiability and transparency would eliminate the need for a democratic bureaucracy. Who is Satoshi? Why is Satoshi? When is Satoshi?Will the real Satoshi please stand up?Satoshi isn't a person, it's a whole way of life. There is a little bit of Satoshi in all of us.Live Satoshi, breathe Satoshi.Satoshi is now.  I will tell my GF that I already got the money back that I invested, so whatever happens, no harm done. I am definitely not selling the rest of my Bitcoins though, whatever she says.  I will wait until the bitter end/ glorious future of Bitcoin.   1. You can't buy a pizza with gold either.2. Wallet encrypted and stored in three places including a cloud storage account is safer than any physical wallet can be.  It's not rocket science - it's only a matter of educating people.3. Stores can hedge if that is a big problem for them.  Or they can just hang on to them until Bitcoin goes mainstream.4. Nothing stopping the two parties from using an escrow service or web of trust. Except unlike Paypal and CCs,  it's not mandatory.5. Regular users who switch off the client don't compromise network integrity. The network can easily do its job with miners alone. 6. Or you just sit down for a few days and educate yourself. See (2). It's a worthwile investment considering what's at stake, don't you think?7. Yes, it's still a beta technology. There are risks and failure scenarios. Don't invest in Bitcoin if you can't affort to lose it.8. Bitcoin fulfils some real, practical needs that no other technology fulfils at the moment. Even if the euphoria dies down, there will be a core of users who buy Bitcoin for sober reasons.Yes, all of these are factored into the price, as well as future expectations of all of these. Monopolies are only a bad thing in a propretarian economy, because there they often exclude people from using capital in a more efficient way than the owner of that capital.In a non-propretarian economy monopolies can be desireable.  One example is open-source software. Too many forks can be detrimental. It's better if everyone just sticks to ONE standard.Bitcoin too could become a monopoly, even if nobody really owns or controls the Bitcoin protocol.  IMO that would be superior to several competing block chains. [oh you forgot to say that drugs extreme sports wreck families and carry a high risk of death and brain injury]      *eye roll*By they way, I think that alpaca socks are inherently immoral. I can't give you a rational explanation, but they just feel wrong somehow. Any human being with a sense of decency blah blah blah ... will agree with me.  So, alpaca socks should not be advertised.   GF: You never get off that damn computer. What are you doing anyhow?me: Uhm, just ... sorting out my finances.GF: And why is this taking up so much time? Are you opening your own bank??me: Actually, that's pretty close to the truth.Perhaps it's time I tell her about my involvement with Bitcoin. It's been 6 months now and I still haven't told anyone about it. I can't exactly explain why, but I'm really nervous about coming out.  What difference does it make? People who want to believe it's a fake will continue to believe it's a fake, or they will come up with some other conspiracy theory. That's why birth certificates should be stored in a block chain. If not anything else, at least this would make the date of birth unforgeable.   Don't know about the US, but where I live capital gains tax only becomes payable once you sell the asset. After skimming over this long thread, I'd like to make one more point which I haven't seen mentioned yet:A world without implicit contracts does not necessarily lead to chaos and endless civil war.In his book Practical Anarchy Stefan Molyneux describes how such a hypothetical society could function and thrive.The idea is that there are several dispute resolution organisations (DRO) competing (and cooperating) with eath other.  There are no implicit contracts. There are only explicit contracts with DROs.  In practice, almost everybody would end up being a member of some mainstream DRO.    So let's take some examples that Onarchy has used, and see how DROs would resolve this.1) Someone who produces kiddie porn.  This one is easy. Since kiddie porn is almost universally condemned, this person would amass a terrible reputation, and soon he would have trouble finding a reputable DRO prepared to take him as a member.  Without a DRO to protect him, someone might just "accidentally" murder him as soon as he is forced to leave his property to find food, because he has no explicit contract with 99.99% of society protecting him against murder.  2) Defamation  and ThreatsIn a world where anybody can commit the "crime" of defamation against anybody without fearing physical retaliation, baseless defamation and relaliatory defamation would soon spiral into a "flame war", and nobody would take this kind of information seriously anymore unless it's backed up by evidence.  Also, people would no longer believe information outside their web of trust.  If someone defames a person inside their web of trust, and the published information turns out to be baseless, or a cruel breach of privacy,  they would lose hard earned trust from a lot of people.  That would act as a strong deterrent.   In short, society would acquire more healthy skepticism, and paradoxically, there would be less defamation even though it's not explicitly illegal. Implicit libel+slander laws are similar to "consumer protection" regulation leading to passive, gullible consumers, who dishonest companies find easier to rip off.  3) Being murdered because I'm not wearing a sign "don't murder me".Again, since murder is almost universally condemned, almost every DRO would have a clause against this, and reputable DROs would have reciprocal agreements allowing to "extradite" murderers to each other.  The putative murderer would be wise to assume that a person on the street has a 99.99% chance of being protected from murder by their DRO, who would hunt down the murderer.   Ok, this model still doesn't protect against "crime of passion" murders but neither does the statist, implicit contract model. Appeal to majority... oh and you've just scored own goal with this one, because by definition you youself are abnormal as someone who even vaguely falls into the libertarian camp. I love it when people use the word "decency" to try win an argument.  WTH is "decency" supposed to mean anyhow other than an hand wavy expression for "this is right/wrong because it feels right/wrong to me". Anyhow, your position seems to be that if person A puts a lot of work into something and person B benefits from the fruits of that work in some way,  B has somehow become indebted to A because B has entered an implicit contract, from the mere act of benefiting.The problem with this principle is that it is impossible for a central authority to objectively quantify this kind of positive externality for individuals, much less enforce compensation.  Example: Mike spends 10 years working on a brilliant poem and when it's finally finished he shows it to his best friend John. Without Mike's permission, John graffities the poem onto a bridge where Mary reads it from the train on her daily commute.  She is so inspired by the poem that she decides to give up her job and start her own business, making her, and by extension, her husband Fred a millionaire.  According to your principle, Fred is now indebted to Mike. But how much does he owe? $100 ? $100,000 $10M?.  There is simply no     objective way of determining this, even if this whole chain of events was public, and even a Big Brother state would not be capable of illuminating all the complexities of social webs. Life isn't fair according to your definition of fairness. If it was, a heart surgeon who works 24 hour shifts and saves countless lives would make more money than a rich heiress who lives off rent and never lifts a finger.   That kind of "fairness" can only function in totalitarian state.  The heiress is lucky to be sitting on capital she didn't need to work for the same way the inventor of aspirin is unlucky he had to work for capital he cannot sit on.   As someone else put it well, the purpose of property rights is not utilitarian, the purpose of property rights is to settle disputes over who controls a finite resource. Onarchy, your distinction between social and economic freedom is subjective. You say that your "free state" will have zero regulation but various decrees on gay relationships, drugs, or whatever enforced by the host country.But those decrees are regulations.  Objectively, regulations against an individual's sex life, or social life, or spiritual life, or whatever life are not different than regulations against an individual's money making life.All restrictions on how an individual can achieve maximum subjective utility without violating the non-aggression principle, are equally immoral. Some people may derive utility from making lots of money, others from becoming a monk and meditating all day (and yes even poor people pursue that goal sometimes - look at India for example).  Your "free state" will only give people maximum freedom in the money making aspect of their life while still infringing on other freedoms, as dictated by the host country's arbitrary morality.  You say that it doesnt matter so much because (according to your subjective opinion) freedom in the money making area is somehow superior to freedom in other areas, and poor people mainly care about economic freedom anyhow.I say, fundamentally there is only one kind of freedom, and let the individual decide which "flavours" of that freedom are important to her/him.  Who is being the arrogant rich Westerner here, making that decision for them?Perhaps gay porn is a bad example, but it's simply not true that people from poor parts of the world are not concerned about the so called social freedoms.  A better example is religion, and lack of freedom of thereof is bound to lead to the brutal oppression of some immigrant minorities in a theocratic host country.  Either that or people from other cultures simply won't immigrate and the free state will never become your multicultural utopia. Also, I'm curious about this: Imagine the host county mandates some really silly, religiously motivated decree, I dunno, like "driving a car on a Saturday is punishable by prison".  When I move to the free state and challenge the decree in the supreme court, and the supreme court can find no evidence whatsoever, empirical or first principle, that the decree is beneficial, whos side will the court take? And if it does take my side, how will it deal with the host country's hostility? I am a corporate whore, but I plan to change that once I have gained enough experience. Curious to know where other Bitcoiners stand. Frankly, I think that the "salient legal issues" are academic, because they are not relevant to the reality of the Bitcoin ecosystem.Bitcoin will go the way of filesharing networks, and operate in a universe almost completely outside the jurisdiction of any particular country. Not that the Bicoin ecosystem will be a lawless place.  It will have its own laws that will emerge organically. Whatever US banking lawyers dream up in the meantime, will affect only a small tangential part of the Bitcoin economy.  The reward will drop from 50 to 25 @ block 210,000The first difficulty change after the drop will take place @ block 211,680That's 1680 blocks, or approx. 11 days afterwards. Curious to know what the community expects to happen. I predict that it will drop more than 80%, because the competitive nature of the mining market will mean that the majority of miners are just barely profitable, and a drop in net income by 50% will make most of them unprofitable.  That makes sense. I suspect that might be the problem. The parts of the laptop where the HD and chipset are located also get super hot when I download the blockchain (so hot I have to take the laptop off my lap). Dell studio laptops seem to be known for overheating problems though...I'll try updating the BIOS firmare. Thaks for the advice. 
