Yeah, it took several hours for me too, the first time. It was really frustrating actually when debugging it, when the integrity breaks near the end and you have to restart everything just to debug it! But, if you can manage to get a somewhat recent dump of the db, inserting the new missing blocks is faster. The latest backup I have is from late august and is about 420M. Well, I don't think I will run a pident instance here on the foreseeable future, although it would be nice to actually have it in a runnable state, if anyone else wants to host it  Until someone can manage to get a working bitcoind with the getblockbycount patch, pretty much. Good news is, you can still toy with it, the source is still out there! Turns out I did. The patched "getblockbycount" branch does not compile with the newer miniupnpc versions, so I'm basically stuck here. If anyone can fix it, it's cool. Since I didn't get any feedback about pident in the last few weeks, I thought nobody was really using it anyway(And, of course, merging the old getblockbyhash branch in the new tree fails. And I'm not that great with C++.) You forgot "Put f*ckin ads in the block headers"  Hello everyone. Sorry, I moved out and I only got my internet connection back right now I'm still quite content to see it worked fine except for the "pools not showing" problem.It should be fixed now. Email me or reply if you have more issues   Okay, the recent changes are enough for a version bump (because why not?). There is now a cool SVG graph of pool sizes, pools are now correctly sorted by descending size. Added support for BTCServ and readded RFCPool (yes, they repoened!).I'd like to add BitClockers, ABCPool and NinjaCoin to the list, but I can't If you want them too, try to convince the operators to publish their blocks!(Also, sorry for the downtime Monday & Tuesday, had a big power outage just when I left the house for 2 days) No. that's not how it works. It's not that simple. Please refrain yourself from posting wrong statements. That's some nice little (and completely irrelevant) advertising you are doing there. Your post is bullshit.Generated coins cannot be used in transactions until they have at least 100 confirmations (but the official client won't let you until it has 120 for some reason). So, unless you do some magic with the payouts, you have to wait at least 100 confirmations until a pool can pay its rewards for this block.This has nothing to do with transactions, which requires far less confirmations.And, by the way, confirmations have nothing to do wrt. invalids and orphans. If you somewhat generate a better blockchain which forked 200 blocks ago, you can orphan 200 blocks at once (even the 80 "confirmed" ones). (To some extent, since the official client hardcodes some hashes in the early blockchain.) This is of course very unlikely to happen. "There are 1,786,752 different addresses in the block chain. That's less than 0.000000000000000000000000000000000000001 % of all the addresses that can be generated."But I used 2^160 ~= 1.46e48 as the total number of addresses (Because addresses are stored as hash160s internally, and I assume every hash160 is a valid address ; if I'm wrong then correct me!). Okay, done. Now I don't mind you donating 1 BTC for pident developement, but to be honest, I don't think a 5-line commit is worth this  This was solved on IRC, but the problem was using PostgreSQL 8.x (needs version 9 at least). Yeah, unfortunately it's not as easy as it sounds. They don't put block hashes or block numbers, only a date. I tried to correlate the dates they give with the time headers of blocks, unsuccessfully. I tried every time zone, so I think they deliberately obfuscate their data. Until they do something about it, I can't really do much. It's a mistake, the share count is way off. I'll try to fix it.[Edit: fixed] Shares don't work that way. This can't be done. Hmm, it doesn't scale at all. Mining is flawed because it favors pooled mining (not really good for the decentralized part of the network). Also, the code of the client is pretty horrible as well. Also, the wallet.dat is stored unencrypted on the disk. Finally, we lack a wallet protocol and per-address signing.(Edit: never mind. I should have realized you were trolling, as usual.) Maybe. That's not my problem. This is fubar in so many different ways, it's not even worth trying. Also, obligatory "binary magic software may steal my wallet". Added BitMinter support. If I'm missing other pools, don't hesitate to nag me about it. (Or even better, add the support yourself and make a pull request!)
Well for one, you still use use a broken reward method (prop is just wrong, PPS is insane in the long run unless you have fees that make it not worth it). Also, I can't see any mention of a fee percentage on your site (only the parts accessible w/o logging in).But hey, I may be nitpicking since I'm not really mining on your pool, so do what you want with my answer (and if this is inappropriate, I'll delete this message).[Edit: just noticed you now allow anonymous users to see the found blocks. That's a nice improvement! It was ineffective anyway.] Nice explanation. If your tool generates a computer-readable dump somewhere on the disk, I could read it and show an estimate "you should be paid in X blocks" (and linking to your page of course) instead of the misleading explanation. But then again, it would be all the more upsetting because it's just an estimate. What do you think? Short answer: yes, but don't worry, it's by design. Hmm, it doesn't appear to be the case in your repo. Also, unless you already use them, declareCache() and declareCacheExpiration() will do the job in 2 lines of code (Etags: and Expires: fields for client-side cache and server-side caching of the generated page). In fact, my cache is so awesome it's probably the piece of code in pident I'm the most proud of. To be honest I'm not even sure why you are still considering methods that don't pay exactly 50 BTC per round. This will inevitably require a delay in some payments and an additional layer of complexity both in the code and for miners. Because, of course, we can only pay 50 BTC a round if you absolutely want to pay with generated coins. Okay, thanks for the explanation! I'm very interested in any pool using pident, and if you need help to hack it (like, where/how are the scores calculated ), ask me on IRC or by email  Inb4 Meni Rosenfeld saying "PPLNS is the only one worth choosing". Hello. I see you are using pident for choosing where to hop. I feel obliged to remind you that accuracy is fairly low ( http://pident.artefact2.com/accuracy ).But hey, you said you tweaked it so it gathers more data If you managed to improve the accuracy, could you care to share the source so that I can merge it? I know the WTFPL doesn't require you to do that, but it would be nice. If your public domain miner relies on a closed-source web API, then it's of no use  I think you a word in this sentence. *facepalm* I try to use their API if they have some, or I just parse their statistics page. Some pools are trickier than others but it's not a big obstacle anyway (MtRed, BTCMP for example)The interesting code that does this is here: https://github.com/Artefact2/pident/blob/master/lib/inc.pools.php#L62 Hello there. This thread is about pident, a pool-aware, opensource Blockexplorer-like tool.Main featuresPool-related functionality: browse blocks found by a certain pool, show the list of blocks with the pools that found them and see the pools' sizes relative to the whole network.See detailed information about any address, transaction or block: just like you would with another Blockexplorer-like tool.Full tonal compatibility: pident can operate in decimal or in tonal mode. You choose which one you preffer.Other featuresFactoids: not-so-useful interesting statistics about the blockchain, like the block with the biggest fees, biggest transaction, average size of a block, etc.Opensource: pident is released under the Do What The Fuck You Want license. It's basically less legally ambiguous public domain. You can run your own pident instance locally, play with the code,  You're free to do anything you want, for any purpose!Blockexplorer-compatible URIs: most of the URIs are compatible with Blockexplorer, so you can compare both tools by only changing the domain name.CaveatsThis tool is still experimental, it may break at any moment. Although I do most of my breakage on the testing version, it's better for you to be warned. Please don't use pident if you need a reliable service (for example, links in your pool statistics).Performance may be poor: I am running this at home with my poor upload bandwidth. Please don't hammer the server with lots of automated requests. If you need to, I'd rather you run your own pident instance locally (and I may even help you do so).Try it !Try the regular (decimal) version: pident.artefact2.comTry the tonal version: tonal.pident.artefact2.comBrowse the source code on GitHub: https://github.com/Artefact2/pidentIf you need support, or have comments, you can post on this thread or send me an email (artefact2@gmail.com). Thanks! Well, instead of using cookies, I'd have used LocalStorage (since cookies are sent to the server at every request, which is useless in this case because everything is client-side JS).Also, I see no license header or notice to indicate under which license the code is. Would you care to specify that? Other than that, great tool! ^ This. I agree, except the part I quoted. It's not cheating. Troll spotted. You sir are wrong. Pool hopping is a practical solution to earn more bitcoins. Now of course it only works if only a minority of people do it, but if you gain something from it, good for you.I think you know that and you are pool hopping yourself while trying to convince others not to do it so it's more profitable for you. I think so too. PPLNS is hopper-proof (unless you do it wrong, obviously). This isn't very useful to be honest, since there are no block boundaries. Unless I am missing something important? This is worthless. It's just a closed-source inferior copy of pident. This.
C'est une bonne idée ! Ça fait un peu ripoff de PolMine mais bon Par contre, le pool est en proportionnel, c'est à chier vis à vis du "pool hopping". Peut-être aurait-il aussi fallu poster ce message dans le sous-forum francophone plutôt qu'ici ? Hello there,I think there is a problem with your statistics page. Some of the blocks you claim you found were definitely not found by you. For example: your stats say you found block #136661, yet it was found by Eligius (just look at it, lots of generation addresses of miners mining on Eligius, also the coinbase says "Eligius").I just want to report this issue, and if you eventually plan to fix it (it would be nice) ! Thanks.(An easy fix would be to display the block hashes instead of trying to "guess" the block number, since the hash is always accurate.) Don't be ! It's arguable an obscure method indeed, since it's not used in any pool at the moment.You can see PPLNS in action (from a hopper's POV or a regular miner's POV) on this page : http://eligius.st/~luke-jr/samples/800MH/ Congratulations, you just pretty much reinvented PPLNS (Pay-Per-Last-N-Shares). Haha. Delaying stats doesn't deter pool hopping at all. It's just masturbation. This. Exactly. I gave up trying to convince people this pool is a pyramid scheme, it's their problem if they want to be scammed. But I respect you for trying nonetheless. Due to database issues, the pool is going to be down for a few hours  Sorry for the inconvenience. You're right. Never mind the fact that he's doing this in his free time for basically free.Never mind this message http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=6667.msg295683#msg295683 where he says : " If I don't hear any problems with the US payouts, I will plan to do the same for EU balances on Thursday.".You, sir, have it all figured out. http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=6667.msg295683#msg295683 Nice post ! I like how you talk about something you clearly don't understand. This way everyone can see you're just trolling and/or completely stupid. There was a poll to choose the new payout system, and SMPPS won. So you are telling >50% of the miners here just made the wrong choice ? It's not like we never talked about it before. There are comparative graphs available, and a dedicated page on the wiki. But again, it's just way easier to look at a very short time period and immediately jump to the conclusion that the pool is scamming its contributors.Now please stop posting in this thread, thanks. I'm on it. Since Luke-jr took down EU, my local bitcoin node had no connections, thus marking new blocks as invalid. [Edit: fixed.] I made a new minor feature for the stats, it just shows the number of shares in the current round, and its CDF (Cumulative Distribution Function).The percentage represents the probability that a block should have been found given the number of submitted shares in this round.Also, the picture doesn't show it, but there's a nice "realtime" effect It's still the same URI, and still the same address for donations  Thanks ! Also, still vulnerable somewhat to pool-hopping. Shared MaxPPS looks really good. Very simple too, I like it. Yes, it's a bug. I'm working on it but it's not as easy as it looks like. You are right. Yet, maxPPS never pays more than proportional, and, you said it yourself, PPLNS payouts are very close to the proportional payouts. I'd rather have my payouts depend on the pool's luck rather (and get them immediately) than having constantly an (even tiny) amount of my reward "withhold" by the pool in case of "unlucky" rounds. Only 828 miners ? That number seems right to me.Also, the 64% is because this crazy miner is on the US pool. Keep that in mind ! New page on the stats : list of contributors (sorted by hashrate). Go check it out ! That's very nice. PPLNS is my favorite by the way !   I remember seeing an order for ~261000 bitcoins at 0.01$ that got fulfilled.
About the first point : okay, I didn't consider that. This pool is still not very scalable though (even if it represents 10% of the network, that's 1 share every 10 seconds).About the second point : seems complicated. How about simply putting the 599 previous shares in every found share, and when one is a "winner", pay all the previous 599 shares ? Regardless whether they are from a previous block or not. This is much simpler, allows complete decentralization and still pool-hop resistant. Bump, it would be nice to merge this someday It opens up many, many possibilities for both pools and merchants / service providers. It looks like it's a nice fail-over, yeah, but in reality it's just another additional point of failure. You're way better running two miners on two different pools locally (with different priorities, of course). This definitely seems interesting, but I have a few concerns that would make me think that the system is fubar :The network finds, in average, 1 block every 10 minutes (and it's often less because the difficulty only resets every 2 weeks).A block should be found, in average, after 600 of your shares. So that's pretty much 1 share per second to announce to all the miners ! That's an awful lot. If you want it to be decentralized, you can't just send your share to one server, you have to send it to everyone, and that P2P-style like propagation induces latency. And because there's a new share found, in average, every second, you're going to be computing outdated work most of the time. If we consider that it takes 500 milliseconds to announce a share to all the network (and that's a very optimistic estimate, most people don't have very high-quality internet connections), you're effectively going to waste 50% of your work time.I could be wrong, though, if shares don't have to includes the hash of the "previous" share like blocks do. But, why call it a chain then ?Also, you claim it to be mostly decentralized at the moment, yet you handle the payouts. How do you ensure the generated shares only give the 50 BTC to you ? (Ie, a malicious miner that finds a "winning" share could keep it for himself and take the 50 BTC). That needs an explanation in my opinion. Don't even bother. If this pool gets big any time, it won't be long until the exploited pools IP-ban the meta pool.Also, by contributing to this pool, you are ruining the network's security, as massive pool hopping inevitably leads to everyone hopping to the same pool at the same time, creating one giant überpool that is waay over the 50% "safe limit". It's fair in average. But not enough. People who can't for some reason (malicious or not) contribute at the end of a block end up getting nothing, whereas the score-based system still gives them a little something. While, technically, the method you suggested is fair, it can be very frustrating for an isolated miner that got absolutely nothing for his work. The score-based method is not better, but it definitely is easier for miners to understand (and it seems to work well on Slush's pool), and is less confusing. It is also way easier to implement.Also, a few general ideas :* You wanted to put a fee ? Do it.* If you do so, consider adding the tx fees in the rewards. We would be the first pool to do this at the moment !* If you keep MaxPPS, please, please, write a clear explanation and/or a FAQ in the wiki. And announce when you'll deploy it. Yeah, you're right. Leave the pool because the stats are jerky sometimes. Never mind that other pools' stats don't even come close to Eligius' ones. If we ever see per-address-signing, I may add some "premium" statistics for people who choose to donate a % of their rewards to the pool. But we're definitely not there yet. To all of you who want a fee : there's nothing stopping you from donating a small percentage of your payouts back to the pool, really In fact, if a fee is ever going to appear, I think it should be bounded : for example min(1% per block, 2 BTC a day). In this example, this is the same as taking a fee on only the first 4 blocks of a day. This would avoid the "DeepBit effect" where you can get insanely rich if the pool gets really big. No, it doesn't work like that. You can force sending coins that come from a particular address. If you could, it would have worked, yes.We said it probably 100 times on this topic, but anything that touches the password or the username is out of the question. It's just asking for abuse and problems. It's actually not easy at all to implement for us, because we don't use accounts. And we have no way, at the moment, to prove that someone owns a particular address. If you don't trust the pool operator in the first place, why would you mine here ? The payouts have worked correctly for the last months, it's not like there were no plans at all to fix the current issues. It's in its essence, very simple : you don't get paid as much as you should when you contribute on "lucky" blocks. You have to contribute to the "unlucky" blocks too to get all your rewards. Thus eliminating the motive for pool hoppers (that try only to contribute to "lucky" blocks).It's also, in my opinion, better for the mood to see the reward going up more than expected on otherwise long blocks.Now, of course, the math behind is not simple, but the principle is really clever and easily understandable. So, you also want the possibility of allowing everyone to "cheat" by hopping between pools, reducing the reward of all the "legit" miners on the pool ? No, thanks. Yes, it's crap right now because the US pool was very lucky. But it's not going to persist, and you'll be happy to know that you'll be paid more than you should be paid when the pool is unlucky  The current estimate grows over time (this is expected for PPS). It looks nice and I like it.  Thank you for doing that. Especially the last part.  Okay, I've added some new features to the stats.I hope you enjoy then, and as always, if you want to donate, it's very much appreciated (1666R5kdy7qK2RDALPJQ6Wt1czdvn61CQR) !Also, I'm not really bragging about it (and maybe I should), but these statistics are open-source (AGPLv3), you can review (and improve!) the source here : https://github.com/Artefact2/eligius-stats I'm surprised no one mentioned the -q flag Try using -q 4 or -q 5, and see if it still happens as frequently. Basically it tells your miner to use a larger work queue.
No, sorry. It has always been one week. And the averages are supposed to help you read interesting data. Do you mean something like Deepbit or Slush's pages ?Yes, it's planned. No, nothing happens. I'm not familiar with the internals, but the solution you find will only work for the pool, yes. I agree, but it is hard for newbies to get "thank you"s, because they will most of the time ask the questions, not answer them. Never mind the fact that most people simply ignore the functionality exist at all.I knew there is/was a "reputation" thing, and mysteriously I can't see it anymore  If you contribute a pool, you can withhold shares that meet the difficulty criteria, yes. But you cannot use them to win the 50 BTC only for you : the solution only works for the pool.This is not really a problem on proportional-type pool, it just makes the round longer. But it is very dangerous on pay-per-share-type pools : by withholding solutions, it's like the pool is always having "bad luck", and the pool operator always pays more than 50 BTC per round. You see that as a kludge. I see it as an elegant solution. Having to register to mine is not convenient and introduces another layer of potential bugs and security issues. If you don't trust me, see what happened to Deepbit a few weeks ago. Did you even read this thread ? He said that's not an option.What's the difference ? It's still a mediocre solution to an already-solved problem. Just wait !   The pools are working. The share stats are just unavailable for a few hours, sorry!Now that's just wrong. Do you understand what the estimate means ? It's not likely to change much until the pool finds a block, so that's to be expected. Impossible at the moment, as there is no way to prove that someone owns a Bitcoin address. The payout limit simply cannot be set on a per-user basis at the moment. Yes, the point is to avoid transaction fees for us. The payout will probably be configurable when we can sign stuff with our addresses. You can enable autorefresh by clicking the link at the bottom of the page. Cool page. Eligius has an IRC channel : #eligius on FreeNode  And the prop. fee for deepbit is wrong.Also, do you fetch the hashrates dynamically ? I've added an option at the bottom of the page to toggle autorefresh. Nope, not anymore. Done, and thanks ! I've redone most of the stats, hopefully the code is more flexible / clean now. Also, rrdtool is gone !Feedback appreciated here, by email or on IRC. And, of course, donations are still accepted. Thanks ! I'm surprised no one mentioned Eligius.It's by far the simplest pool : no registration (and thus, no security issues, hello Deepbit !), you directly get the generated coins (no intermediate transaction). And, as an added bonus, no fee !It also has nice individual statistics, and a very active IRC channel (#eligius on Freenode) for discussion and support. Heh, maybe because he's busy ?  It's your choice.Objectively, Eligius is better because it has practically no fee, and it has some of the nicest (  ) stats available.
It is just bad luck. EU is a relatively small pool, some variance is to be expected. The point of having two pools in the first place is to have a better connectivity, whether you are in the US or in Europe. I'm in France, and I get much less rejected shares / connection problems with the Europe pool. Ping is not important, but reliability is. If EU finds a block, and cannot reach US (because of a network problem, or the US pool is down for example), how is it going to distribute the 50 BTC ? And no, waiting is not an option Also, I wanted to thank back all the people that helped me improving the graphs here and on IRC ! As you can see, the total paid is displayed as well.  Read the text below the numbers. Yes, it's not just for aesthetics ! Should I remind that the pool already keeps all the tx fees ? It's not uncommon at all to see blocks found with > 0.1 BTC fees (some even have > 0.3). So, in the long term, the more hashpower the pool has, the less need for a fee there is. You're using the old, deprecated URI! You should change it. And yes, the two pools are having bad luck unfortunately. I can do that in the stats, and make it availible as a json file too if you want. It would still have a 1-2 minute delay, but it should be OK for most uses.Edit: it's done. Uptime is available on the main page, there's an JSON file that contains the 25 last events (ie pool went from down to up, or up from down). The pool will pay you after you balance gets over 1 BTC or after one week of inactivity. From the title I was expecting more like "What does Tycho does with the 1.5 BTC he gets at EVERY block found by the pool ?".Since the pool finds a new block every ~25 minutes I like this. I'll try to make this happen soon.In the meantime, the stats main page has been improved : there's a hashing power graph and a list of recently found blocks. Check it out here !Edit: done. I had to reset the individual graphes, but this time should be the last. Awesome. My stats are fully working now for both servers, and they are hosted on Luke's server. Yay!--> http://eligius.st/~artefact2/us/<your_address>.htm for Eligius-US--> http://eligius.st/~artefact2/eu/<your_address>.htm for Eligius-EUThere is also an index page, see http://eligius.st/~artefact2/.Don't worry, all the old URIs are automatically redirected to the US server. So you don't have to update your bookmarks, at least not immediately! If the fee is 2.2% less than Deepbit, which has a 10% fee, that makes a 9.78% fee.Code:10 × (1 - 0.022) = 9.78 That seems wrong. Transactions must be included in blocks to get confirmations. Don't they? I'm having "failed to open stream: Network is unreachable" errors all the time when trying to access http://luke.dashjr.org/programs/bitcoin/pool/balances.json. I hope It'll be working again soon.Edit: I'm having "curl: (7) Failed to connect to 2001:470:88ff:2e::1: Network is unreachable" with cURL, and using -4 doesn't help at all. Am I missing something or the service is just unavailable? I agree, but that looks like a lot of work for a feature that is not very useful. Also, with time, the current balance wouldn't be as readable because of the scaling.Cool! Don't forget to set up the cron jobs properly (I currently run "update.php update" every 5 min, and "update.php graph" every 30 min). I also put a .htaccess to do some URL rewriting (redirect everything that doesn't begin with index.php or graphs/ to index.php) and control the expiration cache (to help saving my already-poor up bandwidth), I set the graph's expiration date to Modification time + 30 minutes so that if you refresh the page, but the graph was not updated, you won't reload the image.  Yeah, that makes sense. Thank you for the explanation! Or (and that's doable ATM) :1. Encrypt the wallet.dat with OpenSSL, using a passphrase only :openssl aes-256-cbc -a -salt -in wallet.dat -out wallet.dat.enc2. Store the wallet.dat.enc (and its sha1 preferably) in various places : USB keys, portable media players, external hard drives, you can even email it to yourself !3. If needed, get the wallet.dat back with :openssl aes-256-cbc -d -a -in wallet.dat.enc -out wallet.datThis method is really straightforward, you can put your wallet in several independent locations, and you don't have to keep a private key or something. Just a passphrase. This is imho the method that has the best security and reliability / complexity ratio. If you use bcrypt instead of OpenSSL, it's even simpler : bcrypt wallet.dat to encrypt, bcrypt wallet.dat.enc to decrypt.   Edit: this is outdated, see this post : http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=6667.msg125918#msg125918I was feeling bored yesterday, so I did a little program to see the balance of addresses in the pool, with a nice graph.It's similar to the coin-control thing, but it only shows the balance (no shares / MH/s) and a graph.How to see it ? Just go to http://eligius.artefact2.com/<your_address>, for example : http://eligius.artefact2.com/1E3TCp3ETwLzxGARwirmzXjdA8DVnVzYmZThe graph shows some "Unknown" values (ie that appear to be zero), but that's just that the API thing was unavailible at that moment. Also, the variations seem a bit weird, I'd expect something more continuous, but it appears to do some big jumps only when a block is found.Keep in mind : this is hosted at home with a modest upload speed. If you have access to something better and you like this, maybe we could make an arrangement You can see the source at : http://eligius.artefact2.com/index.phps http://eligius.artefact2.com/update.phps (yes, it's really 2 files).If you have feedback or issues, feel free to report them (here, or by email, my address is on the main page). If you like it and would like to donate a little something, my address is 1E3TCp3ETwLzxGARwirmzXjdA8DVnVzYmZ. Thanks ! And that's what makes Eligius the best pool ever   Is it possible to explicitly set the transaction fee when transferring bitcoins with the "sendfrom" command ?Also, is it possible to force the client to take the transaction fee only from the <from> account, and not from any other account ? The default behavior is very annoying in an application where every user has an account on the same wallet, and can transfer coins from/to it.
