Is it possible to modify the original client to have a "lightweight" mobile-friendly mode and support for offline transactions? Something to ponder before digging into a new bitcoin implementation. Could this be more profitable than simply letting bitcoin use the spare cycles to generate coins? I got one too the other day and was wondering the same thing. I think it's just a mass mailing from the USPS. See here: http://southfloridapostalblog.blogspot.com/2010/09/inspection-service-do-you-know-warning.html My letter to bitcoin2cash wound up returned just like jimbob's   It was addressed exactly the same way as his letter.My guess is that TTBit is right that USPS might get suspicious when the business name doesn't match the address.  Leaving out the name entirely is probably the right way to make our letters containing cash as inconspicuous as possible. Are the fraudulent transactions mainly from hacked paypal accounts or paypal accounts backed by stolen credit cards? If it's the latter, then requiring verified accounts could help because of the extra bank account verification step. Would it be any safer to accept funds from "verified" paypal accounts only? Mailed $20 to b2c earlier last week. Hopefully it will go thru soon. I'll follow up here when thetransaction is complete. Probably true. There are likely many other more efficient ways of illegallymaking money. It's certainly a big deal to steal other's resources to generate bitcoins. I'm just getting into this whole bitcoin thing. It seems to me already, though, that gettinggreat results from bitcoin mining would require a server farm, super computer, etc; worryingabout individuals taking advantage of their GPUs or crypto accelerators is probably pointless.What can 30000 khash/s really get you? Maybe around the equivalent of $1.50 per day atcurrent difficulty levels? Not really a very efficient means of recouping the cost of an expensivegaming rig.I'd be much more concerned about what somebody with a botnet might be capable of.
