Seems turning off UPnP is working just fine for now, I'll update if anything changes. If that was also the cause of my weekly disconnections and is now fixed I'd be a happy camper! This houses internet was just activated a couple months ago so I figured bad lines. Thinking now, I probably turned on UPnP then while downloading the blocks I've missed the past few months.Thanks for the help. If I end decide to limit the connections I can look up the command for that easy enough. Any reason why that would be better than turning off UPnP, when that limits to 8 connections anyway? Well I did open up UPnP so it can have more connections. I thought that was better for the network, but should I remove that option? The past few days I was having major lag problems with my internet. Checking my ping, it was over 2000ms almost every test, for hours at a time. I didn't think about it being bitcoin causing this, as the cables in my house probably need replacing real soon and I have intermittent disconnection issues once or twice a week.I was getting ready to call Comcast when I tried to turn off bitcoin and see if this was the cause. After doing so my ping fell to a suitable 30 ms and stayed that way.Why is bitcoin-qt causing so much lag? My internet isn't the BEST but it's average. Bitcoin-qt is not even usable this way. I do not believe there is any mac installations that are easy to do. "There are no official releases of Armory for Mac/OSX, because of the difficulty of packaging applications for it.  If you are not afraid of the command line (terminal), then you can follow the instructions on the Building Armory from Source page."https://bitcoinarmory.com/get-armory/Are you familar with Ubuntu? If the computer will stay offline, why bother? The risk of downloading a virus isn't there, unless it comes in the way of your usb stick. I'd stick with something you are familar with, and at most fresh install the OS with a PAID version if windows, not downloaded torrent. No need to pay, a little patience is needed and you'll have it running soon enough. Do you already have Armory installed on your offline computer? Where are you stuck? rMh5StvJpQzYJ6LG43BvrTbxeLEMEZWcwR We're soo over the 20s. 28? More like, RUNNING LATE! tree fitty 18.26 No..that's not the point of bitcoin at all. Only to a few with an extremely limited mindset. You can get a screenshot to say whatever you want, that's not proof. Love how Lurk has a problem with negativity in his loan threads and he's an asshole otherwise, and we're all ungrateful. Passed your free raffle, how exactly do you plan on verifying the result? Sure, have your fun giving away your money, but no one is going to enter a payed raffle, ran by an admitted, addicted gambler where you can't even verify the winner. What a joke.  https://blockchain.info/block/000000000000048b95347e83192f69cf0366076336c639f9b7228e9ba171342e I wish I could ignore specific users and their listings, or at least list their name on the browse listings page so I can pass by them. Some of their actions are very telling and I want no business with them in the future, despite good reputation on the site. It's a pain to click on the new listings just to see half of them from people I never wish to loan to.  I love threads like this. Reminds me of times in the past I felt the same, acted the same, preached love and connection. It helps seeing it from others now, to realize how fucking stupid I sounded. Thanks for that.Is a baby who cries because of hunger, disconnected? Would you starve your child to prove your point? By your definition, when feeding your child you are only attributing to the destruction of awareness, and destruction of their true potential(which apparently is maggot food). We should ignore our primal instinct to care for our young and just let them die, and become ONE with nature...We aren't ACTIVELY killing them, we just choose not to feed them. Oh it's not that we don't care, it's that we care too much to let them live! To say marijuana can be used everyday without ill effects is just foolish. I'm not here to say smoke or not, I'm strongly in belief of legalization and regulation but proper drug education first and foremost. Ill effects? Paranoia, anxiety, short term memory loss etc are all ill effects, temporary or otherwise. Putting smoke in your lungs is never good but can be mitigated by eating or vaporizing. Recent studies suggest smoking under 18 leaves lasting mental deficits. http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2012/08/120827152039.htmI'm not here to argue for against marijuana or drugs, and make a debate on positive vs negative effects, but if you choose to use them, use them responsibly and don't fool people into thinking it's perfect. Education is key, and I laugh at the thought of rogaine having more ill effects than cocaine.  Then they need lessons in market research, I guess.  "The loudest one in the room is the weakest one in the room"Reading the forums, especially this one, and basing your bitcoin opinions on the personalities that constantly need their opinions heard and validated is only scratching the surface of who represents the bitcoin userbase. Laughable.TLDR;Law enforcement might somehow someday figure out a way to track it, I just don't know how yet.Cryptography will fail somehow someday, I just don't know how yet.We're doomed. Happy to hear it wasn't something more serious.
Hilarious, that's exactly what I was going to link to.  A burglar would get one shotgun pump as a warning. If they didn't scurry off while pissing in their pants like any sensible person, I'd assume they are there to harm, and act accordingly.  It should be also be noted, quoting from DeathandTaxes from the Bitcoin Stackexchange, http://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/questions/1708/capabilities-of-bitcoins-and-their-place-in-the-futureMost people are not going to use digital cash for purchases such as ebay or online shopping. They want risk and fraud prevention that someone like a Paypal can offer. If bitcoin is the digital cash of the future, transactions via a system like Paypal would GREATLY limit the amount of transactions, as they likely wouldn't use the blockchain for internal purchases. According to Gavin, the primitive code was not neat or professionally put together, it just work, and it was obvious that Satoshi was no coder. Past him inventing the initial code, it was taken over by the current developers and I don't see why it's hard to believe one guy had the initial idea and implementation.Satoshi likely left in fear of someone finding his identity. People seem to be able to locate his likely origin country by his vocabulary and how he types, though I can't remember which country it is believed to be. To my knowledge he didn't just vanish, he was in private conversations with Gavin. Once he was confident in Gavin taking over the development side of the project, and considering Gavin and/or others were likely better with the code anyway, there wasn't much left for Satoshi to do besides disappear into the background and watch his baby grow. You must be new here. Welcome to bitcoin. Arbitrage traders even the market price if there is a large buy in on one exchange. Keep measuring people by their skin color and see how fast things improve...HOWEVER, if you want to study the effects bitcoin could have on low economic countries/states/cities etc, that is another story entirely. Problems with the Android app. Tried to send roughly half of an addresses balance, but was told after I scanned my paper wallet that I had insufficient funds. Tried to send a quarter of the total instead and it worked fine. Tried to send another transaction the same size, and again, insufficient funds. I had to break that transaction again into two pieces. At the end I was able to send the amount I wanted, but it took multiple transactions,  and the app seemed to have problems reading how much my address had.  One request if it hasn't already been asked, I'd love to have my own addresses listed in my address book by default, or some similar method of having them easily accessible on the send page. Sending bitcoins between your own addresses can be a little more difficult than it should be right now.  If you're going to use a safety deposit box, why not just use secure paper? Then you don't even have to worry about hardware malfunction. I doubt I could even fit a laptop into the small size safety deposit boxes in my bank.If you use a laptop, no need to download the block chain. Install bitcoin, find your receiving address and send away from your other wallet immediately. Check blockexplorer or blockchain.info for transaction verification. As long as you see it sent to your offline address on one of those sites, you're good to go. Obviously you won't see the amount on the offline computer because the block chain isn't downloaded but no need to see the transaction on the offline pc, as long as you have the wallet saved. <3 ^ Thanks for this You're phrase is probably too short, that's why it won't convert it. Enter a longer phrase and it should then convert.Edit: Seems you fixed it. http://www.macconnection.com/IPA/Shop/Product/Detail.htm?sku=12702915&cm_mmc=Base-_-12702915-_-New-_-WN88&ci_src=14110944&ci_sku=12702915Same as yours.Price:$859.00 Paper wallets are probably safest and easiest, as there's never a wallet created for a hacker or bot to attack. If you want your own "vault", buy a cheap netbook that you plan on keeping entirely offline and generate a wallet on there, then back it up elsewhere offline for copies, preferably encrypted at that point.  I actually didn't bring it up, my brother-in-law asked how the bitcoin mining was going. I was happily surprised at how much he already understood about it, and since we only talk once or twice a year I knew he did some research.   You could always rename the wallet.dat file something else and keep it in the app folder. Then you just need to rename it back to wallet.dat when you want to use it and restart bitcoin.Still a bit of useless work, but I believe future clients are working on wallet swaps. bitaddress.org, the wallet details tab. Save the site onto your computer, and you can use it offline. Correct.
If you can't convert USD to INR, trade your USD back to bitcoins and then choose the correct currency next time you sell them. I'm guessing this was from Jed? Well, MTG was a US only exchange then I believe. The interface has been redesigned and the $1000 limit can be lifted by verification. No margin trading. No automatic ACH but Dwolla has essentially taken charge of that. Furthermore it hasn't even been a year.I think they're doing pretty good. If you look at his history, he's trolling many threads. Ignore and move along. Sorry, I prefer my financial websites to look like their targeted audience is older than 12 year olds. $3 a month are they serious? Worse than just owning a credit card. I could have the worst credit on the block and still get a $500 line of credit for less than that a year. This is a good idea. Maybe sooner or later we can keep a running tally of who is the most ignored users to attempt to curb the trolls. The only one I know for sure I've ignored is Surawit, because he posted in here and it says he's currently ignored :p. Keep in mind, most of us aren't ignoring people we disagree with, just the ones who are obviously trolling or arguing to rise tempers. I don't come here for that, and I like strong arguments debating bitcoin, not most of this kindergarten BS floating around. The ignore feature was well needed months ago and thank god for it.  Just received mine in the mail. Amazing job, Casascius! I don't think I could be happier with the look and feel of these coins, they're fantastic. This will quickly become my new favorite trinket to pull out of my pocket and impress the friends  It's not that there isn't many trades happening, it's just that a lot more trades go on during a crash or a fast rise in price. You let me know when the other exchangers can support the volume Mt. Gox trades at and I'll be happy to switch.  $6 is low  Sell a large amount of coins while prices are $11-12, creating a downward trend. Once it's hit a low, drive prices up quickly a couple dollars so people think $6 is a steal to sell for.Buy all your coins back at half the price.? ? ?Profit The 50,000 exchanges are all from one person (obviously). To be more specific, if you check the top 100 list, http://bitcoinreport.appspot.com/, all those 50,000 BTC addresses are the ones that moved. Couldn't tell you what they are doing with it though.  Wait, you mean to say there is more than one person in the world named Bruce Wagner?? Unbelievable! Fine for me. Well, if you read the first couple sentences... This is very cool, and one of the best projects for bitcoin I've seen yet. Thanks for your work and I can't wait to see what happens with your idea in the future.   You can buy yubikeys that aren't attached to a specific service, but that can't be done with the Mt. Gox specific yubikeys. that's new signups each day. So, yes 104 people signed up on the 15th. Am I wrong to assume this is something like Quora? I believe Quora is US only right now, but it sounds like a similar concept. Obviously more technical centered questions would be at stackoverflow but the same could be done at Quora I believe. Wish they'd open up in more countries, though.http://www.quora.com/Bitcoin for anyone who hasn't been there yet.
 The only value of bitcoin is whatever you can convince people to payFTFY If the price is above the buying price, it will queue. If you sell for a low enough price it will trade instantly the highest buying price. On the right side, top and bottom there is a notify button. That subscribes you to threads. You can also have it setup to subscribe you automatically once you reply. I don't know if that's default or not. You have to be kidding yourself if you think the price will drop to 10 cents. Anyone who sold a decent amount between $10-30 would happily buy thousands of coins at $1 or $2. If I sold 1000 coins at $25 and prices fell to $1, I would want to buy those 1000 coins back, plus more and still have a large profit. Especially considering there is nothing wrong with bitcoin, it just hasn't taken off as fast or in the way some have envisioned. Obviously a guess, but anyone who made a good amount of money in the double digit range would have to be an idiot not to invest some, say 1/10th, back in once they think it has hit a low point. The chance to gain that income twofold would outweigh the risk of losing a small amount of your income at those low costs. That alone would keep us above the very low digits.   Confusion cleared, thanks. Edit: I think I may have a misunderstanding on a couple things. I'll look at it next time I try to use it. Edit: Misunderstanding.  The website does have the transaction fee. "Mt Gox charges a small fee (0.30%) for each trade." While logged out on https://mtgox.com/trade, it shows .65%, but once your logged in that changes. Unsure if new users still get the discount? Either way, it's listed there. The fee is .3% now, .65% later. http://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdfhttps://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Main_PageAll you had to do was go to the homepage. Pools are only used because the difficulty is so high it would take a long time for an individual to solve his own block. In a pool, the generated block can be split between the participants so you get payed less amounts, more often. Click on BTC for currency. The block chain needs to update if it is still doing so. I didn't donate my bitcoins so you could put them in the fucking faucet, EFF. I donated so you could help defend against privacy rights. If I had known you were throwing my coins down the toilet, almost quite literally, I wouldn't have done so!Why would a business like EFF accept bitcoins, and then months later ask their lawyers about the legalities? Shouldn't that have been discussed before, I don't know, thousands of dollars was wasted that came from those who donated and supported your cause?"We've collected thousands of dollars in donations in order to secure your rights! Except we're not so sure we want to use your money anymore, so we're just going to walk down the road and hand it out to any stranger we see!"Pathetic. I know this happens on every site, but I'd guess a large number of these people are just testing out the exchange and didn't really give a shit if they were hacked because they didn't have anything in there. I think it was mostly a joke... First, fuck Lulzsec. Thinking they fight for the rights of the people is laughable.Besides that, I agree. There are some good people already looking for exploits, and probably just as many blackhats. We just don't hear much about it. Edit: I don't agree. I thought this was about gathering a group of hackers looking for bitcoin exploits.Carry on Welcome   Thanks for the warning. Glad I never clicked on their links in twitter. I'd also like a security subforum. 
Well they're working on it for the next update and only have so many hands. Be patient. Planning to help speed up the process? I figured by the OP, he meant a site with user names that could make predictions, for bitcoins or without, and there is an accuracy meter given, to show the top prediction makers. Not quite the same. I really like that idea actually. Yeah everyone! Bitcoin7 = SCAM! A SCAM! But it's just a tingling feeling I have. Don't mind me. Sorry if I'm wrong. Just looking for attention  People with no disposable income shouldn't be investing in bitcoin at this point. Some guys believe making fun of him is a rational argument to his irrational one.   People like this are impossible to argue with. There is no discussion to be had because his mind is already set.In a later video: "You can sell bitcoins for USD? Really? I know there's bitcoin exchanges, but I'm not giving you my US dollars! Ever! In history! Til the end of time! I will never give you 10 cents for bitcoin"Good luck reasoning with someone like that. No, but watching the market for weeks on end, this happens often, and usually you're right, about .15 bc. Just some bots trading, most likely. Happens all the time We're going to need to add a section to the wiki for physical locations accepting btc Very cool news. stream.aljazeera.com had a good talk yesterday. http://stream.aljazeera.com/episode/6630. Bitcoin discussion starts at 24:40. Definitely positive tones all around and I think Jerry Brito does a good job in talking for bitcoin. Next question is, how do you prove it is actually stolen? Some people would lie about this, to either try and get their legitimately spent money back, to tarnish a name, to get a story publicized...etc. He didn't say much, mostly "The CIA doesn't tell you what they're thinking"  . Overall I'd say the picture he painted was an overall positive tone from the CIA. He actually sold a bitbill to someone who works for the CIA for $20. Hopefully he'll have his own write up sometime, but a lot of the hour was filled with non-CIA related discussion. I'd like to know which strong points he made in his discussion but they didn't even discuss that today sadly. Maybe it's...down for maintenance?Wild guess here. You're still going to have to connect to the internet if you ever want to spend the coins. Right, I'll do that now. I actually haven't opened to the PM, just read the email notification and wanted to warn not only staff but users as fast as possible. Done. Forum is pretty slow right now but I think it went through. A member is sending PM's talking of rule violations and linking to images4u site (didn't click on it). Beware this user. This thread is to alert staff and to warn others.  Sheesh lets not make any crazy assumptions here. All we need is another fucking Gawker story. "Bitcoin websites hacking bitcoin walletz!11!"If your gmail was compromised from another computer I would expect to give the info, maybe even a warning like this: Is it possible your computer was compromised physically? Do you leave your computer on and stay logged in? Check your account activity in gmail. At the bottom, it will say "Last account activity: XX minutes ago on this computer.  Details" click on details and it will show you the last IP's to login and when it was. See if you can find out any info from that.
45+ coins  Almost $1000 USD donated already Gavin's talk was today, bud. AFTER this incident took place. government hates em, but people love em. Considering this is the people's currency, I'm not worried about the government hating them. They can't control my donations anymore anyways   What about someone I don't know storing my coins and I'm supposed to trust them. That isn't something to worry about? Awesome!!That's all that can come to mind right now after hearing that. So happy they're willing to give it a chance and I'll be donating soon  http://securityforthemasses.blogspot.com/2011/06/bitcoin-exchanges-hacked-by-buttsec.htmlLooks like Mt Gox has been compromised, but more to prove lack of security and less to do with destroying bitcoin confidence. Edit: Oops, wrong link . http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=16856.0Edit2: Christ the board is slow as hell today too! Took forever to edit this post. He's working on it right now. We have a thread for press releases. Google Insights for SearchBitcoin ain't leaving anytime soon Is it minimizing to the bottom right tray?If you don't like that option, go to Settings in Bitcoin and uncheck minimize to tray instead of the taskbar I agree, but I don't think dropbox or online storage should be a requirement, but optional. It'll be more likely we see Monday evening action rather than Monday morning action. Well, US evening, Japan morning  I see, thanks for the info. They're American and you need a SS# to sign up for them.    Good first impression. "This is what's happening, you can't argue because I say it's fact! Now shut up!"Create a savings wallet, save it on another usb/hard drive and delete the original wallet.dat from your computer. Keep the usb/HD in a safety deposit box. Voila. You now have your money safe in a bank like you want. How is it very vulnerable? Thank you thank you thank you. http://custom.simplemachines.org/mods/index.php?mod=1193 let's you ignore individual topics I think. PLEASE implement this. It's already way too hectic around here. 
+1. I can't even believe you're complaining about this Atlas. You have the most distracting signature I've seen yet on this forum.  Bitcoincharts already lists tradehill. How would that be anymore "tiresome" than carrying more bitcoins worth less value? It's the same thing. The current transaction fee is a pain but that will drop soon. If you trade $100,000, your referrer gets $50. Is it really that big of a deal? You're cashing out half a bitcoin worth of USD via moneypak? You know those cost $10 on Tradehill correct?Edit: In terms of speed, I wouldn't expect a moneypak to be instant. In order to get one, someone who works for TradeHill must physically go buy one, then copy the code to you. It isn't something you can get online. Been posted here 3 times now  . Still is nice to read that from Wikileaks though. Able to say that Wikileaks called Bitcoin revolutionary can mean a lot depending on who you talk to. I'll use both most likely. The graphs/trade history is lacking at tradehill for sure, but once that's fixed I can't complain about much else so far. If I was confident that AMD stock would rise because I was confident btc price would rise, why wouldn't I just by bitcoins? Why don't you just trade on mt gox or tradehill they use liberty reserve You don't have to use it for web browsing, and for the bitcoin network speed is not a huge issue.  It just opened yesterday. Haven't seen this posted but enjoyed the article.http://open.salon.com/blog/c4ss/2011/06/06/bitcoin_with_enemies_like_schumer_who_needs_friends Unfortunately Paypal is already removed.http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=14010.msg192592#msg192592 Huh? I never even heard of this site until now. http://twitter.com/wikileaks/statuses/78906603948093440Wikileaks approves of Bitcoin and Namecoin  Pretty cool but not $30.99 cool. Copy your wallet.dat file onto another hard drive. Whether it be USB, internal, external....As long as you have multiple copies, unless you lose them all at once, you'd still have a backup.https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Securing_your_wallet Also, props to Bruce Wagner and The Bitcoin Show for the interview with TradeHill. Just got to check it out. Production value can definitely rise, but it was nice to have an hour long discussion on the topic. I have faith in TH's business model and think they are in it long-term.The Bitcoin Show on http://onlyonetv.com Yeah, mtgoxlive and other market watchers are nice but this is usually the only thing I need. A quick glance in the right corner and I know the price anytime I'm browsing. Might want to contact them. I would assume the order would just get cancelled but who knows. If it doesn't have an address to send to, it can't go anywhere.
https://www.tradehill.com/DepositOverview/BTC On the withdrawal page: If you made the trade, you should now have 1 bitcoin in your tradehill account (check your dashboard). You can withdraw that bitcoin in the withdraw section. Click "BTC" for currency.  Be sure to wear it with one of these for extra effect www.tradehill.comPlease do NOT post referrals here. Put them in your signature if necessary. This is hopefully going to be focused on the discussion of the exchange and without the clutter.So far so good on my end. I deposited some Dwolla and deposited some bitcoins last night to test out speed. My Dwolla showed up on Tradehill within a couple hours and the bitcoins roughly an hour and a half. With the referrals making the fees cheaper than Mt. Gox, and with there being more withdrawal options, Paypal being one of them, it seems fitting to be called a Mt. Gox competitor.Personally I don't have any problems with Mt. Gox, and will continue to use their service as well, but I see tradehill being my second goto site for bitcoin trades. Opinions? Experiences? Predictions? +1 for a friends AND ignore list No shit. http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=13514.0 Nothing to see here. Move along, move along.↓   Report them if you wish. Have a nice day Right. Let them know how much they bother you so they stop trying to bother you. That'll work.Feed em and they grow larger and larger. If you enjoy their service, obey their rules. Wish people would stop selling tracker invites. If someone wants an IPT invite, PM me. I'll give it to you for free. The show has definitely inspired me to the read the books, I'm just waiting for the season to end! Kevin Pollak seemed unimpressed :p, yet it was still fun seeing someone like him sitting down and listening to the idea. Don't blame Mt. Gox, blame the U.S. government. Tux is only following anti-money laundering laws, and to not collect more personal info from you (Like SS#), they have limits that they abide by. If you need those limits raised, thats why you need to contact them.Furthermore Mt. Gox is NOT bitcoin, only an exchanger, and once your coins are freely in YOUR wallet, you'll be free to send them wherever to whoever and however much you want. 4429 posts on the 6th  . Jumping hurdles now. Point taken.And sorry for the OT discussion. Carry on   Guess what? There's parents like that out there arleady  . Ever see those vids of parents giving their kids weed or chain smoking cigarettes? I've seen one or two where the parents gave them ecstasy. The kid seems to slightly enjoy himself even, besides his eyes shooting back and forth. Uncommon, but it happens, and in those situations the child doesn't have options to say no. I guess some would say the courts have to decide if the child is mature enough or not to make the decision for himself? Hm. Tricky. How do you decide when they are mature enough?Edit: To be more specific. How do I decide if a 7 year old is mature enough if they seem to want to do a certain drug?
No, they have less ability to realize consequences, and more to lose because of undeveloped bodies and minds. You seem to imply older teenagers but what about an 11 year old? If I was to lay out a line of coke and say "snort it", you think she would know the consequences? If she was parented right maybe but not every kid. Today, Tor and Bitcoin might be pretty hard for youngsters to get a grasp on, but in the future? Let's dream for a minute, and say in the future phones can come with Tor installed, and bitcoin is a common payment method. If a child, 8,9,10,... gets recommended "Silk Road" by his older friends and he's able to buy some stuff that makes him feel awesome in the blink of an eye, is he able to see or weigh the consequences?Children's freedom is definitely important to me, and I do think western countries are learning to control their kids too much, but drugs are not something to be introducing to a young developing human being. I can't tell you if 18 is the "adult" age but at least by then you have the ability to think for yourself a lot better than being young, and everything learned until teenage years is basically parents/teachers ideas handed down.  There are a lot of buyers that want to pay with paypal and there are even more members who want nothing to do with it. It ends up cluttering up a lot of pages and I can't tell who wants to trade for something without using paypal.Maybe in the Marketplace, it would be nice to have a subforum for people who want to buy bitcoins with paypal or credit cards only. With the addition of the hide forum ability, it would be able to clear up a lot of that clutter and people who refuse to use paypal could hide the forum.Just an idea. Maybe a "Risky Market" subforum for payments that allow chargebacks.  I sure as hell hope not. He can say whatever he pleases about the market. As I said, I didnt know the article was posted on the forum already before I posted it here. Near field communications and online BC banks/wallets will make this simple. In due time something like Google Wallet could work, but instead of having to use a credit card to pay, you can put real money into your Google wallet and pay from the stored credit. Tap a phone on the payment device, confirm the transaction and you're done. If retailers can be convinced that they can get the perks of mobile payment and NFC without having to pay the merchant fees associated with credit cards, it'll be a strong arguing point. NFC is years away from being prominent though, and is only beginning to be tested. For now, online wallets work well enough for mobile payments and I think it'll take a wide range of compatible NFC devices for the best transition into a portable option. Senators Target Internet Narcotics Trafficking Website Silk RoadEdit: Didn't notice until now this topic was already posted in the press thread, but from Sac. Bee and not Huffington Post. Bitcoin isn't mentioned in either article, though.  It's the only read(purple) link on the page. S3, if you're using Tweetdeck (Which is almost necessary for more than casual twitter users IMO), you can set up a facebook account to link to it as well, and you can put the same status update to both accounts at the same time.There are other ways I believe but if it wasn't for tweetdeck I don't think I'd even use twitter. It can be useful for so many things. You could always RSS the blog Once you put in your banking info (account, routing number) Dwolla makes two small deposits into YOUR bank account. After a few days, check with your bank account to see what amounts they are, and then you'll go back to dwolla and put in the amounts of those two deposits. No no, I know how Gawker operates. I used to enjoy them as well but have since stopped reading their site as well as the entire Gawker network. Attention grabbers and biased reporting. It just shocked me that they were basically saying "Look! Bitcoins went up! That must mean all these geeks that read our article are buying drugs just like we thought! What, more price increase? More drugs!" What a joke. Gawker reads one thing into bitcoin: drugs. They then see the price increase and come to the conclusion that they wrote an article on buying drugs with bitcoins, therefore the big price increase is because everyone reads Gawker and wants drugs!! Well I certainly find that interesting. I 100% agree and would LOVE this feature. I've messaged a couple people requesting small amounts, but most here have learned to steer clear of paypal, especially larger orders. Plenty of reasons. Access to my wallet wherever there is an internet connection. No needing to backup the wallet. In person transactions with my smartphone. Instant transactions from mybitcoin user to user, instead of waiting for confirmations, making this one of the best options for in-person trades. Email notifications of incoming payments. If necessary, secure access to my wallet (TOR, I2P) without needing to install bitcoin to my computer.I wouldn't store very large amounts on the site, but for small transactions it's great to have an online wallet. Doesn't seem to be working properly. "BTC price at Mt.Gox is smaller than 8.0$ (9$)" I have two IPT invites if any of you bitcoin users would like them. Reputation speaks first here, so someone within the community will likely get the invite if they want it, however feel free to ask anyways if you're unknown or have a low post count and if no one else wants them, it's yours. Just PM me and I will let you know.If you don't plan on using it, DON'T ask for an invite. Since it's my invite it makes me accountable as well for any mistakes you make. This is no demonoid. Read the rules and watch your ratio, however IPT is by far one of the easiest private trackers to keep a good ratio.  ebay auction
Setting up a Dwolla account, and sending a payment to another Dwolla user is the same process as Paypal, except your bank account is your only backup funding method, and not a credit card. Using paypal online is easy because you've already went through the setup process. Using a credit card online is easy but only because you've already signed up with your credit card and went through plenty more verifications and procedures than bitcoin needs. Yes, bitcoin can be a bit difficult to get sometimes, but blame the money in your pocket for that, not bitcoin. You can't easily send cash to someone instantly unless you use a third party and those third parties need your information and time to collect funds, time to send funds, finish the transaction and so on. CCs are easy but only because you already have an account registered. IF the world ran on bitcoin, exchanges would be faster than ever before. No waiting for funds to be deposited into your bank account, then to your online account, then to pay someone else. No overdrafts, no fees. If I was paid with bitcoins I could send money overseas to family in need within minutes of receiving my paycheck, without having to wait for a bank transfer or an outrageous Western Union fee. You know the advantages...Furthermore if bitcoin does come to reach further popularity, and some of your family/friends/neighbors had bitcoins, well you could just trade with them. Once we reach that level, exchange won't be a problem. If I could simply step into Walmart and hand them some cash for bitcoins, things would be easy. It's still a long path to get there, though, and the ones who are willing to go through the murky grounds now will reap the benefits later.  I like the thumbnails as well. Hope this directory stays current cause I'm getting sick of bookmarking every single bitcoin site I run across :pA quick note, if I don't have my screen maximized (Which I rarely do) the blue on the right collapses inward and cuts off the categories, and I'm unable to scroll right to see them.  If the site doesn't work properly and the site administrator refuses to answer any questions/emals, shouldn't we consider removing them from the wiki, or at least a post a warning? Doesn't seem like an exchanger I would want newcomers to try, especially since it's first on the list on https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Trade Currency Exchange and states that paypal is accepted.  I couldn't find a thread about this and I am not the creator, but is anyone using this new extension? It shows the price on the toolbar, while clicking on it will show you Buy/Sell orders, volume, Low/High and Last price, as well as a list of the last transactions. It's real time and is very quick at recording orders. Great extension, and hats off to the creator. I've been waiting for something simple like this!https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/mplfonagphbambbggaghimbbhpjhapap?hl=en-US From what I've gathered in the past, the statistics come from those who have the Alexa toolbar installed. Not exactly a solid representation but I'd guess in this circumstance it's close to being accurate. Besides him being misinformed on coin generation, what is the "problem"? Would you rather them NOT be a part of bitcoin? That's why a forum is here, to help out. YOU don't have to help if you don't want, just don't belittle people for not fully understanding.  Copy, and preferably encrypt, your wallet.dat to another hard drive/usb/cloud/etc Right. I meant to say, if you didn't have paypal nor dwolla. And if you can figure out paypal, you can figure out dwolla.  If you were to replace "dwolla" with "paypal" in those steps, what would be the difference? Dwolla has the same steps of adding money to an account as paypal does, unless you use a credit card, which has more steps and more risk in terms of chargebacks. And up and up we go I think you're confused. I agreed with the quote from Dawkins and don't think it's wrong. Escape?   Christ, I was just sharing my view on agnosticism not looking for a debate on religion. If that's the case I'm sorry I even brought it up. You win! You win! All hail! I have no problem if that's how you feel, however I'm inclined to say that I strongly disagree with your view of agnosticism as an "irrational position", and my definitions on faith are not linear to yours. As to your unicorns, a phrase that I've been using for years that I believe was first thrown around by Dawkins in his writing, is toothfairy agnostic.http://www.positiveatheism.org/hist/quotes/dawkins.htmIf you don't agree with that view, fine, we just define our atheism and agnosticism differently. Cool comic, but why did you have to have the punchline/ending as your avatar . Knew what was coming all along. Been all over twitter mostly because Tim O'Reilly and his 1,400,000+ followers.  Ok, well you call it what you wish. As I said, I grew up atheist in a christian family, and know where you're coming from. My point in the first place was to simply say that I don't define agnostic as weak believers, or weak non-believers.  Atheism implies a belief there is no god. Even if the big bang theory is correct, which I think it is, I still can't prove or disprove that a higher power did not set off the initial setting for it to happen, and there's no evidence for or against that conclusion, which leads to my decision of calling myself agnostic. I grew up atheist, I just feel the label can sometimes imply too much FAITH in there being no god whatsoever, the christian god or otherwise. I refuse to consider agnostic "weak believers". If anything, I consider agnosticism the true non-belief of faith in general. Atheists and theists are both believers in different faiths and sometimes they both can be just as radical. It's easier, and more true, to admit that I just don't know, however that doesn't mean that I agree with any notion of religion or how it's used to manipulate the people. Is the value of gold not an illusion? Is the value of oil not an illusion? Any value is an illusion. As long as that value can be applied long term, stored, and is limited in supply, it just makes the process of creating a price easier  Every currency value is an illusion until the people buy into it...what exactly is your point?   Not even opened yet and already sounds like a banker. Well at least my bank tries to make me feel all warm and fuzzy before they let me know they're taking money out of my pocket. You sure are a class act.
It's been very little time for anyone to fund their accounts if they even do want to buy bitcoins. I'd imagine this week Mt Gox as well as the other markets will get a little extra business once funds start to roll in.I agree bitcoin is somewhat hard to get into but it's more a sense of popularity than anything. The more popularity rises, and more important the more legal issues are made clearer, it will raise the ability for others to get involved easier. When my neighbors or friends have bitcoin to trade, major markets won't be as necessary. And if you're using something like Dwolla is it really that much harder than Paypal? Besides the fact most people already have paypal, it isn't much different. Refunds are "allowed", they just do not have a third party controlling when they are applicable. We'll have companies just like paypal that acts as an intermediary, only for your bitcions, so they can act as escrow and control refunds, if necessary. People hate paypal because they have such control over your money online, but a third party controlling refunds/cashbacks can be useful. We'll have these businesses with bitcoin as well I assume, but the important thing is that when you take away that third party option or if they shut down your account, you still can pay someone online with your own wallet of bitcoins, which isn't something you can do if paypal blocks payments and you have no other way to get money online. A few minutes or a few hours. Somewhere within that region.   It's spam. If you're broke, how are you paying for hosting and your websites? And if you're not broke, there's plenty of avenues to buy coins if you need them. Anyone asking to borrow a loan to build a gambling site should get everyones sirens going off. Looking at your post history, it seems you're a gambler, and judging by the fact you need a loan, my guess is it would go straight towards that. I would strongly suggest not loaning to this person. We've seen before what can happen in these situations. I know! By the title I thought we were coming in here to play some Starcraft or something.How misleading. Black and yellow black and yellow black and yellow black and yellowBut seriously, no mix?  You can't win that battle. To them, when the price is rising, a bubble is imminent, and when the price drops, their predictions are correct. They don't leave room for anyone else to be right. Gents, this is serious biz. Without some female compassion we are destined to to lead a violent life of corruption and greed!http://www.newsweek.com/2011/03/06/men-without-women.htmlIntroduce the females to the coin! It will save us from beating ourselves over the head with each others sticks (literally) Unfair! She was paid to vote that way! Boobcoin representatives do not count! Why does Mt Gox not have some sort of "News/Announcement" page? would make things a lot easier than having to search through to forum to find any changes. How I see this thread playing out:If prices stay steady - "These prices are too volatile. Sell sell sell!"If prices increase - "This is getting more dangerous! Sell sell sell!"If prices drop - "I was right! Get ready for the drop! Sell sell sell!"The end. Keeping it on your computer will prevent a third party from taking/seizing your coins(not including viruses). Keeping them on an online wallet will give you more options to spend bitcoins (anywhere with an internet connection) and give you an automatic backup in the cloud, but there is a more likely chance of fraud. Depends on your preference and how many coins you have. This was back in january. Prices were different then. Well, that's a giant red flag. An employee realizing it would be very hard to track might have prompted the theft.  Well that's what you do when you buy nude photos. You *puts on sunglasses* screw yourself.  According to Alexa, the highest counted age range is 25-34 for bitcoin.org, and we have a higher than average representation of people who went to graduate school. I'd hardly say that the main audience here is idealist teenagers. If a merchant accepts bitcoins, why wouldn't they accept mBTC if the item they were selling was cheap enough? Seems to be making double the work.
Just saying, if we call witch just because another guy screams witch, it isn't justice or any proof to justify it.Nevertheless it doesn't really apply here, anyways. Or brainwashing without proof. Which isn't saying I disbelieve this person at all. Everyone should exercise extreme caution with whoever that is. But if we take people only on their word when calling out a scammer without proof, that isn't defense, just groupthink. What do you mean? What's wrong with carrots? http://www.google.com/trends?q=bitcoin&ctab=0&geo=all&date=ytd&sort=0The Last 12 months has seen fantastic uptrend in popularity. I still remember the first peak from Slashdot. We're at all time highs, and searching "bitcoin,liberty reserve" (http://www.google.com/trends?q=bitcoin%2Cliberty+reserve&ctab=0&geo=all&date=ytd&sort=0)you can see that bitcoin now is more searched for than liberty reserve. Even so, at current prices there's over $15,000 USD above 7.3 alone. It would be very easy to trade large numbers without a huge fluctuation. Just not all at once. Navigating to mybitcoin.com is pretty easy on a smartphone. It's a standard method I use for any in-person payments. If you send a letter with no return address, $1 inside and make the same threat, how would that be different than your scenario? It's an illogical fear. Cash can be used as anonymous as bitcoins only bitcoins can be traded electronically within seconds. Furthermore most consumers would be wise to keep their btc addresses private. If someone somehow threatens me in the way you described, and he sent it to an address I've only used on one website, then it makes my ability to pinpoint who it was much easier. In fact, I'd almost argue it would be easier to track down this activity rather than an anonymous letter sent to your house. I had a good chuckle when I saw the carrot :p How old are you?  My boss doesn't hand out checks in bitcoins and I'm not a retailer. Last time I checked, the grocery store and the gas pump don't have a bitcoin addresses. My bills? Can't pay them with bitcoins either.Get real. Psst. By using the federal government to mail your meds, you're breaking the law. So...you're providing an illegal service.  If a company allows credit card payments, they won't allow bitcoins. It's been said before, the best options are going to be cash, or e-currencies that do not allow chargebacks, but everyone keeps looking for the easier options. I'd like easier options too, but it just isn't possible. +1! I really wish this was possible. OTC could be a phenomenal market but they're cutting off a very large portion of internet users who do not know IRC well(90%+ of users). Common practice if you have a large amount of coins should be having one wallet with most of your savings, while having a separate spending wallet, or similar setup. Encrypting and backing up would be just as safe as a bank account, especially if you put it in a safety deposit box. Is encrypting and backing up your wallet harder than the first time you learn about banking? I'd make an argument that it's even safer and easier than trying to teach a kid how to open a checking/savings account. Do you have coins in your mybitcoin account? If not, just make a new one. You could even do that just so you can contact support. All of the above?  Sure but how cheap is cheap? Shipping to the U.S. has to be expensive. Or someone did it as a joke. Do you really think five people here are over 100 years old, as shown in genjix's age poll? Also note two moneypaks would have to be purchased, as I'm almost positive they allow a max of 500 on each card. Each card is $5, so $10 for exchange overall.Good idea though, I'd like to see more people accept moneypaks. Very easy for most people to find in their local store, and you just pay cash for it at the register, get on the internet and send the code you receive to the recipient. Voila I've asked ebay, they've responded. They do not want bitcoins used on ebay. "Think of how stupid the average person is, and realize half of them are stupider than that." - George Carlin
I'd recommend http://www.directrelief.org/, but as long as the charity donates 100% of money earned, I don't mind who it is. No, but I use f.lux for nighttime computer use. My eyelids thank me every night.  EDIT: Read the whole thread. You didn't loan the money. Carry on   My guess is that Mt. Gox only transfers up to $1,000 a day, to stay under the limit in which you are considered a Money Services Business. If you transfer more than 1,000 per day to a single individual, you must register but until then, no  registration is necessary and KYC rules do not apply(as far as my understanding goes)http://www.irs.gov/businesses/small/article/0,,id=158384,00.html +1https://i.imgur.com/Umwdt.jpg Just because he doesn't answer every question and every beckoned call, doesn't mean he acts like a scammer or is "hiding" anything. What else do you want him to say? He's given you all the info he knows about Baron and the transactions up to date. Shadow, did you ever think that it's none of your damn business, anyway? Would you expect any other financial institution to inform you on the matters of another person's account? We're lucky he's even keeping us posted how he is and not only speaking with Baron privately. Did you ever think that Mt. Gox has a life/business/family to soak up his time instead of sitting on the bitcoin forum answering all of your questions?Some people.... It's been a fucking week. He's told you all he knows about Barons transactions, and is trying to reach Baron further. He reiterated this morning what he knows and what he's trying to do. Give it some time. Go outside. Of course, because anyone who disagrees with your sentiments must be a lost cause. Again, how would you do something like this with real cash, that is any different than a peer to peer exhcange? No one to hold your funds? Are my dollar bills going to transfer themselves? Fly in the air to the recipient? Oooh magic! Now I'm interested.You don't trust Mt. Gox, that's fine. I don't really care, because you're not forced to use him and it doesn't effect me anyways. Bitcoins decentralized nature is what makes it great, but cash isn't decentralized. So if you want to exchange your bitcoins for cash, get used to the fact that there will be rules. How lenient or not those rules are depends on who the trade is with and where they live. You expect everything done your way, but the world's economy, laws and regulations aren't setup for that  What does his paypal being blocked have to do with anything? It was blocked because users scammed Mt. Gox, not the other way around. And how dare he set fees and limits for his services! I want everything free and at everyone else's expense too! P2P exchanges for other currencies are already happening. How would you create a "decentralized exchanger service" that's different? The money has to come from somewhere, meaning people in "meat space", as nanaimogold would put it, have to associate themselves with that money and those transactions. It is probably in Mt. Gox's best interest to adhere to precautions in order to try to stay within law and keep the law off his back.If you don't want to obey some rules and regulations, you might as well keep your bitcoins and never exchange them, because once you exchange it into cold hard cash, you'll be met with regulation, from Mt. Gox or otherwise.  In Soviet Russia, exchanger don't shut you down, you shut down exchanger! When you get the same few people filling up 27 fucking pages on one thread, I guess I'd run out of things to talk about too. I didn't mean you could pay anon's paycheck, just that the news platform known that anon would use, takes bitcoin donations. However they use it is up to them, however I doubt they don't communicate/organize and doubt they wouldn't share the wealth if it did build. When organizations like Openleaks and Anonymous begin accepting bitcoin, it's impossible to ignore that bitcoin has successfully taken root and will not die. This year is going to be big. Haven't had a chance to use the service yet, but I hope to soon, possibly today. Great idea. As others have said, thanks for filling a niche.FYI, Dominos now has a large pizza with two toppings for $5.99 with the code 9159 at checkout online. YMMV. They had this deal earlier in the month and decided to bring it back. Good deal and good opportunity to try out this system. * Drifter hates shortened urls with no clue to where it leads.  the me command actually works here. Hah Another recommendation for Keepass. You can also use Lastpass, for tighter web integration and form fill options. http://www.dwolla.org/blog/going-heads-down-until-the-march-2nd-event-this-one-is-going-to-be-big/Have I been spending just too much time here, or does this blog post sound somehow related to bitcoins? Maybe they'll somehow allow bitcoins to be deposited and exchanged into USD? If so, I'm excited. Either way, I'd like to see what it's all about. EDITED http://www.bradleymanning.org/16185/paypal-cuts-service-to-alleged-wikileaks-whistle-blower-support-effort/http://www.reddit.com/r/politics/comments/fro4a/paypal_freezes_the_account_of_wikileaks_informer/There is a lot of comments on reddit about wanting paypal alternatives or how redditors could make their own currency somehow. Add some bitcoin comments to add some awareness and let them know that a fix to these problems is in the works. Policing transactions would never work without further proof of theft.Let's say an individual with a high reputation, here and on other exchange websites, decides to make a trade for 10,000 BC with a newcomer. Later, for whatever reason, he decides he wants his coins back, even though both parties made good on their side of the deal. He decides to call this transaction stolen to the forum and friends, and tells everyone to watch for the transaction.The legitimate receiver of the coins, goes to the exchange to get his money, only to find out his funds are BLOCKED, because the person with the higher reputation is claiming they're stolen.We'll be having scams on both side of the board, and just because someone is more well-known only makes it easier for them to scam someone and gain the trust of the peers with their argument. You CAN'T begin to play judge here, or you're going to run into a very slippery slope, with anyone crying "Witch" whenever they want their money back. These might be special circumstances, and of course special circumstances in the future, but this can't become the way to deal with things.  Madhatter is probably one of the most trustworthy here, not to mention one that has a lot reputation and business to lose if he's found to be a scam.I'm sure your questions will be answered, just give it some time. He's one of the last people here I'd figure to rip you off.
No idea how long they've had it, but anonnews.org is now accepting bitcoin donations. Searched the forum for any news of it and didn't find anything so, sorry if this is a repost I heard the other day from the Tor blog, less than 2% of internet users even know what a proxy is, let alone use one. Unrelated, but it can give a good idea how we'll need to rethink how we explain things like this to the normal internet user. Sadly I think this is going to become common. It's just too easy, especially if the forum was even larger and had many unknowing and unsuspecting individuals. Could we somehow enforce rules on links to downloadable material? Create a team willing to somehow test new downloads before they are allowed on the forum? How do you protect people when the users are not as advanced in computers as 95% of the users here currently?  Take the entire url out of the first post. Would be nice if it could zip and encrypt the file before adding it to dropbox. I use a program called Syncback for all the backups on my computer, and can schedule intervals like this. The ability to encrypt files is important when making these backups especially if you're adding things to the cloud. You're the first one to bring up any argument of these being "immoral". No one said that and I doubt many feel that. As others and I have said, it's about keeping the integrity of the forum and focusing on what is important. Let's say months down the line, a third of the market of filled with drug dealing. Do you really think a website/community like slashdot would even want to write about it? How would we gain publicity if websites don't want to cover something involving drug sales? Do you think if a big market like, say, amazon, was to look into bitcoin and saw drug dealing was openly happening on the home site of bitcoin, they would even bother?Silly. I understand everyone's want for integrity and open freedoms, but this forum is integrated into bitcoin.org, where everyone will come to check out bitcoins and learn. Where the majority of people will disapprove of drugs, especially of the anonymous sales of them online. Again, I'm not implying this is me, I don't care what you do with your bitcoins. But putting drug sales right next door to the bitcoin homepage and FAQ, gives the wrong idea, especially to the majority of internet users who do not fully understand bitcoins, the technology behind it, nor care about it, and are just looking into a "paypal alternative".Stop taking it so personal. I don't care what two consenting adults do(who's to say your transaction is with an adult anyway?). I wish we had a marketplace forum separate of bitcoin.org where rules weren't an issue, because having it tied to bitcoin.org is my ONLY problem. Bitcoin.org is the face of the community, and there's no sense having things like this plastered on the walls. If the no holds barred ruling stays, I hope it doesn't bite us in the ass concerning publicity. HAH. Well, I do admit, it is funny. Hadn't realized that's what you were pointing out. Sorry for the hijack, wobber. Carry on with your advisory of the psyche.   Thanks for the tip, but I did that. Considering the only place whatsoever that mentioned it was urbandictionary, it only had 26 up votes, and "define:wobber" on google came up with nothing, I skipped it I guess urbandictionary is more of a dictionary than I thought to some people. I have no idea what a "wobber" means. Little close minded. It's not about being "scared", and I do agree bitcoin will live on if the forum dies. Doesn't mean common sense isn't needed to preserve what we have and grow it to the utmost potential and best reputation possible, especially considering it's infancy. This wouldn't interfere with bitcoin at all. Users can still spend them on what they please. The question should be, what is the forum's goal? And I don't think it's to grab any attention possible.That's the point. I could care less where else they appear. Why risk government involvement and bad business reputation with providing it here?I'm sure we could all agree to prohibit child porn. That's already an exception to our freedoms on this board, but because it's believed by the majority, it's upheld and accepted. I don't care if drugs are sold with bitcoins or porn or other things, I just don't see any point whatsoever in having this done here, where businesses will come to gather information of the user base and where users will first look to gather an opinion of the community. Majority of users will be weary in a place that openly sells drugs, and majority of businesses would think three times before even allowing the notion of bitcoins if they saw that happening in the forums. Why bring negative attention? The whole internet is a big open field. Run free and express yourself however you want. Make a black market forum using bitcoins. Sell your drugs. I just don't see why it has to be done here. There's always limits to how much freedom you can have, the child porn being a perfect example. Focus on what the forum is most important for. I'm willing to bet over 90% of those who use the internet don't use IRC, and will never want to. I agree with Shadow here. My stance has nothing to do with morals, and I think it would be pretty silly if we let the board go up in flames because we allowed sales of drugs or other illegal goods. I've seen forums shut down for this exact reason before and the host doesn't give a damn about "freedom of speech" if they think it's going to come and bite them in the ass.Porn and gambling can be legal. I could care less about those topics. But if someone up high catches wind of drug sales going on here, it will bring a lot of unneeded attention and problems. This board is important for the long haul of the bitcoin community and the continued technical development of the system, and it would be foolish to lose that because we couldn't make a few rules on what can or cannot be sold here. "Human trafficking? Murder? Have no fear your coins are accepted here" What Would Wobber Do :p "Why are you doing something to prevent a crash right before the crash?""Why are you hitting the brakes right before the crash?"If people keep buying, it keeps a crash from happening and there won't be one...  I'm interested as well.Please...don't consider Bank of America for ANYTHING. Paypal is going to give 1099s for 200 transactions or $20,000.I don't see what anyone would have to complain about in your service david. It's not like they'd be forced to use it. Nothing is good about demonoid.Private trackers are awesome, but if you're going to get a private tracker, shoot for something higher than demonoid. MANY people still get ISP letters from demonoid. I'd say cash in mail is the cheapest option. Fantastic . I'm excited to see the future of your work. Interesting, I didn't know this. I do believe raindroplet was the first one to add Bitcoin to the list, but I'm glad the main project has as well. Ripple could be a very important partner to bitcoin.
https://raindroplet.info/ <-- ripple set up with bitcoin denominations  Well, the problem is only in landscape I found out, so no big worries. The phone was sitting on the charger while I installed it and I didn't think of changing views. If the coin is moved up a little in the widget it might even fully fit in landscape view too. Seems to cut half the widget off on my phone, but that might be launcherpros fault. I have the original Droid. I tried resizing but I'd need launcherpro paid version and I'm not doin that. For now I can see the price and most of the coin, so it works. Thanks, I'll be keeping an eye on this  I do not see any democratic society that would put up with an outlaw of hard drives, mobos, cpus or otherwise. If that assumption is about China alone, bitcoin is what will become part of the underground market for those who do not want to rely solely on the government. I don't see any western civilization even considering something like this in my lifetime. Centralized servers will inevitably change the world but to say that it will entirely rule out, abolish, and outlaw personal computing anytime within the next 100 years is just plain ridiculous I'm pretty sure I've read in Square's agreement, or somewhere on the site where they are only designed for in person sales. The card not present option is only for customers who just happen to have their credit card number just don't have their card on them, when you make a sale in person. It can't really be used for online purchases as far as I'm aware. Problem solved, thanks anyway  Anyone have any private torrent invites they would be willing to giveaway or sell for a little bit of bitcoins? I never had much of a problem with public trackers but it's only getting worse and ISP's are beginning to send out letters like clockwork.I never really looked too hard for private invites, but then again I don't personally know many people that use them. PM me if you can help   Signed up last night and like the idea http://witcoin.com/witizens/28 Edit: Nevermind. Didn't think there was a username option but I found it. Is the shipment coming straight from Amazon? I know this is a popular thing with Prime, getting multiple people together to save, but I also hear plenty enough times of people getting their prime cancelled for using prime as a distribution type set-up.  I use the portable version of Keepass for the passwords I need if traveling. Very useful and I always have my USB on me. You could also have lastpass save your passwords and they would be available anywhere with an internet connection.I just rather have one master password than passwords with any sort of pattern. Some of my passwords are 50 characters long for paranoia sake. It would be good if I had a password I could memorize, but I usually think if a password is easy enough to remember, it's just not good enough.  Sorry for the ones that lost coins.But weak passwords on a site that has ANYTHING to do with finances? http://lastpass.com/http://keepass.info/http://strongpasswordgenerator.com/http://www.passwordchart.com/They all work great, depending on what you need.  I'm only referring to the Jan 24th incident personally. Sorry for the confusion. And yes, I always use HTTPS as you are redirected automatically. My account is one that was compromised. My password is randomly generated and strength is 100% according to that site.My password is above and beyond safer than necessary. A dictionary attack is very unlikely.  Count me in. I was in contact before with the ripplepay site owner about something just like this. Glad to see someone took the initiative  Becoming lucid is simply becoming aware that you're dreaming. Some luicid dreamers push the boundaries after becoming aware, and try to control aspects of their dream. This is related to lucid dreaming, but something different. Most people have lucid dreams, it's just that they don't remember them. An amazing show is being put on inside our heads every night and most of us don't bother to even try to remember them. What I find most amusing is how the laws of a dream reflect the laws of reality, and it usually takes some true commitment to break those rules. For instance, gravity. Even when I am lucid, if I try to fly in a dream, I usually can only jump very high, trapped by some strange force of gravity that only exists in my thoughts. I attempt lucid dreaming, and I attempt dream control. It takes a good amount of commitment to even remember your dreams but it's ongoing practice. Most e-currencies have the same problems. That's why you usually can't buy things like Liberty Reserve with a credit card. Paypal is tied to an identification so they don't have as big of a problem with any fraudulent buyer charges. If you want to use credit cards, you need a system which ties to your identity, and bitcoin is not that. Why don't we grow up together? You're not going to help your cause one bit by calling us children. This could have been a good discussion but your pompous attitude carried throughout all of your posts is just going to make everyone defensive.  Lighten up, dude. No one wants to listen to a pigheaded preacher. Of course, you'll simply relate the fact that everyone is argumentative because we're all scammers who are no good for society, ignoring your own arrogance. In a sense, you've already made up your mind about us, so arguments about the situation is futile. Glad I don't live in a world with your moralities.  Don't know why this might help...but have you tried to see if the bitcoins show up again using the old mobo? Valerius, this is a discussion forum. If you're going to try and stop any "bs" or discussion that isn't a bid, on every single thread you make, then a forum isn't your best venue. I am especially glad that people do discuss your threads, because you've reeked of scam ever since you've shown up. Always calling out the other "hot air" markets trying to encourage business makes you look even worse.  Straight from the horses mouth .
EDIT: Nevermind What about using Google Docs? you can make the charts public and then just link us to the pages. Also, if ever necessary, you can have collaborators work with you on a document/spreadsheet/whatever.  It sounds like Google Books. You can store your books on different "shelves" like "To read" "reading" "have read" and "favorites". I don't think I would pay for a service like that when they are plentiful all over the net. Is it really anyone's business? Thanks for keeping us updated. I appreciate if anyone else decides to end their service, to also post in this thread. It makes it easier for myself and others trying to create some sort of directory if we can keep tabs on what sites are staying online or not. You can call it what you want, but when Satoshi says in the first lines on the homepage, "Bitcoin P2P CryptocurrencyBitcoin is a peer-to-peer network based digital currency.", you're going to have a hell of a time confusing new users. I don't think we should banish any words here, that would be silly. If you want to make an effort to never call Bitcoin "currency" or "money", feel free. Outlawing the words doesn't seem the answer. Why not use another exchanger?Someone like goldexpay charges 0%, and you can send payment with bank wire. You can buy Liberty Reserve with bank transfers, money orders, money transfers (Wester Union, Moneygram), cash in mail, or exchanging another e-currency. What other funding methods do you want? Anything that uses credit cards is out of the question, and that's the only other funding method there is. People have always made digital currency seem a lot harder to get than it really is. Take a little while to review exchangers and take it from there.  Bitcoin: Absolute privacy and security in the form of financial transactionsBitcoin: Generating privacy a coin at a timeBitcoin believes in giving you financial power where a bank strips those freedoms awayBitcoin. Because our financial security shouldn't rely on a third party, online or off What a way to draw conclusions about people, and whether true or not if he's gay, what business is it of yours? What a way to greet a new member - confront him about his sexual orientation.This guy has been discussing Bitcoin on twitter for days. He hosts a talkshow. He's not a bot.Welcome Bruce. As far as I know, Bitcoins ability to be exchanged for real money makes a gaming license a requirement whether the bets are made with a recognized currency or not. Play money on a poker site is something entirely different, as it has no real value. I'll stop derailing the thread though. The site has merit, just be careful. You guys can call it "censorship" all you want but it doesn't take away from the fact that in the United States you can get in deep trouble for making a wager with a minor over the internet. Of course you'll argue "I had no idea he was only 15!", but the fact that you knowingly played poker at a site that did not even post an age restriction, well, "you should have known better" is what it will come down to. You can take the risk if you want but I honestly see no point in doing so. Stand up for what you believe in, but this would hardly be the way to go about it. I can give my 5% rake to a poker table that I barely have to worry about technical issues, security, or legality. It has nothing to do with my stance on underage gambling, but all to do with my country's stance on this issue. If I object to that, I'll argue the law and try to change it, not disobey the law and explain myself later.  Don't do it. You might break the interwebz. Bitcoin is a measurable, decentralized digital commodity, used for p2p transfers, trading and electronic purchasesUsed some of the examples already given above to help.  I agree wholeheartedly on this point. Mind you, Bitcoin is still so young and in beta, that I take the appearance of Bitcoin with a grain of salt. But, if I had not been interested in the subject, nothing would've called out to me to further investigate what it's all about. I'll be the first to say that I am one of those that go "Ooh" and "Ahh" at a new shiny, web 2.0 type design. Something as simple as a short description, a short tutorial video, and nice looking fonts on the homepage and you have the attention of most average users if your idea seems noteworthy. Something needs to be there to draw a person in, and it's easy to see why many are put off before they even get too interested.  Biddingpond is listed on the trade page. Under the "Other" section. Added more blog posts discussing Bitcoin along with a few more odds and ends shops/sites. Some sites are not exactly noteworthy in terms of Bitcoin, only have a bitcoin donate button or something of the sort. I'm thinking how to categorize these still, but the goal is still to recognize as many sites as possible that have something to do with Bitcoin in some form or another, even if it's only accepting donations. Still on the fence about whether or not I should add Adult links, but that's not entirely important.Also began to customize some of the pearl icons for easier visualization. I might begin keeping a change log mostly for newly added sites, on the main "bitcoin" pearl in the comments section. This will make it easier to see what has recently been added.I also hope that you explore the opportunity of signing up with pearltree, and saving the bitcoin pearltree to your own. If I comment on a certain pearl, it is automatically sent to the other individuals who have this site/pearl saved on their pearltree, and vice versa. You can receive these notifications on pearltree or e-mail, whenever someone comments on a particular site. This effectively begins a slow expansion of bitcoin site reviews within the bitcoin community, as well as the directory for all the related sites right at your fingertips. You don't have to wade through the forum looking for reviews, they could be sent right to your e-mail (or quickly checked on the pearltree itself)For example, if 10 people save the bitcoin pearltree to their own, and User 1, John Doe, leaves a comment on the Mt. Gox pearl saying, "This place is great for exchanges!", this message is then sent out to the other 9 individuals, and it's saved under everyones Mt. Gox pearl. Anyone who leaves a comment after this about mtgox.com is added to the list of ongoing comments, creating a viewable history of users' experience with any site that accepts Bitcoin.  This is going to make it very tedious, confusing, expensive and unnecessary. Say the price on Mt gox is .1, and I sell 10,000 coins. That's 1,000 USD on Gox. In order to cash out I'd be losing around 25%, not including withdrawal fees from liberty reserve itself if I decide to withdraw a route like that.You guys are essentially creating your own withdrawal fee for Mt. Gox. This will increase prices on Gox and make the "USD" exchange rate incorrect in correlation to the real dollar. People will need to increase the price of coins specifically on Mt. Gox in order to offset the 25% loss if people buy Gox dollars for .75/1. I appreciate Mt. Gox for this service, as it COULD help, but if people sell for 75 cents on the dollar, it's worthless. Mt. Gox should be equal to the dollar with MAYBE up to a 5% fee for an exchange rate. Any more and you're better off using an entirely different market. Mt Gox dollars shouldn't be worth less than the USD or now we're using a new digital currency alongside Bitcoin. It is still not foolproof. Even trusted, or longstanding members rip a person off every now and then, it would just encourage them to make a few transactions first in order to build a false sense of trust, then make a larger order and claim fraud of some sort with Paypal or credit card. I don't see paypal being a big problem for those who want to withdraw from a market, but deposits are just impossible unless you ABSOLUTELY trust the person, even with verifications. When you are presented with a chargeback, it's up to you to present evidence that shows you actually sent something(which is hard to do with digital goods), evidence that what you sent is correct and as described, and evidence that you have sent to the right person. Even with presenting this information, you might still lose because of PP or your CC unable to grasp the idea of Bitcoin. It's a good idea, and it would help against fraud, but not entirely.  Hm I saw that too. Strange. Why would the design show the lowest ask price at .19 if that's the case? Definitely a flaw that needs to be fixed.
What's going on? No bids and the price was driven extremely high. This doesn't look good. Hehe, let's just say I had an inside tip  Glad you guys enjoy the pearltree. I'll continue to add links and organize it as best as possible. If anyone wants their site on the tree, sees one I missed or feels one belongs in a different category, PM me or leave a message here. Running just fine on Win7 64bit as well Well, ebay already considers it currency. I don't want to wager, but you can go ahead and e-mail alertpay if you're interested in their opinion. I'm sure they'll promptly reply. Good luck trying to convince Alertpay that. My bet is they'll still call it e-cash. If you travel over to www.pearltrees.com/bitcoin, I've set up a web of bitcoin related links, directories, bookmarks, traders and everything else Bitcoin related. This is not limited whatsoever and is an ongoing process to put together everything from merchants using Bitcoin, to blogs that mention it. Bitcoin related twitter accounts and contacts. The goal is to find, arrange and put together a large array of different Bitcoin services and sites, all together in one place. By scrolling through the pearltree, you can see previews of the page, comments of specific sites, see how many others have it favorited, and can view Bitcoin bookmarks in a more visual manner, organized and grouped. By signing up with pearltrees you can also save any branch of the bitcoin pearltree and place it on your own for easy viewing and saving. This isn't only limited to a directory, but more of a categorization of bitcoin related bookmarks. If the idea is well-received, I will work on putting together even more links. http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1484.msg18222#msg18222 From Alertpay's User Agreement:Your alertpay will just be frozen. I do not recommend Alertpay. You mean like tangible goods? If you're trying to ship it to another address, you would have to convince the seller to allow it I'd think, but I don't think you'd have certain paypal protections if you did this.  Official word from ebay on selling bitcoins on their site: Yeah, the spike is from the Slashdot article, not businesses accepting Bitcoins.  Last time I checked months ago, there wasn't enough data to make a chart. Glad it's finally showing some stats.Google has quite a useful group of features. Another one to point out - Google Alerts. Get an alert on bitcoins, and any new sites that mention bitcoins will be shown to you.  You can already purchase facebook credits for games from facebook themselves. I don't think they would consider throwing their system away for one like Bitcoin.  I don't know about the Australian ebay, but tire money is available for sale on ebay here in the States as well. Sure, that's all I meant. Survival instinct. At times when humans were struggling from meal to meal, not even close to an organized society, it was a necessity to be the "baddest motherfucker" in town. If you weren't, you'd starve. In that sense, I feel humans are naturally more evil than peaceful because we needed that in order to survive. Peace, outside our own group or family, didn't come until we realized people had stuff we wanted. Either way, it's still selfish.  What is the getsatisfaction page for? Bitcoin in general?, Bitcoinmedia.com? Not exactly responding to the quote, but I think humans are inherently evil. To be realistic, it's hardwired into our DNA from millions of years of survival of the fittest. Where you only lived if you fought for your stay. Living peaceful in society is nature vs. nurture. Forager vs. farmer. We are still inherently selfish and egotistical, but being nurtured in a community where we need to give in order to take, most people have learned to control their evolutionary predispositions.My view is broad and not based on Bitcoin  but I do not believe it or any other cryptocurrency to be a threat to society, only to government because they would lack the control they always desire. https://www.moneypak.com/ Can be used online to reload prepaid debit cards OR load onto Paypal. Paypal without the chargeback  It's not only the money, but the recognition. Recognition always plays a role. Being part of something new and exciting, and being part of a group that agrees with you on that. People want to share/explore their own ideas, make a name for themselves, while making profit in the meantime. Bitcoin is a fantastic opportunity to do that.  What is the difference if bitcoin4cash just sends you bitcoins and you add it to mt. gox yourself? 
I think in certain situations you can collect money in whichever way you please - however you must make one of their options available for use as well.The money never really goes through ebay, it goes from Paypal user to paypal user, and ebay takes out their fee from Paypal later.  Excellent, jgarzik! Thanks for the share. There's some other things I found interested as well. Accroding to that link, bitcoin itself could possibly not even be considered a money transmitting service or a currency for that matter. Just like these prepaid stored value cards, bitcoin is only a stored amount of data and value, making this - at most, a merchant sale and not a money transmission. @bitcoinbot was displaying current market trades until September. I don't know how the information was being gathered, but I had only found them after they had stopped.  The problem isn't withdrawals from mt. gox, it is the chargebacks from buyers. I don't see any problems arising if mt. gox were to use paypal for withdrawals only. Individuals that want to buy bitcoins with cash can do so freely and then put the coins onto the market. Individuals that want cash for their coin shouldn't put it on the market and find an alternate option. For the cash that's caught in the system now, it could be a possibility. I don't see it as a permanent fix though. That's beside the point. As a single peer, you would not be committing the crime but the individual with 15 addresses(If they go over the 10,000 without providing proper ID). Just because I cannot tell does not determine that I would need to register as a Money Services Business, anyway. At least, not this point in time. According to what I have quoted above, as long as you stay under those limits, it is not your responsibility to collect and report private data of the individual you're trading with in regards to anti money laundering.Take Bitcoin off the table. Let's say I agree to do currency exchanges for less than $1000 for cash in mail. I receive $1,000, from 15 different addresses with 15 different names. According to the IRS I can do so free without any business registration, because I am staying within my limits for every individual. But what if all those truly came from the same person, with 14 other fake addresses and names? There's no possible way I could be held accountable for that, as I had no previous knowledge of the other individual doing so. According to IRS.gov, as long as you do not exchange more than $1,000 with the same person in the same day, you do not need to register as a Money Services Businesshttp://www.irs.gov/businesses/small/article/0,,id=158384,00.htmlAs far as I know, staying under this limit should also keep you free of any anti-money laundering registration.It's unclear as to what is considered a money transfer service, though. My presumption is that a person looking to transfer money to another individual is what is considered a money transfer. As long as it is a single individual only looking to exchange or buy currency with another peer, it should not be considered this.By these definitions, it should be legal for any single person within the United States to buy/sell/trade Bitcoins as they please as long as they do not sell more than $1000 to a certain individual in one day. Of course, any income would still need to be reported, but you should not require any business registration for peer to peer exchange. Trading markets and exchangers might have it much worse off considering they could be considered a money transfer service.Someone please correct me if I'm wrong.  Bitcoin will have many uses when it gains a little age. Unlimited free (or close to it) electronic transactions worldwide. No third party to simply take a chunk for themselves. A WORLDWIDE currency system. No US Dollar or British Pound. No exchange fee for currencies. The securities of a bank with much better privacy to go along with it. You'll be able to use it to buy things just like paypal. Subscriptions, services, electronics. Anything you want from gold to paper plates. Pay friends with a click of a button, no fee and the utmost security.  When bitcoin gains more portability, you'll be able to "bump" phones or similar to exchange contact info and trade bitcoins through your phone (which you can already do anyways with mybitcoin.com). The possibilities are endless. Anything you use real money for, you will be able to use bitcoins for. I would recommend getting involved as soon as possible to get as much benefits as possible. Give it more time to blossom before you see the overall benefits.   I think I trust a company more in this situation than any escrow type system.  You're asking escrows to approve every round of betting, but do you think this would be done for free? The rake would have to pay them, but it wouldn't be easy at all having to approve every round of betting, and in that sense I also trust a well-polished program that detects error rather than an escrow approving bets when they never even see what's working behind the scenes and can't see face down cards. A Bitcoin casino that allows deposits, gives people fake poker money to play with, then cashes out for real Bitcoin whenever they're finished feels like much less of a hassle, especially considering withdrawals could be made nearly instant. A much easier system would be: Players sit at table, agree on escrows, send their money, and they're given the equivalent in play money at the poker table to play with. The players play the game normally, allowing the computer to handle bets and wins. When it's time to leave the table and they're done playing, they turn in their play money for the Bitcoin equivalent. At this point the escrow could also take a 1-2% fee, as I wouldn't expect for something like this to be entirely free. Given the fact that almost all poker sites take around 5% rake, you'd save 2-3%. Depending on your dedication, it could be worth it, but I think it's going to be a long time before the security I have with a real poker table is worth giving up for 2-3%.  Not quite sure I agree with that. Sure, there will initially be more trust put into those individuals and businesses that have gained that trust, but that is no different than any type of trade. If something new comes along that is better implemented, they would soon get their deserved credit. Internet Explorer basically had the entire market until little unknown Firefox came around and gained popularity simply for better implementation. The original Bitcoiners and businesses set the bar, but that's all it is for the competition. It might very well seem to be one sided at this age of Bitcoin, but that is only because the low number of users. With this number of users, you only need to be the first on the spot, and only later does it becomes a race of who has the best niche and implementation. When larger business begins to take root with polished websites and an even larger reputation, we'll begin to see a change. My name and post count may not show, but I've been around since the end of 2009, when a few hundred coins could get you at most $5. Bitcoin only had one exchanger and no business to even use them. Then, if you were interested you could simply generate some coins. At this point, the Bitcoin economy is going to be strongly influenced by payment options for first time users, and popularity of Bitcoin itself. Since generation of coin is increasingly difficult (and too difficult for a first time user looking to get started) The popularity won't come without decent payment options. Right now, growth is heavily determined by the ease of turning cash into coin. No luck with liqpay SMS? Strange. Be sure to use your country code and area code when punching in your number. You might need to attempt the SMS twice, as for some reason, it doesn't always work the first time.I once had problems signing in, and contacted their chat support, in which they were able to guide me through the problem. Maybe you should try out their support. Their native language is Russian but support speaks English as well.I feel that IF you somehow get liqpay to work, it is a pretty good solution. Liqpay can also be easily traded for Liberty Reserve on some exchange sites for 4-5%. Perhaps allowing both Liberty Reserve and Liqpay is a good choice, for one offers credit card payment, and the other is much safer. In fact when you consider the idea of funding Liberty Reserve with liqpay for small amounts, the fees don't really seem that high for Liberty Reserve.I also agree with the post above. Having a paypal withdrawal account should be a good option to consider as well. Bitcoin and Wirtland are two entirely different "projects", but they fit together wonderfully. Wirtland is looking for an ideal system for a global, electronic currency. Bitcoin is looking for members and a user base in which has purpose to use Bitcoin on a consistent basis. Wirtland and Bitcoin do not have to work together for this to work, either. If a proposal is made towards Wirtland about Bitcoins that they like, they can adopt their new currency without any necessary permissions. Just run the program and start your financial venture.Bitcoin businesses automatically become businesses in which "Wirtizens" can spend money. At the same time, it's another 1,000+ members that become users of Bitcoin if they're dedicated to their online community.I feel Wirtland has a lot fo gain by adopting Bitcoin, as does the Bitcoin community, and all that needs to be done is convincing Wirtland that it will be beneficial for all parties. Not saying it's an absolute answer, just one of the easier backup solutions. An easy way for the average Joe is to get to simply get some backup software, like SyncBack. Set up the directories in which you'd like to copy files and save them, and set the schedule on how often you'd like it to run. The schedule can be ran anywhere from seconds, to days. You also can also password protect the backup automatically within the Syncback advanced settings.I have a backup running every 15 minutes of my wallet.dat, and that is saved to my Dropbox after being compressed and password protected. If the amount in my wallet hasn't changed, the backup doesn't do a thing. Dropbox keeps a record of all changes of your files within the last 30 days (FOREVER for payed users). If anything goes wrong within the month, I have a record of nearly every change that's happened this month.I could even run this backup every few seconds to check for changes if I wanted to, but no need for overkill.Shameless plug here, but if you don't already have dropbox and what an extra 250mb storage, follow the referral: http://www.dropbox.com/referrals/NTEwNzcxMDc5OQFair warning, I think I'm able to see the e-mail addresses that sign up with my referral, so if that's a problem, don't use the referral. If anything, I feel like Liberty Reserve should strongly be considered, even as a second option. You can get Liberty Reserve pretty easily right now, and it's not that expensive. Places like goldexpay.com only charge $5 for any amount, or 3% + $6 if you're funding with Western Union. To cash out into your bank account or western union is only 4-5%. Not peanuts, obviously, but for those who keep a chunk of their money online, the fees are miniscule. What is it, 1% to exchange between liberty reserve members? That's even savings compared to Paypal, and no risk of chargeback.Now for the person who has never funded any e-currency before, it might be a tad confusing on how to initially get started, but it's a system that should work without many hiccups.  Vic I just checked out Wirtland and that seems like an excellent idea! Surely they would be interested in a system like this, and I have to say, Wirtland itself is an interesting concept I have never seen or thought of before.A global, electronic currency like Bitcoin seems like exactly what Wirtland would need. The problem is finding a funding method in which would make the average person want to get involved. While there are many systems that do not allow chargebacks, Paypal was one of the most widely accepted online payment processors for the internet. Mentioning Bitcoins can be exchanged for Paypal is a big plus in luring people in. But when they find out that not only do they need to learn Bitcoin, but they also need to learn how to fund another system (Liberty Reserve, Pecunix, Alertpay, etc) then they start giving up on the proposal.The private conscientious and Bitcoin enthusiasts will be more than happy to find a new payment method, but the next time Bitcoin is featured in an article and the readers realize the loops they have to jump through, it will turn off the majority. Something needs to be done, that is obvious. But I don't blame Mt. Gox or others that tried to use CC or Paypal payments. If it wasn't for these funding methods, I don't think we'd see nearly the price escalation that we've seen. Maxmium bet per spot is 50 BTC. That could have something to do with it. Almost $2300 in fraudulent charges   Also, after reading more on ukash, it's a bit different scenario. You can't easily withdraw once you have a ukash voucher. You're basically stuck with it until you can find another use for it on a site that accepts payment with it. With moneypaks, atm withdrawl, debit card use, or paypal deposit/bank deposit is very easy and makes for a more viable option for cashing out. Nope, not the same guy
