Just making a market =) I'd swap some WATER for BTC at a rate of 1WATER to 2sat (0.00000002BTC), if anyone's interested (I'm offering the BTC). The wallet is working fine, the only problem is people attacking the network due to the low PoW network hashrate.When the wallet detects an attack, it shows a checkpoint error - the checkpoint is what keeps Bittrex from sending your coins into a black hole or an attacker's wallet.Once PoW is phased out in less than a week, the network will no longer be so easy to attack.Please keep in mind that mining isn't there only to give people rewards - its primary function is to secure the network.  Given the extremely low hashrate of the network and the number of attacks that it has experienced, the fact that Bittrex has not yet been emptied out is a testament to Mindfox's professionalism and security-consciousness.  Too many developers opt for superficial fixes to make things seem like they're running, only to end up with the entire coin destroyed by thefts from users and exchanges. As of a few hours ago, I am no longer getting a high rate of orphan blocks. In order to transition to PoS-only mode, the latest wallet update changed the staking rules.  The immediate effect is more transactions trying to stake at the same time, resulting in more orphan blocks - a situation similar to early mining on a PoW coin with low difficulty.  This should calm down by itself in the next 4-5 days.The checkpoint warnings, on the other hand, are due to constant attacks on the WATER network because of its low PoW difficulty.  The wallet is actually performing perfectly - it stops creating new transactions when it detects a problem with the blockchain, thus protecting users - and exchanges - from losing coins.  Once the network security is improved by transitioning to purely PoS operation, these checkpoint warnings will also become much less frequent. For those who are having trouble synchronizing their wallets, try closing them for 24 hours and then re-downloading the blockchain.  You may be getting banned by legitimate nodes for inadvertently re-broadcasting blocks and transactions form an incorrect chain. I'm interested in buying some CWC (from the correct fork, of course!).  Please PM me with your amount and price. Buying 1M+DOGE, paying in BTC.PM reasonable offers! Thanks, Moose, for a smooth trade =)Still open to buying more. Buying XRP at $1 USD per 50,000 XRP (also payable in BTC).PM me to trade. BUMPStill buying XRP. . I am buying Ripple Credits (XRP) for Bitcoin and USD.Please PM your offers, amount and price.If I do not respond within a few hours, the price is likely too high - feel free to send another offer with a lower price.If you need something other than BTC or USD for your XRP, I will consider it if the price and volume are right. They appear as mined (coinbase transaction). Another possibility is that these pools are engaged in laundering stolen bitcoins.Please consider using BitPenny.  It uses an open-source client and coinbase transactions to assure miners that their power is not resold or abused by the server, and that all coins are freshly generated.  We also believe that BIP 16 and 17 need more testing and are holding off on implementing either of them. Bitpennyd is a client that is based on bitcoind (the bitcoin daemon), the GUI part applies to bitcoin but not to bitpenny.  The executable is provided by us (the same people who provide the source) at https://github.com/ForceMajeure/BitPenny-Client/tree/master/bin/win32I hope that helps a bit. Askit2,Bitpenny is a daemon and does not support QT.  Please see build-msw.txt for dependencies (substituting "bitpennyd" for "bitcoind" where necessary), and use src/makefile.bitpenny.mingw to build.  You can also join our IRC channel for live help, or download a Windows binary directly.Good luck, and welcome to BitPenny! We've solved this issue at BitPenny (website) by providing an open-source client and setting the difficulty to 8.  This keeps the number of submitted shares manageable while allowing users to get latency-free work locally as often as they wish, even with an array of fast GPUs. UPDATE AVAILABLEBitPenny Client version 0.4.0.1 (2011-12-12)updated codebase to bitcoin 0.5.1gitian build enabledbuilt-in block monitor (see sample config) Coblee,BitPenny (website, forum topic) uses the Delayed PPS (CPPSRB - Capped Pay Per Share with Recent Backpay) system which, I believe, accomplishes what you propose.
Please update your bitpenny.conf files to point to the new poolhost address:Code:poolhost=bitpenny.dyndns-ip.comThe old address will be disabled on November 13th. Using GUIMiner with BitPenny:BitPenny now uses a custom local client.  To connect to BitPenny using GUIMiner, please do not use the BitPenny pool default options.  Instead, select "Other" for the server, set the host to "localhost" (or the location of your BitPenny client) and set the port to the one that you specified in bitpenny.conf Using GUIMiner with BitPenny:BitPenny (site|forum) now uses a custom local client.  To connect to BitPenny using GUIMiner, please do not use the BitPenny pool default options.  Instead, select "Other" for the server, set the host to "localhost" (or the location of your BitPenny client) and set the port to the one that you specified in bitpenny.conf Go ahead and share these plans so that the attack may be mitigated. Perhaps you mean .001 bitcoins, because there aren't 7,000,000,000 BTC in the world. Windows and Linux binaries are now available at https://github.com/ForceMajeure/BitPenny-Client/tree/master/bin Oops, thanks =) No problem, glad to hear that it was an honest mistake. Please re-read the original post.  The lawyer Michael Pascazi and his wife have copyrighted "Bitcoin" in order to make money off of other people's work.  Mark, the owner of MtGox, is the one fighting against this. BitPenny Client is Now Open Source Thanks for the encouragement!  We are working on getting the code ready for open source and look forward to having you on board once it's ready! Correct, 1 bitpenny = .01 BTC, and the BitPenny Bonus is equivalent to 1 bitcoin. BitPenny BonusFor the next 5 blocks solved by BitPenny, the miner who solves the block will receive 100 extra bitpennies. Thanks for the feedback.  The stale percentage can be lowered even further by lowering the getwork rate to 1 second (or less if supported by the miner).  The theoretical stale rate at 1 block per 10 minutes and 1 second per getwork is 1/600, or .16666%; we've been able to achieve a stale rate of .16725% over a period of 30 hours.Code:    "sessiongetworkcount" : 1997662,    "sessionsharesfound" : 19132,    "sessionsharespersec" : 0.21593608,    "sessionstatsinterval" : 60000,    "sessionsharessubmitted" : 19132,    "sessionsharesverified" : 19100,    "sessionsharesrejected" : 32,    "sessioncredit" : 3.92352200,The source will absolutely be opened whenever BitPenny gains enough hashing power to pose a concern.  We are also considering opening it earlier, but will need time to carefully review and refine the code to reduce the possibility of attacks on the server.Thank you for being an early adopter!  We are actively seeking more miners and hope to see a more comfortable hash rate in the near future. BitPenny draws its fee from the poolcredit buffer while distributing the block rewards among outstanding shares (this is stated on the website).  BitPenny was designed before the RSMPPS definition was posted online, so it was not designed to fit under that definition.  The resemblance is coincidental. Sandboxed software cannot steal your wallet. Thanks for pointing that out, the shares are based upon 97% of the expected value.  I changed the wording on the website to reflect this. BitPenny was inspired by the bitcoind client, merging the accessibility, convenience, and network-supporting effects of local mining with the advantages of using a pool.  I understand your concerns about the binary; as stated on the BitPenny website, the bitpennyd source will be released after BitPenny has had a chance to grow and gain traction. Sukrim, welcome and thanks for your comments!In this case, it would take more good luck for the backlog of outstanding shares to be fully paid.  Transaction fees would also help to pay for these older shares over time.The Delayed PPS model was developed independently, but does bear close resemblance to RSMPPS.  Since the way that the pool credit buffer is distributed may differ somewhat from what is implied by RSMPPS, I've chosen to use a different name and to explain the details.  The general idea, however, is the same.While earned shares do not expire, getworks become stale normally and prevent this issue from arising.Each client submits winning blocks directly to the bitcoin network.  Blocks are verified against a local copy of the block chain using the standard ProcessBlock function, and any attempt by the server to double-spend or fork the chain would result in a block rejected by the client.You can monitor the transactions locally as they come in by setting setprintblocks to true and observing the debug.log file:Code:bitpenny@BitPenny3:~$ ./c.sh setprintblocks truebitpenny@BitPenny3:~$ tail -f .bitpenny/debug.logThe code will be opened up when BitPenny's hashing power gets big enough to be of concern, and miners will have the ability to implement finer controls at that point. The fees go towards paying for servers and bandwidth, development, and support.  Even though getworks are local, BitPenny uses a significant amount of bandwidth to push data to its nodes.  We also offer a perfect solution for CPU farms and similar users who may not be welcome in other pools due to high getwork/submission ratios.  BitPenny is an unusual pool in many ways, and the best way to see what sets it apart is to give it a try. BitPenny is back!Since the model is entirely new, please join the new forum thread at https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=36371.0
3/24/2013BitPenny is switching to the Stratum protocol.Please stop using BitPenny Client as it is not compatible with version 2 blocks and will no longer be supported or required.Connection details will be published after upgrades are completed.BitPenny Client is Now Open SourceWindows and Linux Binaries AvailableBitPenny Client version 0.5.2 (2012-07-03)updated codebase to bitcoin 0.6.3fixed a bug in 0.5.1 which delayed reconnecting to the poolFirst, a bit of bitcoin history.A long, long time ago, when Slush's was the only pool in town and CPU miners battled GPUs for a piece of the proportional pie, BitPenny was born. BitPenny was different: it introduced the 0-volatility Pay-Per-Share model, instant payouts, and the most simple interface to date with only a bitcoin address required to start mining (no usernames, passwords, or registration required).  Being a pioneer in PPS - the only model where the pool risks losing its own bitcoins - BitPenny was soon forced to close due to excessive losses.  Yet, BitPenny had left its mark, and all of its innovative improvements have since been adopted, and adapted, by many pools in the bitcoin community.  Sustainable MiningSince the very beginning, pools have aggregated the power of thousands of individual miners, introducing centralized points of failure as well as the potential to perform chain-splitting and double-spending attacks against the bitcoin network.  BitPenny believes that it is time to pay attention to the health and security of the entire bitcoin network.  BitPenny is back.Cluster-friendly, allowing you to hook up an unlimited number of CPUs or GPUs.0-latency work and full statistics from a sand-boxed client based on the official bitcoind.Strengthens the bitcoin network instead of being a central point of failure.Eliminates all wasted mining time with instantaneous fail-over to solo mode.Maintains the hashing power of the bitcoin network even in case of pool outage.Eliminates the 50% pool power problem - BitPenny cannot double-spend or create a fork.Low-variance Delayed PPS model immune to pool-hopping.Non-decaying shares let you disconnect without losing your work.Variance reduction using a pool credit buffer and transaction fees.As always, no registration requiredGo to BitPenny.com to learn more and join the future of sustainable mining.Join #bitpenny for help and to chat with fellow miners. Received, thank you! I was the counterparty to AnonX in this MITM.First of all, I would like to say that FooDSt4mP's social engineering attack was masterful.  He was able to use a compromised account and quick wit to pull off this attack, and others like it.  Everyone should review the logs posted and learn from them, or we all risk missing the point.The point is, of course, that a counterparty cannot be trusted without proper GPG identification to go with his or her rating history.  A forum name is not enough, an email is not enough, a convincing story is not enough.  If your instinct says that something is wrong, listen to it.FooDSt4mP has fully succeeded in showing that his rating may have initially been sullied by a similar attack.  However, it must be kept in mind that he used aggressive and almost spam-like techniques to amass a stellar rating within hours and days of joining -otc for the first time.  This rating came mostly from new users, ones who did not follow rating guidelines.  The amount of time that FooDSt4mP had been in the system was also not enough to earn him the benefit of the doubt.  It should be no surprise that a new user accused him of a scam even if the attack was a MITM, and it should be no surprise that his high ;;getrating was looked upon suspiciously when ;;gettrust returned 0.  During a time when -otc grew by hundreds of users daily, it can be expected that the ops would err on the side of caution.  I was not involved in arbitration and so cannot comment further on what actually took place.  The next thing that I heard relating to FooDSt4mP's name was a string of attacks that he did perform and did admit to performing, so naturally that had the effect of causing most users to assume that he was a scammer from the very beginning.I do not know what will happen now with FooDSt4mP and the bitcoin community, but I suppose that he can re-appear under a new identity and lead a peaceful existence here without anyone knowing.  I urge him to end the vendetta, as his point has been proven.  We should all take security more seriously before a breach happens, and we should investigate carefully after it happens to avoid pointing fingers at innocent users.Regarding this recent attack against AnonX and myself and the funds involved:We have split the USD value of the attack as follows:AnonX has kept 288.30 USDI have received 288.00 USDFooDSt4mP has reimbursed me with 3.49 BTC:AnonX has received 1.745 BTC from meI have kept 1.745 BTCI would like to ask those who have received donations from FooDSt4mP after this attack to send them to 16cx71KX3KXB8cynhVs878ruUdZLwHL63hAny left-over loss will be divided equally between AnonX and myself.FooDSt4mp, thank you for a teachable moment. I can guarantee the availability of these memberships for only 4 more days.  Please do not hesitate to send me a low-ball offer. Haha yep, I got a ton of those calls as well.If you've been considering getting one but the price was too high, make me an offer =) It is a new membership.I own the membership but it is not assigned to any individual.  I will tell the Front Sight facility the name and address of the individual which purchases it from me and that person will get a new membership package in the mail directly from the facility. I am selling an All-Inclusive Diamond Lifetime Membership to Front Sight Firearms Training Institute.This is the highest level of membership (out of 6) to the Nevada Training Facility.The regular price for these memberships is $7,000 if paid up-front and $10,000 with a payment plan.The best promotional price ever offered on these types of memberships is $2,000 when paid up-front.I am willing to sell for much cheaper, and am accepting BTC.Please bid here:https://www.biddingpond.com/item.php?id=704I am also open to all reasonable offers via PM or IRC.Here is a list of perks that you get with the membership:Attend ANY AND ALL of nearly 50 Front Sight Courses Free of Charge and As Many Times As You Wish for the Rest of Your Life!This includes the following courses:Handgun Course Selection2 Day Defensive Handgun4 Day Defensive Handgun1 Day 30 State Concealed Weapon Permit5 Day Armed Citizen Corps2 Day Handgun Skill Builder2 Day Handgun Skill Builder (Night)2 Day Advanced Tactical Handgun2 Day Advanced Tactical Handgun (Night)4 Day Handgun Combat Master Prep2 Day Defensive Handgun (Night)4 Day Advanced Integrated HandgunShotgun Course Selection2 Day Tactical Shotgun4 Day Tactical Shotgun2 Day Shotgun Skill Builder2 Day Shotgun Skill Builder (Night)4 Day Advanced Tactical Shotgun2 Day Tactical Shotgun (Night)Rifle Course Selection2 Day Practical Rifle4 Day Practical Rifle2 Day Rifle Skill Builder2 Day Rifle Skill Builder (Night)4 Day Precision Rifle 14 Day Advanced Practical Rifle2 Day Practical Rifle (Night)4 Day Precision Rifle 2Auto Weapons Course Selection2 Day Uzi Submachine Gun4 Day Uzi Submachine Gun4 Day Select Fire M162 Day Select Fire M16Special Course Selection2 Day Tactical Scenarios (Combined Handgun, Shotgun, and Rifle)4 Day Four Weapon Tactical4 Day Four Weapons Combat Master PrepArmorer Course Selection1 Day Armorer's Course - 1911 Pistol1 Day Armorer's Course - Glock Pistol1 Day Armorer's Course - Springfield XD Pistol1 Day Armorer's Course - AR15 RifleInstructor Development Course Selection4-Day Front Sight Instructor Development2-Day Front Sight Instructor Development for First Family Members and Returning StudentsMartial Arts Course Selection2 Day Empty Hand Defense4 Day Advanced Martial Arts2 Day Edged WeaponsFamily Safe Forever Course Selection2 Day Children's Safety2 Day Youth Safety2 Day Empty Hand Defense2 Day Edged Weapons4 Day Children's and Youth Achievement CampRope, Rappel & Climbing Classes2 Day Rope, Rappel, and Climb4 Day Rope, Rappel, and Climb    With a Front Sight All-Inclusive DIAMOND Lifetime Membership you have the opportunity to achieve a level of self defense Comfort of Skill at Arms that most people could spend and entire career in the military or law enforcement and still not receive. This is not marketing hype. There is a good reason why Marine Corps officers, and law enforcement firearms instructors become members at Front Sight... It's because we can provide them with more consistent and expert firearms training than they get from their own agencies.    And when you become a Front Sight All-Inclusive DIAMOND Lifetime Member you will get to train right along side our nation's finest peacekeepers and warriors helping build a lifelong bond between the law abiding armed citizens who are the backbone of our country's defense and the brave men and women who place themselves in harms way on a daily basis to protect and serve our nation.    40% Savings in Front Sight's Pro Shop, Armory, and Gunsmith. You can purchase everything you need for your courses as if you owned your own gun shop.    Guaranteed Placement in Your Courses with Two Weeks Advance Enrollment... No worries about whether your can "get into a course." As a member your spot is guaranteed. Just fax or e-mail your Application for Training within two weeks of the course date and you are in! Like everything else we provide, no other school can offer you such flexibility with your scheduling!    Invitation to Annual July 4th Lifetime Members Reunion Celebration... So you and your family can celebrate July 4th each year in a manner that makes our Founding Fathers proud!    Name etched in future First Family Monument... So generations from now, your grandkids will know you were part of the patriotic group who built Front Sight!    Password to access exclusive and restricted First Family areas of web site and e-mail forum... Now you can positively converse with all of our like minded First Family members!    First Family Card and First Family Hat... Identifying you to all students and staff as a loyal and supportive patriot assisting us in positively changing the image of gun ownership in our lifetime! All remaining balances greater than or equal to .01 BTC have been disbursed automatically. The attacker loses virtually nothing compared to an honest pool user, so it's purely malicious when compared with honest pool use.  An attacker loses 1/2^32 shares per block on average, so he still receives 99.9999999767% of what an honest pool user would get. The DDoS attempts did not have much of an effect, but the block-withholding attacks did.  I collected enough statistics to be fairly certain that there was an attack, rather than simply bad luck.  You were correct in your reasoning.Thanks again to all the people donating   Thank you so much, cdhowie and Miner-TE, for your kind words and donations.  I am very glad to hear that you enjoyed BitPenny, and very sad to have to take it down.I hope to be able to bring BitPenny back in a different form at some point in the future, and am very encouraged knowing that I have had such kind-hearted users   BitPenny will be shut down indefinitely at 11:59PM 4/2/2011 EST due to continued and unsustainable losses.Withdrawals will continue to be available.The IRC channel will remain open.BitPenny may be back in the future under a different model.Thank you to everyone who has participated. Please don't use fear tactics to solicit donations.BitPenny gives out the transaction ID after every successful withdrawal attempt.  This transaction ID can be seen on #bitcoin-monitor, www.bitcoinmonitor.com, www.bitcoincharts.com/bitcoin, and www.blockexplorer.comIf you lose the transaction ID, you can still search for your receiving address to see the queued transaction.Any delays arising after the transaction has been posted are due to the state of the network, and are unrelated to BitPenny.All of this has been stated previously on #bitcoin-bitpenny. A new way to connect to BitPenny - Kiv's GUI frontend for poclbmRemember to set your "Extra flags" to the appropriate values for your mining hardware (GPU).Please note that the GUI currently rounds balances to the nearest .01 for display purposes. Almost. Mt. Gox is not MD Gox, so I'd sooner say that I trust it/him with significant sums of money rather than with my life. Please change #3 to something reasonable, perhaps the wording of #2 should go into the spot of #3.Or, to actually be objective, just go with "do not trust at all, somewhat distrust, ... etc ..., somewhat trust , completely trust". BitPenny is back and open to the public!All balances have been transferred to the new server.Please make sure that you are using the hostname to connect and not hardcoding the IP. The two balances will be reconciled as soon as the new server undergoes enough testing to be considered stable.If there are no problems, the old server will be shut down within a few days, at which point old balances will be transferred (added) to the new server. Please feel free to stick around the BitPenny IRC channel to get news as it comes out. The difference here is there are several newsagents, all selling tickets to the same lottery.If you kick out the 2 rich players, they'll just buy their 30 tickets each at the next newsagent and your chances will stay the same.
It's planned to be by the end of this week, but there is no hard date. The lucky ones just don't speak up.With all due respect to everyone who believes that their mining efficiency is suboptimal: you may look for problems in your mining setups, in the network load, in the protocol, in bitcoin bugs, or in the state of the moon and the tide, but please don't question Slush's integrity or his intentions.  Baselessly accusing a long-standing and productive member of the bitcoin community only reflects badly upon the accuser.  If you have a comment or a real issue, please state it respectfully and it will be addressed. The chance of finding a share is still exactly the same whether you spend 50 seconds on 1 getwork or 5 seconds each on 10 getworks in a row.  I do run a pool, and I don't pay for stale shares since they are of no help to me in solving a block.  Slush does not pay for them for the same reason.If your goal is to win, you should be playing today's lottery, not last week's.If this still doesn't make sense, please re-read the technical specifications of bitcoin block generation and summarize them in a post, then I could correct any misunderstandings you may have about the process. Unfortunately, that would be straying too far from the simplicity of what BitPenny is intended to do: there would have to be a floating rather than a fixed rate, a slew of price-manipulation exploits would be introduced on both the clients' and the server's side, and BitPenny would have an even harder time keeping an adequate supply of coins and/or currency on hand to pay the miners.  For these and other reasons, BitPenny will only ever deal directly in BTC.The best way to accomplish what you are looking to do would be for someone to set up a complimentary service.  This service would give you a permanent BTC address, and it would buy your coins at market price whenever you sent them to that address.  Then you could mine directly to that address through BitPenny. You are assuming that you are able iterate through some significant percentage of the entire available search space, which you cannot, even if you mined for the rest of your life on all of the hardware of the earth combined.There is a set chance of finding a winning block on any single hash that you do, like playing the lottery.  It does not matter in what order you choose the tickets, out of a bucket of a near-infinite pile of tickets, one out of every X of which happens to be a winner.  Your chance of picking a winner is always the same on every draw.One 32-bit getwork is equivalent to .0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000037% of the entire search space. We could potentially get you to step 4: getting the BTC directly into MtGox with no wait.  After that, though, you would get into trouble.  BitPenny cannot sell for you as that would be a conflict of interest.  You would also lose a very large percentage of your income by selling during market bottoms, at high spreads, and during times of high volatility. BitPenny has completed the first round of beta testing and is down for updates (please see the first post for details).You may still check and withdraw your balances at any time. Thanks!If you choose to mine solo, please feel free to stop by here, from time to time, to raise your morale after those unlucky streaks   lzsaver, thanks for including a description of BitPenny in the Russian forum (though the link is not pointing to the right thread).The 10% commission may seem high, but please note that it is 10% of expected value, not 10% of mined blocks.  This means that users always make 90% of their theoretical maximum, with no "bad days".  The server takes all the risk and will even operate at a loss when necessary.Some people may be confused since your thread is titled "Все о пулах совместной генерации", ("All about cooperative mining pools"), but BitPenny is not a cooperative pool.  Rather, it is a server which pays for hashes with its own BTC funds, taking a large risk in order to provide the smoothest possible payout to its miners.  Even if only a handful of slow miners connect to BitPenny, they will all be making BTC on every submitted hash, without having to worry about the number of other connected miners or the actual rate of generation.It can be difficult to compare a cooperative pool with BitPenny without trying BitPenny first, so I would encourage everyone to try it to really get a feel for the difference, and then to choose whichever mining solution they prefer. Thank you, I've added this miner to the list. Thank you for the support   Correct, you lose 1.67% efficiency with a 10s getwork interval, you might want to lower it to 5s. Sorry if this didn't sound right; the server certainly returns 10% less than expected value, as I went on to reiterate in the rest of the post.  I've also placed it in the description:What I meant to say is that BitPenny does not take a part of the winning block (it does not directly "tax" actual winnings that a miner makes), since it pays before the block is found.  It takes 10% of the expected value.  I felt that it was important to make this distinction to stress the core feature of BitPenny - that the user does not suffer when there are few generators connected to the server, or during any unlucky streaks or any other issues, since he still makes 90% of his expected value regularly, even during the times when the server loses realized BTC. "Take" is actually a bit of a misnomer, as the server only gives out.  What happens is that the server pays you 90% of your statistical expected return, and keeps the actual return, which could be anything depending on luck.  You might lose a few percent over your expected value due to stale blocks resulting from network overhead, which is how BitLex ended up with 87.8% return.At 620Kh/s, you will solve a block every 5 years, 37 weeks at the current difficulty.  Since difficulty will keep going up, you are likely to never actually solve a block on your own.However, your expected return per hour is 50/50027, or .000999460 BTC/hour.Mining at BitPenny at the current difficulty, you will solve one share on average every 1 hour and 55 minutes, 27 seconds, earning .00173091 BTC, the equivalent of about .0009 BTC/hour.You could withdraw your first .01 BTC in about 11 hours and 7 minutes. Thank you for the feedback!  I have added this to the description. BitPenny is BACK!https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=36371.0BitPenny will be shut down indefinitely at 11:59PM 4/2/2011 EST due to continued and unsustainable losses.Withdrawals will continue to be available.The IRC channel will remain open.BitPenny may be back in the future under a different model.Thank you to everyone who has participated.www.BitPenny.comGet paid a fixed amount* of BTC for every share zImmune to cheating by timing attacks.No need to wait for confirmations.No competition with other users.No registration required.Withdraw at any time.Near-0 variance.Connect your favorite miner with your bitcoin address as the username, and you're done!Please be sure to upgrade your miner to the latest version before joining.m0mchil's miner examplepoclbm.py -d 1 -u 1AaLK8yCgaqUhtmHEkmgfMhWLFSt9MhTLB --pass xyzzy -o bitpenny.dyndns.biz -p 8332      Kiv's GUI frontend for m0mchil's miner (poclbm)     the GUI has a built-in profile for BitPenny, and also supports balance checks and withdrawalsjgarzik's miner exampleminerd --url=http://bitpenny.dyndns.biz:8332 --userpass=1AaLK8yCgaqUhtmHEkmgfMhWLFSt9MhTLB:xyzzyDiabloMinerDiabloMiner-YourOS.sh -u 1AaLK8yCgaqUhtmHEkmgfMhWLFSt9MhTLB -p xyzzy -o bitpenny.dyndns.biz -r 8332join #bitcoin-bitpenny for more informationdue to current protocol limitations, you may only withdraw in multiples of .01 BTCthis is to avoid sub-cent amounts from being lost when coins are dividedwithdrawals are available through the website or through the GUI frontend for poclbm the service is currently in beta, so there may be changes*The current rate is equivalent to 90% of theoretical expected value. Yep, you are losing a negligible percentage of valid answers by skipping the rest of a getwork, but you would invalidate an entire 5% of any correct answers which you find by waiting 30 seconds between getworks.In other words, you reduce your chances of solving a block by 1/600 for every second of working on a potentially stale getwork.You'd have to skip 4.49 x 10^64 full getworks in order to skip 1/600th of all valid solutions. I'm saying that there are 1.224 × 10^63 answers which get the block, so skipping one of them is inconsequential.The answer which counts is simply the first one of those 1.224 × 10^63 valid answers which is found, but it is by no means the only answer.We simply stop looking after we find it.  If we had wanted to, we could hash the same block for a month and find about 4,380 valid answers for it in that time. The entire search-space for a single block is 2^256 hashes.There are 2^224 answers per block when difficulty is 1.At the present difficulty of 22012.4941572, there are 2^224 / 22012.4941572 valid answers.That's 1.224 × 10^63 valid answers.Out of 1.157 × 10^77 total answers.The pool can process about 30,000,000,000 hashes per second.That's 3.0 × 10^10 hashes per second.It would take 3.859e+66 seconds for the pool to search through every possible hash in a single block.That's 6.432 × 10^64 minutes.That's 1.072 × 10^63 hours.That's 4.467 × 10^61 days.That's 1.223 × 10^59 years.That's 8.901 × 10^48 times the age of the universe.We are searching through a possible 115 quattuorvigintillion, 792 trevigintillion, 89 duovigintillion, 237 unvigintillion, 316 vigintillion, 195 novemdecillion, 423 octodecillion, 570 septendecillion, 985 sexdecillion, 8 quindecillion, 687 quattuordecillion, 907 tredecillion, 853 duodecillion, 269 undecillion, 984 decillion, 665 nonillion, 640 octillion, 564 septillion, 39 sextillion, 457 quintillion, 584 quadrillion, 7 trillion, 913 billion, 129 million, 639 thousand and 936 hashes for every block.Trying to find, at the current difficulty, one of 1 vigintillion, 224 novemdecillion, 756 octodecillion, 562 septendecillion, 96 sexdecillion, 912 quindecillion, 245 quattuordecillion, 974 tredecillion, 145 duodecillion, 865 undecillion, 520 decillion, 4 nonillion, 272 octillion, 488 septillion, 786 sextillion, 20 quintillion, 128 quadrillion, 241 trillion, 774 billion, 877 million, 474 thousand and 816 valid answers.You can skip a valid answer by skipping an entire getwork 22012 times.This will leave you with a possible 1.224 × 10^63 - 1 valid answers.That's 1.224 × 10^39 times more valid answers than there are stars in the universe. Try betting .01
