This is wrong in every way.  Payment channels was Satoshi's idea, and it was implemented in Bitcoin 0.1.  Unfortunately it didn't work as well as designed, and was insecure due to bugs.  Some of the problems were fixed in the previous soft fork (BIP 68), and Segwit resolves the remaining bugs.  In addition to that many developers, both core developers and other people, have extended on Satoshi's ideas for payment channels by connecting them in a network.Look it up.Btw, Satoshi warned against miner centralization back in 2010.  He asked people not to mine with GPUs, since he had intended to distribute the mining power.  How do you think he would have responded to ASICs and CVE-2017-9230?  By handing more power over to the miners? This is different for many reasons.First of all the immediate fix was a soft fork.  They went back to a chain which every node could validate, instead of having two chains.  One which only new nodes could validate, and one which only old nodes could validate correctly.  Then people could either upgrade or increase the maximum locks for BerkleyDB.  Those who didn't would experience random crashes.The solution was a bugfix.  Non-upgraded nodes would experience random crashes.This happened a long time ago when Bitcoin still was young and had very few tech-savvy users.  Upgrading all nodes with a non-controversial bugfix or just increase the maximum locks, was easy.There was absolutely no risk of anyone losing money by getting on the wrong side of a hard fork.  In fact, there never was a hard fork.  No block has ever been produced on what would be the other side of that fork.We already know it doesn't work like that.  For how long has segwit been ready?  It is still not activated.  Even when it fixes several bugs and weaknesses, in addition to increasing the block size.When even a soft fork which solve many problems in one go, including the full blocks, proves to be too controversial to activate, then imagine what would happen with a controversial hard fork which only partially relieve one of the problems with no long-term solution.Hashpower does not make a coin valuable.  People do.  If Bitcoin proves to be changeable by a few people in suits just agreeing to handing themselves a few million coins, it will loose it's value very quickly.Nah, it is mostly due to it's limitations.  Segwit tries to remove many of those limitations, but a small group of people don't want that top happen.  Larger blocks alone would just add another limitation.  Initial block download won't go any faster with larger blocks, unless something is done to make transaction validation scale at the same time. Ah, you are making the argument they have to actually use the node to either receive or send transactions?  Yes, that goes without saying.No.  Since people will lose money from this, and the security of the storage itself since all parameters are subject to change this way, the total market cap will be much lower.  Bitcoin will become one of those altcoins you never know what will happen to.I am more interested in other properties of bitcoin than the market cap.  It doesn't matter much to me if it loses value.  If it loses the concept of the immutable blockchain rules, it has lost everything to me and become just another shitcoin.  I'll be out, and so will many other people holding large amounts, and small businesses (like mine) which depend on keeping cost and complexity down.It is not that easy.  If miners were interested in market cap, then segwit would have been  activated a long time ago.Yeah, this way you can make loads of shitcoins, and if you think the market wants it it would have happened many times already.I can recommend bitcoin to people, because I know what it is.  If it stops being bitcoin, and becomes a bunch of shitcoins, I can't do that any more.What?  The first altcoins started in 2010.  Bitcoin hasn't had any kind of monopoly for as long as the economy around it has existed.So you want a hard fork to destroy bitcoin and it's dominance, and the other arguments you made were just nonsense?   OK, you obviously don't understand even the most basic properties of bitcoin.  Mining difficulty adjusts automatically every 2016 blocks to make sure the blockrate stay the same, regardless of the hashrate.Those are centrally controlled shitcoins.  I wouldn't touch them with a ten foot pole.  Fortunately Bitcoin is nothing like that.Then just fork off your own coin.No, it isn't the same.  Since segwit is backwards compatible, the other chain will reorg to the UASF chain if/when the UASF chain become the longest.  If UASF gains traction, those not running the UASF chain will at some point get reorged over to the UASF chain, losing all traces of the chain they used to be on.It can be orphaned any time.  Could be an hour, a day, a month or even years.  UASF is clearly the safest side to be on.  About 10% of all bitcoin nodes on the network signal some kind of support for a BIP148 style UASF.  It will be interesting to see how it plays out. Great.  I'll tell pepole who lose their coins that you have chosen a different name for it, so it must be OK.Yep, so you will make two coins.  And if you were to do that for every minor improvement, we would have more than 20 different bitcoin blockchains already, and most people, including me, would see it as a failed experiment.Of course, because segwit is a soft fork.  Hard forks don't work that way.  The blocks produced on the other side won't get orphaned.  Both chains will continue as different coins.Yep, and if someone want to do that with bitcoin they are welcome.  Just don't call the new coin "bitcoin", because that will be confusing to everyone, and don't expect anyone to use their new coin. Dude, I explained several ways.  Don't tell me not just because you don't understand them.No, miners can't make a hard fork on their own.Sorry, you don't make any sense.  Please go back and read how you can lose your coins in a chain split.  There will not be one blockchain, there will be two.  If you e.g. spent your coins in one of the chains, and the receiver copy your transaction in the other chain, you have lost coins in the other chain.  If you receive coins in one chain, the coins may not be valid in the other chain.  In both cases you have lost coins.  Erasing your  node and reinstalling it won't get your coins back. Not correct.  No version of bitcoin has been able to handle blocks larger than 1 MB.  When the 1 MB limit was set, bitcoin would still choke on 1 MB blocks.  Miners producing much smaller blocks would win any race, because nodes receiving the 1 MB block would crash.  Large blocks wouldn't propagate to other nodes.Researchers have figured out that blocks larger than about 4 MB would be unsafe.  This is why segwit is capped at 4 MB.  If it was a way to make bitcoin work just as well with even larger blocks, it would probably have been implemented in segwit.  Fortunately the parameters have been chosen by scientists, not users.The limit is a hard blockchain rule, not a business policy.  Splitting bitcoin in two would not only be a bad technical decision, it would be bad for businesses as well.  Especially small businesses like mine.LOL!Btw, the economic properties of the block size limit become obvious when the txfee rewards are much larger than the block reward, which is going to happen faster with larger blocks.  It will no longer be profitable to build on a new block for a miner.  Instead he will try to steal the fees from the previous block by mining a new block at the same height, at least until the fees from waiting transactions in the mempool are higher than in the last mined block.  Thereby leading to steadily increasing txfees.  This is what miners want, not necessarily what users want. This is wrong in so many ways, you obviously have no clue.First of all I am running a mining node, but that's beside the point.Secondly, there are several ways of losing coins due to a fork.  Just see the mess that occured when Ethereum split in ETC and ETH.  A chain fork can even be designed to steal coins or reverse transactions, like it was in the Ethereum case.If you receive a transaction on your node, and it is confirmed, you will regard it as a good one.  The coin being spent may not exist on the other chain, or there may be another transaction on the other chain spending it differently.  So you will lose coins, and can easily be scammed.What?  No.If my chain is corrupted the, my node will just re-download the blocks with failing hashes, and I will be back on the best valid chain I am on.  And as soon as you spend them, you may be victim to an attack where someone copy your transaction to the other chain, and receive your coins on both chains.  Unless double-spending protection is in place before the chain splits.  This was not the case with ethereum, and many lost their coins on one of the chains due to this vulnerability.  None of the bit-altcoins address this problem properly in their attempted chain splits, and this is why exchanges won't adopt them, even as altcoins.> 50% of hashpower can only restrict activity by refusing to mine certain transactions.  They can not change the consensus.  If they produce invalid blocks, the hashpower is worthless.  Nodes will just throw their blocks away.Bitcoin is a settlement layer by design.  No hard fork can change that.You can use other layers on top of bitcoin for fast and cheap transactions.  One example which dates back to the Satoshi era is payment channels.  Unfortuately they never worked due to malleability.  Segwit fixes this bug, and makes it possible to use payment channels safely.  In the mean time smart people have found out how to connect payment channels in a network, called the lightning network, how to extend the chain with sidechains, etc.  All of them depend on this bug to be fixed.The block size becomes a very important economic parameter in the future when the reward from txfees is much larger than the block reward.  With large blocks this will happen faster, and we still don't have a solution to the problems which will arise then.Yep, and this is why I would never use Ethereum or any coin where the miners can change the rules.  I would be out before you could blink.  Exchange it for PayPal or something.For segwit transactions security would revert to just a little better than SPV.  It is the same as with e.g. P2SH transactions, OP_HODL, etc.  Of course privacy will still be better when you run a full node.Wrong.  Old nodes still see the transactions, and their UTXO set will be updated for all transactions.  Only the witness is segregated.  This is necessary, because transactions spending coins not in the UTXO set are invalid, and blocks containing them would be invalid.This is just completely misunderstood.  No node, old or new, will accept S1 to A2 when S1 has been spent.  If the old node didn't see the S1 to S2 transaction, and S2 was spent, it would be a hard fork.Better security and privacy.  The old node will only be useless for mining.Eh, yes.  As long as you don't break any rules, the coin will be the same.  Why the f*** would anyone want to split into two coins for simple upgrades like P2SH, new opcodes like OP_HODL or segwit?  It doesn'ẗ make sense to me at all.  Only a badly designed coin would do that.Call it what you want.  You could call it fiat, where uncontrollable inflation, invalidation of money and outright theft flourish.  I use Bitcoin instead, because I can be certain that nothing like this will happen.No, that is not possible.  That would be a hard fork.  Again, you have misunderstood how bitcoin works.Or I could just use PayPal.  Seriously, do you really consider this an option?  Why do you use bitcoin at all? This can easily be verified as fake.  There is no trace of his email on the bitcoin-dev mailing list, where he will reach all bitcoin-developers.  Either he has been sending to a few people who he knew wouldn't be going to the conference, or he made it up.  The only natural address for an invitation like this, is the bitcoin-dev mailing list, where suggestions regarding improvements to bitcoin are discussed and reviewed. LOL!  Is this going to be a new bug party, like "BU" and "Classic", with Trump-style "best" programmers and testing?  Haha!  Good lock convincing anyone to run it.  This is only an attempt to fire up more in-fighting and delays.  I hope they fork off quickly, crash and burn and we can forget about them. It was not the only reason they went broke, of course.  I think he was the last one, yes.  And he was not even hired as developer, because he had mostly quit developing at the time, but as "chief scientist" or something. One of the Bitcoin Core developers work at the MIT Media Lab.  The Bitcoin Foundation don't employ any bitcoin developers at the moment, afaik.  If they do, it must be a very cheap one.   The rest are employed elsewhere, by various companies, own startups etc.  Bitcoin Core is certainly not a company.  It is a very loosely connected group of people who do various amounts of work on bitcoin. Yeah, quote me out of context like that, and post a funny image, because that make is looks like you are a real grown-up!  Perhaps almost nine years old.At this level of maturity, it becomes obvious why you don't understand the basics of how bitcoin works.  And how development of free software works.  Please ask your mother to explain it to you. Most people need a day job to pay their bills, yes.Those are paid by a single employer to do a very specific job, commanded by one commander in chief.  Try again. And lose bitcoin.  How well do you think that will be welcomed by the greater community, and how much would you trust a currency whish did that?If it was simple to change the hard economic consensus parameters, like block size, inflation rate, time between blocks, POW algorithm etc, it would have happened several times already.  It doesn't, because people want bitcoin to be a secure store of value.Yeah, or just use PayPal if you want to trust a thrid party.  Actually I think PayPal is more trustworthy than the miners.  That's why I chose to run my own nodes.This won't be a problem, since old nodes don't generate segwit addresses.  You can pay him with your segwit coins, and it is secure.  The old node will accept the transactions and see the confirmations come as normal.  (Unconfirmed transactions are insecure, of course.  Unconfirmed transactions have never been secure, no matter how the transaction is created.)You may argue that segwit is a cleaner way of doing things, but there is no need to hard fork for it.  In fact it will be very stupid to hard fork for a simple change like that.  P2SH was a much more intrusive change, and it was done by a simple flag day activation.Use one of the scamcoins, if you want an insecure coin which hardforks all the time.  Don't think you will be able to convince all bitcoin users that would be a good idea, and then you have two coins, disruption and big losses for everyone.Don't try to tell me this is wrong.  I run an exchange.  A small one, about 1 million USD in monthly volume now (times two, if you count buy and sell separately).  Quite often when people sell coins to me, it first takes them ages to sync their old Bitcoin QT node.  There are thousands of old nodes out there, and people who run them.You should join the mailinglist and spend some time on IRC where decelopment is discussed.  Perhaps it will open your eyes.  This kind of conspiracy thinking is just silly.  First and foremost it is wrong, because "Core" isn't developing LN.  There are several implementations of LN, but none by "Core".  Segwit enable a lot of other technologies as well, and some are just as compelling as LN.  E.g. sidechains.You are the first one I've ever seen to make this excuse.  Sure it isn't a straw man?I don't think you understand how a blockchain works.  You can't go from 1 to 2 MB of block data, because that would make bitcoin split into two blockchains.  While 4 MB is a stretch as well, there has been a lot of research done on that subject.  It suggests that 4 MB is mostly safe, while larger blocks will not be.  The problems are somewhat relieved by the facts that it will be much faster to validate a segwit block, and there are incentives in place to stop the UTXO set growth. It's so cute that you actually believe that.I remember it very well, yes.  Coindesk had an article about it recently.I never ever experienced a closed door at Bitcoin development.  The developers there welcome any well founded opionions both on the mailinglist, on IRC and on github.  Everything they do is public.  There are no deals done behind closed doors.By this definition, Bitcoin Core is not a company. The developers are paid by a lot of different universities and companies, and some are not paid by anyone (e.g. students).  Noone get paid by a company called "Bitcoin Core".  Many are not paid for the work they do on Bitcoin Core, but the work may be done either on their spare time or as a project where they work.The wider community don't mine.  Almost all mining is done in China.  Miners are just service providers.  Important service providers, of course, but they depend on the rest of the economy to make any money.  If exchanges and merchants don't accept their blocks, they are gone.  What you see now is essentially a few Chinese service providers on strike.  The rest of the economy, more than 90% of it, want the current proposal. Making the modifications is not enough.  You need to upgrade every bitcoin node in the world as well.  And research suggests that blocks larger than 4 MB would be unsafe, so I doubt you will be able to convince 100% of all bitcoin users to "upgrade" to something entirely untested like that, backed only by some secretive backroom dealings.Segwit as it is with 4 MB blocks can be deployed in two weeks, however.  There are still thousands of nodes not supporting segwit, but it doesn't matter.  Those will continue to work just fine, since it is a soft fork. You obviously don't follow the dev-list and the developer meetings on IRC.  Everything Bitcoin Core does (it is not a company, btw) is suggested by the wider community, discussed among the wider community, thoroughly tested, peer-reviewed, tested and eventually sometimes deployed under more or less full consensus.  Then, if it is a soft fork, 95% of the miner hashrate have to agree as well.  You will never see this kind of childish closed door deals happen with Bitcoin Core.If Bitcoin Core would try a coup like this one, most of the developers would leave the project, and it would end up in the trash like "Bitcoin XT/Unlimited/Crashic/whatever".  You may say it already happened, when Gavin stopped beeing a developer, and started behaving as a some kind of ruler who wanted to make decisions on his own without any kind of peer-review or discussion. They don't like the 4 MB segwit blocks, but want to shrink them to 2 MB?  What a mess!  Why can't they just go with the current proposal, and cap the blocks at 2 MB?Babies. I doubt that, but it is a different issue.  I don't think we should base an altcoin on a conspiracy theory.My point is that you can't change the POW in Bitcoin.  You can make a new coin with a different POW, and you can even carry over all the coins fro Bitcoin in a genesis block or whatever, and fix everything else which is wrong in Bitcoin in the same go, but you can't change the POW agorithm.  It is impossible.  It will become a new coin either you want to or not,  It is just as stupid as those scammers who pretend it is possible to increase the blocksize in Bitcoin.  It will become a new coin either you want to or not.The only way to upgrade the POW while keeping Bitcoin Bitcoin, is to add an extra POW as a soft fork.I see there are mostly newbies posting in this thread.  Perhaps you should take some time to educate yourself about how bitocoin and blockchains work. The current miners will still have a huge advantage with the extra-POW soft-fork model, since SHA256 hashing power as well is required to find blocks, so I think a large enough economic majority will make the current miners come along in a UASF.  The miners have no interest in mining worthless coins after all.  They will have to share their power and some of their income with CPU miners, since none of them can operate alone, but will likely still have most of the payout.  It is easier to recruit another CPU miner for peanuts, than getting enough ASIC hashing power to compete at the current difficulty.  The most challenging task here is to find the right balance between first and second POW difficulty, and how to adjust this autonomously in a way compatible with the current difficulty adjustment scheme.
I think a hardfork change is too drastic, and will certainly end in a contentious hard fork.  A POW change light can be implemented as a soft fork by a requirement for an extra proof of work of a different type in the coinbase transaction or in another special transaction.  This will encourage cooperation between miners having lots of specialized SHA256 hardware and users mining the extra proof of work on their CPUs.  If miners behave badly, users will turn their backs to them, and it will become more difficult/expensive for the miners to create new blocks.  Another important advantage is that old nodes and wallets will still work, as long as the majority of the hashrate is behind the soft fork.  Still safeguards must be put in place to stop someone with a very large SHA256 hashrate to overtake the main chain at a later time when the extra POW difficulty is high, since a SHA256 only chain will still be valid for old nodes and SPV nodes. Då kan du få ein rapport her:http://e24.no/boers-og-finans/bitcoin/terroralarmen-gikk-i-dnb-da-norges-bitcoinforening-aapnet-konto/23793560 Eg er veldig skeptisk til å drive nokon som helst form for forretningar med tilknytning til Russland.  Mange har prøvd, og dei ender som regel med at alt dei har bygd opp i Russland vert stole.  Russland er ikkje ein rettsstat.  Den vanvittige korrupsjonen og byråkratiet gjer det heller ikkje enklare.  Forretningar med Russland kan òg gjere det vanskelegare å få gode avtaler med bankar, på grunn av dei store problema med kvitvasking.  Eg orkar kort og godt ikkje den typen komplikasjonar som kan dukke opp i slike land.Eg har ei intensjonsavtale om samarbeid med eit tysk selskap som driv med betalingsformidling med Bitcoin i EU, med atterhald om at mva-problematikken vert løyst.  Europa får halde førebels. Mange kjøper nok på Localbitcoins og sel på Localbitcoins, men det kan hende dei kjøper ein del av utanlandske seljarar på Localbitcoins.  Den viktigaste grunnen til at kursen på Localbitcoins er høg, er at Localbitcoins tek 1% gebyr pr handel av den som har annonsa, og at mange svindlarar prøver seg på Localbitcoins.Fordelane med å kjøpe direkte frå ein norsk seljar er først og framst tida det tek, og at du slepp å måtte scanne pass og liknande for å verifisere identiteten din på ein utanlandsk børs.Du overfører pengar til børsen med bankoverføring til utlandet.  Det kostar typisk eit gebyr, og valutakursen du får er gjerne litt dårlegare enn den offisielle kursen (spread).  Ei SEPA-overføring (EUR til ein børs i Europa) er framme dagen etter, dersom du sender før ca klokka 14 (fristen varierer frå bank til bank).  Av og til tek børsen seg litt ekstra tid til å handsame overføringa.  Når pengane er framme legg du inn ordre i systemet der, og hugs at børsen tek eit handelsgebyr.  Ingen børsar tek PayPal som betaling.  Det er ikkje lov i fylgje brukarvilkåra til PayPal, men det største problemet er at stolne PayPal-konti kostar ei krone dusinet på den grå marknaden.  Mottek du pengar frå ein stolen PayPal-konto, kan du rekne med å miste PayPal-kontoen og alle pengane du har der.Når du vil selje, er det enklast å selje til meg.  Eg har eit enkelt og gebyrfritt system for automatisk kjøp til god kurs når som helst på døgeret. Har du sendt til deg sjølv eller nokon andre?Du kan prøve bitcoin-cli abandontransaction d8ed4644c31d868cae533c63c85b40f3ae3bdc2cca0c24b258f83b909ca03266 og deretter sende transaksjonen på nytt med ein gong med fornuftig txfee.  Den grafiske klienten har òg ein funksjon for å gje slike kommandoar direkte, men det er so lenge sidan eg har brukt GUIet at eg ikkje lenger hugsar kva det heiter på menyen. Denne kan ta mange månader å få stadfesta.  Det er alt for mykje spam om dagen, og alt for få som filtrerer.  Ser at transaksjonen ikkje har vekslepengar heller.  Då kan du heller ikkje prøve deg med CPFP (child pays for parent).  Fordelen er at txfee er sopass låg at mange vil kaste han ut av mempool og akseptere ein ny transaksjon med same inputs og høgare txfee.  Kva lommebok brukar du? Det trur eg ikkje mykje på.  Kjøpskursen til Coinbase er 6285.2600 NOK akkurat no, i fylgje tickeren deira.  Kjøpskursen min er 6354.9824.  Eg tek ingen gebyr, og du har som regel pengane på konto etter eit par timar på ein kvardag, avhengig av når på døgeret du sel.  Det går so fort som banksystemet klarar.Har du forresten lese brukarvilkåra til Coinbase?  Eg har ikkje konto der, og held meg langt unna.  Det siste nye er at dei deler alle data med IRS, den USAnske skatteetaten.  Dei tek heller ikkje fem øre for å stenge konti, inkludert alle pengar du måtte ha der, for det dei kallar tvilsame bitcoin-transaksjonar.  Dette er eit USAnsk selskap.  Du har ingenting å stille opp med om dei tek pengane dine, med mindre du har nokre hundre tusen for å få ein USAnsk advokat til å sjå på saka. Med ein norsk bankkonto er det veldig enkelt og gebyrfritt gjennom mi enkle autokjøp-teneste.  Du registrerer berre namn og kontonummer, og får betalt etter kjøpskursen min når du overfører bitcoin.  Kursen min er som regel veldig god samanlikna med det du får andre stader.Har du konto i eit anna land innanfor Single Euro Payments Area (SEPA), er det like enkelt.  Du får betalt i Euro etter ein litt annan kurs og med eit lite gebyr for små handlar. Dette er meiningslaust.  Bruk Joinmarket i staden.  Det er mykje sikrare, sidan du alltid har kontroll på alle myntane dine sjølv.  Eg har ikkje tal på kor mange som har klagd si naud til meg etter at dei har sendt pengane sine til ein eller annan "mixer" og mista dei. No står svaret der.  Eg siterer heile: Ingenting, dessberre.  No purrar Sveinung Rotevatn (V) på litt høgare nivå, og eg vonar det fører til snarleg resultat: https://www.stortinget.no/no/Saker-og-publikasjoner/Sporsmal/Skriftlige-sporsmal-og-svar/Skriftlig-sporsmal/?qid=66127 The exact details are over my head.  It is in some way possible to prove the sum of the outputs equal the sum of the inputs without revealing the amounts, and that's all you need to know the transaction is valid.  The amount can of course be decoded by the receiver's private key. No, it is fundamentally different.  Bitcoin Core isn't trying to hard fork bitcoin.  If one of the many people who contribute to Bitcoin Core works for a bank, it simply doesn't matter.  He can't change the fundamental consensus, and even if he tries, such change would require support from 100% of nodes.  Hearn didn't contribute much in any case.  He didn't have commit access, and most of his ideas, like denying nodes to connect via Tor, were turned down.  Instead he forked off BitcoinXT before he left to work with some bank stuff.  Most of BitcoinXT has been merged with "Classic".Yes, they keep it.  If the customer take a claim to the court, it can go either to the customer or to the state, but so far I haven't heard of a single case ending up in court.Nobody have tried to calculate it as far as I know, but Coinbase is the third largest exchange by volume.  Due to their high fees, I doubt much of it is buying and selling within the exchange, like at BTC China or Bitfinex.  Both of them batch withdrawals, btw, so Coinbase may be the largest single source of transactions on the blockchain.No.  Bitcoin Core isn't trying to hard fork bitcoin or take control over it.  They maintain Bitcoin within the original consensus.I don't think adoption will be slow.  Adopters will have a strong economic incentive to do adopt segwit as soon as it has been accepted.  If it isn't, it just means fees are so low that people don't care.There is at least one private sidechain enabling instant transfers between Kraken, Bitfinex, Xapo and more.  Two-way pegged sidechains are not exactly altcoins.I think we will be deadlocked.  "Classic" demanding a hard fork berfore segwit (and probably won't implement segwit, or will implement some entirely different form of segwit), and we will have a deadlock where segwit can't gain the required 95%, and "Classic" can't get their ~72%.  Perhaps Classic can be thrown off by a coordinated effort where miners signal support for "Classic" for 1000 blocks, and then return to mine normal bitcoins.  Throwing off the fork without miner support will get rid of "Classic" for a while.Define a "normal bitcoin user".  Transactions are mined by miners.  Users never had any other influence than trying to interest the miners with fees.  Anyone can be a miner.  Almost anyone can run a node (now).  If Bitcoin is going to scale by increasing the block size, running a full node will be off limits for more people.  Would that be pushing out normal bitcoin users as well, or not?If we are going to increase the blocksize ten-fold to get the same capacity increase as LN with 10 transactions per block-chain transaction, with the same fee level as you suggest (average $2 per transaction), I won't be able to run a full node at home any more.  I would have to go with a less secure solution with less privacy.  Why is that better for normal users?I think this is an irrational fear.  A scheme like this will not get much support.  LN is useful for fast transactions, not for holding bitcoins for a long time.  If average people feel cheated, they can make a two-way pegged sidechain, and transact there.  The sidechain used by Kraken, etc, support confidential transactions as well, iirc.The information doesn't have to be public.  There can be private sidechains where outsiders have no access to the blockchain.  With CT (confidential transactions) the amounts aren't public, but the outputs can be proven to match the inputs.  You can see the transactions between sidechains and Bitcoin, but you won't know which seidechain it was sent to unless you can monitor the sidechain as well.Hopefully someone will find a way to plug sidechains into Bitcoin Core, and let the user transact on multiple chains without even knowing which sidechain or payment channel a transaction is going to.Where is "should only be achieved by rising the amount of transactions" from?  Many of Satoshi's plans have turned out differently than he expected.  E.g. GPU/FPGA/ASIC mining instead of every bitcoin user mining on their computer.Demand for bitcoin is higher than ever.  My turnaround in bitcoin is setting new records every month.The image will just be uploaded once, then deployed multiple times.The core devs have done one hard fork in the past.  It was so successful, the chain didn't actually fork.  As far as I know not a single block has been produced on the other side of the fork.  It fixed an unintentional bug due to a quirk in a database library, and was as uncontroversial as a hard fork can be. To most people, especially foreign customers, the cost of a lawsuit will be far higher than the amount which Coinbase confiscated.You are getting there!  Raising the block size limit has no real value for Coinbase.  Coinbase can easily make a lot more room in the blocks by e.g. batching withdrawals in one transaction a minute or so, like almost everyone else.  What Coinbase want is control over Bitcoin.  If they are able to force through a hard fork, they have succeeded in both taking control over Bitcoin.  They will have the power to stop improvements they don't like, e.g. confidential transactions which depend on segwit.With segwit the malleability problem is solved.  This means people can move their transactions to side-chains, payment channels, lightning, etc.  Many individual transactions will then be hidden for people doing blockchain analysis.  They can see a coin was taken out by me at an ATM, then returned to the chain by a merchant six months later, but they have no idea where the coin has been in the meantime.  Same as cash.  Segwit makes confidential on-chain transactions possible as well, after a soft fork.  You can see that Alice moved a coin to Bob and Charlie, but you can't see how much went to Bob and how much went to Charlie, or how much Alice kept as change.Mike Hearn?  He hardly contributed anything.  Even less than Gavin did the past couple of years.People will use LN to get instant confirmation, not due to fees.  LN will benefit from larger blocks as well.  LN is free software, btw.  There is no company monopoly.  You have to explain how companies can decide the fees to be paid.  You mean miners are organizing in some way, and plan to decide a minimum fee?If you scale by increasing the block size to accommodate all spam, only corporations will be able to run full nodes.  It is putting Bitcoin in the hands of corporations and bank like businesses.  If you read Satoshi's paper and old postings, this was in fact the initial plan for bitcoin.  He thought that most people would be satisfied by a less secure SPV wallet.If you enable sidechains and lightning instead, anyone can opt out of high fees and corporations by transacting on a sidechain.  It will still be bitcoin.  100% convertible between bitcoin and sidechains.  You can even have different rules for the sidechain, to enable e.g. free microtransactions.  You can even add decimals on the sidechain, as long as the transactions back to the Bitcoin blockchain are compliant.  Which means the extra decimals will only exist on the sidechain.  And normal people can still have the security and privacy benefits of running a full node at home.  The fee will not increase more than people are willing to pay, of course.  When demand goes down, and the supply stays the same, price will go down as well.  The most fundamental of all economic theory.  If you agree with Satoshi's initial plan, you are free to transact on a sidechain controlled by a bank or corporation, but Bitcoin itself will be as uncontrollable as it is now.Lightning isn't one network.  You can have as many lightning networks as you want.  I assume most of them will be among people and businesses who transact often with each other.When you deploy a full node on Amazon, you will of course deploy it with the blockchain pre-loaded on disk to get it up quickly.  Still those nodes seem to ask for blocks quite often.  It makes sense if the nodes are downloading the blockchain, or if it is a request forwarded by a pseudonode.  I haven't done any deeper analysis.Do you mean Core?  Yes, there is talk about a hard fork to fix a few things.  There is an old wishlist here.  I doubt it will be successful unless it is entirely non-controversial or adds really useful stuff like Schnorr signatures.  Schnorr signatures are a way of combining many signatures into one, taking up much less block space for transactions using multiple inputs.  Why doesn't "Classic" do that instead in their hard fork?  It would be a real benefit, like cheap dust swiping, cheaper coinjoin transactions, and is less controversial.  Ah, of course..  Coinbase doesn't like Coinjoin.  It makes their chain analysis harder.Since a hard fork will have to be deployed by 100% of users to be successful, I think it is obvious it won't happen as long as people disagree. I have heard it in discussions as well, but always as a straw man.  Never anyone actually making the claim, which I find interesting.  Eligius has the most aggressive spam filter among the pools, and Eligius mine free transactions with high enough priority.Some pools block the spam, but if there was an official script it would be trivial for the spammers to avoid it.  The picture is quite complicated as well.  The hash spam, ending with OP_RETURN, can easily be camouflaged as financial transactions instead.  The OP-RETURN transactions are prunable, the fake financial transactions are not, and will make matters worse by adding unspendable transactions to the UTXO set.There are right ways to do it, and there are wrong ways to do it.  Satoshidice did it wrong for a long time.  Making each bet a separate blockchain transaction.I primarily include services like Proofofexistence.  There are many other as well, as you can see here.No, free transactions are still mined.  (Given enough priority, of course.)Fees are calculated per kB.  Some stupid wallet implemetations use a fixed fee, which is either very high or very low depending on how the transaction ends up.  Blockchain.info used to be one of them, and may still be.  A 252 byte transaction and a 1000 byte transaction will pay the same fee of 0.0001 BTC.  If a spammer sets his fee per kB to 0.00011 BTC, she will  pay a higher fee than those wallets would calculate for a transaction of 910 to 1000 bytes.  Effectively blocking seemingly (to users of stupid wallets) random transactions for ever at a cost of maximum 0.11 BTC per block.  The real cost is lower, of course, unless all transactions in a block are from the spammer.No, you can freely move bitcoins between the blockchain and a sidechain, and back.  No need to exchange.  With a little work on a client, you can plug in a sidechain and use them interchangeably.  If you have coins in the sidechain and want to send on the normal blockchain, it will be two transactions.  One on the sidechain and one on the normal blockchain.  If you have coins on the right chain, it will just be a single tx on the right chain.  Here is a good explanation of how sidechains work.Coinbase is the only noteworthy business supporting "Classic".  Coinbase makes much of their money by doing blockchain analysis and confiscating the funds of people using gambling services, etc.  Just google for "Coinbase froze my account", and see their terms of service.  Coinbase knows that segregated witness will destroy this business model by enabling technologies which make blockchain analysis much harder to impossible.  Instead Coinbase wants a larger blockchain, and they use all kinds of dirty tricks to make that happen.  There is evidence of Coinbase spamming the blockchain as well, to generate artificial need for larger blocks.Gavin Andresen works for Coinbase.Of course.  It is supported by the fact that the "Classic" nodes on Amazon seem to use a disproportional amount of my outgoing bandwidth, but that is not proof.  I have worked around the problem by throttling my outgoing bandwidth to "Classic" nodes to make my ADSL line usable again.If you buy enough storage, then yes.The only other "fix" I know of is to impose a hard limit transaction size, which would take a hard fork to lift.  Considering the amount of noise the current hard fork attempt is making, why do you want to create reasons for more?  Segwit is a much better solution.  It allows for faster validation overall, and it doesn't add extra hard limits on transaction sizes. Who are those people?  I have only heard people claim that other people claim this.  I have never once heard anyone claim transacctions with low fee are spam by default.  Ever.  Your straw man doesn't exist.Spam is pretty easy to spot.  The same coins moving in circles, usually using a fee adjusted just large enough to block a few percent of transactions from wallets paying a low fixed fee.  Then there is the gambling type of spam and the transactions which are pure data-storage, which aren't moving any coins.  Just a fee and an amount of data followed by OP_RETURN.But why should I allow spammers to fill up my data storage and ADSL line in the first place?  This is the non-solution of trying to pay yourself out of the problem by buying more disk space.  This non-solution will only allow the spammer to pay lower fees.  The total amount of fees the spammer pay to fill a block will not increase, unless you suggest to enforce a minimum fee.If I could make my transactions on a sidechain instead, however, I could avoid the problem completely.  If the "classic" supporters think large blocks is a good idea, why not create a sidechain using very large blocks, merge-mined with the bitcoin blockchain, and suggest everyone just move their economic activity over to the sidechain?  It will work with the same security as Bitcoin, they can hard-fork to a different block-size, lower transaction size limits, and support whatever features the community wants whenever they feel like it.  They can even fork to multiple sidechains.  Why isn't this even discussed in the "Classic" community?  Simple: The hard fork has nothing to do with block size.  It has everything to do with Coinbase wanting to gain control over Bitcoin to implement their KYC stuff.A pseudonode is very hard to detect, unless you have a sybil attack running, and manage to get the suspected pseudonode to make an outbound connection to one of your nodes.  In that case you can make an inbound connection to it from another IP, ask for data from the suspected pseudonode, and check if it sends a request for the same data to one of the nodes it has outbound connections to.  If it does, it is probably a pseudonode.Because it use a neglible amount of resources and no diskspace.  You can use the rest of the resources of your Amazon instance to mine for an altcoin or something.Which means it isn't fixed.  Yes, segwit fixes it. That would be your personal definition, and not a general property of settlement layers.  Not all transactions are transparent in Bitcoin either, btw.  It has been shown how you could transact on the side, e.g. A->B->C->...->Z on a sidechain, and commit A->Z to the blockchain.  Coinjoins are commonly done to obfuscate the real partners in a transactions.And why on Earth do you think a larger blocksize would solve the spam problem?  It will only make the consequenses worse.  Bitcoin clearly needs a way to transact unobstructed outside the blockchain, and only commit to the chain when needed.  If miners want to promote normal transactions over spam, they should use spam filters.  Some pools do, e.g. Eligius.  If spam is the problem, you should attack the spam, not allow more of it.  When my mail server got attacked by spammers, I didn't run to the shop to buy more disk.There is an attack on non-segwit transactions where you can make a 2 MB transaction which take more than 10 minutes to validate.  "Classic" has "solved" this by introducing a new hard limit to Bitcoin ("Classic" likes to brag about a limit they lift, not so much about extra limits they add), where a transaction can't be larger than 100 KB.  The largest transaction mined to date was 1 MB, and it takes 20 seconds to validate on a modern fast CPU.Pseudonode is an example of a fake node.  It can emulate all popular versions, and some unpopular like "Classic" and "BitcoinXP", using almost no resources.  It just acts as a relay to fetch the requested data from another node which (hopefully) stores it.  Unless it is another psaudonode, which fetch it from another node, etc.  Perhaps there are only a handful real "Classic" nodes on the network.  We will never know.  The operator who run hundreds of "Classic" nodes on Amazon to attack the Bitcoin P2P network probably want to do it as cheaply as possible, and Pseudonode is the obvious solution. Is it, or is it Coinbase?Fortunately miners have no vote in a hard fork.  I note the fact that the support for "Classic" is so weak they have to fake it by attacking the entire bitcoin P2P infrastructure.  Those Amazon nodes makes a DoS attack on the entire P2P network due to the way sybil resistance in Bitcoin works.  The nodes will not connect to each other, because they are on the same netblock, but every one of them will make 8 connections to other nodes which people run at home on their ADSL lines and cable.  Taking up much of their bandwith, which they wanted to provide as a service to real nodes and SPV clients all over the world.  Instead their bandwith, which they pay for, is wasted on those Coinbase-nodes.And I hope people stay away from mining pools which sabotage the field intended to be used by BIP9 to deploy soft forks. Bitcoin is a settlement layer by design.  If you use it for something else, you are doing it wrong. Who cares what the miners think?  Miners can't change the consensus.  To change consensus, you must update every bitcoin node on the network.  Otherwise you get what is known as an altcoin.A falsum.  If this pie was true, "Classic" would have forked their altcoin already.  And they may already have.  I don't think many people would notice, except for the handful of people who actually use "Classic".
You are contradicting yourself.  Bitcoin is built on consensus.  If a group controlling 75% of hashpower, i.e. four miners, break lose and force a consensus change to Bitcoin, then it shows Bitcoin is under control by a very small group.  Both user support, and the need for a fork, can be faked like Coinbase does.If Bitcoin has to be scaled via hard forks pushed by a small group, or if a small group (i.e. 2 miners) can block scaling by blocking a size change, then Bitcoin has to fall under control of a very few number of players to succeed.  This contradicts your previous stance.Bitcoin programmers don't have powers.  They can not change the consensus rules without making an altcoin.  This is the primary security mechanism in Bitcoin.  If this wasn't true, Bitcoin would be just as worthless as fiat in a bank on Cyprus.  Just see how the Coinbasecoin known as "Classic" works out.  They have almost no user support, except for sockpuppets on Reddit, and even fakes node support through an attack on the bitcoin P2P insfrastructure, and try to provoke user support by spamming the blockchain with unnecessary transactions.  (The Amazon nodes are an attack due to the built-in sybil-resistance in Bitcoin nodes.  Home nodes will create a connection to at most one of those nodes, since it avoids connecting to more than one node per netblock.  The attack nodes will however make 8 outbound connections to people's home nodes, download blocks and transactions, and use a disproportionate amount of their bandwidth.  I had to throttle my outgoing bandwidth to the attack nodes ("Classic" nodes on Amazon servers) because they were consuming all my outgoing bandwidth, and hitting my incoming transactions limit.  To help the network, nodes must be spread out to all corners of the internet.)There are plenty of altcoins out there, and very easy to vote by your feet now.  Even Coinbase could be honest about it, and fork off their own Coinbasecoin, or "Classic" as they call it, today.  Yet, I can't see Coinbase following that path.  They want to destroy Bitcoin instead, by showing that a small group of people can take control over it. This is correct, and for that reason Bitcoin should avoid a hard fork at all cost.  Most users and miners know it.  If the hard consensus rules in Bitcoin change, a hostile takeover by a single entity or group of powerful players already happened. In my experience the relationship is opposite.  Back in 2011 the price rised quickly, and people bought large farms of graphics cards to mine coins.  When the price fell back, and FPGAs came to market, people sold their GPUs to gamers.  The hashrate even went down a while after the 32 USD price peak, since the GPUs weren't profitable any more.  If you compare price and hashrate graphs, it is very clear that hashrate lagged the price.If a lot of hashrate forks out, other people will come in and replace it.  The cost per hashrate hasn't changed. No, miners have no word in this.  It is what users use and merchants accept that matters.  If those pools decide to use a different consensus, they will just mine invalid blocks, and invalid coins.  The miners can choose to ignore blocks produced by other miners, of course, but stick to the consensus rules.  This is called a 51% attack, and is a real danger. That's nothing.  Blockchain.info must do some kind of filtering.  I have 437 MB of unconfirmed transactions in my mempool.  Average fee is 1.05 satoshi/byte, i.e. nothing to worry about.  Keeping the mempool artificially large by spamming free transactions is free, and doesn't impact conformation time of any normal transactions.  Keeping blocks full is free as well.  This is a non-issue. He is welcome to do that, but will discover it is impossible.  Bitcoin will split immediately, and he will mine worthless coins.There are other ways to scale.  E.g. if Coinbase could stop making two transactions on the blockchain for every withdrawal a user makes.  Other exchanges on the other hand joins many withdrawals into one transaction, spending a fraction of the blockspace for each withdrawal.  Coinbase have been very vocal on the capacity issue, and instead of taking very simple measures to increase the capacity, they try to take control over Bitcoin to change it for their own purposes.  Coinbase plays very dirty, and I don't think Coinbase should be rewarded for blocking normal transactions by spamming the blockchain, delaying other transactions on purpose. How large your transaction will be mostly depends on your inputs.  If you typically receive transfers which are much smaller than the one you send, your transaction is going to be very large and expensive, because it has to spend many inputs.  Don't use faucets, because the coins you receive will cost more than their value to spend!  Some wallets, e.g. Bitcoin Core, indicate how much fee you should use to get your transaction confirmed within n blocks.  Bitcoin Core will try to select inputs in a way that your transaction size/fee will be as small as possible.  Many mobile wallets are quite bad in that regard, and some use the same fee regardless of transaction size. Not even bothering to check.  Those transactions aren't blocking anything but low priority free transactions.  When the mempool is full, the transactions will get cleaned out due to low fee, but will of course trickle back from other nodes over time.  Rinse and repeat..The most cost effective DoS transaction fee is about 11 satoshi/byte.  It will block all 910-1000 byte transactions from stupid wallets paying 0.0001 BTC fee per chunk of 1000 bytes (I think blockchain.info is that stupid), which is just enough to get noticed.  The theoretical maximum cost of this attack is only 0.11 BTC per block, if there are no other transactions. I ckecked my mempool right now, btw.  This mempool is limited to 1.5 GB, i.e. much larger than default.Total size:  38057 transactionsTransactions paying less than 2 satoshi/byte in fees: 35152 (92.3%, 457 MB)The rest will fit in a block.  Actually some of the less than 2 satoshi/byte transactions will fit as well.Conclusion: Mempool size is irrelevant.  Anyone can fill up all mempools with free or almost free transactions. Paying more helps, but it still doesn't do anything about the reasons why low fee transactions won't confirm quickly. The blocks aren't even full now.  There can only be two reasons for the fees are moving up:1. The miners demand a higher fee to bother to include it in a block.2. The spammer(s) pay higher fees.There is nothing a normal user can do about any of the reasons, and a change of blocksize won't change anything either. Correct, it just removes most of the the incentive to produce empty blocks.  Meaning it makes more economic sense to include transactions for extra income. You can, via a soft fork (it is among the proposals for the segwit soft fork), force the miners to include proof of validation of the block they build on.  This will get us most of the way.  By dropping the validation of the previous block, or not even downloading it, miners will get a head start on mining the next block.  If they have to validate the previous block, the cost of adding some transactions to the next block is very low compared to the fees they make. Men då får jo mottakaren bot eller fengselsstraff dersom han hentar pakken utan å fortolle!  Det må då vere betre å sende pakken gjennom tollen enn å sende kundane i fengsel?  Rein svindel, spør du meg. What is Satoshi's ideal?  He wanted to create anonymous cash for the internet.  It turned out to be not anonymous at all.  Should we fix that?He didn't see any good ways to scale, except for increasing blocksize and centralize the blockchain.  Now that we know better, should we do it?He didn't want people to mine with their GPUs, becuase he had ment that every user should mine ("vote") with their CPUs.  Then we got FPGA mining, and now we even have large centralized ASIC mining factories.  Should we fix that?More viable ways scales up the parts of bitcoin which needs to scale up.  We need to make it possible to transact faster, cheaper and more often.  We do not need to increase the amount of resources needed for every node in the system.The Bitcoin blockchain was designed as a settlement layer.  It has never been possible to transact instantly with Bitcoin.  0 confirmation transactions have the same security as "the check is in the mail".  If I had sent bitcoin to an excange an hour ago now, the transaction would only have four confirmations.  I would need two more confirmations before my coins are credited, and I can exchange them for money.  Lightning can enable instant transactions by building on top of the settlement layer below, where the transaction, or the start and endpoint of a chain of transactions, will be commited later.The commersial pressure from Coinbase and others, which are under strong regulatory pressure to do chain analysis and watch how their users are spending their money, have failed to gain much support.  Instead they fake support by paying for lits of nodes at data centers, like this.  By enabling new technologies, Bitcoin can finally be this ubiquitous electronic token which is usable for everything from large settlements to instant micropayments.I think the opposite is true.  Traditionally Bitcoin has only been usable for relatively fast (~ 1 hour) and cheap settlements worldwide 24/7.  Not really for e.g. paying your bar tab at the end of a long evening.  Not all bartenders will accept "the check is in the mail" as payment when you are about to leave.  Both sidechains, payment channels and Lightning will make Bitcoin more flexible, useful for more purposes, and accessible to more people.I don't think an altcoin for every single purpose is a good idea.  I remember travelling through Europe before the Euro.  I was used to it then, but now I hope we never return to the pre-Euro days.  It was a hassle to keep exchanging my money from one currency to another at every border, and of course the exchangers took a high percentage every time.  Even if I didn't spend anything, I would get home with much less money than I had when I left.  Imagine if each of the states in the US had a different currency.  It would certainly limit free movement of capital inside the country.   This was a suggestion.  Satoshi dropped it, because it was a bad idea.  Everyone (almost) can see it is a terrible idea, so it wasn't implemented by anyone else either.  Satoshi had a lot of ideas which he later dropped.  He even asked people to stop GPU mining, because he thought every user should mine with their CPUs.  Go home and tell your granny bitcointalk isn't the Bible.  Or demand a PoW change to make it possible for everyone to mine with their CPUs again, or whatever.  (This is exactly why many of the altcoins exists, btw.)Satoshi had many conflicting views.  He initially thought Bitcoin would be much more anonymous than it turned out to be.  He also thought the blockchain would reside in a big data center while all users ran SPV wallets, which would completely remove all anonymity.  This is what Coinbase wants, and basically mimics how credit cards work.  Satoshi didn't think of advances like Lightning and sidechains, which would improve on both anonymity and decentralization, but he made the scripting system flexible enough to allow for future advances in the technology.  Why is it so important to you to stop progress?Not really.  This was a bugfix.  Entirely uncontroversial.  So far not a single (known to anyone) block has been produced on the other side, so strictly speaking it isn't even a fork.  This did not come as a surprise to me, perhaps to you. I am not religious.  I quote Satoshi for facts, not beliefs.  Smarter people have taken over development, and have found much more viable ways to scale bitcoin.  You need to understand the difference between how it is and how it can be (or could have been if things were done differently back in 2010).Satoshi defined the consensus rules back in 2009, and it is enforced by nodes running the software called Bitcoin Core.  Core cannot change this consensus, and it is not affected by feelings or whatever.  Nobody can.  Not even by trolls on Bitcointalk.  Anyone can make the rules stricter, Core as well, and this will be successful if a majority of hashrate agrees.  Single miners can even enforce stricter rules for only the blocks this miner produce, and it will work.  This won't do any harm.  All nodes validating the blocks will find them to be valid, and all services will continue to work.There are plenty altcoins adhering to different consensus rules.  Their blocks are invalid to Bitcoin.Yes, I do.  A hard fork will essentially make an altcoin.  One valid chain, and one which is only valid for the altcoin.  There are several attempts to make new altcoins with larger blocksizes.  E.g. "BitcoinXT", "Classic",  "Unlimited", "BitPay Core" and whatever.  I have lost count.  Bitcoin has 1 MB blocks.  It is defined by the consensus rules.  Larger blocks will be invalid to Bitcoin nodes.  Those specific altcoins are special in the way they are premined.  You can import a Bitcoin wallet into an altcoin node, split your coins by e.g. mixing with altcoin, and then exchange your altcoins for Bitcoin on Cryptsy or one of the other altcoin exchanges.  If you didn't want to know, why did you ask if I was an author? Yes, but very slowly if depending on priority alone.  The worst spam storm may be over, btw.  The number of fee paying transactions in my mempool has been slowly decreasing for the last few hours. Yes, Core defines consensus for Bitcoin, and the core consensus rules were set in stone from the point when Satoshi released version 0.1.  If you don't believe me, read his words for it here.  If you see two posts later down, you will see Gavin defining his future role in Bitcoin.Attempts to break the consensus rules will make an altcoin.  In principle anyone can do a soft fork by enforcing new rules, stricter than the rules in Core, and this will make a soft fork.  It will not succeed however, unless there is a clear majority supporting it.  Older nodes, all versions, will continue working after a soft fork.I have been using Bitcoin since 2010, and exchange bitcoins for a living.  The health and development of Bitcoin is vital to my business, and for that reason I follow it closely.  I have no connection with the author of the article. You don't understand the difference between a hard and a soft fork.  A soft fork adds new rules, which can be done without breaking the consensus defined by Bitcoin Core (all versions).
Please go back to Reddit instead.  You will feel more at home among the trolls there.You may want to read this article about how the consensus works, but I doubt you really care. Ah, you obviously don't understand how the rules work.  You can make the rules stricter.  I.e. a majority of nodes will no longer accept blocks or transactions which were previously valid.  This is not a problem, because all nodes will still work.  All blocks which are valid to the majority will be valid for all.  Some transactions will just seem to never confirm for non-upgraded nodes.  Satoshi did this many times, e.g. by limiting the blocksize.Removing or changing rules to be more permissive, is impossible.  If a majority of nodes start accepting blocks where more coins are generated, are larger, or violate the hard rules in some other way, the rest of the nodes will simply not accept their chain, and continue their own valid chain.  This is how altcoins are created.This is what makes Bitcoin safe from e.g. a government takeover or hostile developers.  If government want to change Bitcoin by e.g. making it deduct a tax from every transaction, they could easily mandate that if it was possible to change the rules by convincing some developer to do so.  Coinbase are even trying to prove they can by launching a forks and convince idiots to use it, but the majority is not that easily fooled. And Gavin proved to be wrong.  We are still far from hitting the limit for normal transactions, even during peaks.  No block size, not even Gavin-sized blocks, can withstand malicious spam attacks.  Gavin doesn't have a solution for that.  Only the current Bitcoin developers are working to solve the problem, and provide real scalability to Bitcoin.Don't be a fool.  BIP 109 is a plan to make matters worse through a hostile takeover.  No blocksize can prevent spam attacks.  Gavin hasn't contributed meaningfully to Bitcoin for years.  He is busy collecting money from Coinbase to create diversion and prevent privacy improvements to Bitcoin.If the goal was to increase capacity, why not reduce the transaction size instead?  It can be halved by using different addresses and signatures.  This is a hard fork as well, and the deployment will be equally hard.  But it is a harder sell, because it isn't as intuitive as a block size increase to the uneducated masses who think larger blocks will prevent spam.  To take control over Bitcoin, Coinbase needs a solution which is easier to sell to the uneducated masses. Short version: If you want a dictator to own your money, just give them to someone.  You don't need Bitcoin for that.With Bitcoin you have your own money, controlled by hard consensus rules which were set in stone from the first day.  The rules are enforced by every node in the entire network, and to change the rules, e.g. to steal all the money and take taxes for the dictator, you have to change every single node.  This is not doable in practice.  Therefore all changes have to be in line with the consensus rules, and the powers of the developers are limited. This is not the place for ELI5s of how bitcoin works.  See Satoshi's whitepaper. The systems have been developed, but depend on a soft fork which hasn't been deployed yet.  It will be released next month, and deployed as fast as safely possible.First of all it has already been trivially shown in this thread that a blocksize increase won't solve the problem at hand.  If you think every bitcoin user in the world can just switch to different software yesterday evening, and use bigger blocks by now, you are having fantasies.  Fortunately noone suggest anything like that either.  Deploying larger blocks will take much longer, since every single node in the world has to upgrade.  Unless you plan to deploy an altcoin, which you are free to do of course.I have no need to.  I pay normal transaction fees, and am therefore not affected by the current spam attack. There are hundreds of implementations.  See the altcoins part of the forum.  There are two separate implementations of the Bitcoin consensus model as well.  Bitcoin Core and libbitcoin.  Those are kept in sync by independent developers.Go ahead and embrace all the altcoins you want.  Just don't pretend it is Bitcoin.  Bitcoin is built on consensus, which is incompatible with dictatorship.  Attempts to change the hard rules of bitcoin will result in an altcoin.How high was he when he wrote this?  Every soft fork has been deployed with a 95% hashrate support so far, and no real opposition (except for P2SH, which was opposed by one developer).  And he is attempting a hostile takeover at less than 75%?  He should try rehab instead. And attempting a hostile takeover of Bitcoin through a hard fork is the work of angels?The better solution is freedom.  Make it possible to choose between different mechanisms.  Lightning, if you want instant secure confirmations. Use a sidechain if you want larger blocks with the possibility of other features like shorter times between blocks.  I'm sure you can get all of the big block supporters to agree on a sidechain to use.  Diversity is not a problem, because you are free to move bitcoin between different sidechains and the main chain.  Use the blockchain directly if you want to use the most limited resource, but expect to pay to use everyone's diskspace.  Just don't try to force your "solution" upon everyone, a "solution" which every schoolkid in the world can see won't solve any real world problems.For some companies, like Coinbase which confiscate user funds on the basis of blockchain analysis, the increased privacy of transactions on the side is bad.  In my opinion the improved privacy is required in today's hostile environment of Big Brothers watching everywhere.  It is more in the spirit of Bitcoin. Ehm..  Did you see how quickly that backlog increased?  Many nodes without mempool limit, i.e. before 0.12, even went down.  No realistic block size could have handled it.  The only reason why it flattened, is the fact that the spammer ran out of unspent txos to spend.  Recycling them faster through larger blocks will only make the problem worse by making the cost of running a full node in your home even higher.  (Contrary to popular belief, more nodes at a big datacenter doesn't help the network at all, due to the way Bitcoin tries to spread connections between as many netblocks as possible for sybil resistance.)Only Lightning can solve that problem, by making instantly confirmed transactions possible. Increasing the block size won't do anything but make the problem worse.Segwit enables sidechains, which can have as large blocks as you want, and Lightning, which will circumvent the problem until the spammer(s) understand it is a waste of money.  Lightning will actually solve the zero confirmation problem as well.  But we will have to wait until next month for Segwit to be released, and probably a month or two more until it has been deployed by minimum 95% of the hashrate. RBF is actually perfect for a situation like this.  As a merchant accepting bitcoin, I would just ask the customer to replace the transaction with one paying a decent fee.  I have been waiting for a feature like RBF for a long time.  Unfortunately it is hard to send RBF transactions yet, but a customer capable of sending one can certainly replace it as well.  At least Bitcoin tells me if a transaction can be replaced.Fortunately the spammer is using a less than normal fee, so normal fee paying transactions aren't affected.  The only problem beeing wallets which will always apply a fixed fee with no regard to transaction size.What amazes me is the fact that some people claim in public that a larger blocksize will solve the spam problem.  Obviously primary school isn't compulsory everywhere in the world.   Increased block size will only encourage the spammer(s), and make the impact harder.  We need lightning, payment channels and sidechains.  All will be easy to implement after segwit has been deployed in April.  If you want 2 MB blocks, you can easily move your coins to a sidechain with 2 MB blocks, and I am sure you will get Coinbase and other large block proponents to use it.  Coins can be moved back to the standard blockchain whenever you want. Someone has switched on her spam-script again today.  It was off for a while.  It only cost about 3 BTC per hour to keep most normal transactions delayed, and someone keep doing that frequently.  I have no idea why, but suspect it is related to current events where Coinbase and some helpers are trying to gain control over Bitcoin.Some pools filter the spam quite efficiently.  If e.g. Eligius manage to mine a block, your transaction will probably be in it. You should sync with Bitcoin Core 0.12.  It is roughly 7 times faster than "classic".I've fended many DoS attacks myself running Bitcoin Core on my nodes.  DoS attacks against bitcoin nodes is fairly common, and I doubt the attackers care which version you run. Niks.  Ved sal av ei elektronisk fjernleverbar teneste, er det bustaden til kjøparen som er avgjerande.  Kjøparen er ikkje børsen, men ein annan, for deg som regel ukjend, kunde av børsen.  Lukke til med å dokumentere at denne kjøparen bur i utlandet.  Nei, kva valuta du byter bitcoin mot er ikkje relevant.  Nøyaktig dei same vilkåra gjeld, anten du handlar i norske kroner eller utanlandsk valuta.  Det er heller ikkje relevant kva land børsen ligg i, sidan det er bustaden til kjøparen som avgjer om salet er mva-pliktig.Dette er logisk.  Elles ville Spotify, og alle andre som sel fjernleverbare elektroniske tenester i EU, til eikvar tid selje tenestene sine frå det landet som har lågast mva-sats.Dette er ikkje heilt svart/kvitt.  Sidan bitcoin er deponert på den utanlandske børsen, kan du argumentere med at det er børsen som leverer tenesta til sluttkunden.  Då er det i prinsippet børsen som er mva-pliktig.  Ja, eit utanlandsk selskap som leverer elektronisk fjernleverbare tenester vil vere mva-pliktig til Noreg når dei leverer tenester til norske kundar.  Då kan du hevde at børsen er mva-pliktig, og børsen hevde at du er mva-pliktig, og dette kan de krangle om til Dovre fell, for Skattedirektoratet famlar i mørkret.  Dette er spesielt interessant for Localbitcoins, sindan børsen ligg i Finland og du som regel veit kva land kjøparen bur i.  Om du sel til ein utanlandsk kjøpar via Localbitcoins er du dobbelt sikker, og det gjeld uavhengig av om den utanlandske kjøparen betaler deg i norske eller svenske kroner. Hæ?  Dette er sjølvsagt berre sprøyt.  Lova du refererer til finst ikkje.  Du slepp ikkje unna mva ved å bruke ein annan valuta.  I so fall hadde alle butikkar i landet skifta valuta på minuttet.Du kan derimot selje bitcoin direkte til ein privat kjøpar i utlandet, og dokumentere dette.  Då er det rekna som eksport.  Eksport er mva-fritt.  Kjøparen kan gjerne betale i norske kroner, det har ingentig å seie.  Skattedirektoratet har ikkje svart på om sal via ein utanlandsk børs til ukjend kjøpar er å rekne som eksport. In that case the numbers are currently 99.36% on Bitcoin's side, with only 0.64% on the fork's side.Consensus is important among nodes, not miners.  Miners who don't follow the consensus rules are simply mining invalid coins, and ignored by the nodes.  No matter how much hashrate they have.  Miners aren't important in that regard.Well, you have pumps and dumps of altcoins all the time.  It is pretty much what defines an altcoin.  In the past it was common for Bitcoin as well, but the economy is too large now.  I don't think anyone will be willing to risk that much money on pumping some fork.There have been some bugfixes and improvements which achieved consensus.  Segwit is a small change, and a large improvement.  Coinbase doesn't like it, since it improves privacy and make their chainanalysis much more difficult, but fortunately Coinbase only make up a very small part of the global Bitcoin network, and many Bitcoin users dislike Coinbase's practices.  I am only aware of one hardfork after Satoshi, and that one was a small bugfix to overcome limitations of a database library.  The hardfork is theoretical.  The other side of the fork has never mined a block that I am aware of, but if you run Bitcoin 0.6 on a node today, with no changes to the configuration, it will eventually stop syncing because it fails to validate a block due to too many DB changes.  (I don't remember the exact height.)  If wou want to, you can start mining from there using 0.6, and you will make an actual hard fork.  Other pre-fork nodes (if any) will pick it up. Yeah, and then we can make it rain gold, and travel in time, and profit!Most exchanges and merchants are with standard Bitcoin.  I think the exchange with the most users is Localbitcoins, and Localbitcoins are not going with any of the forkers.  This is more than enough to make sure Bitcoin will still be liquid.  I will never switch to a fork myself.  If I try to sell an altcoin as Bitcoin, I am going to get sued and ruined on the first attempt.AFAIK only Coinbase has stated support for one of the hard forks ("Classic").  BitPay has it's own fork, but not publicly stated they will try to force anyone into using it instead of Bitcoin.  A couple of others have stated support for larger blocks, but not specified any specific solution to the problem. It will be about 30 minutes between blocks, due to the intentional trick which makes the hard fork trigger long before it has 75% hashrate.  (And it will likely be even lower, since basic game theory says you should cheat this one by announcing support for it, and then not mine on the fork.  So there is no way to know if the fork has a mining majority at all before the fork is supposed to happen.)  30 minutes is common today.  Even an hour is quite common.  I don't think 30 minutes between blocks will stop anyone from using bitcoin.  It didn't in 2010 when someone pushed up the difficulty, and then suddenly stopped mining to show Bitcoin's weakness, and why should it this time? You can group your receiving addresses in accounts.  Don't know if it is supported in the GUI.  haven't used the GUI for years, but I do use accounts a lot.You don't have to use a new address each time, but it is best practice no matter which client you use.Nah, the default keypool contains 100 addresses.  You can make 100 transactions with change or recieve to 100 new addresses before you have to back up again.  You can make the keypool larger if 100 is not enough.
Given infinite time, the likelihood of this happening approaches infinity.  I.e. it will happen.  It is also very likely to happen with a real hashrate support below 95%, unless it is on an increasing trend and well above 95% already. It less less likely to be triggered by a minority (<50%), but it is in no way failsafe against getting triggered by less than 95%, as Organofcorti points out.Yes, it will happen if the hashrate is stable on both sides.  If the divide is 94.5% vs 5.5%, and the 5.5% share have bad luck for a day, it will trigger.  Since the test is done every ten minutes by average, the chance of the 5.5% having bad luck for long enough at some point is very high. Do you think 75 is some kind of special number, and with 95% it is impossible for e.g. 94.9% to produce 95% of the blocks for a while?See my previous posts.  I wrote a summary of point 4 above: 950 of the last 1000 blocks (what they actually test for) is not necessarily produced by 95% of the hashrate, and certainly not 95% of the network (most nodes don't mine).  Again, I refer to Organofcorti's blog for the explanation and details. Not only the header; they didn't check the validity of the block at all.  They announced support for the new consensus rules, without actually supporting them by checking if blocks were valid or not.  I.e. a variant of false support announcement.I made no argument against 95%, btw.  However 95% of the last 1000 blocks will be triggered by less than 95% (see explanation by Organofcorti).  95% of one difficulty period (2016 blocks, fixed measurement points) is much more likely to be a certain 95%.  At 95% of the last 1000 this somewhat premature activation doesn't carry a high risk of a prolonged fork, so it probably doesn't matter as long as there is a cut-off date where the soft fork will fail if not achieved. It may be a wise decision by the pool operator.  Note the fact that the parameters chosen by at least two of the current forks, "Classic" and "XT", are specifically chosen to ensure a very small majority will eventually trigger the fork.  Even a lucky minority can do it.  I think a pool operator refusing to take the risk of making a premature decision is only doing his job.  See this explanation by organofcorti from long before "Classic" was conceived.  The evenly distributed hashrate between the forks means it may take weeks to discover which fork is the most popular.  It would be best to use this time wisely, as miners may announce false support for a fork, and stay on the standard bitcoin chain when it is time to switch.  A variant of this happened after the BIP66 soft fork, which was triggered on a 95% majority, resulting in a long chainfork which took hours to resolve.Most miners will probably leave due to unprofitability when the price crashes on the uncertainty surrounding the fork.  How this sudden drop in hashrate will change the support for the different forks is completely unpredictable, but must be taken into account when choosing which fork to mine.  If the "Classic", "XT" or "Unlimited" fork is chosen, and the real majority ends up following the old consensus rules, all work done on the forks may be lost.I wish the forkers were more responsible when choosing their parameters.  Either they don't know better, or their goal is drama and destruction, not change.  If they think an economic majority want larger blocks, they could launch a sidechain with 2 MB blocks, and see most bitcoins moved over there.  This sidechain would become the de-facto bitcoin chain with no harm to Bitcoin, and larger sidechains would be easy to deploy when needed or wanted. No, I don't think you get it...Before difficulty adjustment, it will take longer time between blocks.  Since there are fewer miners to divide the profit between, the profit per miner, or more correctly per hashrate, will stay exactly the same as before the fork.  No matter how many miners there are on each side of the fork, or how this fluctuates.It is the same when many miners join or leave between difficulty adjustments.  During one period of 2016 blocks, the income per hashrate will stay the same.  Only a difficulty adjustment will change that.  And variance ("luck"), of course, but variance goes both ways with the same probability. The previous forks has happened due to fixing simple and obvious bugs.  Nobody wants software with bugs.  If you want to run a version where you can generate 18446744073709551566 BTC in your coinbase due to an integer overflow, you are welcome, but most people would consider that an unintended bug and want to upgrade.For a given hashrate.  The hashrate of my hardware will stay exactly the same after a fork, and my production will therefore stay exactly the same after the fork.  The global hashrate won't affect my chance of finding a block until after a difficulty adjustment.And therefore mining the losing chain will pay more if the price is the same.  Since most exchanges haven't signaled any support for a blocksize increase, and merchants seem to be with the majority of users and developers who want to scale by other means, standard Bitcoins are going to have higher value than the altcoin, and what happens then?  The Bitcoin blockchain will overtake the altcoin again after the first difficulty adjustment.Yes, of course.  The number of "BitcoinXT" nodes has gone down for a while with no similar increase in other nodes until now.  I suspect many of them are just cheap VPS nodes the owner has stopped paying for.  The number of Bitcoin Core nodes has been very stable for a long time.I think segwit is a very good thing, because it solves a lot of problems without a hard fork.  I think adoption will be quicker than many people think.  Most libraries which are used by wallets have it implemented already.  A hard fork won't be usable at all until everyone have switched. Of course exchanges will close until the fork has settled.  Otherwise they will be in a legal sh*thole when they lost their users deposits due to completely irrational behavior.To safely support both Bitcoin and the altcoin, they need to get hold of coins generated in a coinbase after the split, and spend their deposits with it as an input.  This is the only way to make certain the coins can't be spent in the Bitcoin chain, and it will also die with the altchain in case the fork ends.  A coinbase take 100 blocks to mature.  Exchanges will have to be closed for at least that amount of time.No exchange will "migrate" to any fork.  Some will take the opportunity to support both bitcoin and the new altcoin, until people have lost interest in the altcoin.  Altcoins die all the time.  In the beginning, as soon as the exchange has made sure all deposits exist at different places in both chains, all users at the exchange will have dual balances.  People predicted Bitcoin's death as soon as altcoins started to show up.  It didn't die.  Even if some misguided miners start mining on a fork people don't want (look at the node statistics, and the low merchant, user and developer support for any of the forks), and even spend more hashrate on the fork than on Bitcoin, Bitcoin will live on and grow stronger because it proved to be resistant to an attempt by miners to change the hard rules of the blockchain. Not how it works.  You cannot create an altcoin based on bitcoin, and convince everyone to switch to the altcoin by telling them they are stupid.  Especially when the altcoin is a retardation compared to the real coin, and has alsmost no developers behind it.  I don't think the users will care much about what the majority of the miners are doing at that point.  They will just keep using their superior coin.Obviously..  For a given hashrate, the chance of finding a new block, and therefore the reward, will be the exactly same in both forks.  After difficulty readjustment the success rate will increase.  So miners don't have any economic reasons to switch.Any hard fork would be disastrous, yes, if it has followers.  Fortunately none of the suggested hard forks have gained a significant number of followers so far.I think you may base this assumption on your flawed theory about profitability above.  As long as most merchants still use the real bitcoin, and indeed almost 90% of all nodes run real Bitcoin now, Bitcoin is the safest choice.  The success of a hard fork, and therefore the value of it's coins, does not depend on the miners.  It depends on the users.This will work for one block maximum.  The first sport of a fork is doubling your coins by getting one transaction confirmed in one chain, and a different version in the other chain.  Coins spent as normal bitcoins won't exist in the "classic" chain and vice versa.  People will split their coins to make sure they can spend every coin they have in both chains separately, with no risk of getting the transaction confirmed in the other chain.  Eventually this will happen by itself when coins are mixed by coinbase coins which doesn't exist in the other chain.Again, this is based on your mining profit fallacy above.  The profit in terms of coins per day for a given hashrate, will be exactly the same after a fork as before, until a difficulty adjustment.  After the adjustment the chain with the lowest hashrate will pay the most.You mean by running Bitcoin Core and pretend to be "Classic" or vice versa?  Sure, but why would anyone do that?  It has so far only been done for mining.  Some blocks are mined as "BitcoinXT" blocks, but those have been shown to be created with Bitcoin Core with a small change to the coinbase transaction.  Since "Classic" has based their fork on an old version of Bitcoin Core, without many of the improvements for block generation, I think miners will do the same in the future as well, unless "Classic" get developers who are capable of rebasing their patches against 0.12.I don't see any majority for raising the blocksize via a hard fork.  Quite the opposite.  It seems the majority is very clear on maintaining backwards compability, and increase the capacity by moving the signatures outside the 1 MB blocks.  Especially among the developers of Bitcoin and various bitcoin wallets.  Most of them have implemented segregated witness already.  It is very simple, and will be faster to deploy. A long fork is extremely risky business.  During the next few weeks, the standard Bitcoin side of the fork can easily overtake the other side again.  Actually the most profitable strategy in this game to a miner would be to announce the intent of switching, then not do it when the switch is supposed to happen.  Many other miners will then waste their resources on the wrong side of a fork, while you keep mining on the side you know will win.  One or two large miners or pools who do this will be enough to tip the scale.  Since other miners will watch each other closely just after the fork is supposed to happen, you can mine a few fork blocks before switching back again, covertly mining standard Bitcoin blocks.  If one or two miners switch side after mining on the fork for a few hours to days, and then silently switch to standard Bitcoin again, the standard Bitcoin blockchain will overtake the fork.  So a closure of exchanges is pretty much 100% certain, at least if the fork has support from anything less than 90% of the mining power.  The weakness of the forks is the fact that if the standard bitcoin chain overtake the fork, all mining effort and transactions on the fork will be wasted and lost forever.  The standard Bitcoin chain can not be overtaken by a fork however, since the blocks from the forks will be invalid.Anyhow, I don't believe there will be a hard fork.  Now "Classic" have released binaries, which has lead to a sharp increase in "Classic" nodes.  At the same time the number of "BitcoinXT" nodes is falling as if it went over a cliff.  Bitcoin Core has the same share of nodes on the network as it had before "Classic" binaries were released.  About 88%.  The last 12% are divided between "XT", "Classic" and "Unlimited". For segwit alone, yes.  Of course segwit makes other optimizations very easy.  You can pass long chains to to the blockchain, A to B to C to ... to Z, where a node can validate and commit A to Z in one operation, leaving all the intermediates out of the blockchain.  And the best of all is the fact that all transactions in between, e.g. Q to R, can have the same instant security as the number of confirmations of A.  I am sure this will be the preferred way to transfer bitcoins in the future, due to the instant secure transfers and better privacy.This has lead to chain forks and large losses for miners.  But the real danger is for SPV clients.  An SPV client will not be able to validate the chain at all.  If a chain is built on an invalid block, SPV clients will see false confirmations.  One proposal in segwit can eliminate this to a varying degree.  Eiher in a mild form, by including a proof of knowledge of the contents of the previous block, a stronger form that you must have validated the previuos block, and an even stronger form where you have to include transactions in the block you mine for it to be valid.  All this is possible, and of course the strongest forms are controversial.Core doesn't need it.  Worst case for core is about 25 seconds, and this risk is eliminated when segwit has been deployed.  XT had a bad hack where they introduced a hard limit on 100 kB for transactions.  It would take a new hard fork to raise this limit.  I have no idea what the so-called "Classic" implemented, but last time I checked thje suggestion for doing the same in "Classic" had very few followers.  "Classic" is supposed to be a hard fork to increase the blocksize to 2 MB, and nothing more.  Then again, I think "Classic" mostly ignore this consisder.it thing, and just do what they want.Correct.All nodes will do that now, in fact.  Your node will accept transactions out of order, i.e. a transaction spending from a transaction you haven't seen yet.  Your node will not know if the transaction is valid until it has seen the parent.  It won't be confirmed until the parent is, of course. Det er dei fleste, inkludert Skatteetaten og Skattedirektoratet.Spørsmålet har vore oppe i mange trådar her på forumet.  Sjå til dømes her og her og her. So lenge Skattetaten ikkje kan fortelle meg nøyaktig kva reglar som gjeld, er det ikkje praktisk mogeleg å føre eit mva-rekneskap for bitcoin-handel.  Eit døme er ved handel på børsar i utlandet der bitcoin er deponert på den utanlandske børsen.  Du anar ikkje kva land kjøparen bur i, eller om vedkommande er privat eller næringsdrivande.  Du veit heller ikkje om vedkommande tek ut bitcoin frå deponiet, eller om vedkommande sel dei vidare same stad.  Det einaste eg kan dokumentere er at eg har sendt bitcoin til utlandet, og at nokon har kjøpt dei, men i fylgje mva-lova er det kvar kjøparen bur som avgjer om salet har skjedd til utlandet eller ikkje.  På ei anna side er det sannsynlegvis børsen som er leverandør av tenesta, sidan det er dei som evt leverer ut bitcoin frå deponiet.  Skatteetaten anar ikkje korleis eg skal handtere dette.  Då kan ikkje eg føre eit komplett mva-rekneskap, og inntil Skatteetaten gjer det mogeleg har eg heller ikkje tenkt å prøve.  Dette har eg skrive i sjølvmeldingar og næringsopppgåver, utan at Skatteetaten har kommentert det med eit ord. CPU usage will be lower.  Large transactions with many signature validations may take very long without segwit.  A few months ago there was a 1 MB transaction, taking an entire block, which took 25 seconds to validate on a modern CPU.  It is possible to create a 2 MB transaction which take 10 minutes to validate, because signature checking is O(n²).  Segwit eliminates one hash operation, making this scale linearly.  A 2 MB transaction with a segregated witness will take less than a second to validate. Correct.  It depends on relayfee.  Now that mempool limiting has been implemented (in 0.12) it is safer to lower relayfee again. I know.  You clearly shut your head off, and I think everyone else on Bitcointalk understood my explanation long ago. If that tells you nothing, I feel genuinely sorry for you.  You are blind by choice, or someone gave you glasses with coloured glass.  Some people are investing a lot of money in splitting the community, and you won't accept the evidence.  This is a small drop in the ocean of spam.  And it proves my point that spam fills the blocks.  Most of the transactions are unconfirmed, and as soon as they are, the coins are sent on and spent on more spam.  Actually the coins are usually just sent without waiting for a confirmation, creating large trees of unconfirmed transactions.More qualified people than me have estimated the amount of spam to at least 3/4 of all transactions, but the number is of course not certain.  There are "mixing services" as well generating a ton of transactions.  CT and payment channels will help get rid of those, I hope.  Segwit makes it all much easier.A hard fork won't solve any real world problems.  Just create more, by splitting the community in a brutal way.  Many large and rich businesses, e.g. R3,  want to destroy Bitcoin and create a new blockchain where they are in control, and they may have found the cheapest way to do it.  Now they are in a hurry, since they know for a fact that segwit and the possibilities enabled by segwit will make a 51% attack their only option, and their investments until now will be lost.  Their best hope is control over a hard fork by incompetent people, and a community hostile to progress. OK, I'll find a baby spoon:Bitcoin has been designed in such a way that running a node without incoming connections work fine.Of course you need at least one node on the network which is able to accept incoming transactions.  Preferably more than one.I have tried ELI5.  I just don't understand why you can't understand it.  Please try to read again.As I stated above, the bitcoin network depends on at least one node able to accept incoming connections.  That node will accept incoming connections from all other nodes.  Upgraded or not.  It doesn't matter.  The only way to split this, is if the single node is not upgraded.  In that case all upgraded nodes will be isolated until at least one of them is able to accept incoming connections.  But this isn't likely to happen, is it?  Another way to split this network in the case above, would be to switch off the only node on the entire network which accept incoming connections.  In that case nobody can connect to other nodes, and every node is isolated.Fortunately in the real world there is more than one node on the network able to accept incoming connections, so this will not be a problem.  If at least one of the nodes which accept incoming transactions is upgraded, there won't be a split.  Both upgraded and non-upgraded nodes will have a common connection point there.  When 95% of the hashrate is on upgraded nodes already (otherwise they wouldn't be able to create upgraded blocks), we can safely assume the upgraded nodes are well connected. Please answer my question above.  I think it shows very clearly how large the spam problem is by one example, showing just a small part of this spammers transactions on the blockchain.  How would larger blocks solve this problem?You know very well that task is impossible to prove.  Segwit increases the capacity and make secure 0-conf off-chain transactions very easy to do.  Spamming the blockchain to make normal transactions unreliable, increase centralization, promote censorship and split the community would no longer work. RBF is optional in 0.12.  Users don't have to use RBF if they don't want to.And all the other improvements?  Is e.g. data limiting to satisfy network data quotas controversial?  Or the speed improvements?Tell that to the spammers.  There are plenty enough transactions coming to fill 20 MB blocks today, if you want all the junk to litter your disk and network, and get most full nodes off the network.  2 MB blocks will be just as full as 1 MB blocks.  The only limiting factor right now is the fact that most miners demand a minimum amount of fee per KB to avoid building too large blocks, or block some of the spam, because larger blocks take longer to spread.  My mempool has hundreds of megabytes of spam in it.I can only give examples.  Here is one from the latest block from F2Pool, one of the pools including dust as long as it pays enough fees.  0.0000082 BTC sent, paying a fee of 0.0001 BTC.And what do you think of this?  Does it look like economic activity or spam to you?  If you follow the transactions, you see they are just spending fees to send very small amounts (0.0001 BTC) in circles.This won't decrease, no matter how much block space you throw at it.  Larger blocks will only make room for more transactions of this kind.  You could have gigabytes of block space, and there will always be another spammer spending a few bitcents on fees to "prove" it is not enough, claiming that "bitcoin is dead" and arguing for centralization, control and censorship.I answered.  Segwit will get us further.  It makes room for more transactions than 2MB blocks will, is easier and safer to deploy, contains lots of other improvements, and scales much better in the future.
That wouldn't work, of course.  Another reason not to worry.  Unfortunately many nodes are behind NAT and/or restrictive firewalls, and cannot accept incoming connections.  Nodes which are on a public IP, and accept incoming connections, often have a hundred or more. No, not even close.   If you have been using bitcoin for more than a day, you should know there are two concepts called "fee" and "priority".  If ten more people had sent transactions at the same time, and they included a fee at all, or the input utxos had any confirmations at all, the transactions would be included.  I send many of my transactions with a very low or zero fee to mark them as low priority, can wait if the block is full.  They almost never have to wait.You obviously don't know what dust is, and I doubt you know how transactions are constructed.A transaction has inputs and outputs.  Each input is a reference to an earlier transaction output by txid and number of an outoput in the given txid.  When an input is spent, the entire input is spent.  When all outputs from a txid have been spent, the txid can be pruned from the utxo set (which is good).A dust output is an output of just a few satoshis.  So small that including it in a transaction would increase the necessary fee for the transaction more than the value of the input.  I.e. it will never be possible to spend economically, and litter the utxo space forever.  No matter how many such inputs you have, the combined value of them is negative.  Those utxos are called dust.  We don't want transactions containing dust outputs, because those will litter the utxo set, which is kept in memory on all nodes, forever.  Was that clear?  Faster increasing UTXO set is Gavin's main argument against a block size increase, btw.  Dust is the worst, since it is economically unspendable, and will stay there forever.0.00099 is far above the dust threshold.  It is 513 satoshis or thereabouts.  The monetary value, even assuming 0 txfee, is much less than one cent.I have no idea why anyone would consider what you explain there abuse. Blaming Core doesn't make sense.  They already implemented those features in 0.12!  I personally think the problem is incompetence.  The forks lack competent programmers, and don't know how to merge the fork they made with current Bitcoin.  They made something they think may work on top of some old version, and don't dare to touch it.The block size is currently not a problem, and won't be for a while yet.  Hard forks will be, especially if the forks keep pretending to be Bitcoin.Of course.  Can you think of a better use for the equipment?Adoption?  It that what you call transaction spam?  Do you think 2 MB blocks will reduce the spam in any way?  The blocks will be just as full.I just had a look.  Of the last 8 blocks, only one is close to full.  1.8 kB left in that one, which should allow for about 9 more non-segwit transactions.  The rest have plenty room.  The blocks which are completely full usually contain a lot of dust transactions, i.e. outputs which cost more in fees tp spend than the value of the output, which won't get mined using a default configurations.  Some miners happily prefer those transactions as long as they pay more in fees.  This is abuse, imho.Here is a nice infographic which explains why segwit is a much better idea than some panic fork blocksize war. WTF?  But why?  Finally there is RBF and all the other improvements in 0.12, which are important to users, merchants and exchanges, and Oliver Janssen decides to not support it? Again: WTF is Classic about?  I thought is was a fork to 2 MB block size, not a retardation.They are clearly just spooking.  Noone in their right mind will run it.  When 90% of nodes use RBF, and 0.12 doesn't even inform about RBF transactions, it would be outright dangerous to use.  I can send a 0-fee transaction to a "Classic" user, insist on getting my money now, and then RBF it.  Even easier than it is now.  With RBF support, I can instead ask the sender to replace it by a non-RBF transaction paying a fee.I intend to use RBF a lot myself.  I exchange bitcoins all the time, and as long as I have an unconfirmed transaction in the queue, I can just replace it and add outputs as I sell more.  Saving transactions on the blockchain, ensuring faster confirmations for my customers, and not having to use unconfirmed inputs.And the speed improvements important for IBD?  Why don't they want them?  Or the data limits, etc?  All of those must be essential for a large block fork.Aqually it should be doable by a lot less than 25%, since you can generate every block a 10 minute to validate block, and it will be very hard for the rest to catch up.  If the fork happens, Bitcoin will already be destroyed, so the investment is already lost.  The only cost is power.The cow isn't starving.  The blocks aren't full, except during spam attacks which would have filled blocks of any size.  Not even then, since most miners don't produce full blocks under any circumstance.  Normally, e.g. now, it is far between full blocks.  Some miners are quite good at filtering the spam, and confirm even 0-fee transactions in the first block they make even during the worst spam storms.  Doubling the size of the corn field won't help a bit, when you don't do sh*t about the real problem.  Swarm of grasshoppers and birds eating everyting they get. Again: Non-upgraded nodes don't need to process any more information in those transactions than what will be available to them.  They need to know the complete UTXO set, and if transactions to themselves are valid or not.  And they will know that.Bitcoin has been designed to work fine without incoming connections.  A non-upgraded node can make outgoing connections to anyone.  All nodes.  Upgraded or not.  Upgraded nodes will accept incoming connections from anyone.  Upgraded or not.  The only change he is suggesting, is to make sure upgraded nodes only make outgoing connections to other upgrading nodes.  My own node currently has 8 outgoing and 104 incoming connections.  Even if my node is upgraded, and all my outgoing connections are to segwit nodes, there is nothing whatsoever stopping non-upgraded nodes to connect to my node, and nothing is splitting the network in any way imaginable.You are presenting Peter Todds solution to the problem as the problem, which is beyond my imagination that anyone could think of, but that's Reddit..So how do you explain how they have failed to keep up with the latest improvements in Bitcoin Core, or address obvious bugs in their code, and Oliver Janssen closing a pull request without accepting any discussion about it? Yes, they are.   SIGHASH_ANYONECANPAY is a standard script operation which has existed since the beginning.  They are an important part of many types of smart contracts and colored coins.  You are totaly confused.  Have you been taking the Reddit pill or something?The client doesn't have to know anything about it.  If it hasn't produced any P2WSH or P2WPKH addresses, it won't receive any payments using segregated witness.  It can validate everything it needs to the way it always did.I emphasized two important words you didn't read.  An old node can still connect to peers, but will not receive incoming connections from new nodes.  It will receive incoming connections from old nodes, however.  New nodes will only make outgoing connections to segwit nodes, to make sure they can sync with segwit data.A node will only make 8 outgoing connections.  If most of them are to non-segwit nodes, it will be much harder to get the segwit data.  Peter Todd suggest a solution to this potential problem.He also suggested a way to make it safe.  You quoted form the solution, but didn't understand it.Please list the remaining issues, and explain why the issues are more difficult to solve than getting all bitcoin users to switch to a different software maintained by two incompetent brothers and a dictator. I have no idea what the devs expect, but based on the steady decline of altcoin nodes on the p2p network, I doubt the release of binaries will have much effect on anything.  There are plenty other altcoin nodes to run, which have the binaries ready for download.Doesn't seem to be a serious attempt then.  Are the Toomins too incompetent to merge the improvements from 0.12?I am a miner as well, and I am not going to start mining any altcoins.  I doubt you will get many miners to switch.  For a given hashrate the miners will produce exactly as much as before the fork, until the first difficulty adjustment.  No matter which fork you are on.  After that your return will increase a lot.If everyone switches, including me, consensus have changed.  So far nothing indicates that the altcoins have more than a meager support among users, merchants, exchanges and miners.  There was a pull request on requiring 90% miner support for hardfork activation in "Classic", by request of some Chinese miners, but the dictator of the project, Oliver Janssen, closed it.  He is only aiming for the destruction and control of Bitcoin, and has no regards for the wishes of the miners, users, merchants or exchanges, or sanity.I wonder how long it takes until a miner do a 51% attack on "Classic" using only 25% of the hashrate (after already scaling off a lot of the competition due to the fork) using the 10 minute block trick.  With 2 MB blocks, you can design a transaction which takes 10 minutes to validate.  In the mean time the malicious miner has a 10 minute head start on the next block.  Victory!  "Classic" hasn't been given much thought.  In the mean time Bitcoin solves the O(n²) problem in segwit, allowing for large transactions which don't take forever to validate.  (XT had a "solution" to this problem, by limiting transactions to 100 kB, a limit which would require another hard fork to remove in the future.  Where the other developers look for elegant, efficient and flexible solutions, Gavin prefers using a mallet.  (In his own words.)) Letting the cow die in a civil war isn't much better. Always, even after segwit has been deployed.  Only the witness is segregated, as the name implies.  The only thing an old node cannot do after activation, is verify if a transaction to a segwit address is valid or not, as it will always seem valid to an old node.  Fortunately this is of no consequence, since old nodes will never generate that kind of addresses or receive segwit transactions, and the risk of an old node generating a block with an invalid transaction is very small since more than 95% of the hashrate follow the new rules.  A longer chainfork is very unlikely, but as with all soft forks merchants should of course upgrade.  Old nodes can send to segwit addresses, but not spend coins sent to segwit addresses.  Read the BIP.Why do you think segwit has less datausage?  It doesn't.  When it has been deployed, segwit transactions (i.e. only transactions to the new address types associated with segwit) will have their witnesses recorded in a parallel block of witness data.  The total capacity of the two blocks is 4 MB.  This can be extended by various mechanisms in a later soft fork, or more likely by using sidechains and payment channels.  The latter mechanisms are IMHO better, since they scale better and don't increase the cost of running a full node. If you are afraid of that getting deleted, you can still read gmawell's very similar proposal from 2012 here. Of course they are.  They are standard bitcoin transactions, and there are many of them in the blockchain.  They do exactly the same as standard P2PKH transactions, just that the output is spendable by anyone.  There are many of them in the blockchain already.First of all; segwit, like all soft forks, will only be activated when 95% of the hashrate support it.  Peter Todd has not discredited the plan as fraud.  Exploiting this requires roughly the same hashrate as a 51% attack, and will only apply to segwit transactions.  Someone who invest that much will probably go for the entire cake.  After segwit has been deployed, SPV clients will be much safer to use due to the fraud proof. So what?  Bitcoin Core is in beta as well.  People still run it.I hope they are going to upgrade to 0.12 before they release.  0.12 has lots of improvements, e.g. much faster IBD, data usage limiting, the long awaited RBF feature, etc.  It will be hard to convince people to downgrade.I already showed Localbitcoins.  Perhaps the exchange with the most users in the world.My points are: Most people don't sign petitions unless they want change.  And a petition which is supposed to be taken seriously better contain names.You are quoting the wrong paragraph.By the measure you are using, Bitcoin Core hasn't been released yet.  It is in beta.Don't be silly.  Altcoin is the generic term for Bitcoin forks.  It been since the first Bitcoin forks/altcoins started to show up years ago, using alternative consensus rules.  It can easily be shown in court.Segwit has the potential to get us much further, and scale dynamically.  Just increasing the blocksize doesn't scale at all. There have been many soft forks so far, and it is nothing to be afraid of.  There was an issue with one of them due to a malicious miner who ended up loosing 175 BTC.  A merchant running an ancient version of bitcoin accepted the bad chain and lost on a double spend, but that's the only issue I can remember.  Hard forks is a completely different matter.  Hard forks don't resolve themselves until 100% of all nodes have upgraded.  Until then Bitcoin will be unsafe to use, and people will lose money.  Even worse is the forking planned by some by releasing various altcoins and try to overtake a majority of the bitcoin hashpower.  In that case even upgrading to the latest version won't resolve the problems. Wrong.  All transactions are recorded in the block.  Only the signatures are moved.Wrong.  An old and a new node will have the coins at exactly the same places.  The UTXO set will be identitcal.Segwit will not be activated until 95% of all hashpower support it, like with all soft forks.Please educate yourself about segwit and bitcoin in general.  Have you been on Reddit or something? No, it is correct.  Transactions with a segregated witness will be completely valid to present nodes.  They will look like a normal "anyonecanpay" transaction.  Non-upgraded nodes will not generate special segwit addresses, and therefore will not receive transactions to segwit addresses.  They are just transactions to other people which you don't have the private key to.  You can't import those addresses to an old wallet either.  But transactions to segwit addresses will still be recorded by old nodes, and included in their UTXO set.Very old nodes cannot fully validate all constraints in any recent block, because they don't know about them.  This has always been the case.  Still the blocks are perfectly valid to all nodes.  In case of a hard forking change, the new blocks will not be valid to older nodes.  Segregated witness is not a hard forking change.Try it out yourself.  The testnet is open. When the source code is out, it is released.  You don't need binaries for that.Except the people on this issue are mostly unnamed shills, not named identifiable people.Standard bitcoin is well defined in Satoshi's paper.  Diversion from consensus is not allowed.  Only bugfixes and more restrictions have been allowed, and Satoshi did many of those himself.The source has been released, and this means the software has been released.  Don't fool yourself.I do make it very clear that I sell Bitcoin and no altcoins.  I always did.  I link to bitcoin.org in my FAQ.When Core is done with their roadmap, the SPV problem will at least be solved by the fraud proofs included in the segwit proposal.  This makes the world a bit safer for SPV wallets.  Segwit has a testnet, and works, btw.  Many wallets have it implemented already.  You are welcome to test it.  Join #segwit-dev on Freenode to discuss. In the madness of someone intentionally hardforking with little support and only a few nodes, there is still a very high chance of a SPV wallet getting on a different fork. People will mine on the correct chain for profit.  It is the one most of the users will use.  More than 90% of nodes are currently running Core.  Just a month back less than 87% of all nodes ran Core.  Which means the users are running Core, and will want Core coins.  People will SPV wallets are more than 90% likely to connect to a Core chain, and only see Core coins.  The value will dwindle, but Bitcoin is still the coin of choice for more than 90% of the users.Huh?  The bitcoin blocks are still valid bitcoin blocks when segwit is deployed.  Transactions with a segregated witness will have the signature in a separate chain, but this does not change the validity of the block.  The blocks and the transactions in the blocks are perfectly valid to all nodes.Only upgraded nodes will know how to check the validity of transactions where the spent txout is from a transaction with segregated witness, but this won't be a problem.  It won't activate until at least 95% of the hashrate support it.  Any chainforks will therefore be short, and can not be hard.The rule says the longest chain is only correct if it follows all the rules.  Simply being the longest is not enough.  The stupid miner announced support for BIP66 without actually supporting it.  He lost money, and was probably thought a lesson.  All nodes, both old and upgraded, were on the correct chain as soon as it overtook the malicious chain.The August 2010 fork, which was much longer, was even correct according to the current consensus at that time.  Unfortunately this was non-intentional, and a new version was rushed out to mine out the chain with the malicious block at low difficulty.Of course, even though Gavin wanted to hard fork even then by defining the 0.8 behaviour correct.  That would have been disastrous.  I remember the other developers spent some time convincing him.Correct.  No consensus make hard forks die.  Which is why all the current Bit-altcoins are stillborn, and very few actually run them. According to "ShadowOfHarbinger" it was released days ago, but he is full of crap and might be lying.  Not a lot.  There are a few who took VC money from the same people.A much longer list than the one on the "Bitcoin Classic" site.Or they just don't care about the drama, and will stick with standard bitcoin.Yes.Currently Unlimited has more support than Classic, XT has much more support than both of them, and Core dwarfs them all.  Support for larger blocksize forks have dwindled since the bitcoin developers agreed on a roadmap which scales much better than the alternatives, and avoids a hard fork.  On January 1st there were almost 750 nodes trying to fork vs 4879 nodes running Bitcoin Core.  The number of Core nodes is increasing, and the number of fork nodes is decreasing.  Looks like most people are pushing for the Core solution.I have tried to get an answer to what I think is the biggest problem here many times, but you keep ignoring it:SPV wallets, which most people use, will connect to a random fork and spend and receive conins on a random chain every time they connect.  Whyat do you think the users loosing coins due to this will do?  Run to buy coins from the chanfork which is mos popular this week, or get the f out of Bitcoin before it is too late?The reason why so many fork supporters run a full node is obvious: If the fork happens, there is no other way to be sure to use the correct altcoin than by running a full node supporting the altcoin they want to use, and not even that will work if the standard bitcoin fork comes back ahead of their altchain.  Yes, the coins will become worthless.  People use bitcoin as a currency for transactions and storage of value, not for the drama.  When the coins can't be used reliably without keeping up with the drama, people are going to jump ship. If a majority of miners do it, they will do it again just for the fun of it.  The coins will be worthless anyway. I haven't researched this much, since I assume that the vast majority who didn't publicly announce support for any of the four forks, support the current roadmap, but here is one in addition to myself.  From #localbitcoins-chat:Localbitcoins is one of the largest exchanges (perhaps the largest) by number of users, and one of the largest by BTC volume.I don't think you will find anyone who support the status quo, if that is what you mean by 1 MB.  The roadmap scales much better than any suggested blocksize increment.
Really?  Tell me then, why would someone invest the kind of money needed to gain more than 50% of the hashrate, just to destroy the value of it?  This is not as obvious to me as it is yo you.The consensus defined in software decide.  A majority of the hashrate is irrelevant.  You cannot change hard parameters, like the number of coins or maximum blocksize, without 100% consensus among users.  Invalid blocks are invalid, no matter how many miners build on top of the invalid blocks.The July 04 fork was not a hard fork.  Chainforks happen every day.  For that reason you should not accept Again: The July 04 chainfork was not a hard fork.  In a real hard fork, they would loose their entire investment.Funny how you quote this without understanding it at all.  He talks about the dangers of activating a soft fork based on miner consensus alone, since we don't know how many other nodes upgraded.  Can you imagine how that would work with a hard fork?  Very typical for Reditt, actually.  It is hard to more misinformation about Bitcoin on once place.  Every post which even mention something that resembles a fact will immediately get voted down and out.  I don't go there.  Try #bitcoin on Freenode if you want to discuss with people who aren't trolls as well. Where on Earth did you get that idea!?  The number of nodes running bit-altcoins, like "Bitcoin XT", "Bitcoin Classic", "Bitcoin Unlimited", etc, is decreasing, and less than 10% of the total.  If you see at e.g. the "Bitcoin Classic" website, the list of supporters is very short.  The vast majority still run and support standard Bitcoin.  Some miners, and I thought most of them pulled their support after talking to Jeff?  I am a miner, and I do not support the destruction of Bitcoin.You made that up.  By the number of nodes, it is 5509 against 541 in favor of standard Bitcoin.  Remember that supporters of different forks have a strong incentive to run an alternative implementations, since SPV clients will stop working reliably after a hard fork.Most Bitcoin services support standard Bitcoin.  By any metric.Again: How did you get this idea?  I have been in #bitcoin on Freenode since 2010, and the support for the current consensus is almost unison.  People are mostly making fun of this sillly forking idea.  It is harder to operate a bunch of shills and sybils on IRC than Bitcointalk and Reddit, of course.  The forkers don't even agree on how to fork.  The current count is 380 nodes running "Bitcoin XT", 103 running "Bitcoin Classic" and 75 running "Bitcoin Classic".  We may end up with four different blockchains. No, a soft fork can not trigger a hard fork.  A soft fork can trigger chainforks which are longer than normal if a malicious miner claim they have support for the fork, but don't (which is a very bad idea from an economic perspective).  The chainfork is not hard, and the risk is pretty low. Both coins will soon get worthless, since people can't use them.  Hashpower is not the same as users or nodes.  If 80% of hashpower choose to be malicious and mine by non-consensus rules, and 90% of nodes are on the standard chain, some consequenses are:SPV wallets have a 10% chance of connecting to a malicious node, users will make transactions on the wrong chain and lose money.The 80% will mine worthless coins, since most merchants don't accept them.Even upgrading to the latest version of the software won't solve any problems for users.You are going to get sued if you sell the 80% coins as "Bitcoin", or refuse to accept bitcoin from the consensus chain as bitcoin.Since people lose money and transactions are slow, and the courts are full of fraud cases, both coins will become worthless.You obviously don't understand how Bitcoin works.  Both forks will produce coins at the same rate after a couple of difficulty adjustments, no matter how many are on which side of a fork.I would never take the risk of touching coins from a hard fork in my business, and have made that clear in my FAQ, since I won't risk getting sued for selling fake coins.The rate of mining coins for every individual miner stays exactly the same just after a fork.  After the first difficulty readjustment, it will become easier to produce coins.  Get the math correct, at least.Users will lose a lot of money because their SPV wallets connect to a node on the wrong chain, they will sell the rest of what they ahave ASAP, and Bitcoin will become irrelevant.  The situation for SPV wallets will improve when segwit is deployed, since segwit provide compact fraud proofs, but only if the SPV wallet and the chain has implemented segwit. Reality check: The Chinese miners (most miners, actually) are in it for the money.  Majority of hashpower isn't worth sh*t if they are mining a worthless coin.  If you are humiliated by a rejected pull request, you should find something else to do.  Seriously. All chainforks are not hardforks.  Short chainforks happens every day.  Usually because miners can't distribute their newfound blocks fast enough.  This one was caused by a malicious miner not validating blocks, and mining on top of an invalid one.  It disappeared as soon as the correctly validated chain overtook it.  This only show the dangers of one miner controlling too much hashrate.  All nodes, new and old, accepted the correctly validated chain as soon as it overtook the bad chain, and nobody were forced to upgrade anything.  (Those who hadn't upgraded were potentially vulnerable to double spends however, as with all chainforks when you don't require enough confirmations.  This is a good reason for merchants to stay up to date.)The August 2010 fork was much longer, btw.  That fork was caused by a bug which had to be fixed for the nodes to reject the faulty chain.A hard fork is different.  In a hard fork where the fork has a miner majority, the two chains will live on in parallel.  Correctly validating nodes will never switch to the fork.  The so-called "Classic", "XT", "Unlimited", etc forks are especially dangerous, since upgrading won't help either.  There will just be different coins, and you have to make a choice of one of them.  Due to incompetent fork developers, you can't even run one of the other coins on the same computer at the same time as Bitcoin Core, since they demand to bind to the same ports.  Constantly keeping up with which fork to use this week is too much for most users, and since their SPV wallets will be rendered useless, they will probably just try to get rid of their coins ASAP.  It would be sad end for Bitcoin, I think. If some competent developer should think about forking bitcoin, he should start here and get 100% consensus first.  There are many good reasons for a fork.  Forking for a simple block size change is just dumb, and most people see that. Interesting.  Looks like "Classic" is the least popular of the various fork-altcoins.  Not very surprising. Wrong.  I know the fscking difference between KiB, MiB and kB, MB, and I am not mixing them up.Have a look at Blockcypher yourself when there is a congestion.  Someone have turned down the spam volume now, so blocks are less than half full anyway.  Blockcypher give the size in bytes.  Blockchain.info use kB (= 1000 bytes). Keep your religion out of this.  Neither Gavin or anyone else have presented any convincing proof of how a hard fork would develop.  Just pure speculation.  The only thing certain is that total chaos will prevail until difficulty has caught up.  Mostly because some people are mad enough to run SPV clients, and a block size increase will make it harder to run a full node at the same time.  Miners want their coins to have some value, and the value will drop significantly if most wallets become useless overnight.  Fortunately, since segregated witness is under heavy development by a lot of of very talented people, and only a very few people and fewer merchants and almost no developers support the altcoins, I am not very worried.  The segwit testnet has lots of activity, and there is a segwit block explorer as well.  Why risk Bitcoin because some small minority og users and merchants want a worse solution based on untested software which doesn't exist yet?I don't understand why you are so against Blockstream?  The developers working for Blockstream aren't trying to break consensus in any way.  They do that the rest of the developers and the community want them to do.  I have never seen Blockstream trying to force anything through, and there are often disagreements among them.  E.g. about the removal of the priority system in Bitcoin Core (not a fork of any kind).Sorry, when a coin operate according to different consensus rules, it will be an altcoin by definition.  This is pretty much the definition of an altcoin.  The blockchain will fork into two different blockchains, and there is no way the Bitcoin blockchain will accept the altcoin chains.Sorry, I don't understand your question.  Consensus is not a physical object you can look at.Sorry.  I am completely not interested in your conspiracy theories.  I haven't even read what he is supposed to have written in this thread.  I understand he is going to stick with Bitcoin, and not create some altcoin, which is good.WTF have you been  smoking?  Can I have some?The general agreement is written in software.  Nobody can change it.  Not Adam Black, not the Toomin brothers, not you, not even Satoshi himself.  Any change will require cooperation among all users running a full node.Consensus was defined long before Blockstream was created, and even before most of the existing developers had even heard about Bitcoin, and there are no plans to change it.  (Except for a few small groups calling themselves "Bitcoin Classic", "Bitcoin Unlimited", "Bitcoin XT", "Bitpay Core", and a heck of a lot of other scamcoins.Again: WTF are you smoking?  Miners don't define consensus.  They don't have the power to change the consensus rules.  They may add new rules, but that's all.  A fork would be a malicious attack on Bitcoin, but it can be worked around.  Most importantly it won't affect Bitcoin nodes in any other way than slower than usual confirmation of transactions for a while.  Users of SPV clients may suffer heavy losses, on the other hand, but who cares about them.You haven't presented a valid proof of anything whatsoever.Sorry.  You have misunderstood.  Read again.  I am beginning to understand why other intelligent people here are ignoring you.Yes, a hard fork is a clean cut.  It is how all altcoins have been created.  No relation to Bitcoin, except for a similar name.  No, a softfork does not require everybody to migrate.  That's the beauty of a soft fork!Really?  So what you are saying, is that if only a amall part of the network, let's say a majority of the miners and a few merchants switch to a different consensus agreement by e.g. creating a few million extra coins for themselves, the rest won't have to agree and upgrade their software?  They will just automatically begin using the new coin?  No, you don't understand the difference between a soft an a hard fork at all.  No wonder you are confused about this.A chain fork is a split into two or more chains.  In a hard fork the old nodes won't accept the new blockchain, and you need 100% consensus.  Otherwise they will live on as two or more different blockchains using different consensus rules.  If you want to end up with one single fork, all users, 100%, will have to switch to the alternative ruleset, which may contain anything.  A softfork doesn't  change the existing conensus.  It only add new restrictions in a backwards compatible way, so old nodes don't have to upgrade unless they want to use new features.  As long as the new rules has a majority among miners, a chain fork is impossible.Why don't you think it is dangerous to render SPV wallets unusable, btw?  While a soft fork cannot lead to loss of coins, a hard fork will.  Is that entirely unproblematic from your point of view? Acutally not.  Some of the miners on the 2 MB block size support list mine blocks of 912 or 976 KB.  If they really want larger blocks, they could at least produce 1 MB blocks. Many people, me too, think he is wrong.  I will stick to Bitcoin, and if people will exchange the bitcoins they bought from me to some altcoin, I don't have any problems with that.  In the past I got many requests to sell litecoin, primecoin, scamcoin and whatevercoin.  My answer has always been the same: I buy and sell bitcoin, and if you want something else, it is very easy to exchange the bitcoins to something else elsewhere.  As you see from the short list of businesses wanting to switch to an altcoin based on different consensus rules, the great majority will stick to Bitcoin.I think many miners will switch back to Bitcoin as well, since their newly minted coins will only be accepted by a very few merchants.  If an exchange try to sell the altcoin as Bitcoin, they will certainly get sued by people who discover the coin they bought won't be accepted by merchants accepting Bitcoin.  This can lead to severe losses.  I regularly buy lumps of 100 BTC which people send to my autobuy system with no prior notice.  If someone send some altcoin to the same address because the address format is the same, they may have lost a lot of money.  100 classiccoins, unlimitedcoins, bitpaycoins, XTcoins or whatevertheyarecalledthisweekcoins will probably not be worth anyting, but you get my point.  People are going to lose a lot of money on the confusion.  As a bonus to miners coming back to Bitcoin, the difficulty will get significantly lower.My Websters Unabridged Dictionary of the English Language defines consensus as a "general agreement or concord".  In Bitcoin this agreement is defined in the software.You misinterpret the general agreement among all bitcoin nodes as a wish from a specific "minority".   Which is actually the opposite of what he actually wrote:  "majority MUST NOT be able to override minority"  I.e. consensus is not what a minority wants, neither what a majority wants.  Consensus is based on the agreement which was there from the beginning.  Neither Bitstream or any short list of merchants, can overrule the general agreement which define Bitcoin and the bitcoin blockchain.  Neither can a majority.Correct within normal rounding rules.  (If one or two won't change, it probably doesn't matter much.  As long as there is a significant chance of an SPV client contacting those nodes, especially if they have any mining power behind them, the security of SPV wallets will be severely compromised.  But people shouldn't trust SPV clients anyway.)You don't get it.  Since this would change the general agreement, it would require cooperation from all bitcoin nodes.  Not just a majority.Are you telling me you don't support this!?  Why do you hate children?  Do you kill babies for a hobby? Actually the explanation there is just a longer version of mine.  Read it again, and see if you can understand it.ROFL!  Read it again.  "To implement a hardfork, without a blockchain-fork, all users must switch to the new protocol consensually."How many bitcoin blockchains do you think is adequate?  At least we will get rid of SPV clients by hard forking into many chains, but unfortunately you would then have to rely on either wallets talking to some central trusted node, or that everyone run full nodes locked to one specific blockchain.  (You don't want to risk another chain to take over if they gain more mining power.)Old nodes will work just fine after a softfork, but merchants should upgrade.  SPV clients are mostly safe after a softfork as well, but both old nodes and SPV clients may see unconfirmed transactions which aren't valid.  (In a hard fork the invalid transactions would confirm in some chains, and the SPV client will see it differently depending on which node it connects to.) For SPV clients it is more problematic, actually.  They need to talk to a full node to get information about new transactions and blocks.  Sometimes they will contact a real bitcoin node, other times an altcoin node pretending to be bitcoin.  They will send their transaction to whatever chain the node they are talking to is using.  The transaction may be valid in one chain, and invalid in the other.  The user have no way of knowing.This is a problem for soft forks as well.  For soft forks we know the miners have upgraded, but the user of an SPV client have no idea if the full node he connect to is upgraded or not.  If it isn't, a transaction which is invalid according to the new rules may be presented to the SPV wallet as valid (but unconfirmed). No, miners don't matter.  If a miner break consensus, users and merchants won't accept their blocks.  They will just make themselves irrelevant, mining worthless coins.Nobody wants to have software with critical bugs.  It is quite easy to achieve consensus about that.  I remember the one back in 2010 when someone discovered they could make 184 billion BTC for themselves in the coinbase transaction due to an integer overflow bug.  That one was resolved quickly as well.  In both cases the hard fork was caused by an unintentional bug.  Bitcoin is still i beta.Irrelevant.  My dictionary still have the same defintition of consensus as it always had.I don't see how what you think someone else claim is relevant at all here.  (Read again  what he wrote is not what you think he claims.)Bitcoin is built on some hard rules which cannot change unless all users agree to the change.  As long as some (or in this case most) users don't agree to change the rules, it is impossible.  You can only add new more restrictive rules, not change or remove existing rules.  People who cannot live with the rules as they are, have to use something else.  There are plenty of altcoins to choose from, and it shouldn't be a problem to anyone.I can never remember bitcoin beeing about what a majority wants.  Bitcoin wasn't designed that way.  Can I run a campaign to make 100 BTC extra for UNICEF?  Just 100 BTC?  That's not much, and I'm sure it will help a lot of children.  I will probably get at least as as many supporters as those who want to change the maximum block size rule.  Perhaps make it 1000 BTC.  Or even more.  It is a good cause.The only change a majority can do, is to impose new rules, i.e. stricter rules which will be imposed on new blocks.  Blocks adhering to the new rule will still be valid to old nodes, but blocks may have to confirm to an extra rule to be accepted by upgraded nodes.  This is called a soft fork.  Soft forks are typically activated only after 95% of the hashpower enforce the new rules.  Otherwise false confirmations may show up to old nodes whenever an old node mine a block. Not more?  Consensus is certainly at 1 MB then.  As I suspected.  To break the rules of the blockchain, e.g. by increasing the blocksize, increasing the money supply or inflation rate, etc, 10% is not enough.  Neither is 51% or 75% or even 90%.  You need 100% consensus.  Otherwise you will just create another altcoin which a few merchants have agreed to support.  I can not see a clear consensus here.  On the contrary most exchanges and merchants are not there.  Of course the developers won't increase the blocksize if only a few support it.  From the list it is unclear what blocksize they all want as well.  There are so many different suggestions and BIPs on blocksize, I have lost count of them. The development is open, everyone with a github account can contribute.  Actually, you can get pretty far even without a github account.  The rest have to choose between options, or not even that.  The miners are free to hardfork if they want to.  A hardfork will just create a new altcoin. which some users may be interested in.  As long as there are some users mining and using standard Bitcoin, standard Bitcoin will live on in parallel. The attacker can run whatever software he wants, as long as he, or they, generate valid blocks.  If the blocks are invalid, e.g. by creating or spending coins in invalid ways, the blocks will be ignored by all validating nodes.  (SPV wallets may be vulnerable if the attacker has enough nodes on the network.)You aren't describing a soft fork, what you describe is a 51% attack.  You describe a situation where 51% of the hashrate cooperate by ignoring blocks produced by others.  This is perfectly doable today, and the main reason why miner centralization is a problem.  If you mine at the large pools, switch to one with less than 10% of the global hashrate.Soft forks aren't activated until 95% of the last 2016 blocks conform to the new rules, btw. Nei, eg anar ikkje kven det er. Lukke til.  Dette spurde eg om i 2011.  Skattedirektoratet har saka.  This is nothing but a classic 51% attack by cooperating miners, and has nothing whatsoever to do with soft forks.  If you manage to control 51% of the hashpower, you can ignore everyone else and always have the best chain.  Bitcoin 101. 7-åringen, som kom heim frå skulen for litt sidan, rullar rundt på sofaen og klarar ikkje å slutte å le av det biletet.. 
Eg er ganske nøgd, men tykkjer fokuset er litt feil.  Journalisten ville absolutt vite kor mange bitcoin eg hadde, eller kor mykje eg hadde tent på dette til no.  Om det var hundre tusen eller ein halv million eller mange millionar.  Eg svarde mellom ein halv million og mange millionar, men dette er ikkje forteneste eg berre kan ta ut.  Av og til sel eg netto 100 BTC på ein dag, andre dagar kjøper eg netto 100 BTC på ein dag.  Eg må ha buffer for å handtere begge deler.  Det der kom ikkje fram i artikkelen.  Samt at den roboten som tente meir på ein månad enn eg gjorde på eit år, gjekk på MtGox.  Han dreiv fleir-valutahandel i kopla ordrebøker, som berre kunne gjerast der, og utnytta at MtGox regulerte valutakursane sine ein gong i døgeret, 12 timar etter at dei nye kursane MtGox brukte var publisert av ECB.  Vi var berre to som hadde oppdaga dette, og dermed var det gode pengar å tene.  Uansett vart mesteparten av fortenesta liggjande att i Japan.   No er det so mange robotar om beinet på børsane med god nok likviditet at avkastninga på investert kapital vert for liten.Det er ein artikkel i Firdaposten i dag.  Eg bladde opp og fann eit gigantisk arkivbilete frå Movember 2013 (eg aksepterte donasjonar til Movember-barten med bitcoin).  Det var sopass sjokkerande at eg ikkje har tort å opne avisa att.  Eg har ikkje ikledd meg bart korkje før eller sidan.  Noreg er ikkje ein spesielt stor kraftprodusent i verdsmålestokk, og det aller meste av potensialet for billig kraft (vasskraft med stort nedbørsfelt og stor fallhøgde) er allereie utbygd.  Vi har nettoeksport i dei fleste år, er nettoimportør i andre.  I gjennomsnitt er balansen grei.  Sidan 2000 har Noreg eksportert ca 5,5 TWh per år i gjennomsnitt.  Ca 4% av produksjonen, som er eit lite buffer når produksjonen er sopass veravhengig som han er.  Til samanlikning har Tyskland hatt ein nettoeksport på over 60 TWh dei siste par åra.  Det tilsvarer nesten halvparten av den totale kraftproduksjonen i Noreg i eit normalår.Vi kan byggje ut mykje vindkraft, men det er for dyrt til den bruken du har tenkt deg.Den viktigaste kjelda vi har til ny billig straum no, er import av overskotsproduksjon frå store vindkraftprodusentar, som Danmark, Sverige og Tyskland.  Sidan vi kan regulere det meste av produksjonen vår, kan vi foredle den til dyrare straum ved å lagre og levere vår på eit anna tidspunkt.  Der ligg nok det største inntektspotensialet for norsk vasskraft.  Sidan vi kan lagre krafta, vert ikkje prisen like låg her i landet.  I staden konkurrerer kraftprodusentane om å kjøpe krafta for å pumpe vatn frå låge magasin med stort nedbørsfelt opp til høgare magasin med større fallhøgde og mindre nedbørsfelt.  Der kan krafta lagrast lenge i påvente av mindre vind og høgare prisar.Skal du ha billig straum, må du finne kraft som er stranda på eit eller anna vis.  Mange stader i Nord-Tyskland og i Danmark kan du av og til finne stranda vindkraft.  Dvs når vindturbinane produserer meir enn straumnettet er i stand til å frakte ut til kundar som vil betale.  Den får du gratis eller veldig billig.  Til tider kan du faktisk få betalt for å bruke krafta.  Problemet er at ein slik situasjon oppstår ganske sjeldan.  I Kina, derimot, der dei stadig opnar vasskraftverk som åleine produserer meir kraft enn heile Noreg til saman, utan å byggje ut straumnettet eller industrien tilsvarande, der finn du mykje av det.  Dei produserer heile tida, og er difor eit mykje betre val.  Finn eit kart og samanlikn Tibet-platået, som er nedbørsfeltet til kinesisk vasskraft, med det norske høgfjellet.  Vi snakkar om heilt andre dimensjonar.No har vi divergert heilt frå temaet for denne tråden, so det er nok betre å halde fram ordskiftet i ein ny tråd. Nei, det er heilt på sida.  Kina har bygd massevis av gigantiske vasskraftverk dei siste åra.  Under Tibet-platået har dei potensiale for vasskraft tilsvarande heile dagens kraftforbruk i Kina.  Problemet er at dei ikkje har kraftnett til å transportere denne krafta til forbrukarane, so denne krafta får du nesten gratis dersom du er der ho vert produsert.  Bitcoin-produsentane kan lett flytte utstyret sitt til der krafta vert produsert, og dei plasserer seg naturlegvis der.I Noreg har vi eit godt utbygd kraftnett.  Du kan kanskje finne eit eller anna lite hytte-kraftverk som er avslått når ingen er der, men store mengder stranda kraft, som i Kina, får du ikkje tak i.Du kan alltids inngå avtale med ein kraftverk-eigar om å plassere utstyr der.  Han betaler berre nettleige for den krafta han leverer til nettet, og du betaler berre avgifter for den krafta du får levert frå nettet.  Det er dessutan rabattar for stort forbruk som er lokalisert nær produksjon, og datasenter får avslag i elektrisitetsavgifta.  Når straumprisen er låg, som han har vore mykje i det siste, skulle det ikkje vere noko økonomisk i vegen for å produsere bitcoin her i landet.  Det vert mva på dei bitcoina du produserer og sel..I dette tilfellet er det allereie avgjort korleis kaka vert fordelt, og det er ikkje nokon økonomiske hinder i vegen for å produsere bitcoin i stor skala her i landet.  Problemet er kanskje at andre vil betale meir for straumen enn deg, og då vil sjølvsagt kraftprodusenten selje til nokon andre i staden.  Det er slik ein marknadsøkonomi fungerer.. Finanskomiteen på Stortinget held opa høyring den 15. desember om Stortingsmelding nr 4 2015-2016: Bedre skatt. En skattereform for omstilling og vekst.  Eg er invitert til høyring som representant for Elektronisk forpost Norge.Eg har fem minutt til å ta opp viktige spørsmål om korleis bitcoin, kryptovaluta, kryptoaksjar og liknande bør passast inn i denne skattereformen.  Blant framlegga er mva eller marginavgifter på finansielle tenester.  Dvs at Noreg får eit heilt anna system enn EU.Eg kjem til å ta opp dei utfordringane vi har møtt, og komme med konkrete framlegg til løysingar på dei.  Eg har berre fem minutt, og vil ha inn mest mogleg kort og konsist på ei A4-side som skal delast ut til komiteen.  Dette må vere ferdig før klokka 12 dagen før.  Les stortingsmelidinga, spesielt kapittel 11 og 14, og kom med innspel!Eg kjem først og framst til å ta opp mva-problematikken.  Eg kjem òg til å ta opp den internasjonale karakteren til kryptovaluta, og kor vanskeleg det kan vere å plassere transaksjonar geografisk når ein skal definere import/eksport.  Eg kjem til å be om ei klagenemnd der ein kan ta opp prinsipputtaler og liknande frå Skattedirektoratet når ein meinar at dei tek feil, utan å måtte bryte med vedtaket og gå til rettssak mot Skatteetaten med risiko for å miste hus og heim.  Eg kjem òg til å ta opp framlegget frå departementet om at berre selskap som er konsesjons- eller meldepliktige til Finanstilsynet vil få pålagt marginavgifter.  Det bør vere arten av tenesta som vert utført som avgjer om ei teneste er avgiftspliktig eller ikkje.  Elles får vi ei gråsone av selskap som kan yte tilsvarande tenester som konsesjonspliktige føretak, utan å vere mva- eller marginavgiftspliktige, og eit prematurt press på regulering av den bransjen som er i direkte konkurranse med avgiftspliktige føretak.  Og ikkje minst kjem eg til å påpeike at avgifter må ta omsyn til at kryptovaluta-bransjen er internasjonal, og ikkje skade konkurranseevna eller gjere det byråkratisk tyngre å drive i Noreg enn i utlandet.  Dersom veksling mellom kryptovaluta og tradisjonell valuta kan gjerast avgiftsfritt i utlandet, vil det skade næringa i Noreg.  Og Skatttedirektoratet må få tidsfristar  eg ventar framleis på svar på spørsmål eg sendte dei i 2011.Og meir, men eg må tenkje litt meir, prioritere og fatte meg kort og konsist med konkrete framlegg. Eg fekk svar på spørsmålet eg sendte til Skatteetaten so snart dommen i EU-domstolen var avsagt.  Dei skriv:Finansdepartementet sender saka til Skattedirektoratet, og Skattediretktoratet sender saka til Finansdepartementet.  Dei kranglar om kven som har ballen.  Fantastisk. Sovidt eg veit er svarfristen to veker. Spørsmål til finansministeren om mva på bitcoin i Stortinget:Meir her. Eg sendte brev til Skattedirektoratet i går.  Reknar med dei snur innan kort tid. Og for to timar sidan kom dette innlegget på NRK Ytring: En digital Robin Hood Prøv walletexplorer.com. Nordea kan du få billig av meg.  Har du Nordea, skift bank.Etter å ha avslørt phishinga, kontakta offeret og banken og returnert pengane uoppfordra, har Nordea sperra alle overføringar til min konto som takk for hjelpa.  Kundane får ikkje melding om at overføringane vert sperra.  Overføringane står berre som "venter" og vert aldri utført.Fram til i går ettermiddag blånekta Nordea for at det var mogeleg å sperre for overføringar til ein ekstern konto på denne måten.  Det gjekk ikkje, og difor måtte problemet liggje i min bank.  Pisspreik.  Dette er sjølvsagt kundestøtte.  Dei jobbar ikkje i førstelinja fordi dei er speiselt kompetente til noko som helst.  I går ettermiddag fann dei ut at dei hadde lagt inn ei slik sperre.  Men dei "jobba med å oppheve sperringa".  Sperringa er der framleis.  Eg nektar å tru at det tek fleire dagar å fjerne ei sperring mot ein enkelt ekstern konto.  Overføringar til andre konti eg eig går heilt fint.  Det gjeld berre denne eine.Fleire har tapt ganske mykje på dette.  Det gjeld dei som har avtalt kjøp for store summar til kursen som gjeld når pengane er framme (standard ved handel som er avtalt over epost) som ikkje fekk fram pengane før rentesenkinga i dag tidleg, som førte til at krona fall over 2% og bitcoin-kursen steig tilsvarande.  Eg har bede alle om å klage til Nordea, og gjerne forlange erstatning for tap.  Sovidt eg veit står det ikkje i vilkåra til Nordea at dei kan utsetje eit gyldig betalingsoppdrag i dagevis over alle fristar utan å melde frå til kunden.Nordea si løysing på dette er at eg må be Nordea-kundar om å overføre til ein annan konto.  Mi løysing er å be Nordea-kundar skifte bank.Om nokon har Nordea og føler for å klage litt, er de velkomne til å avtale ein symbolsk handel.  Berre lov meg å halde kundestøtte opptekne med klager til overføringa går gjennom. Nei, det var ikkje man-in-the-middle.  Den som betalte bitcoin hadde full kontroll på bankkontoen til offeret, og har både lagt inn handelen og gjennomført betalinga frå bankkontoen til offeret.  Ikkje meir man-in-the-middle enn då nokon tippa på hest med stolne kredittkort og sendte gevinsten til min bnkkonto for å kjøpe bitcoin.Man-in-the-middle har eg vore borti fleire gonger.  Den klassiske er Kamerun-svindel, som ofte føregår ved sal av fiktive kjeledyr på nett.  Dei ber om forskotsbetaling frå offeret og oppgjev min bankkonto for betaling, samstundes som dei opprettar ein handel på den summen.ID avslører ikkje alle former for svindel.  For nokre veker sidan var eg forsøkt brukt som muldyr i ein romanse-svindel.   Eg fatta mistanke og tok kontakt med banken til dama som hadde betalt, og forklarte at kunden deira sannsynlegvis var utsett for svindel.  Banken tok kontakt med kunden og kunden ringte meg.  Ho hadde forelska seg i ein fyr som stadig kom i trøbbel i ulike delar av verda.  Denne gongen var han vistnok på sjukehus i Laos, og overtalte dama til å betale 36000 kroner til meg for (hald deg fast) bitcoin han skulle sende til ein bank i England for å få tilgong til bankkontoen sin for å betale sjukehusrekninga!  Det tok litt tid å forklare dama at dette garantert var svindel (bitcoin-kjøparen hadde forresten IP-adresse i USA, ikkje Laos), og det viste seg at ho hadde overført fleire hundre tusen til denne mannen over lang tid, til ulike utanlandske konti.  Ho vart naturlegvis lei seg, men verka letta for at nokon omsider fekk ho til å innsjå at ho var lurt.  Både sonen hennar og banken hadde åtvara ho tidlegare, men då hadde ho ikkje trudd på dei.  Det er vanleg at offer for romanse-svindel sit veldig godt på kroken.  Ho hadde nok gjerne teke bilete med ID dersom svindlaren ba ho om å gjere det.Når eg ber om ID er det mange som avstår for å kjøpe.  Folk er forståeleg nok forsiktige med å dele ut ID til alle og einkvar i frykt for ID-tjuveri.  Real Name Confirmation har liten verdi for norsk bankoverføring, fordi vi ikkje ser kven som har betalt eller meldinga på overføringa før 1-2 dagar etter at pengane er framme.  Folk veit at pengane er framme lenge før det, og det vert eit veldig mas om kor mykje det hastar med å få bitcoin.  Eg har etter kvart utvikla ein god teft for svindel.  Vilkåra mine er slik formulert at eg kan vente med å sleppe bitcoin til meldinga er synleg og eg ser kven som har betalt dersom eg får den minste mistanke.  Vilkåra står berre på norsk.  Dei fleste svindlarane forstår ikkje norsk, og bryt dermed vilkåra på ein eller annan måte.  Då har eg tid til å ringe til den som har overført pengane og spørre kva det er dei har betalt for.Folk svindlar til seg ID på ulike måtar og.  Ein metode er sal av billige bitcoin for PayPal mot at kjøparen identifiserer seg med ID.  Det er aldri mangel på desperate folk som gjer kva som helst for å kjøpe bitcoin med PayPal. Nytt fenomen (for meg) observert på Localbitcoins i går: Betaling frå offer for nettbank-phishingSo langt har ikkje dette vore ein stor risiko med norsk bankoverføring, men i går fekk eg ei innbetaling på 12000 kroner frå ein liten butikk som er heilt unaturleg at skulle handle med bitcoin.  Betalinga kom inn med rett melding og alt, men det var likevel eit par ting som ikkje stemte.  Til dømes at avsendar av pengane ikkje kunne norsk.  Eg tok ein telefon, og butikken kjende ikkje til utbetalinga.  Men butikksjefen sleit litt med å komme inn på nettbanken.  Han hadde nemleg fått ein e-post frå Nordea om at han måtte inn å oppgradere noko.  Etter at han hadde vore inne på nettsidene og gjort det, hadde ikkje kodebrikka fungert...Vi kan altso konstatere at dei som driv med nettbank-phising no prøvar seg med å kjøpe bitcoin med dei stolne pengane.  Ver obs på dette om du sel bitcoin for norsk bankoverføring.  Ikkje send frå deg bitcoin før du har rydda all tvil av vegen.  Du kan rekne med å måtte returnere pengane dersom det er svindel, men bitcoina kjem du ikkje til å sjå att.I tilfelle folk tykkjer eg har vorte streng med vilkåra mine i det siste, er det fordi eg opplever stadig fleire svindelforsøk.  Om eg ikkje handhevar vilkåra strengt, kjem nokon til å klare det.  Då vert det vanskeleg å halde fram med fornuftige kursar utan å krevje ID av alle som handlar. Mot kontantar.  Reknar med dei brukar Localbitcoins, ja.Berre om du trur krona vil halde fram med å svekke seg.  "Ekspertane" spår derimot at krona skal styrke seg utover hausten, og det har slått litt til i det siste.  Då løner det seg å veksle til norske kroner no, dersom du trur bitcoin-kursen vil halde seg stabil mot USD og EUR.  Det som er litt meir risikabelt er å overføre pengar til utanlandske børsar for å kjøpe inn bitcoin som du sel til meg med forteneste.  Det løner seg når krona er stabil, men er eit tapsprosjekt dersom krona styrkar seg med ein prosent frå du overførte pengane til dei er framme.  Krona har ikkje vore spesielt stabil i det siste, og det kan vere ein grunn til at færre gjer dette no.Om du derimot har bitcoin og treng kroner, løner det seg garantert å selje dei til meg framfor å selje dei utanlands og overføre pengar derifrå.  German banks have very bad security.  The person sending you the money was almost certainly not the same who bought bitcoin!  In Germany many transfers are still done via paper by filling out a form and sending it to the bank.  If it is below 500 EUR, the bank will probably not check the signature, or do a very bad job at it.  German banks have an API as well, which is good and popular to use.  It doesn't support 2 factor authentication however, so if someone get your keys, e.g. via a Wintendo virus, you have lost.  And other problems.  I don't accept transfers of amounts below 500 EUR from German banks myself, decline everyone coming from VPNs and Tor, etc.  A few times I have called my bank and asked them to return the money and asked them to inform the sending bank because the scam was obviuos.Note that you may get in real trouble if you refuse to return stolen money. Om det er lite liv på forumet her, er det i alle fall stadig fleire nordmenn som kjøper bitcoin!  Eg har hatt god omsetningsvekst gjennom heile året, og august var ein ny rekordmånad.  Mange av dei nye kjøparane er Windows-brukarar og firma med ransom-ware.   Men det er og investorar som kjøper mykje, grekarar som jobbar i Noreg og sender bitcoin til Hellas fordi pengar dei sender gjennom bank ikkje kan takast ut i Hellas, folk som skal betale noko med bitcoin, osv.Dessverre er det stadig færre nordmenn som sel bitcoin til meg.  Eg må kjøpe inn stadig meir frå utlandet, trass i at eg betaler betre kurs enn nokon annan børs.  Litt usikker på kva eg skal gjere for å snu den trenden.  Eg har ikkje lyst til å auke kursen meir, sidan det naturleg nok får fylgjer for salskursen i tillegg. Eg har hatt ein ny prat med Deloitte.  Eit par punkt som kan endre snu saka i vår favør:Saka i EU-domstolen.  Noreg er ikkje med på skatte- og avgiftspolitikk ligg utanfor EØS-avtala, men lovgjevarane har lagt stor vekt på å tilpasse norsk lov til EU.  I tolkningsspørsmål kring fritaket for finansielle tenester, får dommar i EU-domstolen nesten alltid avgjerande vekt.Statsbudsjettet kjem ca 10. oktober.  Dersom Regjeringa har tenkt at Stortinget skal ta opp spørsmålet om mva på finansielle tenester på nytt i tråd med Scheel-utvalet før nyttår, vil dei ta høgde for endringane i budsjettet.Skattedirektoratet kan framleis ikkje fortelle meg nøyaktig korleis eg skal rekne mva, til dømes ved børshandel.  Då kan ikkje eg rekne mva i praksis, fordi Skattedirektoratet ikkje oppfyller si opplysningsplikt.  Eg kan ikkje klandrast for det.  Dermed tenkjer eg at vi sit stille i båten og ikkje brukar tid på alternative løysingar eller framprovokasjon av svar frå Skattedirektoratet, før vi ser den endelege dommen frå EU-domstolen og statsbudsjettet for 2016. Eg har purra på svar to gongar sidan april.  Fekk to "out of office" svar no.  Eit av dei seier at han er attende den 20. juli, det andre 15. oktober. :-/Elles er det utvikling mot ein felles politikk i EU, med svar frå EU-domstolen venta i neste veke.  I forarbeida som Skattedirektoratet viser til, er det et eit uttalt mål å tilpasse seg regelverket i EU.  Då kan ikkje Skattedirektoratet ignorere konklusjonen til EU-domstolen heilt. How do you manage that?  I usually send multiple outputs per transaction, i.e. larger transactions, using only 2000 satoshi per KB as fee.  About ten transactions a day by average.  Mine almost always confirm on the first block.  Perhaps you are using very young inputs?  I practically never include inputs with less than 6 confirmations, and usually at least 100. Senders have to deal with that.  This is a P2P network where you must assume the nodes you are talking to are hostile.  I can even pretend to accept the transaction, and forget about it without relaying it.  You have no way to know until you receive your transaction from other nodes, and even then it may be my nodes cooperating to fool you.  So you better keep sending it to new nodes until you reach someone willing to mine it.
As far as I can see the devs must have been busy supporting pools at implementing better spam filters, instead if engaging in pointless discussion here.  As you can see most normal transactions get confirmed faster now, while the spam is queueing up.  Many miners have switched pools as well, to pools which filter the spam better.  Voting with their hashrate.What is the new QT? Yes, it is.  I never got the hang of graphical user interfaces.  They slow me down, and it is hard to automate anything with them.Ehm..  Just about everything is easier than Windows.  The last Windows versions are so mindboggingly confusing, I can't understand how anyone can get anything done with it.  TeamViewer?  You have already lost.  It is not even open source.Currently my main Bitcoin wallet is on a small 4 core ARM processor with 2 GiB RAM consuming about 2 W of power.  Fanless, about 5x5x5 cm³, costs less than 100 USD.  I have about a week of battery backup power replenished from a small 10W solar panel in case lightning knocks out the ground fault breaker when I am on holiday.  Could run the server and ADSL on solar and battery for the entire summer if the weather is nice.  /home is on an encrypted file system, of course.  Solid, stable, secure and no hassle to install.WTF?  No, there has been no forks relating to any of the antispam features.  Most of the antispam features are built into Bitcoin Core, which reject most possible valid transactions by default.  Have a look at AcceptToMemoryPool in src/main.cpp, and associated checks.  With no provisions against denial of service attacks, I can't see how bitcoin will survive in the long run, and of course bitcoin has to adapt to new attack vectors.  The rules do not change the validity of the transactions, only your willingness to relay and mine the spam. LOL!  Do you use Wintendo or some other virus hive?  Don't use your toys for storing money.  I run bitcoind on a Linux computer, which I can access over ssh from anywhere.This is by design from the beginning.  If you don't like the way bitcoin is designed, you should use something else.  There is no way to change it.  There is no way to force anyone running a full node to mine or relay any specific transaction. Not very smart of you.1. You can be tricked into believing a transaction has been confirmed when it is not.2. You leak information about which addresses belongs to you to full nodes you are talking to.It used to run fine on N900, but the blocks are too large now.  You statement will be true in the future as well if the block size is increased.Any node can make up its of mind about what spam is, and have the right to decide it.  There are some default filters, and some of them can even be adjusted by command line options.  If you don't like it, use a bank.  If you use an SPV wallet,  the random full node it talks to will decide for you if the transaction you are about to send, or one you expect to receive, is spam or not.  Users won't know what the policy of an individual full node is.  The average policy of the network will be estimated by full nodes, and translated into fee and priority estimates.  If you run a full node, you will know what is required to get a transaction confirmed with good probability within a given number of blocks.  If you send from an SPV wallet, you must trust the defaults and the full node you are talking to.Remember the last soft fork (BIP66)?  We had a six block chain split after the fork because F2Pool didn't take the time to verify the blocks it got before building upon them.  Why didn't they verify?  Because it takes time to verify a 1 MB block.  Why was this a problem?  Because F2Pool announced support for the soft fork, while actually they didn't.  Now try with a hard fork to even larger blocks. Huh?  Since when?  Please publish this, your Nobel Price is guaranteed!  Block space is the limited resource the txfee pays for.Somehow I think I know more about how priority works than you do.Priority for a transaction is the sum of (input size in satoshis * input age) for all inputs, divided by the number of inputs.  A portion of each block, currently 50KB by default  this can be changed with the -blockprioritysize option  is reserved for high priority transactions where the fee is not considered.  For the rest of the block transactions are selected by which pay the highest fee per KB.Some pools run with a higher blockprioritysize to promote real transactions over spam.  E.g. BitMinter use 500KB.  500KB is more than enough to allow for all non-spam transactions today. BitcoinXT exists.  You may run it if you think it has better spam filtering. Really?  In that case you have discovered something new and exciting, and are up for a Nobel Price in economy.  According to the most fundamental economic theory, the attack will cost exactly the same regardless of blocksize.  The cost to users who want privacy and security will increase of course, since the cost of running a full node will increase.  When the supply of block space increases, the price of transactions will go down proportionally, allowing for cheaper spam.  The price to fill a block will stay the same.  Can you please explain why the laws of supply and demand don't apply here?To solve the spam problem we must target the spam, not allow more of it.  Small blocks will at least stop the spam from bloating full nodes too much until the spam problem has been solved. If you are a very dedicated user, you may accept that your internet is slow as heck for 50% of the time.  Most won't, and will opt for lower security and less privacy with an SPV wallet instead.  I don't think spam is important enough that we should accept more centralization or forcing lower security upon a lot of users.  As the malicious attacks has demonstrated, there is plenty of room for all the non-spam transactions in 1MB blocks.  If your goal is more spam and lower security and privacy, the answer is larger blocks.  If your goal is to make transactions confirm faster, the answer is better spam filtering.There is another option, if you insist on a hard fork: Smaller transactions.  Using different crypto algorithms, the size of each transaction can be reduced to about 1/4th of the current size.  This unfortunately come with the cost of higher CPU consumption.  Nothing is free.  With each transaction taking 1/4th of the current size, we can do with a block size of 250k for years to come, allowing even users with metered internet and mobile connections to run full nodes.  Assuming spam filtering, of course.  If you want to abolish spam filtering entirely, then no block size would be large enough, and no personal user will even dream of doing a full blockchain download. It won't take that long.  Some pools, e.g. Eligius, filters the spam.  Some other pools, e.g. BitMinter, has set blockprioritysize to 500KB, half the block, to let high priority non-spammy transactions through regardless of fee.  If only people could stop mining on the China pools, and move over to the more bitcoin friendly pools. Wrong.  A typical 1 input - 1 output tx is 192 bytes.  A more typical 1-2 or 2-1 is about 226 bytes.  (Compressed keys, not multisig.)  0.0001 BTC fee is fine for both.  High priority transactions will still confirm with no fees. It is not possible.  If they confirm in the same block, the block is invalid and will be discarded by all full nodes. No, only one can be confirmed, and the other will become invalid at the same time. Yes.  Two ways: 1. You can either create a new transaction using the same inputs and a higher fee, hoping for this double spend to confirm.2. Spend the change output with a high fee, and hope for a pool practicing child-pays-for-parent to pick up both and confirm them.  Eligius, EclipseMC and possibly others do this.Method 2 has a higher probability of success, as the double spend will have problems getting relayed to the miners. This is already a soft rule.  The priority is calculated from the sum of (input size multiplied by age) and divided by transaction size.  Spam usually use young inputs as well, making the priority very low.  If the priority of a transaction is too low, Bitcoin Core won't relay it at all if it doesn't offer a fee.  Certainly not mine it. Bigger block sizes?  So far this has only demonstrated the fact that the blocks are too big already.  Perhaps this will be an adequate size in the future, but right now 1 MB blocks are too large.  The prospect of even larger blocks with room for even more malicious spam is not a good one.Announcing a malicious spam attack does not make it a "test".  It is still a malicious spam attack.  Move over to the testnet if you want to test something, e.g. how to stop transaction spam. Probably not, and certainly not without generating other problems.  We only know for sure that larger blocks will have room for more malicious spam and slow everything else down. Of course, and so far nothing new has been discovered.  If this was done by a responsible person instead of a malicious attacker, it would have been tested on the testnet.  This is the reason why we have a testnet. Yes, not relaying transactions if the fee per kB is too low has been the default policy for years.  Unless the priority is high enough. An easier remedy using two options, mainly for miners:Reserve 1/5th of each block for high priority/low fee transactions.  The spam has very low priority, and won't be helped by it.  Transactions using older inputs and having decent sized outputs will get high priority:-blockprioritysize=200000  # Default is 50000Set minimum fee for relaying a transaction to 0.0003 BTC.  This is more than the current spam.  Transactions with lower fees will still confirm as long as the priority (see above) is sufficient:-minrelaytxfee=0.0003   # Default is 0.00001The last option will reduce mempool for everyone running full nodes, and will make it harder for the spam to propagate through the network.  If you mine, please consider pushing your pool to do this, or switch to a more bitcoin friendly pool. Why do you assume the price of a transaction  the txfee  will stay the same as the supply of transaction space increases?  This contradicts the law of supply and demand.  The price should go down when the supply increases and normal demand stays the same, and the cost of the attack against 2 MB blocks will be exactly the same as the cost of an attack against 1 MB blocks.
Bitcoin Core does that.Blocking some kinds of spam is OK, but blocking other kinds of spam is not OK?  Avoiding data bloat (UTXO set) is the primary reason for blocking dust.  Of course every filter needs careful consideration.Congratulations!  You just discovered, all by yourself, one of many reasons for why centralization is bad.  Keeping the block size small is important to avoid more centralization.   Therefore we need to block malicious spam.  If Luke mined 100% of all blocks, which he could theoretically do if he got well over 51% of the hashrate, he could block the tx.Now you lost me.  Which small handful of tx's caused controversy?If the blocks were larger, blocking transactions will be easier.  The number of full nodes has already been reduced by 94% over the last year.  If you multiply the resource requirements for running a full node by 20, there won't be many full nodes left.  Not running a full node sacrifices both privacy and security.  Few full nodes makes it easier to block transactions, because a small set of nodes in a few datacenters are easier to control than a large set spread all over the world. Wow!  That was quite a change fromYou are of course entitled to your own opinion on mining policy, just as all the miners, users and even non-users.  I don't think any pools or solo miners block normal valid transactions that pays a fee.  Most allow no fee transactions as well, as long as there is room in the block and the priority is high enough.If I had the hashrate to make a difference, I would give a high priority to transactions which reduce the UTXO set significantly, e.g. by combining a lot of dust outputs to one or two more sensible sized coins.  I would mine those transactions for free if the gain was high enough, since it saves resources, and therefore reduces cost, in the long run. How on earth are you going to accomplish that, even if you were all the governments on Earth?  You could give all the orders you want.  It would be impossible to separate transactions from Greece from the rest.  Bitcoin doesn't know geographical boundaries. You should stop using Bitcoin Core then, or any P2P based coin with users or miners.Bitcoin Core refuses to make, forward or mine most valid transactions.  The set of valid transactions it accepts by default is only a fraction of all valid transactions.  It won't make, forward or mine transactions with dust outputs, for example.  This is a very effective measure against spam, and against DoS by exploding the UTXO set.  All users can change this policy if they want to, and even set it to accept all valid transactions if they have enough RAM and CPU to accept all the junk transactions which is never going to get mined.  You could even keep them in your mempool and rebroadcast them forever.  My definition of dust is 10 times larger than the default definition.  This saves space in my mempool, and fortunately you can't force me to waste my resources on your junk transactions.  This is my choice when I choose to spend my resources on running a full node.  You are free to make your own choices.Miners can decide which transactions to put in their blocks.  This is true for all coins which use distributed mining.  Some pools use stricter than default settings.  Most use the default settings.  Some, particularly Eligius, accept most valid transactions which other pools will refuse to mine.  Eligius demands a fee for that kind of transactions, which is their choice.  Some, e.g. Eligius, will let you add a fee to a transaction by sending the change output with a higher fee, considering the fees and sizes of both the parent and the child when prioritizing transactions.  Most pools will only consider the fee of the parent transaction.  This is entirely up to them. Do you oppose the default anti-DoS filters which are built into Bitcoin Core as well, or just this particular anti-DoS filter because of problems with a specific person?Perhaps you and I have different ideas of what the problem is?  To me the problem is the fact that legitimate low fee transactions were replaced by malicious spam.  Eligius solved this by allowing even the low fee transactions confirm, in the same way as the default settings in Bitcoin Core filter spammy transactions which used to cause DoS earlier. I moved my C1 to Eligius, and will keep it there until the DoS attack is over.  Mining to their donation address, because I think their anti DoS measures should be rewarded. If I knew, I wouldn't tell.  For obvious reasons.Spam filters can have many configurations.  Filtering IP addresses would be pointless in this case.  Filtering addresses is generally pointless as well.  You can have an unlimited number of addresses.The attacker obviously doesn't have the funds to circumvent the filtering.  Of course the intention is to harm.  You don't wage a DoS attack if you don't intend to harm. I don't have a filter, but I can easily see the malicious DoS transactions are all of two different forms, making them very easy to filter.  No need to check transactions sizes or fees.  Don't expect Eligius to reveal the exact filter, since this will enable the attacker to circumvent it. If you need more than a few minutes to code a filter after looking at three of the spam transactions with your eyes, you should find something else to do with your life. BS.  If the attacker had a tenth of a clue, she could easily simulate all transactions over a period, and add his spam to that.But you do read and store it?  No filtering of any kind?  Treat all mail alike?  I am sure the spammers won't mind if you share it, btw.So you take money for spammers to spam your customers.  Great.  I am sure you get a lot of them.  Do your customers know?Nope.  They didn't say that.  Even when you download and install a fresh Bitcoin Core form bitcoin.org or compile one from git, there are anti-DoS measures preventing most spammy transactions from getting forwarded and mined, and it prioritize non-spammy transactions over spam.  This malicious attacker has tweaked his spam to get around the default anti DoS measures.  Nobody can prevent miners to tweak the anti spam code in their server to ignore the new spam transactions or change the priorities.  In fact, they don't need to mine any transactions at all, or they can choose to mine all transactions.  Most miners are bitcoin friendly however.  They keep keep the anti-DoS measures, include all sensible transactions waiting to get mined in their blocks and only mine spam if it doesn't get in the way.  All miners prioritize sane transactions when blocks are full.I am a user.  I want this.  I want bitcoin to be successfull, not spammed to death. You can't spot the spam transactions yourself?  Get  eyes.  No, you don't need to know who it is to block the transactions. Yes it is.  If the malicious spammer wanted to test something, we have a testnet for that.  This is exactly what the testnet is ment for.Do you read and store all your email spam as well, forwarding copies to all your friends? Of course not, but you may choose to sign up to some kind of service with a shared wallet if that enables you to send transactions for free to other users.  Or you can pay the fee to do it on chain.  Up to you.  Yes, a shared wallet is less safe, but this is about very small amounts where you don't think the fee is worth it.Probably long before the need for larger blocks arise.  As this spam attack shows, there is plenty room for spam in the blocks already.  No need to encourage more of it.A larger block size enables more transactions, not more fees.  Think about it.  It will only make the transactions cheaper.  The total amount of fees will not increase.  The supply of block space increases, and the resource will no longer be as limited as it used to be, so people will pay less per kB.Take a hit?  Do you seriously not think miners have the block reward halving in mind when calculating their ROI already?  It is not something unknown that suddenly jumps up and attack miners.  It is perfectly predictable.  More predictable than the difficulty. Ah, the drama.  Looks like this malicious spam attack has no effect on other transactions than spam as well.  From #bitcoin on Freenode:Just as the previous malicious spam attack.  An effective attack is going to cost a lot more, and require a large amount of capital in form of older larger inputs and larger outputs which are alowed to age before they are spent again.  The spammer is wasting his coins again, proving that bitcoin works well.  Smaller blocks only means the spammer wastes his coins more slowly. What needless extra crap?  I didn't mention any needless extra crap.You obviously have no idea what you are talking about.  People who don't mind weaker security, already use SPV wallets instead of running a full node.  Lightning will provide at least as good security as an SPV wallet, with faster confirmation.  Yes, using some scamcoin could be a solution for those with very special needs.  I expect most people to use sidechains instead, where you don't place trust in anyone else.  Don't forget the fact that over the past year or so 94% of the full nodes have left the network.  The quickly increasing resource requirements is an important reason.  I have switched off two of three of my own wery well connected full nodes for that reason myself.  The security and privacy of a full node is already a privilege of the comparatively wealthy.  You want to make it even more so.  I disagree with that approach for the many of the same reasons that you want to increase the resource requirements for privacy and security even more.You don't get it, do you?  Increasing fees means increasing miner rewards at no cost to the miners.  Larger blocks incurs a cost, which is why many miners don't fill the blocks even today.What an incredibly useless exercise.  When I started the block reward was 50 BTC.  There was a neglible drop in hashrate when the reward halved.  There is no reason to keep the reward at 25 BTC.  The cost of that to everyone who want the security and privacy of running a full node is too high. People will probably send smarter transactions if the fee gets too high.  E.g. joining more transactions in sendmany, using internal transactions at exchanges where both have a wallet, etc.  Bitcoin will not go under, and Bitcoin transaction fees have lots of room for expansion before we reach credit card or bank transfer level.  Eventually we will have to use sidechains, Lightning or similar for smaller transactions where the fee will be too high for economic use of an in-chain transaction.  And we will get faster transactions as well.  But there is lots of room for growth before we need that, as this malicious spam campaign has proved. The test has shown that if one person try to delay other transactions by sending spam, then this spam and other spam gets delayed.  Proving a small block size prevents the network from getting flooded by malicious spam.  None of my normal low fee transactions got delayed.  During her previous malicious spam campaign, I even got a zero-fee transaction confirmed on the first block.  Normal priority transactions will confirm, spam is delayed.Increasing the block size to store more transaction spam, would be the same as upgrading your email system to store more email spam.  Filtering the spam is considered a much more sensible thing to do by most people.  In this case filtering was easy, and the spam got very low priority. Ei lita åtvaring.  Han har vore her før og prøvd å kjøpe bitcoin.  Då med BNbank/mcash.  Eg ba han kontakte meg på IRC for å avtale ein handel, noko han gjorde, men pengane kom aldri.  Eg sendte heller ingen bitcoin, sjølvsagt.  Berre pass på at du får pengar før han sender bitcoin, avtal ei fornuftig melding på overføringa, og vent til du har fått detaljar om avsendar og melding frå banken før du overfører.  Ved den minste tvil slår du opp avsendar av pengane i telefonkatalogen og ringer før du overfører bitcoin.  Personar som stadig får ny bank og ikkje held avtaler er det grunn til å vere skeptisk til. Really?  I went on with business as usual during your last pointless DoS attempt by spam, using my standard fee of 0.00002 BTC/kB, one fifth of yours.  All my transactions confirmed with no delays.  This is of course normal non-spammy transactions with normal sized outputs using oldish inputs, so I guess the priority of my transactions were a few orders of magnitude above your spam.  This is true for most non-spammy transactions.  Have a closer look at the delayed transactions.  It is probably just other spam delayed by your spam.  But please spammers, empty your pockets before your gangrene eats the rest of your brains as well.  The miners deserve their fees. Welcome!  Do you have an API?
Mitt svar er i alle fall registrert.  Er ikkje ferdig med å gå gjennom alle dei andre svara, men har so langt ikkje funne noko om bitcoin blant dei meir opplagte kandidatane. Der er reglane litt ulike for varer og "fjernleverbare elektroniske tenester".Men..  Dersom du kjøper bitcoin på ein utanlandsk børs meiner eg at du har ein tilsvarande situasjon.  So lenge du ikkje tek ut bitcoina, er ikkje tenesta levert.  Det einaste du har fått er retten til å ta ut ei viss mengd bitcoin frå den aktuelle børsen.  Ein slik rett er etter mi meining neppe mva-pliktig.  Det er ikkje sikkert at kjøparen tek ut bitcoina i det heile.  Han kan selje dei att på den same børsen, han kan gløyme passordet sitt eller børsen kan gå konkurs.  Då må etter mi meining mva reknast ved levering av tenesta (bitcoin), ikkje på retten til å få tenesta levert.Deloitte jobbar med det spørsmålet no.  Det er ein mogeleg måte å omgå problemet på.  I prinsippet vert den utanlandske børsen mva-pliktig i Noreg, men det er nok ikkje enkelt å handheve i praksis. Det er ikkje veldig strenge formkrav til eit høyringssvar.  Sjå på svar frå andre saker.  Du står heilt fritt til kva du vil kommentere og korleis.Ta på deg ein hatt og fokuser på det som er viktig for den som har på seg hatten.  Du kan vere bitcoin-brukar eller ein liten nettbutikk med internasjonal målgruppe som tek bitcoin som betalingsmiddel fordi det er praktisk og sikkert.  Forklar kvifor dagens regime gjer det vanskeleg å bruke bitcoin som betalingsmiddel, og be om at mva-fritaket for betalingsmiddel skal gjelde alle betalingsmiddel som ikkje har verdi som anna enn betalingsmiddel.  Om du skriv som privatperson, skriv kor lett det er å omgå dagens mva på betalingsmiddel ved å veksle i utlandet.  Om du skriv som firma, forklar kor store problem det lagar for deg om du vert mva-pliktig og du skal rekne mva av betalingsmiddelet.  Skriv og litt om korleis du kan omgå problema ved å veksle i utlandet, og korleis regimet som Skatteetaten har bestemt er sterkt konkurransevridande til fordel for alle andre land.Det er bra om det kjem fleire svar med ulike formuleringar og synsvinklar.  Eg kan kladde saman ei punktliste over moment som kan takast med, men prøv å formulere noko rundt det sjølv.  Elles kjem dei i ein bunke med likelydande svar. Deliotte har byrja å levere.  Eg har førebels ikkje fått svar på alt, men det eg har fått er ikkje oppløftande.Kort oppsummert: Det er fleire feil i argumentasjonen til Skatteetaten, men Deloitte fell til slutt ned på same konklusjon som Skatteetaten.Vi jobbar framleis med å finne vegar rundt problemet.Eg hadde opphaveleg tenkt å publisere alt eg fekk frå Deloitte, men har no revurdert og komme fram til at det kanskje ikkje er lurt likevel.  Dei kjem trass alt til same konklusjon som Skatteetaten.  I tillegg har dei funne feil i argumentasjonen til Skatteetaten, og feila kan brukast mot Skatteetaten i ei eventuell sak der dei brukar same argumentasjon.  Notatet inneheld og mykje støtte for synet til Skatteetaten.  Difor er det nok best om Skatteetaten ikkje får tak i notatet eg har fått frå Deolitte med svar på hovudspørsmålet.  Dersom nokon ynskjer ein kopi, kan dei få det mot løfte om å ikkje dele han med andre.Deloitte jobbar vidare med eit spørsmål om utanlandsk børshandel med bitcoin.  Etter mi meining kan det samanliknast med enkelte former for derivathandel og handel med finansielle instrument.  Du betaler til dømes ikkje mva dersom du kjøper ein eigrdel i ei gullbarre som ligg i ein bank i Sveits, berre om du flyttar det fysiske gullet til Noreg.  Kan det vere mogeleg å sleppe unda mva dersom det ikkje føregår ei overføring av bitcoin som anna enn ein eigardel av ein felles pott som børsen har?  Kunden kan sjølvsagt ta ut sin del i ettertid, men det er ein separat transaksjon som eg ikkje har kontroll over.Elles har Finansdepartementet ei sak på høyring om dagen, som kan ha sterk innverknad på framtidig mva på bitcoin: Høring  NOU 2014: 13 Kapitalbeskatning i en internasjonal økonomiAlt Skattetaten baserer seg på er forarbeid til lover.  Dersom vi klarar å få inn i forarbeida til revisjonen av mva-lova som vil fylgje av dette arbeidet at bitcoin er å rekne som betalingsmiddel, er saka i boks.  Eg held på å skrive eit høyringssvar, og vert glad om andre gjer det same. I det siste har ein kattesvindlar vore veldig aktiv på Localbitcoins.  Modus operandi er som fylgjer:1. Han opprettar ein handel for å få kontonummer og betalingsinformasjon, og kansellerer handelen.2. Han har ei annonse for sal av katt på Fjasebok og andre stader, og ventar på offer.3. Han ber offeret betale til din konto.4. Han oprettar ein handel på kjøpesummen han har avtalt med offeret so snart offeret har betalt.5. Profitt!  Du ender opp som mottakar av pengane frå svindelen.Om dette skjer deg, prøv å rydde opp sjølv snarast!  Dersom Økokrim får melding om dette før du har teke affære og returnert pengane, kan du vente deg sperra konto og kontakt med politiet.På grunn av måten det norske banksystemet fungerer, og kundane sine forventningar om å få bitcoin fort, er det eit vindauge då slik svindel lett kan lukkast.  Eg har nokre enkle tiltak som har fungert so langt:Ikkje godta handlar på runde summar i kroner.  Det er plausibelt å selje ein katt for 500 eller 1500 kroner, men ikkje for 1504,36 kroner.Ver ekstra obs på folk med IP-adresse i utlandet, spesielt om kontoen er ny.  Fullt namn og verifisert telefonnummer er ikkje ein garanti mot svindel, og folk kan ha gode grunnar til å ikkje leggje dei inn.  Eldre konti med mange handlar bak seg er tryggare.Dersom nokon likevel kjøper for ein rund sum, eller ikkje overfører heilt nøyaktig avtalt sum, pass på å ikkje betale ut bitcoin før du har sjekka og kryss-sjekka alle detaljar på overføringa.  Melding, avsendar, osv.  Sidan vedkommnde bryt vilkåra for handelen, er det heilt i orden å vente til du er sikker.  Om det er mogeleg å finne telefonnummer på vedkommande som har overført pengar, bør du ringe og sjekke før du slepp bitcoin.  Viss du ikkje får kontakt med den som har betalt, er det betre å returnere pengane enn å verte sitjande med stolne pengar.Under risk mitigation på Localbitcoins kan du lese: If the buyer is paying with a wrong reference message, the seller is not obligated to release the bitcoins.  Hugs det, men be banken returnere pengane om du ikkje vil sleppe bitcoin.Ikkje la paranoiaen ta overhand.  Det er menneskeleg å feile.  Enkelte bommar litt på detaljane på første forsøk.Dersom nokon har overført pengar til deg, du får kontakt med vedkommande og det viser seg å vere dyresvindel, prøv å opprette kontakt mellom vedkommande og Mattilsynet eller Økokrim.  Mattilsynet og Økokrim har eit samarbeid med å få slutt på både dyresvindel og ulovleg dyreimport, og vil prøve å finne ut kvar annonsa står, kven som har sett inn annonsa, osv.  Ta direkte kontakt med meg her eller på IRC om du er utsett for denne typen svindel og ynskjer hjelp/kontaktpersonar.  Eg har ikkje lyst til å spreie namn eller telefonnummer til kontaktpersonane i Mattilsynet og Økokrim offentleg her på forumet.  Dei får meir enn nok drapstrugsmål mot seg og sin familie som det er. Det ligg minst tre tilbod i Bergen på Localbitcoins. Sjølvsagt. Feil.  Betalingsdirektivet seier at det skal vere same pris for overføringar i EUR innanlands som til andre SEPA-land.  Overføringar i EUR innanlands i Noreg kostar akkurat det same.  I dei fleste Euro-landa er innanlands bankoverføring gratis, og då kostar det heller ingenting å overføre EUR til andre SEPA-land.  Det er same valuta.  Sverige har bestemt at det same skal gjelde SEK (i Sverige). Eg kan bidra med Lighthouse-installasjonen på lighthouse.bitmynt.no.  Første forsøk med folkefinansiering via Lighthouse var stor suksess.  Det hadde vore kjekt om nokon andre kunne bruke Lighthouse til noko òg, men då er det ikkje sikkert at bitmynt.no er rett domene. Det veit eg ikkje, men eg har i det minste fått ein fast pris.  Fekk ein telefon i dag med mange spørsmål, og eg sende dei litt meir dokumentasjon.  M.a. eit brev frå Finanstilsynet der dei "ikkje har konkludert" om tenester eg skisserer fell under det norske finansregulatoriske regelverket, og kopi av det brevet Justcoin i si tid fekk av Skatt øst.  Trur ikkje det skal ta meir enn eit par veker. Eg veit ikkje om du er ein av dei anonyme bidragsytarane, men no er i alle fall tida inne til å leggje pengane på bordet.  Eg har sett opp eit Lighthouse-prosjekt for å samle inn donasjonar.  Du kan lese om det heile her, eller berre laste ned Lighthouse-klienten og prosjektfila her.  Om du ikkje vil bruke Lighthouse, men donere direkte, kan du overføre til 1CrqwNoLHAZfivYtDwxGGfQQFpZ7cebSb3.Vi manglar mindre enn ein bitcoin før vi er i mål! Nei, dessverre.Takk!  No manglar vi berre ca 0.75 BTC!  92% i mål medrekna min halvpart. 8.5 BTC! Eg er ikkje jurist, men eg trur den er ganske stor.  Skatteetaten har veldig store problem med å finne ut kva reglar som skal gjelde for ei "fjernleverbar elektronisk teneste" som berre kan brukast som betalingsmiddel, og som nesten alle andre land reknar som ein form for betalingsmiddel.  Eg trur dei kjem til å gi seg når dei får gode nok argument for at dei tek feil.Vi er forresten oppe i 7.5544 BTC.  Klarar vi 2.45 BTC til i kveld? 7.4644 BTC donert til no.  Då manglar det litt over 2.5 BTC før eg donerer resten.  Her er det berre å slenge seg på, so kjem vi i mål i kveld!Edit: Oppdatert med aktuell status måndag 21:55. Som kjent vil det norske Skattedirektoratet ha dobbel mva når du handlar med bitcoin.  Eg er i gong med ein prosess for å finne ein utveg på dette.  Kort sagt skal Deloitte i Trondheim finne ut om Skattedirektoratet står på tørr grunn når dei definerer Bitcoin som ei mva-pliktig elektronisk fjernleverbar teneste, og hevdar at du må betale mva for heile summen både for pengar du vekslar til bitcoin og for vara du kjøper.Deloitte skal ha 37500 for jobben (30000 + mva), og eg har starta eit Lighthouse-prosjekt for å samle inn midlane.  So snart vi har samla inn 50% av det som trengst, skyt eg inn resten.Eg meinar det er viktig å komme Skatteetaten i forkjøpet her, og agere framfor å reagere etter at dei har stengt ned alt av bitcoin-handel i Noreg og sendt oss som driv med det til ein lang og dyr rettsprosess.For å delta må du laste ned Lighthouse og prosjektfila, importere prosjektet i Lighthouse, sende litt bitcoin til Lighthouse-klienten og trykke på Pledge.Eg har skrive meir bakgrunn om Bitcoin og mva-prosjektet her. Kvar er det du finn denne kursen?  Ordreboka for BTC/NOK er tom for bitcoin til sals.  Siste handel i NOK på CCEDK var  tredje juli i fjor.Skulle gjerne teke med CCEDK i kurssamanlikningane på nettsidene mine.  Når ordreboka er tom går CCDEK heilt ut, som Bitcoinsnorway ofte gjer. Du prøvar å lure folk til å sende deg NOK i den tru at det er ei SEPA-overføring, noko det ikkje er.  Det er uærleg.  Kvifor du ynskjer å lure norske kundar veit eg ikkje, men eg merkar meg at du går rett på personåtak i staden for å prøve å forsvare svindelen din.Det er ikkje sant.  Sovidt eg ser ligg det ein einaste ordre inne for NOK/BTC på CCEDK.  Nokon som byr 1500 for totalt 0.05322666 BTC.  Eg klarar ikkje å finne ut kva CCEDK skal ha i gebyr for det, men det er i alle fall ein latterleg kurs.  Bankgebyr kjem i tillegg.  Eg tek ingen gebyr.Kursen min er svært god.  Kor mange kroner må du ut med for 50 BTC på CCEDK når alle gebyr er betalt?  Eg trur ingenting på at CCEDK er billigare.  Sjølv ikkje for nokre få milli-BTC, sidan størstedelen då vert bankgebyr.  Eg tek ingen gebyr.Det er den andre lenka på sida.Eg har veksla bitcoin mot norske kroner sidan 2010, til svært god kurs.  Eg har aldri gøymt meg, og det står på sida korleis du kan kontakte meg personleg på IRC, e-post og vanleg brevpost.  Telefonar ynskjer eg ikkje, so telefonnummeret må du slå opp i telefonkatalogen.  Om natta søv eg, men du kan gjerne skrive ei melding på IRC eller e-post som eg les når eg vaknar.  Eg har oppgitt alt eg skal til Skatteetaten og har aldri prøvd å lure nokon.Eg har som sagt handla med bitcoin sidan 2010.  Både med nordmenn og folk frå heile resten av verda.  Eg manglar framleis nokre afrikanske land, eit par i sentral-Asia, to i Sør-Amerika og dei minste fyrstedøma i Europa, men vil tru eg har meir erfaring med pengeoverføring til og frå utlandet enn dei fleste her.  Inkludert deg.Poenget er at du prøvar å lure folk til å tru at dei kan sende NOK via SEPA, men det går ikkje.  Då vert det ei SWIFT-overføring med tilhøyrande gebyr.  Grensesnittet i nettbanken er som regel likt.  Du må vite dette for å unngå gebyr. Eg skal til Bergen ein tur i vinterferien, og tenkte å arrangere eit lite treff når eg likevel er der.   For eit år sidan heldt eg foredrag på Studentersamfunnet i Bergen, og vart overraska over kor mange som kom og slo av ein prat etterpå.  Eg vonar det kjem like mange denne gongen!Tid: Onsdag 18. februar klokka 18 til det stenger.Stad: Henrik øl- og vinstove eller Konrads kåk dersom Henriks vert for bråkete.Agenda: Mva og skatt er det som opptek meg mest om dagen, men ordet er fritt!Legg gjerne att ei melding i tråden her om du har tenkt å komme, slik at eg får ein idè om kor mange vi vert, og annonser gjerne i større fora.Eg vurderer å kontakte media om mva-problemet, med ei svært god sak: Skatt vest har innført dobbel mva ved bruk av bitcoin som betalingsmiddel.  Dersom vi vert mange vil eg gjerne invitere ei avis til treffet for å fortelle om problema, med atterhald om at dei spør kvar enkelt som er til stades før dei publiserer bilete eller annan info.  Nettopp skatteproblematikk gjer at mange ynskjer å halde låg profil, og det har eg all mogeleg respekt for.  Det er faktisk eit poeng i seg sjølv at Skatteetaten held mykje av aktiviteten under jorda ved å gjere det umogeleg å rekne på skattemessige konsekvensar av mange former for handel med bitcoin. Ja.  Der står det svart på kvitt at SEPA er for betalingar i EURO.  Ikkje NOK.  Ikkje SEK.  EURO.La meg sitere litt frå første avsnitt:Betalingar i EURO går via SEPA.  Skal du betale i NOK til utlandet går det gjennom SWIFT.  For at det skal bli ei SEPA-overføring, må du sende EUR.  Dvs at banken vekslar til EUR før overføring og sender EUR til mottakar.  Vekslinga tek banken vanslegvis eit gebyr for, skjult som kursdifferanse mellom kjøp og sal av valuta.Innanlandske overføringar i NOK er vanlegvis gebyrfrie med fire overføringar mellom bankane kvar dag.  Overføringar i EURO derimot, sjølv om dei går innanlands, kostar eit gebyr og kjem ikkje fram før neste dag.Eg forstår at du ynskjer å svindle norske kundar.  Nordmenn: Denne fyren anar anten ikkje kva han driv med, eller han prøvar å lure til seg kundar med falske lovnadar.Du kan lese meir om SEPA på Wikipedia.
Eg sel deg gjerne 20 BTC eller meir.  Vi kan avtale detaljane på IRC. Ja.Gjerne.  Om eg kan få garantiar på donasjonar som til saman tilsvarer halve summen (18750 kroner), startar eg innsamling.  Tenkte då å setje opp ei adresse der folk kan donere bitcoin, so betalar eg med min vanlege salskurs i staden for kjøpskurs.  Dvs ca 2% betre enn når eg vanlegvis kjøper bitcoin.  I tillegg kan eg setje opp ein donasjonskonto i bank for dei som vil donere norske kroner ikkje-anonymt.  Eg kjem til å garantere for resten av summen sjølv, slik at dette garantert vert noko av dersom vi startar innsamling.Eg veit.  Dette vert dyrt, tidkrevjande, stressande og risikabelt, sjølv om advokatane finn ut at saka står på solid juridisk grunn.  Skatteetaten kan vere skikkelege dritsekkar, og dra ut saker i årevis medan folk går personleg konkurs og må selje bil og hus, seg sjølv og kone og ungar for å ha til mat i mellomtida.  Ei lovendring er nok billigare på alle måtar, men vil ikkje ha attendeverkande kraft. Vi oppnår å finne ut om konklusjonen til Skatteetaten står på trygg juridisk grunn.  Dersom han gjer det, må det ei lovendring til for å avskaffe mva på betalingsmiddel i Noreg, og vi kan spare oss utgiftene til ei rettssak.  Krangelen med Skatteetaten vil då halde fram med detaljar, som kven som skal mva-registrerast og krevje inn mva ved handel gjennom børs, om ein kan trekkje mva av renter på lån frå på skatten, finne smutthol, osv.Dersom advokatane derimot finn ut at Skatteetaten har tolka lova feil (og det trur eg dei har), då kan vi ta kampen direkte mot Skatteetaten i rettssystemet om mva på bitcoin som betalingsmiddel og mva på eventuelle gebyr ved betalingstenester basert på bitcoin.  Sannsynlegvis vil Skatteetaten gi opp utan å gå til rettssak dersom dei ser at saka deira står for svakt.Eg ser ikkje korleis eg kan komme utanom.  Å gå til rettssak mot Skatteetaten og køyre saka sjølv i retten, trur eg ikkje er ein god plan. So lenge han gjer det frå Sverige og kundane i Noreg er privatpersonar, går det fint.  I Sverige er det fritak for mva på omsetning av betalingsmidlar.  Norske firmakundar må derimot rekne mva på sine kjøp frå utlandet.Dette er det verste.  So lenge firmaet driv i utlandet, kan dei trygt selje bitcoin til nordmenn utan å tenkje på mva.  (Formelt sett skal dei mva-registrere seg i Noreg, men det er nok vanskeleg å handheve so lenge firmaet ikkje er representert her med noko anna enn ein bankkonto.)  Akkurat slik konkurransevridning på finansielle tenester var det Stortinget sa dei ville unngå då dei harmoniserte det norske regelverket med EU og dei nordiske landa spesielt ved siste revisjon av mvalova.Eg har forresten fått eit tilbod frå eit stort advokatfirma med mva som spesialfelt på ein juridisk gjennomgang av konklusjonen til Skattetaten om mva på bitcoin.  Det kostar 30000 kroner + mva.  Om fleire er med og spleisar, slår eg til.  Eg har allereie brukt minst like mykje på å finne vegar rundt dagens regelverk.  Det har stort sett endt med at advokatane ikkje forstår korleis Skatteetaten tenkjer, og ber meg spørje dei ut om detaljar.  Skatteetaten slit som regel med svara dei og, sidan det dei har sagt om bitcoin til no ikkje er konsistent. Då må du betale mva av løna di.  Dersom du derimot tek betaling i Niue-dollar, ein valuta som ikkje er brukt nokon stad i verda, heller ikkje på Niue (der brukar dei New Zealand-dollar), er det mva-fritt.  Det er fordi Skattedirektorotet, i sin store visdom, har bestemt at Bitcoin ikkje er eit betalingsmiddel, medan Niue-dollar er det.  Skatt kjem sjølvsagt i tillegg uansett betalingsmiddel.Dette er eit umogeleg tema for alle, inkludert Skatteetaten, som pleier å sende spørsmåla vidare til Skattedirektorotet etter ei stund.Alt dette krev at Skattedirektorotet skaffar seg eit absolutt minimum av kunnskap om kva Bitcoin er.  I dette tempoet ligg ei slik løysing mange tusen år fram i tid.Nei, eg har ikkje mykje tiltru til desse skattetullingane.  Dei som kan slå på ei datamaskin utan å ringe brukarstøtte har for lengst fått seg ein skikkeleg jobb, so rykkjer vaskehjelpa opp. Eg skulle gjerne gjort meir utav det, og eg kjem til å gjere meir utav det so snart Skatteetaten og Skattedirektoratet kjem til fornuft.  Slk det er no forstår eg heller ikkje korleis Bitcoinsnorway kan drive komfortabelt, og dei kan ikkje ha verksemder som kundar.  Då kjem mva-problematikken inn for fullt.  Skatteetaten/Skattedirektoratet kan ikkje svare på om ein børs er ein forhandlar, formidlar eller ein agent.  Det er avgjerande for kven som skal vere mva-registrert og rekne ut mva på handlane.  Uansett treng ein å vite kven ein handlar med om ein skal rekne mva rett, og det utelukkar ein handelsplattform der det ikkje er kjent.  Med mindre det er handelsplattformen som skal rekne mva, men då må du brått ut med 25% mva på alle handlar gjennom Bitcoinsnorway.  Dette kan ikkje Skatteetaten svare på pr i dag.Heile mva-greiene er eit stort surr.  Skattedirektoratet prøvar å hamre inn ein skrue med ein hammar.  Dei målar seg inn i eit hjørne i ei fantasiverd, og nektar å ta kontakt med den verkelege verda utanfor.  Det kan til dømes hende at eg kan sleppe unda mva dersom eg sel gjennom Localbitcoins, men ikkje dersom eg sel gjennom mi eiga nettside.  So lenge dette tullet held på, vil ikkje eg investere for mykje i noko eg kanskje berre må kaste etterpå. Det viktigaste hinderet for utbreiing av bitoin i Noreg, er mva-spørsmålet.  So lenge det herskar full forvirrig i Skatteetaten og Skattedirektoratet om Bitcoin er ei teneste eller noko anna, og Skatteetaten vil ha dobbel mva av dei som brukar bitcoin som betalingsmiddel, er det håplaust. Eg spurde Skatt Vest om ein handelsplattform vil vere ein forhandlar, ein formidlar eller ein agent.  Det er avgjerande for kven som skal rekne ut mva.  Dei kunne ikkje svare, og spørsmålet er til handsaming i Skattedirektoratet saman med mange andre spørsmål.  Eit eg er ekstra godt nøgd med, er om eg kan trekkje mva på renter på lån i bitcoin frå på skatten  Alle svaralternativa i "Hva mener DU skal til for og gjøre bitcoin mer tilgjengelig for alle?" er avhengig av at Skattedirektoratet tek til fornuft. Kva meinar du med offisiell?  Dei beste kursane får du på bitmynt.no, eller du kan prøve Localbitcoins.  Begge er offentlege i tydinga offentleg kjende og opne for alle, men ikkje offisielle på den måten at tenestene er drivne eller autorisert av styresmaktene.  Det var heller ikkje Justcoin. Du kan ikkje sende NOK via SEPA.  SEPA står for Single EURO Payment Area.  NOK går som standard SWIFT-overføring med tilhøyrande gebyr og den tida det tek. Nei, og APIet fungerer ikkje.  Noko javascript på framsida indikerer denne lista over valutapar:BTCUSD, BTCHKD, BTCEUR, BTCCAD, BTCAUD, BTCSGD, BTCJPY, BTCCHF, BTCGBP, BTCNZD, LTCBTC, XRPBTC, STRBTC, DOGEBTC. No er new.justcoin.com nede, men justcoin.com ser ut til å vere oppe.  Det ser ikkje ut til at dei handlar med NOK. Sovidt eg kan sjå er det ikkje i strid med nokon lover mot kvitvasking.  Eg har hatt kontakt med Finanstilsynet for å spørre om korleis eg bør sikre meg mot å bli brukt til kvitvasking, men dei vil ikkje snakke med meg so lenge eg ikkje har konsesjon for å drive betalingstenester.  For eit år sidan spurde eg om nokon av tenestene eg driv er konsesjonspliktige.  Etter seks veker svarte dei at dei ikkje hadde konkludert.Eg sel ikkje namecoin, eg sel bitcoin.  Du har coloured coins som kan samanliknast med pengesetlar som nokon har skrive noko på.  Eg sel ikkje slike, og det er heller ikkje noko viktig bruksområde.  Eit kronestykkje er rekna som betalingsmiddel, sjølv om dei og kan stablast eller leikast med.Bitcoin kjenner ingen landegrenser.  Ein bitcoin er i alle land samstundes.  Mine private lommebøker har eg backup av i Tyskland.  Når eg mottek bitcoin til autokjøp-adresse, korleis kan eg vite kva land dei bitcoina er sendt frå?  Eg kan sjølvsagt vite om eg betaler ut pengane til ein norsk bankkonoto, men det er heilt umogeleg for meg å finne ut om dette er inntekt frå ein norsk nettbutikk eller om vedkommande har kjøpt bitcoin på Bitstamp og overført til meg.Sjølv kjøper eg lite utanlands, trur eg.  Nesten all min handel, både kjøp og sal, går frå norske bankkonti eller bank i butikk.  Ofte må eg i staden selje bitcoin utanlands og importere pengane inn i Noreg for å kjøpe meir bitcoin innanlands.  Då slepp eg å betale mva for verdien av pengane.  Det er nokre mørketal her.  Til dømes handlar eg ein del med nordmenn som eg veit er busett i utlandet (fordi dei har fortalt meg det).  Og mange oppgjev ei bitcoin-adresse dei skal betale til, slik at eg betale direkte til seljar for ei vare eller teneste som vedkommande kjøper.  Eg kan ikkje vite kven som eig bitcoin-adressa eg overfører til, eller kva land mottakaren bur i.  Heller ikkje avsendaren av bitcoin som eg kjøper av andre.Eg seier at om det umogeleg kan generere eit overskot då er det hobby, ikkje næring.  Eg tek ikkje provisjon i det heile.  Inntekta mi er svært usikker, og kjem av at eg har ein spread mellom kjøpskurs og salskurs på ca 2%.  Dersom kundane mine slår marknaden, går eg med tap.  Det gjer dei heldigvis ikkje.  Som regel er dei litt dårlegare enn marknaden. slik at fortenesta mi vert litt høgare.  Det slo derimot ikkje til under den siste toppen over 2700 kroner. Då var det veldig mange som selde og få som kjøpte.  Erfaringsmessig jamnar dette seg ut over tid.  Eg kunne kutta risikoen ved å gjere alle handlar vidare på ein børs, som ein meklar, men då ville halvparten av fortenesta gå vekk i handelsgebyr. Sidan eg ikkje anar kven kundane mine er, er det vanskeleg for meg å krevje inn mva i ettertid.Eg har ikkje fått svar på alle spørsmåla mine til Skatteetaten endå, men er ganske sikker på at eg skal finne ein veg utanom.  Prinsippttalen er på svært tynn is juridisk, og kan ikkje brukast til å avslå mva-fritak etter §3-6 c) om betalingstenester.  Sidan bitcoin ikkje kan brukast som anna enn betalingsmiddel, kan det vere at eg utfører ei betalingsteneste når nokon betalar pengar til meg og eg betaler bitcoin til ei adresse dei oppgjev.Dersom dei vil ha mva slepp du uansett problemet, fordi det ikkje er mogeleg å generere overskot ved å selje eit betalingsmiddel som gjer at du må betale dobbel mva.  Både ved veksling til betalingsmiddelet og betaling av det du vil kjøpe med betalingsmiddelet.  Spesielt når problemet er trivielt å omgå ved å veksle til seg bitcoin privat eller i utlandet.  Når aktiviteten ikkje er eigna til å generere eit overskot, er det sovidt eg forstår heller ikkje næring, og når eg ikkje driv næring skal eg ikkje krevje inn mva.  Men det er ein catch-22 her, for med ca 2% forteneste på omsetninga utan mva, kan eg heller ikkje drive med det utan å ta mva, for då vert det næring.  I so fall har eg ein plan B på lur. Eg har oppdatert opplegget som lagar grafar over kursutviklinga og spread ved ulike børsar, og samanliknar ordrebøkene.  Justcoin er ute, dessverre.  Bitcoinsnorway er inne, etter at dei har gjort ein innsats for å få på plass eit API som kan spørrast.  Pga svært lite i ordrebøkene til spesielt ein av desse, har eg kutta y-aksen ved min pris ± 5%.  Spesielt på grafane over store kjøp/sal vil du sjå store hol i grafane for enkelte børsar.Samanlikning av kurs og spread for ordren på toppen av ordreboka (ticker), utan garanti for tilgjengeleg volum finn du her.  Vidare har eg grafar for kva det kostar å kjøpe, eller kva du får ut ved sal av, 1, 5, 10 og 20 BTC.Døme for kjøp og sal av 5 BTC frå ulike børsar, inkludert handelsgebyr, utan gebyr for innskot, uttak, valutaveksling, etc.  Som valutakurs brukar eg konsekvent siste midtkurs frå Noregs Bank, som er eit gjennomsnitt av bankane.  Bankane legg til sine marginar på kvar side av midtkursen, og dei kjem ikkje med her.Pris for kjøp av 5 BTCDet du får for sal av 5 BTCProsentvis tap om du kjøper 5 BTC og sel dei att på same børs rett etterpå (spread).Eg kan gjerne bidra dersom nokon vil lage noko meir fancy i til dømes Javascript.  (Javascript har eg ikkje peiling på.)  Opplegget mitt baserer seg på eit enkelt perl-script som loggar statistikk frå ordrebøkene, og gnuplot til å lage grafar. Veit nokon når i morgon handelen stansar? Korkje abrkn eller klaus har sagt noko her sidan august.  Skulle gjerne hatt ein kommentar.  Eg veit om nokon andre som vart avvist av DNB i august fordi DNB ikkje ville ha nokon som dreiv med bitcoin som kunde.  Lurer på om det er lenge sidan Justcoin fekk denne meldinga frå DNB og kva andre bankar dei har vore i kontakt med? Finanstilsynet, Skatteetaten og Økokrim driv kontinuerleg med skremselspropaganda mot bankane.  Ingen storbankar vil ta i bitcoin lenger.  Det vert for mykje jobb når Finanstilsynet stadig skal inspisere.  Mindre bankar har det litt lettare.  Snakk med dei minste først.  Har sjølv fått nei frå Nordea og vorte beden av Danske Bank om å slutte med bitcoinhandel. Ja, eg tek bankoverføring. Dette er trist.  Vi må finne ei ny løysing som ikkje inkluderer bankar.  Eg har tenkt lenge over dette, og vurderer å starte noko hawala-liknande desentralisert og kontantbasert.  Men det er ein stor jobb å organisere, og passar best i ein annan tråd.  Fordelen er at det er vanskeleg å overvake for utanforståande og umogeleg å stanse.  Ulempen er at det er tungvint og avhengig av tillit mellom enkeltpersonar.Eg vekslar framleis, forresten.  Vi får sjå kor lenge det varer.  Diskusjonane mine med Skatteetaten dreg ut, men eg kan vere ganske seig å diskutere med. :-) Merirverdiavgift.  Eit finanstilsyn som ikkje har konkludert om denslags verksemd er konsesjonspliktig.
Eg held framleis til på IRC, og det er haugevis av børsar i utlandet.  Lurer veldig på sjølv kva som har skjedd med Justcoin, og kvifor dei er so tause.  Såg det var ein handel der nettopp. Om nokon har selt bitcoins til ccmester på localbitcoins, bør dei snarast kontakte avsendar av pengane.  Han har prøvd å handle av meg, men det tok lenger tid enn det skulle før pengane kom.  Då vert eg automatisk mistenksam.  Veldig.  Då overføringa kom var avsendar "Stiftelsen Norsk Rikstoto".  Eg tok kontakt med Norsk Rikstoto, og det viser seg at fyren har spelt på hest med stolne kredittkort og oppgitt kontonummeret til seljarar på localbitcoins for utbetaling av gevinst.  Då hadde fyren allereie avtalt eit nytt kjøp av meg og overført pengar på same måte.  Den utbetalinga fekk Norsk Rikstoto stansa.Brukaren er sperra no, men eg ser han har over 30 handlar.  Eg veit ikkje om alle desse er svindel.  Om nokon andre her har handla med fyren, er eg og Norsk Rikstoto og sannsynlegvis politiet interessert i å høyre om det.  Spesielt om pengane har komme frå personlege konti som kan vere hans eigne.  Fyren hadde ei annonse ute for bitcoin mot thailandske bath, so det kan hende han oppheld seg fysisk der. No er bilen min billig.  Beste pris eg kan finne på tilsvarande bil på finn.no er 149977.  Den nest billigaste kostar 159900.  Dei har ikkje hengarfeste.  Prisen inkluderer heller ikkje henting av kjøpar med fly.Det du får for 40 BTC på utvalde børsar nett no (har ikkje rekna med handelsgebyr, bankgebyr eller tap ved valutaveksling):SturleGolf stasjonsvognbitmynt.no149821,30bitstamp.net149383,60bitcoin-central.net145000,86justcoin.com128459,32eur.bitcurex.com124407,38 God familiebil.  Køyreeigenskapane til ein Golf og plassen til ei stasjonsvogn.  Har gjort god teneste som familiebil for fire på lange feriar sørover i Europa, og vi har aldri hatt plassmangel.  Brukar svært lite diesel.  Du kjem lett under 0,4l på mila på langkøyring.  Gjennomsnittsforbruk siste 1200 km har vore 3,8 l/100 km, ifylgje køyrecomputeren.  Bilen står i Florø.  Eg kan hente deg i fly i heile Sør-Noreg, slik at du kan køyre bilen heim (flyturen krev godt vêr heile vegen).Kilometerstand: 108000 km1. gong registrert: 2010-01-04Motoreffekt: 105 hkSommar- og vinterdekkHengarfesteKomplett servicehefte, EU-godkjent til juli 2016Volkswagen mobilitetsgarantiNy frontrute i maiFint lite fancy ekstrautstyr og jåleri, men du kan få med eit passande takstativ og eit brukt barnesete (BeSafe iZi Combi ISOfix, 0-18kg/6mnd-4 år)Pris: 40 BTC (kan justerast ved større kursendring)Legg han ut til sals på finn.no om eit par veker, om ingen her vil kjøpe han for bitcoin. Simple graphs made with gnuplot.  I recently removed bitcoinsnorway from the bid and ask graphs, because their ticker returns values all over the place, and mess up the resolution and scaling of the y axis.  I kept them on the spread graph, which is hard limited to 11%, and you can see the problem there. My point is that I could get exactly the same outcome by selling the BTC in my bot account to someone else with transfer inside of MtGox, as if I had transferred to my verified account on MtGox.  They would have to see this as a withdrawal from the bot account and a deposit on the buyer's account.  Otherwise a lot of deposits will turn out to be worthless.  In the days of 80% market share most of my BTC withdrawals from MtGox were sales to other people with a MtGox account, who just wanted to bootstrap their account through a domestic bank transfer instead of all the hassle of transfering money to Japan.  Internal transfers all the way.  In the good old days you could deposit and withdraw fiat via internal transfers as well (redeemable codes).  Old codes were redeemable until the end, and BTC codes could be made via the API until the end.  What if someone with a new account makes a claim based on a reemable code of 1000 BTC?I think you greatly overestimate the amount of work they are going to put into it, if they choose the simple solution.  There are going to be a lot of false positives (they are going to identfy the accounts of many of my customers this way, because they only received BTC from my MtGox account), and it is irrelevant due to the reason I mentioned above.Sorry, I don't have the required insight into US legalese, or even how to find the relevant documents. So what?  I could have sold my bot's profits to someone else.  This doesn't change a thing.  It would be very easy to turn a complete loss to a high profit, and I am certain that some people have speculated in exactly this outcome.Not only would it result in very few positive claims, it would result in most of what's left (if more than a few dollars) are left unclaimed.  Would make it very profitable to start a poker site, spend a dollar more than you owe your customers and declare bankruptsy.There must be dozens of cases.  Just google for "online poker site bankrupt".  At least one of them must have had the decency to declare bankruptsy before all user deposits were spent. Absurd.  Considering the fact that a lot of people were actively speculating in the bankruptsy of MtGox, and bought huge amounts of BTC (deposits) during the final days, this will be very unjust and opens for very simple pumping of claims.  E.g. if I moved the BTC from my bot account, which is made up entirely by trading profits (withdrawals >> deposits), and worth 0 in this kind of liquidation, to my verified account, I would turn a claim of 0 into a claim of a huge amount.  If final balances are used, this kind of cheating would be impossible because a nagetive balance is impossible.The Madoff case isn't similar to MtGox at all, IMHO.  Try an online poker site bankruptsy instead.  Would someone who deposited a ton of USD years before the bankruptsy, and lost it all in poker, suddenly have a claim?  While the winners who didn't withdraw in time got nothing? MtGox certainly did up to some point.There were a lot of speculation and buying and selling MtGox coins all the way up to the collapse.  Some made deposits of large amounts of BTC which they bought at only a few percent of market value.  You can't deny that.  People speculated in the collapse for days until it happened.  Some may have speculated very profitably in the outcome you are suggesting, and may have speculated in yourself.The risk is pretty low.  In the beginning you didn't even need to supply an email address to create an account there.  You can always ask a family member to claim the other account, since you may have used the same IP for both most of the time.We don't even know that, and we don't know when it started.  Could be as simple as lost private keys, which he thought he had stored securely.  The coins still exist, but are worthless for al practical purposes until the private keys are found.  For fiat (and even BC to some extent) there are uncertainties around seized funds and Coinlab. Only if you ignore the fee.  My bot paid generous amounts in fees over the years, to put it mildly..What if you had two accounts?  I only deposited 10 BTC on my bot account, and withdrew much more than that.  Mostly to a verified MtGox account where I sold the BTC and withdrew fiat.  The value at the time of deposit was about the same as at the time of withdrawal, and I am probably very far in the negative on my bot account, while my normal account will have a positive balance according to your method.  If I knew about this rule, I would have exploited it hard to get as much money as possible from the bankruptsy just by moving BTC between accounts, and some people may have done that intentionally.  (If this rule is chosen, I will of course choose not to mention my bot account in my claim.) So far we don't know if MtGox's accounting was bogus or not.  Probably not.  The leaked data seems to be in good shape.  We just know they somehow lost a lot of BTC and some fiat, and we still don't know how this happened.  I believe Mark thought he had the BTC until he shut off withdrawals.  Madoff knew all along his books were bogus. Online poker companies in the US and elsewhere have gone bankrupt or closed for various reasons over the last 20 years.  Some may have been involved in illegal investment of user deposits.  I assume there were assets left.  I don't know how to search for foreign court documents.How about bank bankruptsies then?  If I deposited 100 USD back in 1914, and someone else borrowed 100 USD with no downpayments for the next 100 years.  Does the creditor and debtor both get/owe 100 USD?  No interest considered, just what they put in / got out?  How about online forex or gold trading coimpanies?Another way to look at it, is to let every trade count as a withdrawal and deposit and fee payment.  In this case final balances will be correct. This is pure speculation.  The liquidators might do this, but it is by no means a fact or an absolute requirement.  I asked before what they did in the liquidation of various online poker companies.  Did people who deposited many years before the bankruptsy, and lost their money, get money back?  There are plenty of bankruptsy cases to choose between, and so far I haven't found a single example of this in comparable cases. You are still trolling.  You have still not given any sensible explanation why Sunlot would want to lose a lot of money.Why is this important?  We don't know who will do the criminal investigation either.  Sunlot however have self interest in getting the audit done properly.  I still don't get why you think they will want to throw the money away.Yes, of course, and I don't understand why you think this is a problem.  You don't need to wait until the criminals are in prison until you release the remaining funds.  You just need to know the balances are correct and who owns them.I certainly hope not.  That would be a PR disaster.They will, but the police probably won't.  Not if they are guilty of anything criminal.After an audit, which means they will check exactly that.  Please explain again why you think Sunlot want to burn their own money.  Why take over MtGox to do that?  A lighter will do the job much easier.  You are 100% troll. In other words you don't believe there will be a criminal investigation to discover where the BTC went.  The court doesn't care about whether a deposit is real or not.  Why not?  BTC deposit records are the easiest to alter by recording a real tx unrelated to MtGox as a deposit to a MtGox account.  This would go unnoticed if the court take the deposit records as a fact without doing a proper audit/investigation following all BTC from deposit to withdrawal. Ser at saka er lagt ut på nettsidene og: http://www.nrk.no/verden/hater-banker-_-elsker-frihet-1.11695934 If they find everything on their own, and they can be sure of it, why wait for the criminal investigation?  The results should match, however.  If not, and the new owners have been altering the books, they will have a problem.  Likewise, if the previous owner altered the books, and the new owner didn't do their audit well enough. 1. They have money invested themselves.  What makes you believe they want to lose their own money?2. The finder is entitled to 10% of the lost funds. Have you done any accounting in your life?  Obviously not.  You cannot inflate the balances of anyone without lowering other balances.  And you will have to do this by altering trading records.  Bank records and the blockchain are in the hands hands of other people.By changing trading records for years back, and have those match the other records all the way?  Good luck with that.  The fees has to match as well, and match previously leaked databases.  The high valued old accounts are known to be locked accounts, btw.  Bitcoinica, Baron, etc.The criminal investigation will have access to all of them, and their findings should match what other investigators find.  Another complicating factor if you want to fake trades. Ah, you are playing idiot again.  No, saying so makes no difference.There are several parts to this: 1. Find out how the funds leaked out.  2. Find out to where.  3. Find out who received the funds.1 and 2 should be possible though a thorough audit.  3 may be possible to the extent of finding accounts which received double payments, reversed bank transfers, etc.  Finding the people may be more difficult.  At least those people are unlikely to make any claims. Why are you trying to make this more difficult than it is by playing stupid?  They have just as much interest as us in finding the lost funds.  Which means they will put capable people on the task of figuring out exactly what happened to out funds.  There will probably be a criminal investigation as well.
Det var eit langt innslag om Bitcoin i Søndagsrevyen på NRK1 i kveld.  Berlin-korrespondenten var m.a. på Room77 og intervjua fleire bitcoin-brukarar.  Heile Søndagsrevyen er ute på nett her.  Spol fram til 30:18. Nope, trades were published in real time, and more or less complete records can be retrieved from many locations.  The only unknown is which accounts the trades belonged to.  Faking account balances afterwards by switching which account did the trade will require a lot of work to make everything match up, and even more to seem credible.  Not sure if it will be possible at all if everyone will be allowed to verify their own data.  People have already been able to verify their balances for a while, and I haven't heard of an complaints.  An audit will trivially reveal if the trade data matches the balances caused by deposits and withdrawals. There main difference between this case and Madoff, is that the trades actually happened, and people were making their own trading decisions.Several poker sites have gone bankrupt over the years.  How were their creditors paid back?  Did players who lost all their money years ago get their deposits back, leaving nothing to those who gained their money from paying well, or was their final balance used to calculate their claims? SSL-sertifikatet til api.justcoin.com gjekk ut natt til i går.  Har de planar om å oppdatere det, eller skal ein heller bruke justcoin.com (utan api. føre)? Two more questions:A significant amount of BTC balances belong to very old accounts which haven't been touched for years.  93,442 BTC, 454,849 USD, 23,799 EUR, etc, in accounts not touched since 2012 or earlier.  MtGox had a clause in their ToS which allowed them to close accounts which hadn't been logged in to in more than 6 months.  Will those account owners be counted as creditors, or will the clause take effect and the account considered closed?  This will allow a significant higher payback to users.Will there be a claims process where people have to actively make their claims?  If so, what happens to assets not claimed in this process?  Would payouts to the remaining creditors increase if some creditors fail to make their claim? Did you see the leaks?  We know we have logs of:o Bank deposits and withdrawals (the banks keeps them for minimum 10 years, and can be checked against MtGox's records)o Bitcoin deposits and withdrawals, to be verified against the blockchain.o Every trade ever executed on MtGox.There is a wildcard here. We don't know if all txids were saved in cases where a tx may be sent twice.  If only the last one was saved, this may be a problem.  It should still be possible to find those transactions using the spent outputs in MtGox's wallet.This is enough to verify all balances.  Finding the people who stole BTC and/or money is a case for the police, but this is separate from the audit.I have one suggestion to Sunlot: Pay out all BTC balances of 1 BTC or less than BTC in full at once.  This will get rid of 61840 creditors at a cost of maximum 7848 BTC (3.9% of the total amount of BTC), and I assume this will simplify dealings a lot.  You could do the same with users having less than the equivalent in fiat, and get rid of most of the rest at a similar cost.  (Cost will probably be lower, because most people's balances are less than the cost of withdrawing.)  Or is having as many owners as possible in Sunlot's interest? I think this is obvious.  The press relase says: "Sunlot would immediately distribute Mt. Gox assets on a proportional basis determined by an independent audit"The audit should reveal any mismatches between balances due to deposits, withdrawals and trading, and balances which are inflated due to manipulation of the database, double withdrawals due to malleability, etc.  Finding the people would be up to the police.  I assume Sunlot will verify the identity of people who want to withdraw their assets. Does your software have the same features which made people continue using MtGox despite all the problems?  Like APIs over multiple protocols, better than all the other exchanges APIs combined, and and multi-currency trading within the same orderbook?   If they deliberately disclose any of the personal details you would need from their accounting system, like bitcoin addresses conected to specific accounts, I am going to sue them to hell and back.  Please list all your own details here, if this is important to you, and people can start digging from that. No er bitmynt.no oppe att!  Grafen manglar kursen frå tida då tenaren var nede.  Skal fikse slik at det ikkje skjer neste gong.  Elles er alt oppe og går.  Autokjøp-systemet, kursoppdatering og liknande går på andre maskiner, og har vore oppe heile tida. IRC er fint.  Du kan finne ein eigna IRC-klient her, bruk chat.freenode.net som tenar og skriv: /query sturlesDersom klienten spør om ein kanal, kan du bruke #bitcoin-otc.Datasenteret som husar den virtuelle tenaren min vart utsett for eit lynnedslag, som starta ein brann, som gjorde at straumen vart kutta tvert automatisk.  Det likte lagringsløysinga deira svært dårleg.  Etter at brannvesenet frigjorde området har dei jobba saman med leverandøren av lagringsløysinga med å reparere skaden, og tek no opp maskin for maskin medan dei sjekkar at alt er i orden.  Det har dei gjort i heile dag, og det tek si tid.  Tippar den billige greia mi har låg prioritet.   bitmynt.no har vore nede sidan i natt pga lynnedslag, brann og straumbrot hjå hosting-leverandøren.  Det kan ta litt tid å få alt opp att, seier dei.  Det er berre å vente.. Eg har ingen provisjon.  Eg sel med eigen variabel kurs, og det er opp til kundane når dei kjøper og sel.  Det er 2-3% (og av og til meir når marknaden er volatil) skilnad mellom kjøpskurs og salskurs, men eg fungerer ikkje som nokon meklar med provisjon.  Slik eg ser det er vi konkurrentar med ein litt ulik forretningsmodell.  Du kan seie at eg er ein børs og min eigen market-maker med stor ordredjubde og låge marginar.  Frå handel til handel kan eg gå med forteneste eller tap, men over tid klarar eg ei forteneste som er ca lik spread * handelsvolum.  Skulle eg ha gjort mothandel mot ein børs ville fortenesta vore mindre pga handelsgebyr, overføringsgebyr, osv.  Det hender eg må gjere  mothandel for å halde oppe likviditeten, men då hevar eller senkar eg samstundes mitt eige kursnivå for å tiltrekkje meg fleire kjøparar eller seljarar og vege opp for gebyra.Du byter om på kjøp og sal.  De sel for 2963 og kjøper for 2900.Eg ser at bodet på 2900 stod i 8 timar.  Kor mange BTC var det på?  Dersom det resulterte i ein handel kjem han ikkje med når eg kallar GetTrades.  Spreaden er attende over 5% no.Finst det API-dokumentasjon for å hente ut ordreboka, eller er den privat for Bitcoinity og Bitcoincharts?  Eg har lagd grafar for kjøp/sal av 1, 5, 10 og 20 BTC frå ulike børsar, men bitcoinsnorway.com manglar fordi eg ikkje har funne ut korleis eg kan hente ut ordreboka.  Det eg får tak i er veldig. veldig tynt. Denne grafen over beste bod på utvalde bitcoin-børsar vert oppdatert kvart minutt.  Handelsgebyr er trukke frå slik at han syner kva du faktisk får betalt.  For utanlandske børsar kjem kostnadar for veksling og bankoverføring i tillegg ved uttak.  Merk at dette er beste bod.  Grafen seier ingenting om kor mykje du kan få selt til denne kursen.  Det går sannsynlegvis fint å selje 0.001 BTC til den kursen, men andre stader enn bitmynt.no får du neppe selt 2 eller 20 til like god kurs.  So kan folk vurdere sjølv om påstanden om at "Vi har [...] norges beste priser på både kjøp og salg av bitcoins" stemmer.  Skal du selje bitcoins ynskjer du at denne grafen skal vere høgast mogeleg.Her er ein graf som syner spread i prosent.  Dvs differansen mellom det du må betale for å kjøpe BTC og det du får når du sel BTC til beste kurs.  Denne er og korrigert for handelsgebyr (men ikkje andre gebyr).  For i det heile å ha ein sjanse i det heile til å oppnå "norges beste priser på både kjøp og salg av bitcoins", må spreaden vere den lågaste av alle.  Lågast er best her.  La oss sjå:For sal er biletet meir nyansert.  I ei god stund no har tilbodet på den norske marknaden vore mykje større enn etterspurnaden.  Det har medført relativt høge kursar på både Justcoin og bitmynt.no.  Sidan bitcoinsnorway.com har operert med eit fast påslag over Bitstamp, har salskursen der vore betre i lange periodar.  Det same gjeld for denne som for første graf  det er berre beste salskurs som er med.  Du går sannsynlegivs kjøpt 0.001 BTC til den kursen, men skal du ha 2 eller 20 vert kursen ein heilt annan alle andre stader enn på bitmynt.no.  Denne grafen har òg rekna med handelsgebyr, men ikkje andre gebyr.  Ynskjer du å kjøpe bitcoins, vil du kjøpe av den som ligg lågast på denne grafen.Elles går det fram av grafane at nokon spelar "Robowars" på eur.bitcurex.com.  Eg lagt ut grafane her saman med meir informasjon.  Om eg får tid og ork skal eg lage fleire grafar som syner prisen for 1 BTC, 5 BTC og 20 BTC på dei ulike børsane.  Der kan eg ikkje ta med bitcoinsnorway.com før dei får på plass eit API som kan returnere ordreboka.  Då vil det ikkje lenger vere nokon tvil om kven som faktisk har "norges beste priser på både kjøp og salg av bitcoins".  Hugs fristane for bankoverføring i påska!  Frå onsdag ettermiddag er bankane påskestengt.  I påska går ingen overføringar mellom bankar.  Dersom du treng bitcoin eller pengar før påske, må du passe på å overføre før fristen i banken din på onsdag.  Pengar overført etter fristen kjem ikkje fram før tysdag den 22. april. Ja, eg skulle ikkje logge lenge før mønsteret vart klårt.Bitcoinsnorway.com ligg konsekvent med kjøp 2% under beste bod på Bitstamp og sal 2% over beste ask på Bitstamp.  Legg til 0,5% i gebyr på begge sider, so vert spreaden på 5% + spread på Bitstamp.  Eg reknar med at dette er justert automatisk.  Om det er nøyaktig 2% eller 2,1% er eg litt usikker på.  Det ser ut til at kursen ikkje er 100% synkronisert i tid.Uansett  med ein slik spread kan de ikkje påstå at det er "sansynligvis norges beste priser på både kjøp og salg av bitcoins".  På bitmynt.no ligg spreaden som regel på 2-3%.  Sjeldan over 3% og nesten aldri 5% over spreaden på Bitstamp.  Dvs at de kan klare å ha betre pris enn bitmynt.no på den eine sida, men ikkje begge på same tid. Eg har ikkje prøvd å reklamere eller spre dårlege rykter i denne tråden, men må reagere når de hevdar de har den beste prisen på både kjøp og sal.  For det er ikkje sant.Etter å ha fylgt med ei stund, ser eg at de ganske ofte har betre kurs enn meg på anten kjøp eller sal (som regel sal), men medrekna gebyr har eg til no ikkje sett at bitcoinsnorway.com har vore betre på både kjøp og sal.  Akkurat no byr bitcoinsnorway.com 2448.7791 (2436.5961 etter gebyr på 0,5%) og bitmynt.no byr 2520.8870.  Dvs at ein seljar får nesten 3,5% betre kurs på bitmynt.no etter gebyr.Eg har starta logging av kursen, og skal sjå korleis de ligg i det lange løp.  På same tidspunkt hadde de faktisk 0,2% lågare salskurs enn bitmynt.no.  (Litt forvirrande, sidan de har bytt om på kjøp- og salskurs på framsida på bitcoinsnorway.com).  Eg sjekka ikkje kor mange BTC eg fekk kjøpt til senne kursen på bitcoinsnorway.com.  Kursen min er den same om du kjøper 0.2 eller 20. Eg har prøvd å finne ut av det APIet.  Fann litt dokumentasjon her, men dokumentasjonen er feil.Rot-URLen til alle API-kalla er https://bitcoinsnorway.com:8400/ajax.  For å få ut ein ticker skulle eg altso kunne poste "{"instrument":"XBTUSD"}" til https://bitcoinsnorway.com:8400/ajax/v1/GetTicker.  Det går slik:Code:$ wget --post-data='{"instrument":"XBTNOK"}' -qO- https://bitcoinsnorway.com:8400/ajax/v1/GetTicker{"high":0,"last":0,"bid":0,"volume":0,"low":0,"ask":0,"sellOrderCount":0,"buyOrderCount":0,"numOfCreateOrders":0,"isAccepted":false}Eg tek "isAccepted":false som eit dårleg teikn.  Men i eit døme på eit anna kall lenger nede ser eg at dei har brukt "ins":"kode" i staden.  Prøvar det:Code:$ wget --post-data='{"ins":"XBTNOK"}' -qO- https://bitcoinsnorway.com:8400/ajax/v1/GetTicker{"high":5050,"last":2318.5095,"bid":2441.409,"volume":308.82158131,"low":0,"ask":2549.1114,"sellOrderCount":7,"buyOrderCount":7,"numOfCreateOrders":0,"isAccepted":true}Sjå der, ja!  Eg tvilar litt på det volumet, men kursen står seg samanlikna med dei andre.  På same tid har vi (konvertert til NOK):Code:BCNNOK:   2441.4090   2549.1114  4.4%   2014-04-11 22:47:50  bitcoinsnorway.comBSTUSD:   2499.0509   2506.9708  0.3%   2014-04-11 22:47:31  bitstamp.netBCXEUR:   2495.5797   2591.0710  3.8%   2014-04-11 22:47:48  eur.bitcurex.comJUCNOK:   2500.0000   2578.5720  3.1%   2014-04-11 22:47:49  justcoin.comB-CEUR:   2494.6710   2593.7970  4.0%   2014-04-11 22:30:37  bitcoin-central.netBMTNOK:   2509.6319   2579.2618  2.8%   2014-04-11 22:47:49  bitmynt.noLågaste bod, men konkurransedyktig ask.  Spread på 4,4% er den høgaste av dei eg samanliknar med.  Det kjem sjølvsagt gebyr i tillegg (for alle andre enn bitmynt.no, der er det ingen gebyr), so reell spread er 5,4%.  Problemet er at vi ikkje veit kor mykje som er til sals til den kursen.  Ordreboka er utilgjengeleg.  Meir om det, men legg merke til "sellOrderCount":7,"buyOrderCount":7  Og legg merke til: "high":5050.  Hmm.  Kan vi få ut handlane, tru?Vi prøvar den dokumenterte måten:Code:$ wget --post-data='{"instrument":"XBTNOK"}' -qO- https://bitcoinsnorway.com:8400/ajax/v1/getTradesNei.  Men instrument-bugen har vi sett før, og når vi gjer g-en stor som i GetTicker:Code:$ wget --post-data='{"ins":"XBTNOK"}' -qO- https://bitcoinsnorway.com:8400/ajax/v1/GetTrades{isAccepted:true,dateTimeUtc:635328467302795938,ins:'XBTNOK',startIndex:0,count:10,trades:[{"tid":0,"px":100,"qty":0.0001,"time":635263911617304063,"incomingOrderSide":0,"incomingServerOrderId":8,"bookServerOrderId":4},{"tid":1,"px":5050,"qty":2E-08,"time":635263986393222500,"incomingOrderSide":0,"incomingServerOrderId":21,"bookServerOrderId":14},{"tid":2,"px":5050,"qty":1E-07,"time":635263997375889687,"incomingOrderSide":0,"incomingServerOrderId":25,"bookServerOrderId":14},{"tid":3,"px":5000,"qty":0.001,"time":635264453282251094,"incomingOrderSide":1,"incomingServerOrderId":29,"bookServerOrderId":24},{"tid":4,"px":5000,"qty":0.001,"time":635264453722612422,"incomingOrderSide":1,"incomingServerOrderId":30,"bookServerOrderId":24},{"tid":5,"px":5000,"qty":0.002,"time":635264457560805781,"incomingOrderSide":1,"incomingServerOrderId":31,"bookServerOrderId":24},{"tid":6,"px":5050,"qty":0.001,"time":635264459329311641,"incomingOrderSide":0,"incomingServerOrderId":33,"bookServerOrderId":14},{"tid":7,"px":5050,"qty":0.0009901,"time":635264923296412890,"incomingOrderSide":0,"incomingServerOrderId":35,"bookServerOrderId":14},{"tid":8,"px":5000,"qty":0.001,"time":635264923673551562,"incomingOrderSide":1,"incomingServerOrderId":36,"bookServerOrderId":34},{"tid":9,"px":5050,"qty":0.002,"time":635264924308492968,"incomingOrderSide":0,"incomingServerOrderId":37,"bookServerOrderId":14},]}Dette er ugyldig json.  Det manglar ein del hermeteikn i starten her.  Dokumentasjonen er meir feil, for tidsstempelet er definitivt ikkje "unix time stamp" og eg tippar "px" er det dokumentasjonen kallar "price".  Det held ikkje akkurat til eit volum på 308..Det kan vere interessant å sjå ordreboka, men der har eg gitt opp.  Vi prøvar den dokumenterte måten:Code:$ wget --post-data='{"ins":"XBTNOK"}' -qO- https://bitcoinsnorway.com:8400/ajax/v1/getOrderBookIngenting.  OK, den måten som eigentleg er dokumentert:Code:$ wget --post-data='{"instrument":"XBTNOK"}' -qO- https://bitcoinsnorway.com:8400/ajax/v1/getOrderBookIngenting no heller.  Fleire feil i dokumentasjonen, kanskje?  La oss prøve:Code:$ wget --post-data='{"instrument":"XBTNOK"}' -qO- https://bitcoinsnorway.com:8400/ajax/v1/GetOrderBook{"bids":[],"asks":[],"isAccepted":false}Hey!  Men "isAccepted":false.Code:$ wget --post-data='{"ins":"XBTNOK"}' -qO- https://bitcoinsnorway.com:8400/ajax/v1/GetOrderBook{"bids":[],"asks":[],"isAccepted":false}Nei.  Nokon tips?Er det nokon som faktisk handlar der?  Informasjonen eg klarar å trekkje ut tilseier at det ikkje er det, men eg mistenkjer at handelen føregår på ein annan måte enn gjennom ordreboka på børsen.  Med ein spread på 5,4% er det absolutt mogeleg å tene pengar på å vidareformidle ordrane til andre børsar. Er kursgrafen på framsida ein god idé, eller tek han berre opp plass?  Denne varianten ser kanskje betre ut, men fila vert meir enn fem gongar større.  Veit ikkje om det er verd det. Inviter nokon frå Skattedirektoratet og frå Finanstilsynet.
if you had BTC at MtGox, you should certainly not join this lawsuit.  The lawyers specifically stated that they are only going for fiat.  Which means your BTC will become worthless.  A simple solution which will make the lawyers and Mark very rich, as well as satisfy all fiat creditors, is this:o Shill & Co Ltd buys MtGox and promise to pay back all creditors in JPY.  BTC and fiat converted to JPY at market value.o Shill & Co Ltd sells most of their 202k BTC on the market in one go.  This will raise enough money to pay the fiat debt, and drop the BTC price to ~0.o Shill & Co Ltd calculate what they owe you.  The market value of your 50 BTC will be less than 10 USD after the price drop.At the end Shill & Co Ltd pay all their creditors and shut down, releasing the profit to their owners.  Mark will probably get a large share of it.  The lawyers will get their share of what MtGox owed the fiat creditors who joined the lawsuit.  The entire bitcoin industry will be left in ruins.This is why you should make sure that your lawyers will work to get your BTC back as BTC, not fiat.  Do you want your BTC, or do you want to make Mark Karpeles a very rich man?  I don't think the BTC price will increase significantly as long as there is a slight possibility that MtGox, or a buyer, can get away with paying BTC debt with fiat. Er det andre skandinavar som skal på Bitcoin2014 i Amsterdam frå 15. til 17. mai? Just one point in time.  The list was updated every 20 minutes, and my version contains 1211 transactions.  Not sure of the time. I only kept this last file.   There are different ways to mutate a transaction.  The "researchers" detected one special kind where both versions of the transaction were standard.  Just an opcode changed to another with the same function.  The vulnerable MtGox transactions were of a different kind and non-standard since 0.8, so they could only detect the version which was confirmed.  Not the original from MtGox.I think at least 1257 BTC, and probably not much more, were lost through the malleability bug.  Based on the fact that there were 1257 BTC in double spent inputs in the last full bitcoin_tx.php I could get hold of before they shut down.  MtGox wouldn't detect the fact that the inputs were spent when the transaction got a new txid, and try to spend them again in another transaction.A few of MtGox's transactions may have been mutated this way as well.  It is certainly an exception. Because the transactions will not be accepted by bitcoin nodes.  Invalid transactions are discarded and not relayed to other clients, just as when someone send your client some random data.  It may even disconnect the other node and blacklist it.  (The MtGox transactions were not invalid enough to warrant a blacklist, just non-standard so normal bitcoin nodes won't accept or relay them, but will accept them if mined in a block by someone else.)They don't have the data.  They would have to connect directly to MtGox's bitcoin nodes to get the transactions directly from them, and it is safe to assume they didn't.  From their paper:Bamert et al. assumes the double spending transactions will be relayed through the network.  The vulnerable transactions from MtGox lacked this property, and it is unlikely to detect them when only conncted to 20% of all bitcoin nodes.  (Assuming they removed the standard test before compiling their own node; otherwise they wouldn't be able to detect the vulnerable transactions at all.)Also: the problem with MtGox's vulnerable transactions was invalid padding of the S- or R-value in the signature.  Those were easy to fix by removing the extra padding.  The "researchers" didn't detect a single incident of this modification.  Indicating that they probably had the standard test in place in their client.The paper is worthless. Korleis betaler eg med bitcoin?  Etter å ha funne nokre dimpar som eg drøymer om å ein gong få tid til å lage noko av, fekk eg berre velje mellom faktura og PayPal i kassa. It has already been shown to be wrong.They were only looking at broadcasted transactions which were broadcasted through the network, i.e. accepted by and relayed by standard bitcoin clients.  MtGox's vulnerable transactions weren't accepted by bitcoin clients after version 0.8, and not relayed.  The transactions were only published through MtGox's API, and the researchers didn't look there.  The transactions published in their API included a signature which could be changed into a valid one by a simple modification, and this is (probably) how the theft happened. And the "researchers" demonstrated their incompetence by completely failing to understand the issue.The argument goes like this:- This animal is a giraffe.- No, you are lying, because the fruit over there is a bicycle.They are proving something else by a method which is flawed, and come to a worthless conclusion. Version 0.8.  Version 0.7 isn't even working any more without special configuration to get around a database issue.  (Since last autumn.) The problematic transactions weren't accepted by normal nodes, or relayed, because the signature was on a non-standard format.  The transactions were only available through MtGox's API, where an attacker could change the signature into a standard format, mutating it and making it relayable.  To me this entire paper seems seriously flawed.  The authors haven't understood the issue specific to MtGox. How did you pick up the vulnerable transactions?  Those weren't relayed through the bitcoin network, just published through their API.  With signatures which were mutable into standard format.  (Which we can assume the attacker did for his own transactions.) Welcome to 2014.  GPU mining used to be profitable in 2010-2012.  You need ASICs to mine BTC now.  Everything else is futile, and you will spend a lot more on electricity than you will ever make in BTC.  Throw that card away, and buy an ASIC on a USB stick which mines at 5 Ghash/s in 2.5 W.  Seriously.  Forget about mining BTC on a GPU. Eg tok ut 10k EUR frå MtGox den 4. januar i år, og dei pengane kom fram.  Ergo kan eg ikkje hevde at det var umogeleg å få ut pengar frå MtGox pr. 1. januar i år.Ja, kursen var kalkulert utifrå MtGox, men eg justerte marginane mine slik at kjøpekursen min låg under MtGox og salskursen låg ganske rett på med 2,5% konstant spread.  Dermed var MtGox berre relevant for kortsiktige svingningar.  Akkurat rundt nyttår låg kjøpskursen min ganske høgt fordi det var eit heilt enormt salspress i desember.  Eg sleit med å få kjøpt inn nok.Det var min kurs i NOK som kven som helst kunne selje til.  Berre den første veka i 2014 kjøpte eg bitcoin for over 300.000 kroner til min offisielle kjøpskurs.  (No skal det seiast at eg vart teken på senga av at pengestraumen snudde tvert om  og då meinar eg bråsnudde  på nyttårsaftan, og eg justerte kursmarginane mine alt for seint nedover, men det har eg lært av.  Det var som å springe etter ei flodbølgje som bråsnudde og kom rett mot meg.  No er kursen min mykje meir fleksibel, og eg skal klare å tilpasse meg dei fleste bølgjer som måtte oppstå.)Dei første handlane i NOK på Justcoin i 2014 var forresten desse:Jan01 21:48:31 just              0.6235 @ 4,689.95       NOKJan01 21:48:31 just       x6     2.5527 @ 4,783.55293679 NOKOmlag det same som kursen min på same tidspunkt. Kursen ved midnatt til 1. januar er den som gjeld.  Det finst ingen offisiell kurs, men om du vel noko som er heilt på jordet kan dei be deg dokumentere det.  Eg brukar min eigen kjøpskurs (bitmynt.no) ved midnatt til 1. januar.  Den var 4804,8681 kroner.  Når eg sjølv kjøper til den kursen, kan eg neppe hevde at dei var verd mindre. Det er forklart i rettleiinga for utfylling av sjølvmelding.  Sjå punkt 3.1.12 og 4.5.4 (og 3.3.7 dersom du har hatt tap) her. Still true.  I think it was irresponsible to put the recovered 200k BTC into their shuffling system as well, knowing about at least two security breaches.  This is common sense, not a statement of support.Do you think the loss was caused by other reasons than a technical glitch?  They are not out of BTC, and the full story isn't out yet.  I have reason to believe that only about 1300 BTC were lost due to the malleability bug, and I am looking forward to the results of the investigations going on.  Note that the devs tend to agree on the signs.  Most of them had large amounts of BTC on MtGox themselves, which I'm sure they wouldn't if they had reasons to believe the issue was serious.Anyway, this is completely off-topic here.  Please send a PM if you have any further questions. Why are you saying one thing first, and then yelling the opposite?  You don't make sense, as usual. I never supported MtGox, and I left the bullshit thread a long time ago.  I was back briefly to tell you about the EUR withdrawal which just arrived (when everyone claimed withdrawals didn't work, btw), and there wasn't a single post on the page which was worth spending two seconds on.  The page was already quite empty due to ignored people who never posted anything worth reading.  I didn' bother to read the rest. Trufaste kundar kjenner systemet mitt for automatisk kjøp av bitcoin frå før.  Enklare kan det ikkje bli å konvertere bitcoin til norske kroner rett inn på konto.  Raskt, ingen gebyr og god kurs.  Det einaste du må gjere er å overføre bitcoin når du ynskjer å selje.  Tenesta har gjennomgått testing ei god stund og er offisiell frå og med i dag. Mange spør korleis eg set kursen no om dagen.  Eg skal forklare litt betre enn eg har gjort over:Kvart minutt sjekkar eit script kursen på fleire ulike børsar og reknar ut eit vekta gjennomsnitt av kjøp- og salskurs.  Kva børsar som er med og kva vekt dei får vil variere litt.  Den vekta kjøpskursen vert deretter multiplisert med ein faktor som vert bestemt av min eigen balanse mellom bitcoin på lager og pengar på konto.  Dersom eg har mange pengar på bok og lite bitcoin på lager, vert denne faktoren høg slik at kjøpekursen min vert høgare enn det vekta gjennomsnittet.  Omvendt når eg har lite pengar på konto og mange bitcoin på lager.Før var spreaden min, dvs skilnaden mellom kjøpekurs og salskurs, konstant 2,5%.  Det var veldig bra (for meg) i stabile periodar, men når kursen var ustabil kunne det slå veldig dårleg ut.  No vert spreaden bestemt av fleire faktorar.  Minimum er 2%.  Det må eg ha i forteneste for å kunne vekse og ta risiko.  Dersom spreaden i dei vekta kursane mine er høg, vil spreaden min justerast opp tilsvarande.  Når kursane endrar seg veldig fort vil kursen på den sida kursen går mot endre seg fortare enn kursen på motsett side.  Dvs at dersom kursen går veldig raskt oppover, vil salskursen min justere seg oppover fortare enn kjøpskursen.  Når kursen fell brått vil kjøpskursen fylgje etter fortare enn salskursen.  Dvs at spreaden i ein periode vil vere høgare enn vanleg.  Dette vert spesielt tydeleg ved raske kursendringar i begge retningar.Akkurat no er spreaden min litt under 2,7%.  Hovudsakleg pga høg spread på to av børsane som er med i utrekninga.  Kjøpskursen min er nesten 2.9% betre enn beste bod på Bitstamp.  Det er eit teikn på at eg har mykje pengar på konto og lite bitcoin i lommeboka, og inviterer til arbitrasjehandel.  Eg kan gjere denne arbitrasjehandelen sjølv, men byr litt ekstra for å få raskare omsetning og redusert risiko.  Andre dagar kan det vere omvendt.For å ta opp raske svingingar vert kursen sett i form av ein justeringsfaktor mot ein referansekurs.  Kva kurs som vert brukt som referanse kan variere.  For tida er det Bitstamp.  For å unngå for hyppige API-oppslag mot børsane vert ikkje kursane på heimesida oppdatert meir enn ca 2 gongar i minuttet.  Ved kvar handel, kjøp eller sal, gjer eg eit nytt oppslag for å rekne ut nøyaktig kurs.
Nei, bitcoin er ikkje avhengig av nokon enkeltpartar.BTC-E har eg alltid vore skeptisk til.  Har ikkje konto der sjølv. I received some 1Sotchi spam to my android wallet, and after upgrade they were gone.  How will this spam be handled?  Is it completely removed from my wallet and will stay in the UTXO set forever?  Or just removed from my sight (thank you) and will be spent as an extra input to my next transactions, and just left as a fee?  A two input -> two output tx with a txfee of 0.00010001 will probably get confirmed just as fast as a one input -> two output tx with a standard txfee of 0.0001, but the first is IMHO better because it helps reduce the UTXO set. Ja, eg mista ein god del.  Roboten min genererte mykje forteneste.  Mykje meir enn eg tener på min vanlege jobb.  Problemet med robotar er at dei må ha pengar/bitcoin for å kunne tene meir pengar/bitcoin.  Roboten min er spesielt innretta mot valutahandel via bitcoin på MtGox, og kan ikkje fungere på andre børsar.  Dermed var alternativa å anten handle på MtGox og tene pengar, eller ikkje handle og ikkje tene pengar.  Då var det litt synd at det gjekk som det gjekk.  Trøysta får vere at det opprinnelege innskotet var ca 400 kroner og to timars arbeid. The reason for the 5% fee is explained very well.  They can't send from their normal bank, and have to transfer the funds via domestic transfer first.  This makes two currency exchange fees at 2.5% each, which is a common currency exchange fee in Japanese banks.  USD -> JPY -> USD.  You are obliged to cover the bank fees (see the ToS).  You can find the currency exchange fee the multi-currency trading FAQ.The reasons for JPY and EUR delays are properly explained IMO.  The reason for USD delays are not explained for legal reasons which they aren't allowed to talk about.  All USD transfers must pass through a US bank, which gives the US government full control.  MagicalTux have given plenty of hints on IRC and Twitter that the US government is involved in blocking those.  Good luck in getting a Japanese court to overrule the US government regarding USD transfers.  AFAIK all attempts of legal action against MtGox in the US to get USD out have failed, and to this day I haven't got a proper explanation of why all the attempts have failed. And btw, I received an EUR (SEPA) withdrawal today.  If you are going to sell anyway, this is a way of getting your funds out as fiat without paying money to an expensive law firm.  Works for those who doesn't have enough in their MtGox account to be interesting as well. USD?!  This advice doesn't make sense unless you have USD on MtGox yourself and wish to buy cheap coins.  The price in e.g. JPY is constantly 2.5% above the price in USD, and a currency which is much more liquid inside Japan, so why not JPY?  Or EUR?  The price in EUR is constantly 2.5% above the price in USD as well.  And since all movement of USD has to go through US banks, you may bump into the USD liquidity problem MtGox has had for a very long time.The answer from MtGox when people have threatened with lawsuits to get their USD out has been:And AFAIK none of the lawsuits have been successful so far.  So why lose 2.5% extra when selling to get a currency which they have problems delivering?  This just doesn't make sense to me.  EUR should be just as good as USD, and more liquid.  JPY even better.  So why USD? I have quit reading this thread due to high volume and very low signal to noise ratio.  Just stopping by announce that my 10k EUR withdrawal from January 4th changed to pending today, and will arrive tomorrow.  I have cancelled my other withdrawals to buy BTC. No, I don't expect it until the end of the week, the earliest. You forgot COBOL.Seriously, the choice of programming language is not important.  If you write in a language you know well, and you know how to debug, there is less risk of introducing unintended functionality or side effects.  Also known as bugs.  I use perl for my financial services, handling large amounts of bitcoin and fiat.  It is not on your list, but it is well suited for me because I know it well. It is just you. Litt nytt:Eg genererer no min eigen kurs.  Han avspeglar reell marknadskurs, men er meir fleksibel for å kunne tilpassast periodar med auka sals- og/eller kjøpspress.  Spreaden vil òg variere med volatiliteten i marknaden.So langt har ikkje det pågåande åtaket der nokon med vilje endrar txid på transaksjonar for å framprovosere feil i programvare her og der påverka bitmynt.no direkte utover eit par små irritasjonsmoment.  Ein indirekte konsekvens er at store sal kan vere vanskelegare pga bitcoin som er låst fast på andre børsar, men til no har det gått bra. This is not a fix.  The commit message describes it as a "Rough workaround".  It will work in the most common cases, but does not fix the case where a confirmed txid changes due to a blockchain reorg, even just one level deep.  Those happen daily. A paste of a news item which has been on the site for a long time already, is not worth much.  It is just a "this is an automated response, we don't really care" type of answer. You won't notice the effect immediately, of course. No, Mark is referring to this ongoing work.  You can verify the claim there if you wish.  All clients will have to be upgraded to enforce this behaviour. There will always be some who dig deep into the APIs and the inner quirks on an exchange, and casual traders who either don't care or don't have time to learn it.  And of course the devil often lies in the details.  Like the 2.5% currency conversion fee when a order is matched against an order in another currency.  Not many people understand how this works, even if it is accurately explained in the ToS and FAQ.  There is extra profit to be made for those who do understand and know how to use it for one's own advantage.  E.g. internal arbitrage, pocketing up to 2.5% - 2 x trade fees under certain market conditions.  Most users are just not interested in those small details, and are just fine with trading BTC/USD all day long.  The information is out there, but there is a disparity among the users who understand it, those who don't and those who simply don't care.I don't agree there will never be arbitrage opportunities due to third party action.  E.g. some US banks blocking transfers from MtGox even when acting as intermediate.  When the money flow is hindered for a large number of users due to third party actions, imbalances will arise.  Third parties can hinder the flow of information as well:I included the last quote even if it is speculation, but I think it is quite obvious by now that something like this is going on.  I assume this is the reason why all attempts of legal action against MtGox have failed as well.  The justice system can not force MtGox to do something which the government prevents them from doing.  The case would have to be raised against the government, not MtGox.There will always be various information sources as well.  Some good, some bad, some ugly.  Some ignored by most due to the sheer volume and detail, and not forget all the deliberate attempts to mislead the market with false information and speculation.  IMHO the false information is the biggest problem here.  Regulators don't seem to care about people who manipulate the Bitcoin market by spreading lies.  In an open community like bitcoin there will always be sources of information which are open but which people don't connect directly to MtGox.  E.g. if you want to have updates look on how the work on the new transaction hash is progressing, including comments from MtGox and other exchanges, you should go to GitHub or follow the discussions among the developers in #bitcoin-dev and on the mailing lists.  The process is in the open, but it is not obvious to all that this information is important or even relevant. Please explain which law this statement violates.On MtGox you can trade BTC against 17 different currencies through one order book. 48 hours.  No BTC received, no BTC added back to balance, and support answered with a full quote of the news release. Sorry, I don't fall for cheap attempts to manipulate the price.Even if all the BTC in stuck transactions were stolen (which is impossible, because most of the inputs were spent in three to six stuck transactions), it is still only a tenth of what MtGox has made in fees (counting only BTC fees) over the years.  It is certainly not going to bankrupt them.  You have to make up something more credible than that if you want to make people believe in your scam. This was a 20-day-rule transfer.  Read the Deposits and Withdrawals FAQ.  I requested one during the first or second week of December, and that one arrived in December.  The queue was shorter then.Why do you guess?  Every time there are a few days between reported SEPA transfers in this thread, people start making crazy guesses which have always turned out to be wrong.  MtGox has a daily quota of 100k EUR.  That is 2 (yes, TWO) SEPA transfers of the maximum size (50k EUR) per day.  Fortunately most transfers are smaller.  I do not find it very unlikely that people with a more than average amount of money on MtGox use the days around New Year for tax planning.  The amount will not be in their MtGox balance and not in their bank account when the year changes.  Very easy to forget when they do their taxes.  Even if one or both read this thread, I doubt they are going to report the transfers here.  Even tax auditors use the internet nowadays.
Decent APIs, only well functioning multi-currency exchange, very good arbitrage vs other exchanges and a deep order book.  To sum it up: Profit. I don't need to ask.  Their address is on the bottom on this page, and I know they accept registered letters (use FedEx instead, it is usually faster and cheaper): https://support.mtgox.com/entries/21651045-AML-Account-Statuses A lot of SEPA withdrawals on Dec 31 and Jan 1 makes sense.  Some wants to withdraw money just before the end of the year to hide the money "in flight" when the year changes (for tax reasons, e.g. capital tax) and other people want to keep their money there until 2014 for other tax reasons (e.g. avoiding capital gains tax in some cases).  In Europe the fiscal year typically follows the calendar year, with a few exceptions. This is by no means a complete fix.  It is a patch for one of the issues, and it may still fail in case of a one block reorg.  This happens quite frequently when two miners mine a block at the same height at the same time. In exactly the same way as when the price was 0.1 USD, 1 USD, 10 USD, 100 USD or 1000 USD.  The functionality of the bitcoin network does not depend on the price people choose to sell their bitcoins for. 6 weeks?  Where?  I am waiting for one from January 4th myself, which is 4-5 weeks ago.  Hope to have it this week, but not sure. Fax!?  The year is 2014 now, not 1994.MtGox has e-mail and snailmail addresses published on their website.  I don't think Bitstamp or BTC-E have published a fax number either.  You are going to sue them as well, right?  None of them have suspended trading after halting bitcoin withdrawals.They will probably claim this is an unforeseen network issue.  I don't see any mention in their ToS allowing them to shut down trading when bitcoin or bank transfers are impossible.  Perhaps you can guide me to it? Bitstamp is standing on the shoulders of giants, to misquote Newton.  They know (now) they have to be careful to not fall into the same trap as another well known exchange.  Again: Bitstamp got a solid warning ahead of their problems.  I am a little surprised by the fact that they didn't disable withdrawals at once, but let it go on for hours and hours before doing something about it.  The situation at MtGox was very different.  In the beginning only a few withdrawals were affected, and most of the stuck transactions got successfully double spent and reissued after a while.  And noone knew what was happening.  Not even the core developers noticed what was going on, until phantomcircuit managed to get a tweaked raw transaction through and warned MtGox about it.I got an answer from Bitstamp support after a little more than 24 hours, btw.  They quoted the news release.  That's it.  Nothing specific about my BTC.Where?  I can only find a timestamp and an amount.  I can't find any transactions based on that alone.You could e.g. specify if you asked about BTC or fiat withdrawals. Possibly.  Did you notice the $50 price increase on MtGox which was ignited minutes after I posted my two selected quotes above?  The rally started on MtGox, and the reaction on other exchanges were limited.  Could be a coincidence of course.  In this case my quotes were easy to verify (but if this caused the price increase, the reaction was so fast I doubt the first buyers did).  A private conversation is impossible to verify, of course, and the official sources would be silent.  (As usual.) No.MtGox always gave me a txid which I could track, and after 2 hours I got to see all the details of the stuck transaction.Yes, absolutely.  A trackable txid beats "Finished".Not long, because I didn't withdraw any until people started selling BTC on MtGox at a discount.  Other people with some exceptions, waited up to a week.Not sure.  Please quote or add more context.Probably because you are reading the MtGox withdrawal delays [Gathering] thread, not one of the Bitstamp threads.  There are a lot of complaints on IRC and Reddit as well. I don't like making guesses, so I'll let you all interpret this for yourselves:Other news which may influence how you plan your BTC purchases when the BTC withdrawal floodgates open:I.e: The amount of fiat on MtGox is increasing rapidly.Think about this for a moment: If I made up a fake quote here where MagicalTux allegedly told me in private that MtGox would resume BTC withdrawals tomorrow morning, I could make a million by buying buckets of BTC on MtGox just before I posted it, and selling as soon as people start denouncing it as a fake.  Just by abusing your trust in me.  It will probably only work once, but that is all I need.  I can retire afterwards.  Always beware of market manipulation.  And note that my quotes above, which are correct, may be carefully selected and placed in a different context to manipulate the market.  Always be very critical to news and reports when you don't have the full story first hand, and take speculation for what it is: 100% made up, often for the purpose of manipulating the market. What is your problem?  I am not affiliated with MtGox in any way, except as a normal user.  If you are going to reply to all posts from MtGox customers telling them they are shills, I think you should go outside and play instead.  On the highway or something. This is only a workaround for a part of the problem, it doesn't fix it.  Even with this option on the client will spend one-confirmation outputs, which will break again in case of a reorg of one block.  A fix would e.g. use another unique ID, independent of the txid, for internal accounting, notice when a txid has changed for a transaction, and resend transactions which depend on the changed txid.No, it doesn't.  It is just some tape to hold it better together and make it happen less frequently.Nope.  Wouldn't make much difference.  Their problem is treating the txid as if the confirmed txid for a transaction will be identical to the txid of the transaction they sent.  And this, incidentally, is the cause of Bitcoin-Qt/bitcoind failure as well.  A broken transaction (in that the signature won't get accepted by clients version 0.8 and above) just make the exploit easier because the attacker has more time.The problem is the same (change of txid confuses clients), the consequences differs between implementations. "Somebody (or several somebodies) is taking advantage of the transaction malleability issue and relaying mutated versions of transactions. This is exposing bugs in both the reference implementation and some exchanges software.""Users of the reference implementation who are bitten by this bug may see their bitcoins tied up in unconfirmed transactions; we need to update the software to fix that bug, so when they upgrade those coins are returned to the wallet and are available to spend again.""As a result, exchanges are temporarily suspending withdrawals to protect customer funds and prevent funds from being misdirected."More gold at https://bitcoinfoundation.org/blog/?p=422I expect this joke under the alias "aantonop" to demand Gavin's resignation from the Bitcoin Foundation as well.  Because the only competent non-clown in Bitcoin is obviously aantonop!  ROFL! 24 hours.  No BTC received, no BTC added back to balance and no word from support. My 8 BTC withdrawal from this morning is still listed as "Finished" and nothing has been added back. I don't have any selective withdraw privileges.  Mine are the same as those of any other verified user.Using what I have learned by experience and by filtering useful information from public fora over many years to have a greater chance to succeed when I try to withdraw is not the same as selective withdraw privileges.  Not all my attempts were successful, btw.  I made a number of 10 BTC withdrawals.  Some were successful, some not.  I did it at a time when I had reason to expect a higher success rate, based on public information and my own experience.  In this case people came to #mtgox and complained about an error message which usually means the bitcoin address entered in the withdrawal form is invalid or indicates an empty hot wallet at MtGox.  This was at the middle of the night Tokyo time, and I knew they would fill up first thing in the morning.  After a couple hours the reports stopped coming, and this would be the sweet spot.  Hot wallet refreshed with old unspent inputs which most likely would be chosen first.  They don't keep dust in their cold wallets, so I could choose a reasonable withdrawal size as well.No special privileges or access to restricted information needed.  Everything is out in the open for everyone to learn.  I am certainly not the only one unaffiliated with MtGox who used this trick.  The fresh inputs went very quickly.  My only fault here is telling you about it.At least MtGox credited my failed withdrawals back to my account.  The 8 BTC withdrawal I made from Bitstamp this morning is still listed as "Finished", but nothing arrived, nothing credited back and support are quiet.  AFAIK Bitstamp has no IRC support either. And neither did MtGox.  Well, MtGox probably more than others.  People who implement financial software in general.Gavin understands the issue as well now:But complaining at MtGox will make it get fixed faster.  Of course.As long as MtGox was the only one affected by this, people spent their time complaining about MtGox.  Now when they finally see what he issue is, they finally start eating their words and fixing their s**t.  And I hear a lot less complaining about MtGox now that all major exchanges have halted BTC withdrawals.  Even those who previously claimed they were immune (e.g. BTC-E). He's just disgruntled because I never answer him, because.. hrm..  I have him on ignore.   Seriously, I have never seen donk4u add anything of value to the discussion here, so he went pretty fast.  Could try to answer him once, and perhaps he will feel appreciated as well.   Is there any functioning exchange right now?  One where you can withdraw BTC?  I would be careful with other cryptocurrencies as well, since all are vulnerable to the same problem.Do you want some salt on "users of the reference implementation do not need to be concerned", Gavin?
Meanwhile, about 8 hours after suspending withdrawals, Bitstamp withdrawal suspension is official: https://www.bitstamp.net/article/bitcoin-withdraws-suspended/And BTC-E: https://twitter.com/btcecom/status/433249934456807424None of the exchanges have halted trading.  But MtGox should just because they were first?  I'd like to hear that one explained.And blockchain.info, which were "not affected" have problems as well:Bitcoin-Qt not affected?  Yeah, right:I think MtGox may have a point after all.  And for the claim that other exchanges work fine:  I think not. Seems to be a common problem.Reddit is full of it as well.  Both Bitstamp and BTC-E.  I don't know if it is related to MtGox's problem or not.  So far only Coinbase and blockchain.info released statements claiming they were not affected by the issue, and Coinbase wasn't exactly clear about it.. Withdrawal    Feb. 11, 2014, 9:25 a.m.   -8.00000000 BTCAlmost 6 hours ago.  Nothing received, no response from support. Nope, my bot watch the lag and issue normal API commands to pull it's orders when the threshold is crossed.  I can't influence the order of execution, and certainly not get anything executed in the middle of a market order.  If the lag was 1 second when you issued your order, my bot can not have pulled it's orders.  I honestly don't know what happened then.  Perhaps Mark or someone else can analyze the trade and order book logs for the period to see what happened?  Try prof7bit, he may happen to have a log of everything.It should be visible in the order book log and the trade log, yes.  MtGox probably already put the logs in Google Big Table or something, and I am sure there are many people logging everything in private (I am not one of them). Why does a changed transaction look like someone hacked your Bitcoin-Qt then?  If you send one which is changed by a thrid party, your original will stay there forever as unconfirmed.  Fortunately there is work going on to change Bitcoin-Qt to use a normalized transaction hash instead to track transactions.  Which is exactly what MtGox requested.  It would be nice if everyone used the same transaction hash so you could look it up using bitcoind, don't you think? This is simply untrue.  I don't take anyone's side.  I try to be helpful and correct misinformation from people who are actively manipulating the market.  Why is that bad? Trivial: The inputs used for TX1 have not been marked as spent, and wMtGox will attempt to use one of more of the inputs again for the transactions to the 999 other users.  And this escalates very fast, beacuse those inputs will soon be the oldest unspent inputs in their wallet.  MtGox will always use the oldest unspent output first as input when it create transactions.  After just a few changes transactions, most of the 999 other users will start complaining. I don't claim it to be a protocol failure.  It is a client failure, and a design error in Bitcoin to depend so much on a malleable transaction ID.  A unmallable unique transaction identifier is needed.  It would be up to the client to calculate it, of course, but services should agree on the format because it will be very visible if used correctly.  Instead of an unconfirmed tx which is listed as a double spend with one txid and a confirmed which is OK listed under another, the transaction will be merged under the same unique ID.As for the price  when selling on an exchange at market price, would you want the actual known price when you sell or some unpredictable price some very random time ahead?  In my system you can always get my current price (within about 2 seconds by average).  . So what should I do?  Patch bitcoind to reject them?  Every bitcoind accept unconfirmed transactions into mempool as a guard against intentional double spending, and potentially for mining them.  If bitcoind didn't accept unconfirmed transactions, then no transaction would ever get confirmed.Clueless yourself. Are you kidding?  Read again.  The issue is *not* 0 confirmations and *not* double spending.  It is connecting the unconfirmed transaction with the confirmed transaction to be able to calculate the correct price even if a third party has changed the transaction since the sender sent it.  No, I am not sending any money until the transaction is confirmed.  Please at least try to grasp the issue before making a fool out of yourself.It is known and documented, but as you see not even bitcoind or Bitcoin-Qt can handle it gracefully. Yes, the problem may be sperading.  I have been waiting more than three hours now for the withdrawal of the rest of my BTC from Bitstamp.  #bitcoin-otc is full of other people with the same problem.  Anyone else experiencing problems withdrawing BTC from other exchanges today?  The withdrawal is marked "Finished" in my Bitstamp transaction history.  I have tried to contact support there, but no answer yet. Gavin said in the same article:But he and others says different on IRC. (Some confusion about timestamps (which I don't use) redacted  too long already.):Conclusion: Bitcoin-Qt/bitcoind does not track changed transactions properly.  Changed transactions will show up as a new transaction, and I would need the  "new txid" thing to track those properly.  It is not only MtGox.  Services using bitcoind, like mine, may be vulnerable as well. From #bitcoin-dev (sipa is a core developer):I haven't seen anyone denying this (MagicalTux answered questions in #mtgox just after the press release):They do not claim the bug is "hereto unnoticed".  They even claim it is a known design issue.  From the press release:Bitcoin transactions are subject to a design issue that has been largely ignored, while known to at least a part of the Bitcoin core developers and mentioned on the BitcoinTalk forums.It was mentioned back in 2011 at least, but no steps were taken to mitigate the problem until last year. He did.  And bitcoin-qt is affected as well.  E.g. here and more about this problem here.Anyway, TL;DR version of the press release is:We have discussed this solution with the Bitcoin core developers and will allow Bitcoin withdrawals again once [a workaround involving a different hash for transaction tracking purposes] has been approved and standardized.No bug has to be fixed, nothing has to be implemented by anyone else yet, they just want a standard general solution to be approved before implementing this solution and resuming withdrawals. I don't have any faster or higher priority access than you do.  In fact my access is probably slower beacuse I rely on a somewhat outdated API over HTTP.Orders are executed strictly in the order they come in (as opposed to e.g. Bitstamp where it is possible to sneak in orders in the middle of a market buy via an undocumented websocket API).  If there is a lag of 2 minutes when you enter your order, it means the engine will take care of every order which came in during those two minutes before it will execute your order.  2 minutes is well above my threshold, and my bot likely sent cancel orders for it's orders at least a minute before you issued your market buy order, and my bot's cancel orders where therefore executed before your market buy order as well.  I don't know if it was my bot, of course.  Could have been anyone.  If the lag is 2 minutes, you are looking at a 2 minute old order book.Thank you for your warning.  What do you think is a fair order of execution when there is a lag?  Randomized?  Put orders on a stack and execute the newest order first?What didn't work?  I had two alternatives, and you were in no hurry.  Which is an advantage if you want to get your money out cheaply.  Many people are reporting successful SEPA withdrawals here.  Why didn't your attempts work?I don't need to provide any of that information, and I certainly won't to anyone calling me a liar, a bastard, a clown, an asshole or a criminal.  There is no [Norwegian] law forcing me to give any of this information to you for a private sale, and this was not mentioned as a condition for our trade. Wrong.  You can have several confirmed withdrawals at once.  If you make 10 withdrawals today, you will get the first in six weeks or so, and the rest will follow separated by 20 days.  Read the reports in this thread from people who made several withdrawals in November/December and still receive one every 20 days.  If you make one withdrawal every 20 days, you will get money every 20 days, but you will not skip the queue.  You will wait at least as long as the rest from the time you make you withdrawal to the time when you receive your money. I did not sell you you own money.  This happened before I made my offer in this thread, after a few successful trades with people on IRC.  I didn't trade with you until after BTC withdrawals were halted. You can withdraw 50k EUR per 20 days with a trusted account.  I suggested you waited for Moneypolo integration, since time was not critical.  You could do 50k EUR / 20 days while you waited, which is 900k EUR in a year.  1.22 million USD / year.  If time was critical, and you were willing to take a loss, I would have suggested the emergency withdrawal option with 5% bank fees.  You can even withdraw USD to EUR this way, since MtGox can exchange USD to JPY to EUR at the same 5% fee as USD to JPY to USD, saving a currency conversion on your side.The price difference increased for a while after the BTC withdrawal difficulties started to appear.  If you are right, USD on MtGox will be worthless the moment they open the BTC withdrawal floodgates.  I'm ready.  The SEPA and domestic JPY withdrawal queues should be shortening now as well, btw.  People are not withdrawing fiat right now, but take advantage of reverse arbitrage to be ready if your scenario happens. Because they take only USAnian customers, and even worse: They are located in the USSA.  Does fiat transfers to and from CampBX work again, btw? Why didn't you follow my advice?If you trade during lag, there is no way to know how many coins will be on sale when your order gets executed.  My bot for instance will not trade on old information, and pulls it's offers whenever the lag goes over a certain threshold.  If the lag went over this threshold before you entered your order, my bot would cancel more than 250 BTC worth of asks, and the cancellation would take effect before your order executed.  It could actually be my fault.  Sorry about that..If information you have from observing previous behaviour is insider information, then technical analysis is as well.  I have been analysing how MtGox works instead of wasting time on speculation and FUD.  This does not make me an insider.  I never told anyone who sold their MtGox BTC it was a good idea.  I told them the opposite.  They wouldn't listen to reason and still wanted to sell.  I even bought some MtGox BTC 1:1 from people who had real life problems due to the glitch.I don't have any proprietary information from MtGox.  I rely 100% on published information available to everyone who looks for it.  Lurking in #mtgox helps, of course, since I get to know what people ask support about and their answers.  There are about 1000 people there now, and the information given there is the same as everyone get.E.g.:When people start reporting "invalid bitcoin adress" errors, you can assume the hot wallet is empty and will be refilled in a few hours maximum.  Just start trying.  (The @ sign means it is a channel operator speaking, i.e. someone working for MtGox.)I don't think #mtgox is officially logged, but there are probably many other lurkers who keep their logs.  They can even have mine.  Except for a few ordinary support tickets, all my communication with MtGox will be there.
Not automatically, no.  Any VB programmer can call herself "software engineer".  Perhaps you are capable of understanding what has been happening if you try, but you don't.  You don't even make an attempt.  Your only interest is the spreading of FUD.  And if it is true that you don't make money on it, I can honestly not understand what drives you to waste your time and energy.I dislike market manipulation by spreading of false rumours and passing of speculation as a fact, and try to correct it by presenting the most accurate information I can find.  That's my motivation. Yes, you wrote "time is not critical".  I had two suggestions depending on how time critical it was.  If time was critical, I would have offered one more suggestion.  Then time suddenly got critical, or what triggered your IMHO irrational behaviour?  You will get your BTC, and you could have got your USD or EUR as well if time was not critical.  I hope you withdrew at least some via SEPA? I can fully understand the frustration of people who can't get to their money.  Claiming they don't have the BTC, and asking for total irresponsible behaviour to "prove" they have the BTC, is 100% idiocy.We all know that this technical glitch has all the signs of a technical glitch, and absolutely no signs of MtGox being out of BTC.  In fact they filled up their hot wallet several times during last week, as you could see by withdrawals suddenly working well for a short while, using very old inputs, until they started failing because the old spent inputs came back on top of the list (sorted by age).  I took the opportunity to withdraw just after refill, and got myself a new round of profit by buying MtGox BTC at a discount with BTC I withdrew from MtGox.  You will know they are going to refill within 2 hours of withdrawals to external addresses starting to fail with "invalid address".  (Withdrawal to MtGox deposit addresses still work when the hot wallet is empty.)You are obviously not a technical or scientific person.  You rely on belief and rumour instead of facts and logic.  I am a technical person.  I dig into the real matters, investigating what holds water and what is just empty rumours.  That's why I am right every time. Here.  (nullc aka gmaxwell) I can't run the simulator.  It is Windows only, and it would be a lot of work to reimplement it.The only Microsoft products in my house are a book and a defunct first-generation chipmodded Xbox which used to run Linux and XBMC.  I did run MS-DOS at some time in my youth, but deleted Windows in 1989 because it was a waste of expensive hard disk space.  I found it much harder to get useful work done in the GUI compared to MS-DOS and text based editors.  Then I discovered Unix.  It was a holy-s**t-experience, and I never went back to MS-DOS since. If MtGox started treating their cold storage irresponsibly like that, I would be out in a puff.  This is obviously a technical glitch  all evidence points to a technical problem  and MtGox should fix the problem instead of throwing cold wallets around.  There is a bitcoin core developer in  #mtgox-chat right now buying MtGox BTC at 90% of face value.  Because people who knows how bitcoin works under the hood can easily see this is a technical glitch and nothing else.  Of course you will find manipulators like you spreading FUD and offering much worse rates in the same channel.  (And useful idiots who are helping the manipulators spreding FUD, while stupid enough to not take the profit from people who run into their trap.) It would help for some stability and robustness against random variation, while still adjusting for normal variation during the day, and reduce the efficiency of block time manipulation.Yes, and retarget at every block.  Looking at the previous 72 blocks, calculate the average hashrate, and what the difficulty should be to achieve 10 minute blocks at that hashrate.  Adjust the difficulty by 1/6 of that, to aim for 10 minute blocks an hour ahead.   Miners leaving when difficulty increase, and vice versa, will help to achieve the 10 minute target somewhat faster.  This is difficult to adjust to, but you could by using a shorter window than 72 blocks.  In that case you keep the timewarp attack in mind and make nodes strict about what times they will accept. It is Saturday.  The accounting people are not there.  Support don't have direct access to this information.  They ask their manager who ask the manager of the accounting team, like in most other companies with more than a few employees.  I've tried to ask Marion (manager of support) a few times last week on IRC, but my questions probably drowned in BTC withdrawal noise.  The fact that Japanese business hours coincide exactly with my sleeping hours doesn't help either.  She must ask accounting or Mark himself about this, and can't whey they are busy or after they went home.  The 20-day rule can complicate this even more, making it difficult even for accounting to give an exact date. I haven't read all of this thread, but I would like to add my 2 cents for the difficulty adjust algorithm.I had a similar problem in my first algorithm for adjusting the temperature of my bathroom floor, which is heated by mining.  (Water cooled GPUs, water passes through tubes inside the floor, it is covered in another thread back in early 2011.)  My first version went like this:Loop every 60 seconds: If (floor temperature > target temperature)  Dump (foor temperature - target temperature) less heat to the floor elsif (floor temperature < target temperature)  Dump (target temperature - floor temperature) more heat to the floorThe resulting temperature curve looked like the current difficulty curve of catcoin.  It was a sinusodial curve between 2 degrees over and 2 degrees under the target temperature.The reason why this worked to badly is the fact that it takes some time for the heat to propagate from the inside of the tubes to the top of the floor where my temperature sensor is located.  When I started reducing heat output, the temperature was already at target, and it would continue to increase for a long time.  When it started to decrease again, the floor was 2 degrees above target, and the core temperature of the floor was actually below surface temperature when the surface temperature crossed my target on the way down.  I tried all kinds of dampening adjustments, but none worked.My solution:Instead of looking at the current temperature, I started to calculate what the temperature would be a while ahead if the current rate of change continued.  I found a half an hour to be my sweet spot.  My current algorithm will increase or reduce the amount of heat dumped to always try and reach the target temperature in exactly 30 minutes.  If the temperature increases faster, it will dump less heat.  If it increases slower, it will dump more heat.  This works very well.  The surface temperature follows the target temperature nicely without any large changes in heat output.  My target temperature isn't static.  It will wary a bit by room temperature and time of day.  (The remaining heat is dumped in my living room and in a heat exchanger before my hot water tank, btw.)My suggestion for catcoin: Based on the blockrate for the last 6 hours (72 blocks), always adjust the difficulty as much as needed to reach 10 minute blocks by average in 6 blocks (one hour) from now.  Never try to make up for higher or lower blockrate in the past, and by following a future target you will get the dampening you want without any static limits. Hi manipulator.  Where is your apology signed by your mother?You miss completely, btw.  Read here for my definition of an useful idiot. In that case it is on public record, and should be easy to prove.  So, do you have proof, or are you just another manipulator or useful idiot? MtGox are very open about their SEPA delays and the reason for the delays.  Last time I heard they were processing SEPA withdrawals from January 1st.  If people have been as busy withdrawing via SEPA as via domestic JPY during the new year holidays, it will take about four days to process each day of SEPA withdrawals due to the daily limit (which has been confirmed by their bank).  We may not be further than to the 3rd at the end of next week.  I am hoping for better progress than that, of course.  I have one confirmed since January 4th myself. Where is the +1 button? Why don't you put some of your money on it, if it is logical?  Interestingly a large majority says NO, at least for 2014. Note the italics then.  How can reading be this hard? Note my emphasis. You can transfer BTC between MtGox accounts.  The sender can withdraw to the deposit address of the receiving account.  The transaction will be handled internally, and the transfer will not enter the blockchain.  (Unless you check "Open Transaction".  Don't do that.) Offers in personal message, please. JPY domestic transfers are about 3 weeks delayed currently due to a 100M yen daily limit when moving money from Mizuho bank to JapaNet. Here is the comment you should read.  It is by Bitcoin developer Gregory Maxwell (gmaxwell), and confirms everything I have written here, and every statement released by MtGox.Remember that 80% of the people spreading FUD here are trying to manipulate the price.  (The rest are useful idiots manipulated by the manipulators.)  They are trading against their own advice, and it is very profitable.  I have made several years of wages worth of profit myself by betting against the FUD and that MtGox is right.  Lately I have been buying BTC on MtGox sent via internal transfer on MtGox for 90% of the face value sent from my personal wallet.  In addition to that, I have arbitraged back by buying BTC at MtGox and selling on other exchanges.  The money comes from BTC I previously sold on MtGox after buying at up to 20% lower price on other exchanges.  This was while the manipulators tried to convince people to buy BTC on MtGox and sell on other exchanges.  And it worked!  It worked extremely well, because the world is never going to run out of idiots.  I've made 20% net profit by arbitrage without moving any fiat or BTC, and then 10% on just trading BTC for BTC.  FUD works amazingly well as a manipulation strategy!I have noted a few things:  Nobody of those who spread rumours about MtGox running a fractional reserve or having solvency problems have taken up my offer of selling their MtGox BTC to me at 90% face value.  And I know several of them hold a balance on MtGox, because I frequently get questions about SEPA withdrawal delays and similar in private messages from them.  There are however many gullible bystanders who do.  People whom the manipulators have managed to scared the brains out of by spreading FUD.
You know very well it is just as impossible to prove the bold statement as proving or disproving the underlined statement.MtGox made a commitment a very long time ago (2011) to not sell their BTC, and only use it as a currency for purchases, etc.  They will pay salaries in BTC as well, but when MT was asked about this last year he said none of his employees had asked for that.  The known purchases are a website or two, an exchange in Poland (17k BTC, the largest I know of) and their Bitcoin Foundation membership fees (25k BTC the first year iirc, much lower now). People with some technical understanding can easily see this is a technical issue.  Not an easy one.Some people with limited technical understanding claim there is a ghost in their computer and return it to the manufacturer when there is a software problem.  I guess this is the equivalent.  MtGox have made about 400k BTC in fees over the years (estimated from volume), and have spent very little of this.  Some in Bitcoin Foundation membership fee and some to buy other companies.  All the evidence is clearly on the technical side. The support page does not mention for how long a transaction must have been waiting until it is considered stuck.  I think it is a week currently, but have asked someone at MtGox support to specify it in the support page to avoid confusion and the spread of panic. And a really bad one based on what we already know.Why do people make up stuff like that?  Ah, to make even more money on arbitrage, of course.  I forgot.Ah, right, you were speculating wildly from there.  I think we should wait for an announcement.  It will be clearer to you then, if you bother to read it.  But I know you well enough to know you aren't going to pay much attention to it, because the truth will be much less interesting than the stories you can make of it. :-) How on earth did you make that up?  Including the part about letting people go.  MtGox has hired dozens of people lately just to keep up with support.No, it is not a database problem. A small tx is likely to use fewer inputs.  Because an unknown portion of the inputs MtGox may attempt to use are void, the chance of failure is higher the more inputs your tx require.No, I will leave it up to MtGox due to the risk of disclosing too many details prematurely, and because there are enough people spreading rumours already.  People will always think the rumours are better than the truth anyway.  Since I have no other knowledge about MtGox's wallet than what can be deduced from previous delayed transactions, my explanation will have a few assumptions in it as well.Here is everything disclosed by MtGox until now: IRC has been very noisy for the last couple of days due to a DDoS against Freenode and BTC withdrawal issues.  Last report I got was Sunday.  They were processing SEPA withdrawals from 2013-12-30.What I believe was the root cause of the BTC withdrawal problems has been removed.  It can only get better from here.  But MtGox have a lot of cleaning up to do, because their database of unspent coins contain a lot of coins which have been spent, and may lack a lot of coins (txid:txout references) which are unspent.  If I am right, this is a very complex issue and not easy to clean up.  I'd guess a couple days more of problems until everything is sorted out and accounted for.  I will leave it up to MtGox to disclose the details. I tried a cheap bank which used Citibank in London as intermediate for sending SEPA transfers. (I didn't know at the time I signed up.)  When I tried to transfer a deposit to Intersango on the first day, the bank told me Citibank refused to process my transfer due to U.S. sanctions.  Intersango isn't on the list either.  I reported the bank to the Norwegian Financial Authority for imposing arbitrary restrictions on money transfer, and the bank contacted me right back and offered a settlement, but that's another story.  I was a customer of this bank for one day only.Citibank Japan no longer accept withdrawals from MtGox either, btw.  According to reports in this thread.Anyhow, I think the Bitinstant case is a hint to why transfers are blocked, and why Mark haven't been allowed to talk about it.  I don't know why the 5% option works (5% is due to 2x currency conversion fees, it is not a MtGox fee), but I know the method is very limited.  I frequently get reports from European users getting their money after only four days by this option.  Is it slower for U.S. users?  It should be slow for everyone now, since it is restricted by the same 100M JPY limit that limits as Japanese domestic transfers.To those of you who are insulting me: I will only answer your questions after you have sent me an apology signed by your mum.  My finger has become very attracted to the ignore button as well, and I may not see your apology.  Sorry about that. Read two pages back.  This is the latest information I have. Please read the thread you are posting in before replying, and you would know the answer already.  I have lost count of how many times I this question has been answered.  Short story: Daily bank transfer limits. Let me repeat my favourite quote:But, hey!  You are free to waste your own money. I'm in!  I won a similar bet on betsofbitco.in that MtGox would be sold or closed by the end of 2013, but this didn't happen either. Of course you report facts, but you are omitting important facts as well.  Please read my answer again for the explanation of the delay.Deposits of course.  Every time you sell, you sell to someone who deposited money at some time.  (Or from someone who sold BTC to someone who deposited BTC at some time, etc, for many iterations.)This is how every exchange with an order book works. He either withdrew via International wire (not SEPA) or he had another withdrawal complete successfully for the last 20 days.  Last time I heard MtGox were processing SEPA withdrawals initiated at 2013-12-30.  The reasons for the delays (SEPA and JPY) have been fully explained here many times, but please don't let it stop you from inventing your own.  It tricks weak souls into overbidding, making arbitrage very profitable.   This is impossible to know.  MtGox publish a list of transactions delayed for more than two hours, but does not publish which of the outputs are change (back to a new address owned by MtGox), and which is the withdrawal.  They often use withdrawals to consolidate dust into larger chunks, so the change tend to be largish.  On the same list are deposits to addresses belonging to imported private keys, and we have no way to separate those from the withdrawal transactions. Reminds me of this quote:If the SEC is where you complain on the US government, then please go on! Yes, it is.  The SI system already help you remember the number of decimal places, and even currencies adopt it.  Think of a cent as a centieuro.  Creating a new one is just confusing. And here it is.  The transaction queue has been decreasing for the last 8 hours, btw.  They could actually be working on it, as they claim. End of December.  Will try to get a more accurate date tomorrow.  The FAQ only has useless information right now: Situation as of 29th January 2014: We are currently processing 20 days rule withdrawals. (backlog) You seem to have intimate knowledge of MtGox's special bitcoin software.  Do you work there?  Can you tell us how they do this manually at MtGox?  It would be simple if they used bitcoind or something, but it can't handle as many transactions and addresses.Many of the transactions on the list are deposits, btw.  Not withdrawals.  Deposits to an address where the private key was imported to MtGox are handled the same way.  (I assume you all remember the DoS attack when someone imported the private key to the correct horse staple address, trigging thosands of microtransactions which were never going to get confirmed.)  With the price difference nowadays, I assume BTC deposits outnumber withdrawals by a large amount.There are a few long standing bugs in their wallet code which have led to BTC withdrawal problems many times, and the rumours say Mark wants a real fix this time.
Who are you, and what did you do to tvbcof?  The real tvbcof can troll better than this! Has been a while since I withdrew BTC from MtGox.  I prefer to withdraw EUR, and deposit BTC.MtGox are aware of the issue, and afaik the situation is finally improving. Eg kjenner ikkje til rutinene til bankane, men det går eit par magiske grenser for når dei skal rapportere dersom dei har grunn til å mistenkje noko muffens.  Grensene er 30000 kroner for kontantar og 50000 kroner for andre betalingsmåtar.  Dersom dei har grunn til å tru at fleire overføringar har samanheng med kvarandre, skal det rapporterast dersom totalsummen går over denne grensa.  Eg veit ikkje kva som kan trigge mistanke.  Dei rapporterer heilt sikkert ikkje alle overføringar.  Sjølv har eg ei grense på 50000 kroner for første handel.  Skal du kjøpe for meir enn det må eg "kjenne deg" først.  Dvs at vi har handla før og det har gått bra; betalingane kjem til rett tid i same namn, osv.Alle overføringar til utlandet vert rapportert til Toll- og avgiftsdirektoratet.  Elles gjeld dei same grensene som for NOK.For den typen uttak som kallast "International wire" er køa veldig lang og går veldig seint framover.  Eg veit ikkje kor lang, dessverre.  Dei kan ikkje overføre frå sin vanlege bank i Japan fordi somme store USAnske bankar sender utbetalingar i retur.  Det er dyrt og medfører veldig mykje arbeid, og banken sa til slutt stopp.  Sidan dei ikkje kan vite på førehand kva rute ei betaling tek, får dette fylgjer for alle vanlege utanlandsbetalingar.EUR via SEPA-overføring går derimot fint.  Sist eg fekk rapport tok det tre veker, men eg tippar køa er litt lenger no pga den store skilnaden i kurs.  No skal alle a ut på ein gong, og dei er avgrensa til 100k EUR om dagen i den polske banken.  For å kunne sende SEPA-overføring til ein konto må banken vere medlem i TARGET2.  Det avgrensar utvalet av norske bankar ein del.  Eg tippar dei krev det for å unngå at betalinga vert stansa av Citibank på veg til kundar i norske Skandiabanken og andre bankar som brukar Citibank som samarbeidspartnar for SEPA-overføringar.  Citibank er ein av bankane som sender pengar frå MtGox i retur.  Større bankar er gjerne direkte med i TARGET2, til dømes DNB og Danske Bank. About 20 days between each payout.  Read the top post on this page.  18% every 20 days is darn good interest.  You could take up a credit card loan to finance it, and still be profitable.  (I haven't of course, and I won't recommend anyone to do it either.) He probably read the FAQ. Norway.  There are delays, but 18% in a month is still very good. No, I use normal SEPA withdrawal.  It works fine for me and everyone else, and you know it.  But please go on and pretend it doesn't.  The panic it creates is very profitable.  I have decided to stop wasting time here, and let you all feed the panic instead.  It is much more profitable.  I managed more than 18% on my last round of arbitrage, all fees included.  I wonder if I'll be able to get 25% on the next.  Please keep panicing!  Never search for the true answers; make up your own!  Don't ever believe it is possible to withdraw anything!  Don't believe arbitrage is possible.  Please keep spreading rumours that MtGox are broke, etc.  I've never made this much money with no risk and almost no work!  I'm in my last week of full time employment.  From now on I will make a living out of the price difference between Panicstamp and MtGox, and my bot of course.  You guys!  I love you all for making this possible!For all the other arbitragers who are making good money on spreading FUD here: I think you are a bit dishonest, and there is no need to.  The clueless people here are fully capable of creating a panic for themselves.OK, I can't resist revealing some information about JPY withdrawals.  Last known processed is from January 5th.  Reason for the delay is 9 days of closed banks (Mizuho) and this:The daily limit is 100 million JPY, btw.For everything else there is not much new.  You will find the answers on previous pages in this thread. Eg har teke i bruk ein konto i DNB til handel.  Dersom du har konto i DNB kan du dermed få bitcoin på minuttet etter at du har overført, sjølv i helgene.  Hugs å nemne at du har konto i DNB for å få oppgitt rett kontonummer.  For at overføringa skal gå øyeblikkeleg må du slå på straksoverføring under innstillinger -> betalingsinnstillinger i nettbanken.Til alle som ber meg skaffe meg ein konto i Skandiabanken: Eg har prøvd.  Eg var kunde der i ein heil dag før eg sa opp kontoen og klagde Skandiabanken inn til Finansklagenemnda.  Skandiabanken sender alle SEPA-overføringar via USAnske Citibank.  Det medførte at ei av tre av mine overføringar til Europa vart stansa pga USAnske restriksjonar.  (Ei overføring til Intersango medan det framleis var aktivitet der.)  Eg klagde Skandiabanken inn til Finansklagenemnda fordi dei ikkje opplyser om at dei praktiserer USAnske restriksjonar for overføringar mellom europeiske land.  Ingen andre bankar eg har prøvd hadde problem med å gjennomføre overføringa som Skandiabanken stansa.  Skandiabanken tok kontakt etter kort tid og inngjekk forlik for å sleppe ei sak i Finansklagenemnda.  Det er flerie grunnar til å vere skeptisk til ein bank som sender alle europeiske overføringar via USA, so eg kjem ikkje til å verte kunde i Skandiabanken att. Please read a few pages of this thread before posting the same crazy ideas over again.  You are just as wrong as the rest for the same reasons which I am not going to repeat for the umpteenth time.  And use preview before posting. This is well known.  Here are some quotes for you, heavily trimmed to remove noise in between.  Most nicks redacted:Code:03:02 < m> http://www.reddit.com/r/MtGox/comments/1lufrj/class_action_lawsuit_against_mtgox/03:03 <@MagicalTux> m, a class action in the US to force us to do something the US govt prevents us from doing might not lead you very far03:07 <@MagicalTux> [11:07:33] <m> MagicalTux: if there is some specific US restriction in place, please do detail that so I can make contingency plans <- we are not legally allowed to discuss these03:08 < B> MagicalTux: I still have accounts in my own name that are in New Zealand,  would I need to relocate back to New Zealand to be able to bind them to my Account in mtgox ?03:08 <@MagicalTux> B, it depends on your nationality03:09 < B> I currently reside in Japan and have my Bank Accounts here verified03:09 < B> MagicalTux: "New Zealand" nationality  03:09 <@MagicalTux> B, there shouldn't be any issue as long as you're not a US citizen03:09 < e> MagicalTux: is there anything you can do to put my mind at ease that if I withdraw my USD it will eventually show up in my bank?03:09 <@MagicalTux> e, we are working on improving the situation and been discussing this with the appropriate authorities, but things are moving very slowly03:10 < e> MagicalTux: is the withdraw process for American customers simply 'slow' or is it actually just suspended as of now?  03:11 <@MagicalTux> e, we are able to process up to 10 transfers a day via a third party03:12 < e> MagicalTux: thank you for that honesty that helps build trust.03:12 <@MagicalTux> e, unfortunately there is only so much we can say04:43 <@MagicalTux> racerx, actually USD flowing from any country to any country (or even within the same country) go through the USMany people have claimed to be on their way to the courts in this thread since August at least.  Everything from small claims court to class action suits.  One of them even claimed to be a lawyer.  Anyone care to comment on how it went?  I haven't heard of any success yet.Tell that to the US government.  From the discussions it seems both USD transfers and services to US customers are sanctioned in various ways.What?  Tell me how you jumped to that conclusion!  They are funding other withdrawal requests.  Why would MtGox have any interest in delaying USD withdrawals specifically?Please read again.  You managed to get two of my claims wrong in your last sentence.  The rest of your text is based on misunderstandings as well.You should take a reading comprehension course.  If I transfer my native currency (NOK) from MtGox, I save the expense of a currency conversion from USD to NOK.  Please tell me which bank you use that pay their customers for having to do a currency conversion, as this is the only way it could be cheaper.Most people everywhere in the world use their own local currency.  Important is not the same as most used.  USD won't buy you anything around here.  Not a bread, not petrol, not a house, not your electric bills or your taxes either.  You would have to go to a bank and pay a fee to exchange it for the local currency if you want to buy anything or pay your bills.  I assume this is what most customers want their money for.  I can't even fund my PayPal account with USD without a conversion to my local currency first, and then PayPal will convert the money back to USD at PayPal at a 3.5% fee.Yes, they are.  USD transfers are international wire transfers which are quite expensive to send and receive in most banks.  EUR transfers (SEPA) are free or much cheaper in all of the Single Euro Payment Area.I won't care to comment on the crazy speculation you call facts.  It only goes to show you don't know the difference between fact and fantasy. What is the "reality of the real situation", do you think?  Do you think I am wrong anywhere?  Whenever I prove you wrong, you just change the subject and go on like you were right.  Btw, you didn't answer why you think MtGox is so immensely more popular in the USSA than elsewhere in the world.MtGox is among the most transparent and open exchanges in the world.  Much more open and transparent than the largest competitors.  Where is BTC-E located?  Who owns it?  Ditto for Bitstamp, etc.  I haven't claimed MtGox to be on top of the list for a long time.  BTC China took that position back in November last year, and I even pointed it out in this thread back then.Most of their customers don't care about USD withdrawals.  I assume you care, but you are a minority.  Sorry.  Instead of exploiting the situation for profit, you keep being wrong in this thread instead.  That's your choice, I guess.If you think USD withdrawal is the most important feature of an exchange, you are wrong.  I can trade with ease and withdraw my profit as BTC or EUR.  Both are fine with me.  I wouldn't have any use for USD withdrawal.  I am like 95% of the population of the world.  I don't use USD to pay any of my daily expenses.  USD transfers are more expensive and involve a currency exchange every time.  USD withdrawal is like the cigarette lighter of your car.  Even  smokers don't use it very often for the originally intended purpose.  Some very few people can't do without the cigarette lighter, and you may be one of them.  The vast majority couldn't care less, as long as there is some compatible 12V outlet. Did you ask them to ask their bank to trace the payment?  It is stuck somewhere in the bank system.Yep, it has been sent to the bank and processed there.  The money are probably out of MtGox's account. Yes, and I don't know anyone who would know this better.What reason would he have to lie about this?  There are no more credible sources for this information.  Only 4.45% of the world population are USSAnians.  19.1% are Chinese.  Why do you think MtGox is much more popular with USSAnians than people of other nationalities?  Are the US exchanges worse than MtGox?  I have wondered about the same thing, but you seen so certain that MtGox are even more popular in the USSA than they claim to be.I don't know what you have been drinking, but I'm sure you are taking too much of it.  See your shrink again. This is from November, before China sent the BTC price through the roof:Code:03:41 <@MagicalTux> cxeq, we have more than 15% of chinese customers03:41 <@MagicalTux> (almost about to outgrow USA)I assume MtGox have got more customers since then, and my educated guess is that the decline in number of new customers from the USSA has continued.  (I admit this is a guess, and am willing to concede to "more than 80%" if you can think of a good reason why the share of new users from the USSA would rise faster than 15%.)  The Chinese are probably not able to do foreign fiat transfers.  It doesn't seem to bother them.Because USD is the most liquid currency on the exchange for historic reasons.  In the beginning it was the only supported currency.  When you trade large volumes in other currencies, the spread quickly get very high due to the 2.5% distance between orders placed in the native currency vs other currencies.  Convincing everyone to switch to another most liquid currency is not done overnight, and which of the 17 (I think) currencies would it be?  Most people will deposit their local currency or USD or EUR depending on their bank fees, and withdraw their local currency to avoid an extra currency conversion fee imposed by their bank. 85% of MtGox's customers are from countries not using USD.  If you are among the minority who use USD and you don't need other features than the most basic selling of BTC and USD withdrawal, MtGox is not right for you at the moment.I use many exchanges.  So far I have only withdrawn fiat from two of them.  Fiat withdrawal is not a big issue for me, as long as I can withdraw from one of the exchanges I use.  Features, API, liquidity, etc is much more important.  Those are properties I use every day, while fiat withdrawal is rare.  If you need to withdraw fiat in a hurry, it will always be faster to move your BTC to a local exchange, sell it and withdraw your local currency from there. If that's how you think it works, you didn't get it.  I was afraid NOK would take a long time as well. :-(Moneypolo will be an option in the future.  I don't know when, but expect soonish.  They will have to do some integration work to make the process smooth. He never mentioned currency.  If it is USD, you can expect it to take an infinite time until US restrictions are lifted.  MtGox are only able to process 10 USD withdrawals daily through a third party at a high fee (2 x 2.5% currency exchange fees, and then some for the transfer itself).  Look back in the thread for references and quotes from MagicalTux. Yeah, because my dad says so!Please, you are just showing what a fool you are.  Instead of claiming that I am a liar on a general basis, you should point out what you think is a lie so I can prove it isn't.I prefer to base my view on objective facts, not subjective perception.  This is how I can point out your errors.  It is very easy as long as you keep ignoring the facts and only base your views on distorted hearsay.Why don't you read back in the thread where this has been thoroughly discussed so you could ask an intelligent question?  I am tired of pointing everything out over and over and over.I don't care much about USD anyway.  I don't trade much in USD and rarely withdraw any fiat.  There is no need to withdraw fiat from MtGox to make profit on e.g. arbitrage trade.  Many people don't get that, which makes it very profitable for the rest of us.
Bitparking does all of the above and I0C as well.  Last time I checked DVC, IXC and I0Cwere completely worthless.  Probably 51'd by GHash.io already. Must be because you have no idea of what it means.Do you think so?Since you obviously have been living under a rock for most of your life, and probably haven't read this thread: The delays are caused by banks limiting how much they are able to transfer out each day.  Currently about 1.1M USD/day.  Increasing delays + increasing order book means growth.  Why do you find the growth funny?Yes, the volume in BTC has decreased on most exchanges since April last year, except for some new ones and China.MtGox only had some petty cash in their Dwolla account.  A few days worth of money in transit.  If you think MtGox stored Dwolla for money storage, you are mistaken.  This is explained in the DHS report as well.  Mutum Sigillum's accounts were sized for transmitting money to and from MtGox in Japan, not storage.  Storage is legal.  Transmitting money without a license is not.  I don't expect you to understand any of this, of course.  You probably didn't read this far anyway.  Too much text and no pictures. You think so?  I think the total value of bids is a clear sign of more money coming in than going out.  Could be money deposited months or years ago that people didn't care to use until now, of course, but I find that rather unlikely. Med berre 40% av den totale hashraten har dei 50% sjanse til å reversere ei betaling med 6 confirms.  Slår dei seg saman med nokon andre som kontollerer nokre få prosent er sjansen enno større.Ideelt sett bør ingen kontrollere meir enn 10%.  Sjølv har eg berre gravd solo.  Då treng eg ikkje lite på nokon andre.  Alt for få gjer det notildags.Situasjonen er framleis alvorleg.  Tiltaket deira kom alt for seint, og dei treng berre gjere eit litte grep for å få attende kontrollen over den utleigde hashraten. "Special investigator" is a quote from the DHS.  MtGox have their funds in a Japanese bank, not in the USSA.  Except for a few days worth of transfers to and from USSAnian customers.  In total worth a week of revenue from fees in December.Sorry, I don't know if you are retarded or just a clueless kid who joined the mob without checking any facts.  There are single days in December 2013 with more volume on MtGox than entire June (measured in fiat currency, which what matters when it comes to revenue).  Increasing delays and increasing order book depth is a sign of a growing business as well. 3-4 weeks unless it is very small.  The support pages usually have a more exact answer. I am not affiliated with MtGox in any way, and don't have access to any personal data stored by MtGox.  You should ask MtGox about this, but I assume the answer is no.  They wouldn't disclose the data to Coinbase, and I don't see any reason why they would disclose any data to any authorities unless ordered to by a Japanese court.  It would be devastating to business. This conforms perfectly to the 20 day rule.  If you make a new withdrawal less than 20 days after the previous one, it will not be processed until the 20 days have passed.  Small withdrawals are processed out of the queue.  See the support page about deposits and withdrawals. Yes, lol.  There are no international laws.  There are a few international conventions which multiple countries are signatories to.  Like the Bern convention and Geneva convention.  Signatory countries must implement the agreements into their own laws.It doesn't matter.  The USSA has jo juridistiction there.  I am braking US funny-laws every day, as often as I can.  It doesn't matter.  No DHS "special investigator" can do anything as long as I am outside of LOListan.  Mutum Sigillum is a US company with their funds in the USSA, which is the only reason the "special" kids at the DHS could steal their money. Never tired of fighting FUD spreading.Thanks.  I think everyone who follow this thread understand the situation by now, so why don't you go ahead and profit from it instead of complaining?  It doesn't require a genius to understand how, and it is almost free of any risk.  You don't need a Japanese bank account or the possibility of making fiat withdrawals.  It is so easy you could do it by hand, and when you get tired of that, you will write a bot to do the tedious work.  It is more accurate as well.  Of course it is possible to avoid making money by staying away from certain exchanges, and I really don't understand why some people seem to be vigorously opposed to making a profit.  (I must admit to staying completely away from BTC-E myself, but that's mostly because I don't trust my money, and especially not bitcoin, to people hiding their identity.)The bot I wrote in two hours makes much more money than I do in my normal day job, so I am quitting my day job next month.  I have ideas for a few more advanced bots using some of the same algorithms in other ways, but mostly I will try to make a living out of my exchange operations.  That would require more time than I have when working full time in a normal job. Funny you mention fees.  The volume on both BTC-E and Bitstamp grew just after MtGox announced reduced fees.I've mentioned the advantages of MtGox many times.  Those advantages have made it possible for me to turn 400 NOK into millions in less than two years.  It couldn't have been done on any other exchange due to missing features.  Don't forget Bitstamp and BTC-E are mostly gaining from panicing USSAnians.  There have been multiple panics at Bitstamp and BTC-E calmed by arbitraging bots kicking off and making the price bounce when the difference got interesting.  The panics and bounces add to their volume of course.There are 39 million USD worth of bids at MtGox now.  When you started calling them a clowncar exchange there were 12 millions in bids.  Not a sign of a dying exchange, is it?  Every business day about 1.1 million USD worth of fiat currencies leaves MtGox via bank transfers.  MtGox would have been empty long ago unless people deposited even more. That was in LOListan.  Land of the constantly watched.  Where MtGox is considered a serious threat to homeland security.  For now MtGox only operate in civilized parts of the world.  You may get your own funds seized if you are in the USSA, of course.  They have laws there, but that's not something the government take seriously. Coins have been cheap on MtGox as well on several occations, which means I have been able to buy cheaper on MtGox than on other exchanges.  Cheap means at a much lower price than I am able to sell for.  This is by no means a MtGox centric view of anyting.  If I can buy coins cheap at MtGox, and sell at a profit on other exchanges, then MtGox users are selling the cheap coins. Make YOU laugh?  Mutum Sigillum's account was closed because the DHS in the USSA decided it was a threat against the country's homeland security!  Yes, it makes me laugh, but for a completely different reason than you.  MtGox operates legally in Japan, where it is located, and in the civilized parts of the world.A charting service like this would be useless.  If you had been reading this thread, you would know the time depends on a whole lot of factors.  Expected transfer times are detailed on MtGox's support pages under deposits and withdrawals.  The average time is probably very short due to the speed of Japanese domestic transfer. Yep, finally a good opportunity for EUR users again.  Japanese banks have been closed for a whole week for the Japanese New Year celebrations.  I expect the difference to decrease quite fast during next week, since it has become possible to move JPY again.The delay is 3-4 weeks, not one month or more.  And arbitrage is 0 risk by definition.  If you manage to make it risky, you are doing it wrong.  The delay limits how often you can get your 10% or more profit, of course.  You can easily make 3000 EUR or more on arbitrage every month using normal SEPA transfer, which means you can make a living just by doing arbitrage.  Japanese users can make a fortune.  Don't quit your job yet, however.  When Moneypolo withdrawals are enabled, I expect the prices to become more in sync again.When I can buy from you 12% cheaper than I sell for on MtGox, you are selling cheap.  The situation has been opposite on several occations since June 2013.  It has taken a while, sometimes more than 12 hours, for other exchanges to get back in line after large dumps on MtGox.  For arbitragers with fiat reserves on MtGox, this means you can arbitrage in the opposite direction and hold to do another round when MtGox bounces back.The only exchange where I can sell my BTC and get my money within a day is my own, btw. Which is why I wonder why any miners want to mine at a pool which mines very small blocks, intentionally delaying thousands of perfectly valid transactions by keeping them out of every block they mine.  Just compare the sizes of Ghash.io blocks with blocks from Bitcoin friendly pools.  Miners must be blind.  If it isn't intentional, it must be due to gross incompetence.I wonder why the Ghash.io is trying so hard to destroy bitcoin.  They haven't done anything to reduce the size of the pool, and keep mining microblocks.  When one pool operator which already is known to deny most transactions gets to decide for themselves which transactions will go into blocks and not, Bitcoin have lost one of its most important properties.  Instead of being a distributed currency, it is a currency controlled by one malicious pool. I have no idea if it is normal or not, but you usually have to ask support for limit increases.  Both fiat and BTC.  This was written in the email I got when I verified.  Didn't you get one?I have kept my own daily BTC withdrawal limit intentionally low in case someone try to rob me.  They may get my password and my Yubikey, but their outcome will still be limited by my daily limit. There are a lot of good reasons to use MtGox.  Arbitrage for instance.  Buy on one exchange, sell on MtGox at 10% more, withdraw, repeat.  Domestic JPY withdrawals work smootly.  EUR as well, just quite slow.  No reason to be shocked about that.  People selling their coins for cheap at other exchanges is more shocking to me.  And there is day trading on MtGox, of course.  And multi-currency trading which enables you to profit even at times when BTC/USD is dead stable.  And multiple choices of APIs for bots.  And the owner and location is known.  Its not like handing over your money to some anonymous person on the street, like with some other exchanges.  And it operates legally, so you don't risk immediate closure.  Etc, but all this has been covered before.  There is no reason to be shocked. When one SEPA transfer is processed, there is a 20 day wait until they will process the next one.  If you made more than one withdrawal in a short time frame, knowing the delay is not very interesting unless you provide all the dates. Support people, including the chief of support (during Japanese working hours (which are 7 AM to 11 PM Tokyo time, it seems)), hangs around in #mtgox on freenode.  The AML line is long at the moment, so there may be a couple of weeks until they will have another look at your case.
Sida er oppe no.  Bitstamp var nede ei stund, og det kan ha lagd trøbbel for scriptet.  Skal teste litt. The reasons have been explained and discussed along with all thinkable conspiracy theories during the previous 138 pages of this thread.  Let's not start over.  Read all of it and ask yourself again if you really want to repeat it.I have high hopes for the Moneypolo withdrawal option.  Deposits are enabled already. About three weeks delay.  SEPA transfers are not affected by the new year holidays in Japan either. Here is at least one that I could remember from the end of November.  Not everyone will post about their withdrawals in this thread. 50k EUR per 20 days if you are verified on level 2.  May be better to wait for Moneypolo withdrawals.  Especially in the UK.  Deposits are already working. Nei, det er ikkje sannsynleg med mindre Justcoin opererer ulovleg.Om du er uroa over det, kan du handle av nokon som kjøper og sel direkte i staden.  Til dømes meg (bitmynt.no).  Alle bitcoin eg har er mine.  Når du overfører bitcoin til meg, har du selt bitcoin og du får pengar i retur.  Sender du pengar til meg har du kjøpt bitcoin og får bitcoin i retur.  Enkelt og greitt.  Eg tek all risiko for mine bitcoin, og du sjølv er ansvarleg for dine.  Då slepp du den risikoen Finanstilsynet omtalar.  Pengar og gjeld i norske kroner er regulert opp og ned og i mente. If you really want to see indications, you will find them.  That's how the human mind works.  It doesn't mean it is real.Yep, most of the methods TA people use for seeing the future is pure bs and doesn't work.  It doesn't matter for them, because they will just see new lines which they "missed" when the price goes in another direction than they wanted.  The methods that work only sees e.g. trend reversals after it happened, and most people should be able to see it with their naked eyes long before.I have got my own method based on a testable hypothesis which I have tested over two years using a real bot.  It actually works.  It works very well, and much better than bots using TA.  It started with about 400 NOK and made me a millionaire in less than two years.  Try that using astrology.  Or TA.  Human intuition (neural network) can be better after some training, but takes work and needs sleep.  Human intuition is what most people claiming to use TA really use.  TA is just a method they use to find reasons for their actions. Can you find it here? Yes.  There are many ways to trick other people into paying, and you probably get a phishing e-mail or two every week yourself.  I will not go into all the details here.  Just be careful.This is one of the few properties which vary depending on your local regulations and the terms of your bank account.  In some countries the bank will reverse the payment and usually close your account.  In other countries they can't do that, but will call and ask you if it is OK to reverse the payment.  If you decline, the bank may go to the police and claim you must have been involved in the fraud because you received the money.  This may get you into a lot of trouble, so be careful. That's the whole point of it.  A scientific hypothesis is required to be testable.  This usually means falsifiable.  If the test fails, the hypothesis has been proven to be false.  So far every scientific hypothesis claiming astrology to work has been proven false.  Astrology has been proven wrong in every thinkable way.No.I haven't seen any evidence that it does.  Please give just one real peer-reviewed scientific article which shows this, and which has been successfully replicated by others.  Your hypothesis is useless btw, because it isn't testable.There is absolutely no indication whatsoever that nearby or far away have any influence whatsoever on people other than the occasional hobby astronomer who stays up late to photograph Saturn or Jupiter. There is even scribblings about Pluto here, and the thousands of satellites moving around Earth at have far higher gravitational and electromagnetic influence on earthlings than Pluto!  It is easier to find a geostationary satellite with a small telescope than spotting Pluto on the sky.  If you keep your eyes on the sky you will see the satellites in polar orbits passing by all the time using only your naked eye.  Let us start with a very simple task: Find a peer reviewed scientific article showing evidence that the position of Pluto in the sky influence life on Earth in any meaningful way.I don't have any because it isn't a hypothesis.  It is nothing but a nonsensical claim.Eh?  There are plenty of ways to test astrology on Earth.  If the positions of planets had any influence on e.g. the bitcoin market, you could easily write a bot using astrology to do better than the market.  This would be easily testable by others, and a great way to test if astrology influence the bitcoin market or not.  If it works and can be replicated, it would serve as a good proof that planets have an influence.  Just an example.When there is no indication whatsoever that it is real, it is very dogmatic to believe in it.  I used to think astrology could work until I became a teenager and opened my mind to the scientific method. If it was real research published in reputable journals, yes.For Roger Nelson's "planetary aspects affect radio propagation", I can't find the original article.  When I search for it, i only find references to it along with claims that other people have been unable to replicate his results.  This is probably the reason why I never heard about him.  I am not going to waste more of my time on this unless you can provide links to real peer reviewed articles confirming his claims. Same for the other "research".You just mentioned the radio propagation articles without mentioning the fact that nobody else have been able to replicate it.  This shows some neglect for yourself in this regard, doesn't it?  You will find plenty random false positive finds in science, and plenty sensational findings.  Those are worthless as long as nobody else are able to replicate the results.  Remember cold fusion?No.  Really.  Not at all.  If he can do better than the market based on astrology only there may be something to it.  Otherwise it is just a question about good or bad feelings.  Some people have a better intuition for this than others.  Some people use their podagra to predict the market.  If one person who uses his podagra as a market indicator does better than other people, does that mean his podagra influence the market?  Or perhaps his feelings influence his podagra?  Or, most likely, he unconciously ignores his podagra alltogether but use it as an excuse for his decisions because he is unable to give a rational explanation? If astrology had any bearing whatsoever, you should write a trading bot which recalculates the planet positions every minute and trade based on it.  If you beat the market, you may have something.Astrology has absolutely no relation with science. Never heard of him.And the link to astrology is?  Ham radio operators have been using moon bounce since the 1940ies.Please find some.  Someone winning a timing award is not hard evidence.  He will have to do a blind test with people using other methods, to make sure his predictions isn't influenced by other factors.  Like the charts. Too bad you don't know what strong correlation means.  Strong correlations shows up at random all the time.  This is why we look at the data from different angles, and what do we find?  No correlation.  False positive.  There is, however, a small correlation between some mental illnesses and the time of year a person was born, especially far north and far south, but this can be easier explained by simpler means.  Like how much daylight there is at different times during the first few years.Really.  What is a proof to you then?  I'm sure there are Nobel prices waiting for people who can find better ways to prove something. Gullible is not the same as open minded.  My mind is open to any verifiable scientific proofs and conjectures you may present.  I am not easily fooled, however. I assure you with 100% scientific certainty; if anything interesting happens around those dates, either with Bitcoin or anything else in the world, it is a coincidence and in no way related to Pluto or any other planet.  You will always find something for any date.  If you don't, have another look.  This entire thread is entirely a waste of time, unless you are amused by reading bullshit.  I wish there was a way to unwatch topics I have posted in If that is the case for you, I advice you to file a complaint with the Norwegian Financial Authority (Finanstilsynet).SEPA is required by EU regulation to take maximum D+1.  If you make the transfer before your bank's cut-off time for the day, normally 14-ish, the money shall arrive no later than the day after.  In my experience SEPA transfers are often faster (hours) if your bank is a direct participant in the European interbank clearing system TARGET2.Justcoin may spend a couple of days doing their own checks, of course.Another protip: If you trade privately via SEPA, and the transfer takes longer than the expected D+1, it is probably fraud or phishing.  I reported two such cases to my bank upon reception of the money, before sending any bitcoins of course, and I was right both times. Better now than 6 months ago. This is the season for holidays.  Try #mtgox on IRC (freenode).  There is usually decent support there. Here are a few reasons:People trust MtGox.  (How anyone can trust their money to BTC-E is beyond me.)MtGox has the volume, depth and stability required to sustain large customers.MtGox is the only exchange with a well functioning multi currency market.MtGox has a very mature API, actually several, which do not look like they are designed by a 12 year old.MtGox is a truly international exchange, not just a local market.  The country with the largest user share is China with 15% of the total. Skatteetaten er pålagt å betale attende med renter dersom det ikkje var mva på sal av bitcoin likevel, og det ser eg fram til.  Alle EU-land har tolka momsdirektivet på ein annan måte enn Skatteetaten, dvs på rett måte.  Eg tvilar på at Skatteetaten vil leggje so myke prestisje i saka at dei går til EU-domstolen der dei må vite at dei kjem til å tape.  Dei kjem nok heller til å sno seg unda med at det var mva på tenester og gebyr knytt til bitcoin-handel dei meinte.
Yes, just read some of the previous posts or the support page about deposits and withdrawals.  It depends on currency and transfer method. It should arrive one of the last days of December, unless the shortage of business days around Christmas cause more delays. Det er Bitstamp som har ansvaret for å registrere seg i Noreg og betale mva.  SJå http://europa.eu/youreurope/business/vat-customs/cross-border/index_no.htmMen det er ikkje mva på sal av Bitcoin.  Det vil vere i strid med artikkel 1 i momsdirektivet, som seier at mva er ein skatt på konsum, dvs forbruk, av varer og tenester.  Bitcoin vert ikkje konsumert.  Bitcoin har ingen annan funksjon enn som bytemiddel, ergo er bitcoin eit betalingsmiddel.  Den norske definisjonen av betalingsmiddel stammar frå nokre forarbeid til mvalova gjort i 2006, lenge før bitcoin var påtenkt.  På den tida var han brukbar, men han har gått ut på dato.  Å bruke den definisjonen på bitcoin vil ikkje vere i samsvar med momsdirektivet.  Dermed kan Bitstamp og andre trygt la vere å mva-registrere seg.  Det einaste som kan vere mva-pliktig er handelsgebyret, men det er som sagt børsen ansvarleg for å rapportere inn. Eg ser at stadig fleire lastar ned heimesida med jamne mellomrom.  Sikkert for å lage fine grafar, etc.  No har eg lagd ein ticker som gjer det litt enklare.  Han kjem i tre variantar:NOK vanleg kjøp og sal: http://bitmynt.no/ticker-nok.plEUR vanleg kjøp og sal + valutakursane eg brukar: http://bitmynt.no/ticker-eur.plNOK + EUR + valutakursar + kurs for større kjøp: http://bitmynt.no/ticker.plNOK-tickeren er den raskaste.  Dei andre hentar kursar frå fleire kjelder og tek 2-3 gongar lengre tid.  Han er no uansett ein del raskare enn konkurrenten. Code:$ time wget -qO/dev/null http://bitmynt.no/ticker-nok.plreal 0m0.211s$ time wget -qO/dev/null http://bitmynt.no/ticker.plreal 0m0.466s$ time wget -qO/dev/null https://api.justcoin.com/v1/marketsreal 0m14.054s Både Politiet og Namsmannen kan stenge til dømes Justcoin, men dei treng dei veldig gode grunnar til det.  Dei kan stenge av same grunn som dei set folk i arrest og varetekt.  For å hindre at det skjer fleire lovbrot, og for å hindre at prov vert øydelagde.  Eg ser ingen gode grunnar til å stenge akkurat Justcoin, men det er viktig å evaluere den typen risiko nøye før ein ha store menger bitcoin på ein børs.Det er likevel ei sanning med modifikasjonar.  Bitmynt.no er ein annan vekslingsplattform som ikkje tek vare på bitcoin for brukaren.  Om dei stengjer ned bitmynt.no er det berre eg som kan tape på det.  Åtvaringa skulle heller vore: Ver klar over rsikioen ved å la andre passe på bitcoin for deg. Finanstilsynet har sent ut eit skriv i dag med tittelen Advarsel til forbrukere - informasjon om virtuelle valutaer.  TL;DR: "Bicoin  vi likar det ikkje."Dei har mange gode poeng.  Nesten alt har eg nemnt i min eigen FAQ, men der Finanstilsynet fokuserer på problema, har eg fokusert på løysingane.  Det som står under "Hva kan du gjøre for å beskytte deg?" kan eg godt skrive under på.Det står dessverre ingenting om kva vi har i vente av regulering, og kva dei har funne ut av eventuelle eksisterande reguleringar som gjeld bitcoin.  For skatt syner dei berre til Skatteetaten, som vi alle er meir enn litt frustrerte over. Yes, I have commented it here long ago.  CNY is not always leading, however.  The last rally from below 700 USD was actually led by EUR!  At MtGox and other EUR exchanges.  This came as a complete surprise to my bot, which is usually very good at following the right lead, and it ended up with only a tiny profit from the dip.  This is very unusual.  First time I have seen EUR lead at this magnitude.I still use it, and don't think making money makes me an idiot.  No exchange can replace MtGox for my purposes.  API, decent multi-currency support with actual volume in many currencies, etc.  It is the only exchange where I realistically can move 200,000 EUR to JPY or GBP or whatever in a day with no loss.I guess Bitstamp is useful if you are desperate for fiat and don't mind the haircut.  I can afford to wait a few weeks myself, and prefer to keep my fiat where it makes money.  If you only need a few hundred EUR to pay your bills, you can get it from MtGox just as fast as from Bitstamp. The price in JPY at MtGox is currently higher than the price in USD at MtGox, so I would assume there are quite a few users in addition to the handful of arbitragers in this forum.  The arbitragers usually press the price in JPY down, but are no longer enough to keep the price constantly below the price in USD.In other news: The number of Chinese users at MtGox and the number of users from the USSA is now about the same.  15% of the users live in the USSA, and 15% in China.  70% in other parts of the world.  MtGox is truly an international exchange.  The USD seems to have lost its status as price reference as well.  Large movements are often led by other currencies now. Begge kursar varierer.  Min kurs for større kjøp akkurat no er 5690.7454 NOK.  Beste bod på Kapiton er 4850 SEK, som tilsvarer 4564.82 NOK.  Eg kan godt kjøpe til redusert kurs dersom du ynskjer det. :-) Bitcurex is a good alternative as well, at least for EUR.  I have been making good arbitrage from MtGox to Bitcurex the last couple of days, selling at up to 10% over MtGox.Edit: I will buy directly from people at a fair price with no added fees.  Can transfer USD and other currencies as well, at a fee (about 10 USD).  Maximum 5500 EUR per trade.  No ID or registration required, except what I require to send the bank transfer. I det siste har mange kontakta meg for sal av relativt store summar.  Meir enn eg kunne handtere med det eg har på konto.  Når balansen går over ei viss grense pleier eg å overføre til utanlandske børsar, for å unngå å komme bakpå.  Eg ynskjer heller ikkje å bli utnytta til enkel arbitrasjehandel som eg like godt kunne gjort sjølv.  Difor har eg som regel avgrensa kjøp til 10 000 kroner pr dag pr person.No har eg funne ei god løysing på problemet, og kan kjøpe for mykje større summar.  Sjå http://bitmynt.no/storhandel.pl for kurs og vilkår for større kjøp.  Kursen er litt lågare enn min vanlege kjøpskurs, men er som regel likevel den beste i landet når du skal selje større mengder.Eg har hatt tilsvarande tilbod til seljarar i Europa i lang tid, og har kjøpt inn mykje på den måten.  Du får normalt pengar inn på konto neste dag, men ved stor pågang kan det ta nokre dagar.  Eg tek ingen gebyr.  Korkje handelsgebyr, uttaksgebyr, vekslingsgebyr eller bankgebyr.  Du vel sjølv når du vil selje, og får kursen som gjeld i det bitcoin-overføringa vert kjend i nettet.  Det er ingen brysom registrering av alskens personleg informasjon heller.  Eg treng berre namn og kontonummer.  Adresse, telefonnummer, fødselsnummer og skonummer kan du halde for deg sjølv. Nope.  Read again.  She says the PLN and Euro (SEPA) issue is the same.  Same bank, same limit.  PLN is a domestic transfer, Euro is SEPA. PLN is not SEPA.  SEPA is EUR only.  By definition.  Single Euro Payment Area. Er det nokon som veit kva FORENING FOR BITCOINBRUKERE I NORGE er eller kjenner dei som står bak? Eg har spurt Skatteetaten om det same for ein månad sidan, og gjort dei merksame på kompleksiteten rundt både handel frå utlandet og bruk av bitcoin i EU der det er mva-fritt.  Det er trass alt eit langt og innfløkt regelverk om samkøyring av MVA i EU og EØS.  Dei har ikkje svart.  Eg kan vedde ganske mykje på at svaret ikkje kjem i år, og sannsynlegvis heller ikkje neste år.  Neppe i 2015 heller. Interessant.  Eg har mast på Skatteetaten i flerie år for å hale ut av dei kva reglar som gjeld kring sal av bitcoin.  Brevvekslinga vår har hatt preg av ein monolog frå mi side med svært lite substansielt frå Skatteetaten, men eitt råd fekk eg på telefonen: Eg kan halde fram so lenge eg sel privat og det ikkje har næringsmessig karakter.  Dvs at so lenge eg jobbar fullt og driv med dette på hobbybasis utan at eg har vesentleg inntekt frå det, kan eg kjøpe og selje privat.Dei sa ingenting om at det var ei grense for kor lenge eg kunne halde på.  Eg har ikkje sett opp nokon vanleg nettbutikk, for eg reknar med at dei ville sjå på det som å vere av næringsmessig karakter.  Nettsida er der primært for å spare meg sjølv for dei same spørsmåla omatt og omatt.  Eg jobbar fullt i normal jobb og handlar mest på kveldstid.  Den einaste grunnen til at det kastar av seg er at kursen går opp.  Målt i bitcoin har eg ikkje forteneste.  Det gjekk i pluss ei stund, so vart halve lageret kjøpt opp på to dagar rett før kursen dobla seg, so dei kan ikkje hevde at eg driv med dette for å tene pengar.  Handelsroboten min tener pengar (og bitcoin), men alle kan då handle med valuta på børs utan å registrere seg som sjølvstendig nærigsdrivande?Då lurer eg på om det finst nokon i Skatteetaten som kan noko om kva reglar som gjeld for skatt?  Har dei gått ovr til å berre administrere kvarandre slik som resten av staten? EU-direktiv 2006/112 om eit felles mva-system, artikkel 1, svensk tekst, mi utheving:Bitcoin er ikkje meint for konsupsjon.  Bitcoin kan ikkje konsumerast, og vil aldri kunne vere siste ledd i ein slik kjede.  Bitcoin har berre eitt einaste bruksområde, og det er som betalingsmiddel.  Ergo er det ikkje mva på bitcoin.  Skatteetaten har kokt kål i tre år, og likevel ikkje klart å sjå dette. IANAL.  If the montly limit in the Payment Services Directive includes incoming transfers, I suspect those have been low in volume the last few months, which gives room for an increase in the outgoing limit.  Again: IANAL.My intention is only to find and publish facts.  My withdrawals take just as long as everyone elses.  You are welcome to support your claims with facts, which I know you can't.  I know you know that I am right, because your only defence is unfounded personal attacks.There are a lot of inclusions and exceptions that I am not mentioning.  E.g. only the European part of The Netherlands is included.  The Carribean islands are not.  Gibraltar is included.  The Channel Islands and Isle of Man are not.  Almost all of France is in, but French Polynesia are not.  I excluded some details, and I'm sorry if that offended you.  This is bitcointalk, not an encyclopedia.  You may find some posts here which are inaccurate ot exclude some detail.  (Yes, this was an understatement.) Which account (Poland or Japan) and how long ago?  It is has been more than 10 days, he should ask his bank to trace the transfer. Handelsroboten min har sin eigen konto på MtGox.  Hadde det frå før reglane vart innskjerpa til maks 1 brukar pr person, og har fått lov av MtGox til å halde fram slik.
SEPA is EU + EEA + Switzerland and Monaco.  Japan is not included.  Their SEPA bank is in Poland.  The law is called the EU Payment Service Directive.  Look it up or look a bit earlier in this thread for quotes and discussion.  Someone even called their bank and got the limit confirmed. You were the one!  Not many people trade NOK on MtGox. :-)I don't have any information on how long NOK transfers take.  Will be interesting to find out.  Please report when you receive it! Could you suggest a more secure, solid, trustworthy and legally operating exchange for a global customer base?All exchanges are known for various problems.  You don't have to announce the fact that water is wet. There is nothing you can do.  Input already spent means they have given up this attempt and are trying to cancel it by issuing a new transaction using one of the same inputs with a higher fee.  MtGox will issue a new transaction for you when the cancelling transaction goes through.  Sometimes the cancelling transaction is troublesome as well, and that's when the waiting starts getting long.. Can you find your transaction here? Because people tend to report when there are problems, not when everything is running smoothly.  There were reports a month or so back of Japanese domestic withdrawal delays of up to 4 days due to the 100 million JPY (~1 million USD) daily limit.  The pressure has decreased now, and domestic withdrawals are almost always next day.  Anyone with a Japanese bank account can confirm it, but they are probably not reading this thread. Don't bother.  Rampion is vaccinated against facts and logic.  Completely immune.   He doesn't even read this thread (or does it very selectively), just post here from time to time. This is just silly.  If you wanted BTC, you should have bought BTC, not withdrawn USD.  When you sell your BTC, you don't get any advantage of a price increase.  As simple as that.  Don't blame MtGox for your own mistake.  USD is going down the drain.  This fact has been known for a long time.  Stay away from USD and buy BTC instead. Eg har sjølvsagt gardert meg på fleire måtar, utan at eg vil gå i detalj om tiltaka.  Eg kan ikkje gjere uttak frå robot-kontoen eller pensjonsfondet heimefrå, og eit ran vil vise seg å bli ein mykje meir kompleks operasjon enn ranarane hadde førestillt seg.  Eg har drive med dette ei stund, og hugsar godt alle tjuveria av lommebøker etter det første store rallyet til over 30 dollar.  Då var det mange som lot lommebøker med "monopolpengar" liggje framme på bordet.  Ein større gisselaksjon vil sjølvsagt kunne lukkast, men då finst det mange meir lukrative mål enn meg. Then please find a law supporting this.  If I transfer money through my bank in Europe, the bank is my money transmission agent.  My bank isn't registered in the USSA either, it sends the money via SWIFT to another bank which is.  I and my bank are not bound by USSAnian funny-laws.  The end bank is, and the recipient is.Funds can only be seized in USSAnian banks and from USSAnians registrars, which is why I refuse to keep any money in banks which either have a legal presence in the USSA or default to using a bank with legal presence in the USSA as default intermediate when sending money abroad.  The first thing you should do when trying a new bank is to buy Cuban sigars.  If it works, it is OK.  If not, demand your money back and leave.Look at me trying as hard as I can to care if what I do is illegal in North Korea, USSA, China or anywhere else outside of my own country.  NO.  Read it again.  It says exactly what I claim, and the opposite of what you claim.The law regulate business in Europe, not foreign companies in foreign countries doing business with people who happen to be Europeans. This is simply not true.  Get some common sense yourself.  I have many customers from the US, and I never registered as a money transmitter anywhere.  I use banks for all my money transmitting.  Banks are licensed as money transmitters in the countries they operate in.  My own bank has not licensed as a money transmitter in the USSA either, but sends my money via banks which have.  No special licenses are needed to exchange bitcoins in my country, and I don't need any special licence to sell abroad either.  My country has a long tradition of international trade, and it is encouraged.Sorry, but I couldn't care less about US funny-laws.  I keep to the laws of my own country, and know I won't get in trouble for that. MtGox still serve customers in the USSA.  Yes, it is true that the USSA has enforced some restrictions on the movement of USD to and from MtGox, but MtGox still let people from the USSA trade and transfer bitcoins.  It is possible to withdraw USD as well, only delayed and with high bank fees.  Japan allows people from the US to start a company in Japan and get a Japanese bank account, which makes fiat restrictions a non-issue. False.  If you provide financial services in EU or in the USSA you have to register.  It doesn't make any claim regarding where your customers happens to be located.  The laws in some non-free countries restrict trading with foreigners, but this is not common in the EU. Det er heilt naturleg variasjon.  Marknaden har flata litt ut etter det voldsame rallyet i dei siste par vekene.  Volumet er lågare medan folk ventar og ser kva veg kursen tek.  Moms og skatt var like aktuelt for ei veke sidan, og då var det rekordvolum.  Sjølv hadde eg fleire hundre tusen kroner i dagleg omsetning.  Heilt greitt med litt pause no.  Om du vil ha opp aktiviteten er det berre å kjøpe og selje litt sjølv. :-) No, there is no agreement there.  I am only bound by the laws in my own country when I do my business from here, no matter who I trade with.  I can even write stuff on the internet which is forbidden in many other countries without risking arrest, because I live in a country where I can write whatever I want legally.  No court in my country will judge me based on the laws of some other country.If you live in an country where you are magically bound by the laws of other countries laws when doing trade, I suggest you get out of there.  There are a lot of strange laws around in really thick lawbooks in foreign languages, and there may be surprises in there for you.  Perhaps you broke some weird French law, and the police will come for you.  I wouldn't risk it.  Sounds like your country is trying to forbid trading with foreigners. If you do the business in the USSA, yes.  If the business is conducted in a different country, the laws of that country apply.  You will still have to follow your laws, your business partner has to follow the laws in his country of residence, and you both are bound by the laws in the country where the trade is conducted.  Laws in other countries do not magically apply to any of you. Men biletet var grusomt!No må alle donere litt bitcoin til Movemberbarten min, slik at eg føler at det hadde noko føre seg. :-)Apropos Movember-donasjon  eg sendte eit brev til Finanstilsynet i går der eg spurde om det å tilby ei slik teneste, der eg vekslar anonyme bitcoin-donasjonar til norske kroner som eg sender vidare til endeleg mottakar, vil vere ei betalingsteneste som krev nokon form for lisens eller løyve.  Det kan fort ende med at Finanstilsynet møter Skatteetaten i døra.  Vi får sjå. You can try to push it yourself and see if there is an error.  Get the raw transaction from the page and paste it here: http://blockchain.info/pushtx I just had four normal BTC transfers sent from bitcoin-qt using default fee settings take more than 24 hours.  Finnally killed them off by spending the change output of all four transactions with a huge fee to attract child-pays-for-parent miners.  So, yes.  The BTC network is somewhat overloaded.  I have never experienced such delays before.  What is your experience?There are many reasons for the delays experienced by some.  (I never had the problem myself.)  The user Delerium, who hangs out in #mtgox and updates a wiki page about the delays, made this handy page for checking delays for individual transactions from MtGox.  Transactions which are more than 2 hours delayed will show up there.  The rest will get confirmed and never show up on this list.  If anyone are interested in the reason for the delay instead of bashing people here, have a look at the list for some interesting insight.
Interessant frå advokatane, men Hegnar er som vanleg på feil jorde.  Sitat: "Dette til tross for at valutaen ikke kan benyttes til å kjøpe ekte varer og tjenester." Did you change your password recently?  There is a 24 hour withdrawal hiatus after password reset for security reasons.  It is in a FAQ somewhere.. This is a no-brainer.  You are locked to the price which you chose to sell your BTC for.  There is no "withdraw BTC as fiat" option.  MtGox will not reduce your amount if fiat if the price is lower than it was when you chose to sell. Only verified.  When I got verified I got an e-mail explaining how to increase the limit to the maximum limit for verified users, which is 10000 EUR a day, etc. An interresting article in Forbes about the difficulties Bitcoin companies in the USSA have getting bank accounts.  US banks won't deal with Bitcoin companies, and all USD transfers must go via US banks.If you live in the USSA and you don't believe in Bitcoin, i.e. you plan to exchange your bitcoins to USD at some time in the future instad of using the coins as bitcoins, you should get out now while it is still possible.  USD users should consider Bitcoin a very high risk investment. You would have had all in less than two months if you made one 10k withdrawal instead of 10 times 1k. Du skal heller ikkje undervurdere fordelen av ei djup ordrebok.  Kursen min er den same om du kjøper 0.1 eller 100.  På både Justcoin og andre børsar får du kjøpt småmynt billig, men dei siste er som regel ein god del dyrare. No, the number of bids only indicate that people want to buy BTC, and the amount of fiat on MtGox.A few other observations:Spread between MtGox and Bitstamp/BTC-E has been steadily decreasing.MtGox is slowly gaining market share over Bitstamp and BTC-E.The spread between Bitstamp (Europe/international) and CampBX (USSA) is much higher than the spread between MtGox and BitstampUSD's share of Bitcoin trades is decreasing at an accelerating rate.  About 55% now.  (In reality it is even lower, skewed by Bitstamp etc.)It looks like people in the USSA are desperate to get out while the rest of the world are buying and trading.  This pushes the price down at exchanges trading in USD (as in USD fiat, not just using USD as a one-fiat-currency-for-all like Bitstamp) while the price increases at the international exchanges.  For the rest of the world getting fiat out of MtGox is simpler, and it isn't very much of an issue anyway because people in the rest of the world are there to buy, not sell.  Prices on local international exchanges are even higher.Before the USD problems started about 30% of MtGox's customers were USSAnians.  This share is probably much lower now, and for this reason the USD problems have even lower impact on MtGox than it used to. Takk for alle attendemeldingar!I det siste har eg møtt veldig mange som ville selje og færre enn vanleg som ville kjøpe.  Det er ikkje uvanleg etter ei kraftig kursstigning.  No har eg tilpassa meg ved å justere kursmarginane mine litt, slik at det no er litt billigare å kjøpe og seljarar får litt dårlegare kurs enn før.  Justeringa er berre på 0,8%, men har hatt god effekt.  Marginane er sjølvsagt innbakt i kursane på websida.  Eg kjem til å justere marginane når balansen på konto tilseier det.  Førebels maksimalt ein gong i døgeret ved midnatt. Børsen må betale mva på eventuelle gebyr.  Resten vil eg ikkje meine noko om. More than one million USD worth of other currencies (mainly JPY) are leaving MtGox every day, and I assume some people are depositing as well.  Otherwise the price would go down, not up.  MtGox still has the deepest order book.  There are more than 24 million USD worth of bids at MtGox.  There were only 12 million USD in bids a few weeks ago.Most of the volume on most exchanges are the same money trying to buy low and sell high.  Probably more so on MtGox due to their superior API which makes them very attractive for bots, but that doesn't make the price invalid.  Bots are good.  Bots provide liquidity.Price setting has mostly happened on BTC China the last week or more, with MtGox following closely.  The other exchanges lags a bit behind, usually. Eg har ikkje fått meir svar på brevet mitt, men ein journalist tipsa meg om dette.  Det er tydeleg at Skatteetaten er på heilt ville vegar.  Formueskatt på ei teneste?  Ei teneste er noko ein utfører for andre, ikkje eigedom.  Skal eg betale formueskatt på tenester eg yter eller har motteke?  Formueskatt på kinobillettar og bussturar resten av livet?  Dei kan ikkje ha brukt snart tre år på å komme fram til ein so håplaus konklusjon.Dersom dei ser på bitcoin som ei teneste (eg er usamd men eg ser likevel at dei kan argumentere for det), då er det definitivt ikkje formueskatt på bitcoin.  Formueskatt betalar ein av eigedom, pengar og pengar som andre skuldar ein.  Det klokaste ville vere å rekne bitcoin som eit betalingsmiddel, som det faktisk er.  Då kan dei ta formueskatt av det, men ikkje mva. Problemet er vel heller at Bitcoin ikkje passar inn i definisjonane i nokon lover.  Sjølv om Bitcoin de facto er eit betalingsmiddel, er det ikkje sikkert at Bitcoin er eit de jure betalingsmiddel.  Alle reglar som gjeld for Bitcoin vil òg gjelde for alle andre tilsvarande betalingsmiddel, ja.  For Ripple er saka litt anleis.  Ripple NOK/USD/EUR er elektroniske pengar som er strengt regulert. Ripple XRP er "noko anna". No.  The outputs (your coins) are perfectly standard.  If the transaction hasn't been confirmed for 24 hours, MtGox will automatically invalidate it by double-spending one of the inputs, and try to send again using new inputs when the double spending transaction has been confirmed.  So far I haven't heard of any coins lost after a withdrawal from MtGox, but there have been a some long delays. One of the inputs have a non-standard signature.  The transaction is valid and the outputs are OK, but you will probably have to wait a little longer for a confirmation.  Most miners will regard this as a non-standard transaction and ignore it. Eg purra på saka mi for ei stund sidan, og fekk svar.  I svaret stod det ikkje eit ord om mva, men at dei jobbar med saka og eit par generelle opplysningar om skatt på forteneste og formue.  Eg ba dei om eit møte for å få ei avklåring på kva dei vanskelege spørsmåla er, kva dei kan svare på allereie no og kva konsekvensar ulike utfall av dei uavklarte spørsmåla eventuelt vil få.  Dei har brukt mange år på saka, so noko må dei ha klart å finne ut.  Vi sjå kva som skjer.  Dei vert nok ikkje ferdige i år. Kan det vere anonymt fordi vedkommande som skreiv det har slutta?  I so fall veit eg kven det er.. Det er faktisk mva på kjøp av elektroniske tenester frå utlandet.  Elles kunne vi enkelt ha omgått dette ved å registrere eit firma i Sverige og gjere handelen derifrå.Eg gjer all handel som privatperson fram til eg har fått eit vitugt svar frå Skatteetaten på spørsmåla eg sendte dei våren 2011 med oppfølgingsspørsmål i 2012.  Det er ikkje mva på handel mellom privatpersonar.  Men det tilseier at eg ikkje kan drive næringsmessig, so det kjem ingen nettbutikk frå mi side på ei stund til.  Eg driv på hobbybasis ved sidan av full jobb, utan reklame eller nokon vanleg butikk, berre sal til kontaktar via IRC og e-post, ikkje faste opningstider, osv.  Ikkje noko som kan gi aktiviteten næringsmessig preg.  Slik ikkje-næringsmessig handel kan eg drive med som privatperson.  Det var rådet eg fekk frå Skatteetaten i 2011 etter at omsetninga mi hadde passert 50000 kroner som vanlegvis er grensa for mva-plikt.Når eg les skattelova kan eg ikkje forstå at det skal vere formueskatt på tenester.  Formueskatt er det på eigedom og pengar som andre er skuldige deg (til dømes bankinnskot).  Ei teneste er noko som vert utført der og då, ikkje eigedom.  Du betaler til dømes ikkje formueskatt for kinobillettane du har kjøpt i løpet av året,  for Spotify-abonnementet eller for ferien du tok for å samle krefter til arbeid du kan gjere neste år.  Her har dei plukka frå ulike hyller for å skattleggje mest mogeleg, og juridisk held det neppe mål. Here is a nice page documenting MtGox BTC withdrawal delays and the probable reasons.  The most common reason is no fee (chosen by the user).  There are some very large transactions where the fee is too low, and some where I don't understand the reason for the delay.  Everyone who have been waiting more than two hours should be able to find their withdrawal there. Because MtGox has a superior API, superior features (e.g. multi-currency trading) and superior order book depth.  And people trust MtGox more than Bitstamp.  (Yes, really.)
Proof: They issue Ripple USD (electronic money according to 2009/110/EC) without the required license.There are grey areas as well.  E.g. Bitstamp don't think they need to be licensed as a payment provider to operate at this scale, while MtGox's attorneys think MtGox do.  MtGox operates safely by staying within limits while applying for a license.  Bitstamp may hit a brick wall if regulators decide they do need a license.  (Assuming Bitstamp process roughly the same number of fiat transactions, but their number may be significantly lower of course.) AFAIK there is no other way than to ask the recipient.  I have hard rumours of an unpublished API call to check if an address belongs to MtGox (money/bitcoin/check_recipient), but it looks like it needs special permissions or perhaps it is depreciated.  I always get the error "Must be logged in" when trying, and I do use my credentials when calling it. This doesn't mean much without more information.  If the address belong to a MtGox account, the transaction will be instant and never hit the blockchain.  (Unless you check Open transaction, which makes it go via the blockchain and require six confirmations like other deposits to MtGox.)  I'm not saying you are wrong and MtGox support is right, but we can't know that without more information.   Many people have issues getting bitcoins in to Bitstamp.  Some banks block transfers to Bitstamp.  Bitstamp chose to operate illegally without a license.  It works for them now, but nobody knows for how long.  MtGox are more careful, and decided to apply for a license instead.  MtGox will not get a licence if they operate in violation of the law when applying, so they have to keep to their limits for a little longer until the licensing process is completed. Det er Movember att.  Den månaden i året då ein kan lure på om trønderane har teke over nasjonen.  Dei er ikkje trønderar alle saman.  Mange er vanlege folk som støttar arbeid mot prostatakreft, blant anna.Eg har sett opp ei adresse der du kan donere til kampanjen.  Bitcoin-donasjonar vert automatisk veksla til norske kroner og donert manuelt av meg.  Det er heilt transparent.  Du kan sjølv kontrollere at alle transaksjonar er med og at pengane kjem fram.  Donasjonar er av natur anonyme, og dei får ekstra god kurs.  Beste bod på MtGox konvertert til NOK med siste kurs frå Noregs Bank utan gebyr av noko slag.  Eg snekra saman dette på kort tid no nettopp, og det er sikkert småfeil som må rettast, men alle donasjonar skal komme fram.Dersom det er interesse vil eg setje opp tilsvarande tenester for anonyme donasjonar til andre gode saker, til dømes Digitalt Personvern.  Problemet er at det grensar mot ei betalingsteneste, og eg må undersøke kor langt eg kan gå som privatperson utan lisens for denslags.  Min personlege overleppepryd reknar eg som ein del av mi private sfære, og ikkje næringsmessig aktivitet. Here is one from Eligius: http://eligius.st/~gateway/faq-page/faq-5I don't have any policy info from GHash.IO.  I suspect they use the same pool software with the same default settings.  You can see it from their behaviour when they find consecutive blocks on http://blockchain.info.  Both leave high priority low fee transactions in the queue.  Most other pools will reserve some space for high priority no fee transactions in each block.  While bitcoin-qt have a configured fee per kB, Eligius have their limit set at 512 bytes.  Transactions between 512 and 1000 bytes in size may get stuck for a long time, because bitcoin-qt will send them at 0 fee if the priority is high enough, and Eligius/Eloipool demands a fee at 512 bytes or more.Priority is calculated from age of inputs, size of outputs and total transaction size.  I don't remember the exact details.  There is a larger priority penalty for the input set than the output set, to encourage sending multiple outputs in one transaction. Yeah.  Like Elon Musk.  Bill Gates.  Mark Shuttleworth.  They should have attended business schools instead! My withdrawals have been 7k to 8k EUR.  Only verified account.The bitcoin network is quite congested now, actually.  I made a bitcoin transfer from bitcoind (bitcoin-qt equivalent) using default fee settings, and it took 7 hours to make it to the blockchain.  When it finally confirmed, it was probably due to one of the outputs being spent with a generous fee which paid for the parent transaction as well.  Some pools, noteably GHash.IO and Eligius, use their own proprietary fee settings, and normal transactions don't always make their standards.  Stay away from those pools if you mine.  Those pools delay transactions for their own profit (smaller blocks propagate faster, and are less likely to get orphaned), and stand in the way of further growth. Det er heilt vilt, og eg trur det ikkje før eg ser eit offisielt svar frå Skattedirektoratet.  Eg spurde om dette våren 2011 og ventar framleis på svar.  Svenske Skatterättsnämnden har vurdert eit tilsvarande spørsmål og komme til motsett konklusjon.  Svenskane viser til EU-direktiv som Noreg òg har implementert.  Alle andre EU-land som har vurdert dette har komme fram til at omsetning av bitcoin er mva-fritt. YMMV.  I usually don't transfer fiat out of MtGox.  Just BTC which I sell elsewhere at a higher price.  And MtGox is probably the exchange where I have had the least problems with BTC withdrawals.  I have had BTC withdrawal problems at every exchange I ever tried.  Bitstamp, Bitcurex, Intersango, MtGox, Bitcoin-Central.  You name it.  If I have used it, I have had problems with severely delayed withdrawals from the exchange.  The usual excuse is empty hot wallet.  Last time I had problems withdrawing BTC from MtGox was more than a year ago.I have withdrawn EUR from MtGox as well, btw.  It works.  Takes some time due to EU regulation (MtGox is not yet licensed as a payment service in the EU), but the transfer arrives eventually.  Six weeks delay currently. +1.  Arbitrage has been very easy for the last few months, but it looks as the window is closing now.  Less than 3% price difference between Bitstamp and MtGox.  People who didn't need the fiat to pay their bills could have been trading on MtGox all the time as well.  My bot has made a lot of BTC during the last few months. Six weeks.  You need to go below 400 EUR to get it significantly faster.USD have to pass through US banks, which aren't very cooperative.  I think there are still withdrawals left dating back to mid June.For other currencies in general the queue is shorter than the USD queue, but I don't know exactly how long. Don't worry about trading BTC for NZD on MtGox.  The order books are connected at +/- 2.5%.  When you sell to a bid, the bid can be in any currency. The EU Payment Service directive does not distinguish between domestic transfers and SEPA payments, as far as I can see.  Opening an account in another country doesn't help either.  The bank will probably allow it, but it will be illegal for MtGox to transfer more money to and from customers without a license, and breaking this law would be very unwise when they are applying for a license.  It applies to all money transfers within the EU.  Do domestic PLN transfers and SEPA transfers originate from different accounts, btw?  Some banks allow multiple currencies in the same account. Those are subject to the same limit as SEPA withdrawals.  Probably the same queue. 16th yesterday and 18th today.  Queue is getting shorter as predicted!  Let's hope this continues for at least a week until withdrawals from the beginning of October start processing.In other news: From reading through some #mtgox logs, it looks like MtGox's Japanese bank has a withdrawal limit as well.  About 1 million USD/day.  (Probably 100 mill JPY.)  The limit applies to USD manual withdrawals as well.  (Manual transfer requires one USD to JPY conversion, JPY withdrawal, and JPY back to USD, which is the reason for the high fee.)  The JPY volume has been close to 4 million USD worth the last week alone, and withdrawal capacity 5 million USD / week.  This means the JPY hose is running close to full capacity (practically all JPY volume has been selling BTC, buying JPY for withdrawal and arbitrage), and is the probable cause of JPY withdrawal delays and the reported delays for manual withdrawals.  I am by no means certain of this, but it does explain a few things.  It means MtGox's total withdrawal capacity is about 25 million USD/month. Yay!  A new data point, and it means the queue is moving faster again.  I was worried it would grow to more than six weeks since it took so long getting past the 13th.  Let's hope the queue shortens a bit the following week, because I fear there will be another speed bump when the payments reaches the end of the first week of October. As we can deduce from the post above, you clearly have a few problems with your senses.  You probably see ducks everywhere. WTF?  Where have I denied this?I have just stated a couple of facts.  Like the fact that MtGox has a larger market share than Bitstamp, except for short bursts of volume at Bitstamp.  This still holds.  It holds for every listed time period at bitcoinity. Where have you been the last week?  People have moved from Bitstamp to BTC China.  Where the action is.  People buy BTC at Bitstamp to move to BTC China to trade there.
It is not a fact.  It is a lie, and you know it.Very few people have to buy BTC in the first place, but some investors will rather take the market by surprise by buying a large chunk at once, than keep pushing the prices up gradually.  Depends on your strategy.  Buying a large chunk may be the cheapest way in a falling market, since a gradual buy of that much will turn the sentiment, trigger other buyers to buy and make the purchase much more expensive.I can give another reason as well: In a rising market, you will want to buy your BTC fast.  If you are in Japan, transfers to MtGox will get credited in a few hours.  An international transfer to another exchange will take days, and the price may increased more than 10% in a few days.Nevertheless your question has no relevance to the thread.  MtGox does not depend on a steady stream of deposits to operate.  Their order book contains bids for 13.5 millions USD, and this has in fact increased lately.  Which means people have plenty of money there to trade for, and deposits probably do come in.  Otherwise the number should be decreasing, since we know for sure that millions leave MtGox via EUR and JPY withdrawals every month.  MtGox has cashed in a few 100k USD in fees as well the last week, as you can calculate yourself based on the volume.Why do you keep asking this question?  Do you think it has any kind of relevance for anything related to this thread? Such an angry little boy.  Did you get bad grades in school today?Why do you keep asking this question?  It has no relevance to the topic of this thread.I can give you the answer for some.  If you want to buy 20k BTC at the lowest possible price, you have to transfer money to MtGox.  Trying to buy that much on any other exchange will push the price too high due to a shallower order book. ?  All the data I based my forecast on is from public sources.  MtGox has not contributed.I have been wrong in my volume to withdrawal time estimate.  I expected people who are doing arbitrage to withdraw as soon as possible after they had sold BTC, but it seems they are usually a day or two delayed.  The high volumes at September 9th and 11th led to a withdrawal peak from the 11th to the 13th.  This actually explains the peak at the end of August better as well. I understand that as an acceptance of the bet on my terms.  Send 1 BTC to 1Ls8R9Guguq51r1ok2xachi7XA79kkA4jQ if I win.  (Note that I agreed with you regarding SEPA and the 30 days.) Intervjuet med skattedirektøren var nok kraftig nedkorta.  Uansett har eg tenkt å sende eit brev til Skattedirektoratet i dag og purre på svar på spørsmåla eg sendte dei i 2011 og evt be om eit møte. Please tell me which law they are breaking.I have shown here which law and which exact paragraph MtGox would break if they started pushing more money through SEPA transfers without a payment service licence.  Doing that would be criminal behaviour indeed.  Doing that while the licensing process is ongoing would be very stupid as well, because it will stop or delay the process.  MtGox are trying as hard as they can to not break any laws, and this causes delays.I am not pushing any criminal behaviour, I'm just trying to find and present the facts.  Go join the conspiracy theorists here in case you have a problem with facts.  I find their minds fascinating and their fantasy endless.  I was never good at writing fantasy stories at school myself.  Making up stories is not my strength.  I tend to concentrate on what we know, and what we can deduce directly from what we know, and I think it is just as important to know what we don't know. Yes, they do.  If you file a proper report.  Don't expect anything to happen if not, unless someone's life is in immediate danger. As I suspected.  Just your usual big mouthed trolling.  You haven't reported anything, and no company will be declared bankrupt unless it is.  MtGox is obviously not. Saka er utsett ein dag og kjem ikkje før fredag morgon.  Same tid. Det er ikkje mva på handel mellom privatpersonar.  Men firma som bitcoins-norge.no har eit problem..  Sjølv har eg ei omsetning (sal til privatpersonar) som er mykje større enn Justcoin.  Eg held låg profil og kjøper og sel med minimale marginar på fritida for å forsikre meg om at Skatteetaten ikkje kan seie at eg driv næringsmessig.  Dermed er ikkje mi omsetning mva-pliktig.  Eg skulle gjerne gjort eit firma ut av det og satsa meir dersom det skatte- og reguleringsmessige fekk ei fornuftig avklåring.Mva på sal av bitcoin er heilt meiningslaust.  Det einaste bruksområdet Bitcoin har er som betalingsmiddel.  Bitcoin er ikkje ein ting.  Bitcoin representerer ingenting som vert gjort.  Bitcoin er berre tal i ei fil.  Sjølv eit kronestykkje har andre praktiske bruksområde enn som betalingsmiddel.  Det har ikkje Bitcoin.  Bitcoin er so reindyrka betalingsmiddel som eit betalingsmiddel kan bli.  Men Noreg, som einaste land til no, har altso komme fram til at Bitcoin ikkje er eit betalingsmiddel likevel.  Eg vonar skattedirektøren får tenkt seg om.Fylg med på NRK P2 frå ca klokka 7 i morgon tidleg. NRK har intervjua skattedirektøren og fått svar på MVA-spørsmålet.  I fylgje skattedirektøren er det mva på sal av bitcoin i Noreg.  Intervjuet vert sendt i P2 i morgonnyhendene i morgon, ein gong mellom 6:30 og 9:00.  Det er alt eg veit førebels.  Samstundes har Skatterättsnämnden i Sverige komme til motsett konklusjon. The SEPA delay is caused by high volume and the EU Payment Service Directive limiting MtGox to 3 million EUR worth of transfers within Europe each month.  PLN is included in this limit.I got word of a GBP wire transfer from August arriving in September, btw.  I tried to make the recipient report the details here, but he hasn't.  I can understand this perfectly well.  As soon as you report good news here you are dismissed as a MtGox shill, and many people want to keep their economy private. Can you please document that, or are you making it up?  I sent four withdrawals yesterday.  All four went straight out with no delays.  Amounts from 1.4 to 10 BTC, no fee.  Reports here supports this as well.  Delayed transactions are exceptions.This is not an error, it is a feature.  Transactions which have been waiting for more than 24 hours are cancelled by a double spending transaction, and then tried again.  Read my explanation earlier in this thread.  Do you have any idea what capital control means, or was that just a fancy phrase that popped out of your head? Median is pretty much instant.  Average delay is very low, but there are a few outliers which go to the extreme.  Sometimes days.  I have explained the bug in an earlier post in this thread.  It depends on the fee of course, like all bitcoin transactions. It is mentioned in the FAQ on the support pages.  Isn't it linked somewhere?  It used to be. Latest reported received SEPA withdrawal is from September 12th. This is the best they can do legally without licensing as a payment service provider in the EU.  The limit is 3 million EUR / month.  The licensing process is ongoing, but takes 6 months to a year.  It is very expensive as well, and they couldn't afford it until this year. Nei, du må leggje til kontoen på nytt med EURO (SEPA) som overføringsmetode.  Elles sender du EUR som international wire.Merk at ventetida no er oppe i fem veker. :-( Do you see it here?  Just convert it to hex (base64 decode), and you will see your address (in hex) in on of the transactions.  Decode it and check the inputs, etc. This is not true.   I received an EUR transfer myself on Thursday, and domestic JPY is pretty fast.  USD transfers are either extremely delayed or very expensive.Unless you want to sell them for EUR or JPY and withdraw the fiat, of course.  You will get much more for your bitcoins at MtGox than almost anywhere else.  Or trade, of course.  I made a pretty sum myself yesterday.
The conspiracy theories run high here.There is a bug here, and "network congestion" is in fact not a bad way to put it without going through the whole technical explanation.  Remember that MtGox don't use bitcoind to process bitcoin transactions other than for block validation.  It just doesn't scale to the amount of addresses they have (primarily) and transactions they have to keep track of.Sometimes transactions take a very long time to confirm.  E.g. due to sending a small transaction without fees (user error), or (the BUG) trying to use a coinbase transaction with less than 100 confirmations.  Sometimes transactions fail to confirm for reasons I can't explain either.  You can get all og MtGox's unconfirmed transactions which are at least 2 hours old from the URL below, and use it to verify my claims.  It is updated every 20 minutes: https://data.mtgox.com/api/0/bitcoin_tx.phpWhen a transaction isn't confirmed after ~24 hours, MtGox tries to solve it by issuing a high fee transaction to itself where it spends one or more of the inputs of the unconfirmed transaction.  This will invalidate the unconfirmed transaction.  When the invalidating transaction has 6 confirmations, MtGox will issue a new transaction for the withdrawal, and this usually confirms at once.  But due to the coinbase bug, this may also be a troublesome transaction.  (The reason why support will ask you to wait 24 hours.)Usually the list of unconfirmed transactions is short (~100 micropayment transactions with no fees).  This is rebroadcasted in longish intervals, but a rebroadcast doesn't help much because miners don't even forward those transactions with no fees.  Much less mine them.  When the list get very long, this becomes a bottleneck ("network congestion").  And it does for several reasons.  The main reason is the coinbase bug (known for a long time, and they should rally get this fixed), which leads to cancellation transactions, and when the cancellation transaction doesn't confirm, there will be another, etc.So this is just a bug, not a form of capital controls.  AFAIK everyone have received their BTC withdrawal eventually.  But I am sure you conspiracy theorists won't let facts affect you.On the other hand it is Sunday today.  Sunday is MagicalTux's coding day.  Let's hope fixing this bug is on top of his TODO list. You can get the full order book from the API.  Currently there are more than 5k offered at over 300 USD. Bitstamp had 10k asks as well not long ago.  Far from that now.  When the price goes up, it is normally because the asks are being bought so there are less left to buy.  I assumed most people knew this..  21k BTC left in asks on MtGox now.  Total. Ehm..  Did you notice the scale on the left? Some pools, e.g. Eligius, use the coinbase tx to send rewards to miners.  A miner can get the reward sent directly to an exchange, but outputs from the coinbase tx won't be valid as input until it has has at least 100 confirmations. Most likely not.  When that happens, you will get an error message.Most likely there was a problem with the transaction itself (as created by MtGox).  MtGox tries to fix this automagically after a while (a rather long while, 24 hours I think) by double spending on of the inputs, thus invalidating the original transaction.  When the double spending transaction has six confirmations, it will try to send again using new inputs.  This has happened quite often recently.  I haven't figured out what the real bug is.  Their transactions seem perfectly OK to me.You can fetch all transactions which has gone unconfirmed for more than 2 hours through the API here: https://data.mtgox.com/api/0/bitcoin_tx.php Most of their profit has either been seized by DHS (5.1 million USD) or stolen by Peter Vessenes (5.3 million USD).  Peter Vessenes stole user deposits, but MtGox has credited their users in full and are trying to get their money back from Peter Vessenes. Almost 5 weeks. There is a misspelling in the letter.  It says "Thank you for using Chase" where it should say "Fuck you for using Chase". I doubt it is illegal to place third party fees (e.g. bank fees) on the user requesting the withdrawal.  Does your bank cover all intermediate bank fees for you when doing international transfers?  The ToS agreement is between you and MtGox in Japan, btw.  Not MtGox in Delaware or Poland or whatever. Is an edited screenshot worth more than my word?  I obviously have to edit out all personal information, and while I'm at it I may edit anything.  Which I will be accused of anyway, so I'm not going to bother.  Either you trust me or you don't.  I am buying btw (EUR or USD, price here). The SEPA queue is just below 5 weeks now.  Don't think it has been up to 6, at least not since June. 31.4k BTC (36.7k now) is what's left in asks in the order book, and this number decreases because people have been buying a lot of BTC lately.  You may have noticed the price increase.  When you buy BTC, the BTC you bought will disappear from the order book (the ask side) and go into your balance.  The total balance isn't public.  It is obvious that the amount in bids have increased as well.  It as below 11 million a week ago.  I doubt people have deposited 2.5 million USD to MtGox the last few days, so I guess this number is taken from public bids in the order book.  You probably know that people can keep an USD balance on MtGox without placing it all in public bids, so this is a sign of people shifting from selling BTC to buying BTC, which is typical for a rally.  You can see the same happening on all exchanges.USD are leaving, just very very slowly.  USD is a convertible currency, and many people convert their USD to EUR or JPY and withdraw through that route.  3 million EUR (~4 million USD) is leaving each month via SEPA.  JPY comes in addition to this, and is likely more.  At the same time the order book (bids) doesn't seem to shrink much.  This fascinates me.  It should be possible to empty MtGox in four months on EUR withdrawals alone, and much less when you add JPY.  Either new deposits are coming in, or there are a lot of balance on MtGox which is not currently visible in bids.  Same thing probably for asks. Correct.  I received an EUR withdrawal today.   MtGox are very careful of what they say in public due to the ongoing case with the DHS and the process with FinCen.  It is a delicate situation.  I am sure relevant government representatives get all the information they request.  Care to tell what your question was? It is difficult for US customers.  The problems were created by the US government in the first place (no more redeemable codes for fiat, no more LR, no more Dwolla, etc), so please complain to your government/congressman/president/neighbour.  MtGox have very limited options to transfer USD, and have to be very careful not to abuse their options because abuse may interfere with their application to become a payment service.  It is possible to make a express manual withdrawal for a 5% bank fee (very limited, available at MtGox's discression), or just wait it out.  Trade while you wait, and you may make more USD to withdraw when it is back to normal. Thanks!  My own 8k SEPA withdrawal from September 11th changed to pending today.  I will have it in my account tomorrow.  On schedule.  The EUR volume between September 11. and October 4. has been lower than normal.  I expect MtGox to process up to two days of withdrawals per day for the next week or so, catching up two weeks of withdrawals in one week.  Note: This is just a forecast.  I am not affiliated with MtGox, and have no other basis for my prediction than public trade information. True, but i doubt "user pays fees to third parties" is illegal.  To murder someone is illegal under most circumstances.  To pay a fee is not.  If paying fees is illegal, you may have a case against all Bitcoin exchanges and most banks as well. Excuse?  This is just a fact, no excuse.  There is simply no reason for MtGox to lie about this, and I've heard people complaining about even higher bank fees for international wires.  I sell small amounts for PPUSD on #bitcoin-otc, and people buy seriously overpriced coins (mtgask + 10% + pp fees) to avoid even higher bank fees.Why do you ask questions I already answered after the post you quoted, and multiple times before? No, I am not affiliated with MtGox in any way more than you are.  Just finding facts and trying to help while keeping my feet on the ground.
Suing a company for keeping to their own ToS which the user accepted?  Only in America.. Their bank demand this unreasonable (I can agree to that) fee to transfer the money, and it is written in MtGox's Terms of Service (which you accepted, remember?):You don't have to.  You can withdraw by another method or wait for better times.  (Who wants USD anyway?  USD will be worthless in just two days.)  I do not work at MtGox, and have no influence over their web pages, Facebook pages, etc.  MtGox will probably announce it there when it is ready.  I have asked them to give more accurate and honest withdrawal times on their web pages many times.  So far they haven't done so, and I try to collect the information I can get from various sources and publish it here.  My information will not be 100% accurate, but I think I am more precise than the official information from MtGox. Just bringing this here for completeness, since a few people are interested in domestic JPY delays as well.  From #mtgox today:Code:11:33 <@MagicalTux> we just met with the bank for domestic transfer today11:33 <@MagicalTux> within 2 to 3 months we'll be able to offer realtime                     transfers in Japan (you press a button on mtgox.com, the                     next second your account is credited)No news about international wires.   Really?  The whole DHS thing is a hoax?  Please elaborate! I just got an update from MtGox.  They claim to be processing the rest of the 10th and begin on the 11th today.  Which means they are ahead of my forecast.  Please post if you have any SEPA withdrawals still in confirmed state from before September 10.Updated forecast:I still expect the 11th to take two days to process, which means it will be done tomorrow or Thursday.  The rest of September is a smooth ride.  I expect them to be processing October withdrawals by the end of next week. Please let us know when you get it, and I'll update my forecast. Here it is!.  Article 26.  Feel free to read all of it.  A short quote of the most interesting part:3 million EUR per month =~ 100k EUR / day maximum.  Who is lying?  At least MtGox agrees with the EU Payment Services Directive 2007/64/EC. Depends on a lot of things.  The directive is full of exceptions, pointers to other legislation and grey areas.  I will have a look at it some day, but IANAL.  I may be wrong.  Feel free to get a professional opinion.Edit: Norwegian law has the same exception as the Polish law, and aproximately the same monthly amount.  It refers to the EEA, so I assume it is EU legislation made valid in the entire EEA.  I can only find it in Norwegian: http://www.finanstilsynet.no/no/Bank-og-finans/Betalingsforetak/tilsyn-og-overvakning/Krav-til-konsesjon/ Probably not.  MtGox is not a PSP, so it wouldn't apply to them anyway.  Limits for companies which are not PSP may apply to MtGox.Of course not.Please let me know when you find something relevant in there.You should call their bank and tell them. If I had any reliable sources, I would post them, and IANAL.  Here article 118 states a limit of 500k EUR/month, but I don't know if it applies.  At least one person pretending to be a lawyer has posted in this thread, and may be able to explain the basics. You are comparing the limits of a personal account, which is ment for personal payments, to a company which process payments on behalf of users, and has to stay below the limits for when it becomes a payment service according to various EU directives and Polish law.  IIRC the limit is 500k EUR/month which should make MtGox's limit only 25k / business day, but there must be a loophole which enable MtGox to do transfer more than that.  I haven't had time to look into the laws myself.  IANAL. The people posting here are probably just kidding then? Are you dense?Rad the post earlier in this thread where someone called the bank and asked about MtGox's limit. 13908.586 equals 141.4634 USD according to the last currency rates from ECB.  MtGox takes a 2.5% currency conversion fee when selling in one currency to a bid in another (this is transparent to the user, JPY sellers see the price as 13908.586 JPY), and 13908.586 + 2.5% converted to USD is exactly 144.99998 USD.  Fits perfectly. Why didn't you quote my next sentence as well where I address this issue?Two weeks is the lowest delay for SEPA transfers > 1000 EUR in more than a year.  The delay is back to five weeks now, which is the same as in May.  The delay is quite predictable based on EUR volume at MtGox, and the cause for SEPA delay is the same as it has always been. You fail in two ways.  1: The fiat is already there.  They don't need more fiat in to process withdrawals.  Which is also proven by 2: Domestic JPY withdrawals work fine and EUR withdrawals via SEPA works as it always has.  I.e. slow but predictable due to a daily limit. Many people have.  You may have noticed the increasing JPY volume on MtGox with corresponding volume increase on other exchanges.  People with Japanese bank accounts make good money on arbitrage. Correct. Withdrawal of JPY to a Japanese account takes about 2 business days.  Many people can confirm this.
Japan.  The US authorities have been making most of the trouble in the first place, and hold the key to solving them.  The best would be to report the US authorities to the US authorities, or perhaps the Japan authorities or both.  Its a mess.I don't know if they have anything similar to class action in Japan.  Btw, if you are going to Japan to show up in court, you may use the opportunity to get a Japanese bank account and withdraw your money. I don't know if there is such thing as a class action in Japan. If you are going there to sue them, why don't you make a Japanese bank account and withdraw your funds while you are there? Bitcurex with BCC VISA card?  I have been using Bitcurex for years.  They never asked for any papers.  You can trade directly in EUR as well.  No currency conversion fee. Yes, no doubt about that.  8 M USD between April and August this year, and as you discovered yourself, half a mill in normal trading fees during the past 30 days.  In addition to this there have been much mixed currency trading the last month.  E.g. people selling BTC for JPY to bids made in another currency.  MtGox takes 2.5% for the currency conversion.  Most EUR and JPY volume was mixed currency.  Before April they didn't have much profit, but accumulated BTC fees from their early days is > 100k BTC which can be sold in an emergency.  This alone can cover the entire amount stolen by Peter Vessenes or seized by DHS.I'm an optimist. I don't think you quite understand how bitcoin exchanges work.  The balance of fiat/BTC inflow will only affect the price.  Not MtGox's reserves.The person who bought bitcoins for 1000 USD must have deposited those 1000 USD (i.e 1005 USD) at some time.  Or previously sold at least 1005 USD worth of coins to someone else who deposited 1010 USD.  People can't buy BTC unless they have deposited fiat at some time, or sold BTC to someone who deposited fiat. MtGox is on top of this one as well.  80.68%.  And it is interesting to note all the exchanges coming, growing and disappearing suddenly.  Some of them are missing.  It looks like btcchina may be overtaking Bitstamp as number 2 soon.I am just pointing out the fact that MtGox still is the largest exchange by volume.  Many people have contested that, and they are wrong.  Volume spikes on specific exchanges will shift the balance for a short time, of course. MtGox is back on top for all listed time periods now. Small amount perhaps?I didn't quite understand that question.  100% reserve is what they have because people can't spend more money than they have deposited.  MtGox do not depend on a steady income of deposits to keep up the reserve.  In addition to this, MtGox has revenue from trading fees and currency exchange fees. This theory doesn't check out with known facts.  The bank problems started before the 5M were frozen, and 5M is less than MtGox's profit for the first half of 2013. No, I don't.  I am not affiliated with MtGox in any way, except as a normal user.  I don't do any more work for MtGox than you do. I have no idea.  Why do you keep asking this?  This is not a point, it is a question.  I am not a shill, btw.  You would know that if you bothered to read my posts. Correct.  My predictions refer to when the withdrawals were made, and when during the following seven days people can expect to receive them (today through Friday 18th).  The last two sentences is an attempt of a long term forecast with no exact days given.  Perhaps the last sentence is clearer if you modify it to: I expect a huge speed bump when processing withdrawals made during the first few days of October. Depends.  If you can withdraw JPY to a Japanese domestic account you are good to go.  You will have your money early next week.  If you can withdraw EUR via SEPA you may be good as well, depending on how long you are willing to wait.  Currently it takes about 5 weeks for a withdrawal > 400 EUR and < 30k.  10% interest for 5 weeks isn't bad.  Unfortunately you can't withdraw more than 30k in one go with SEPA, and your next withdrawal will start in the back of the queue when your first is finished.  The last option is the manual withdrawal.  It isn't officially announced anywhere, and is a limited option offered at MtGox's discretion for high amounts.  There is a 5% bank fee associated with it, which is still much better than selling on another exchange currently. I will try to make a SEPA withdrawal time forecast based on EUR volume and my experience of how it affects delays.  Here is my first attempt.This is for SEPA only, and withdrawals > ~500 EUR.  Smaller amounts may be faster.  JPY is known to be about 2 days, and international wire is about forever.  My forecast estimate when your withdrawal will change from confirmed to pending, and you will receive it the next business day.My forecast:Withdrawals made on or before September 5th are out or going out today.  Withdrawals made on September 6-8 will go out today or Monday.  September 9th will take more than one day to process.  I expect it to be done on Wednesday or Thursday along with withdrawals made on the 10th.  September 11th will take at least two days as well.  The first will probably go out on Friday, i.e. in one week from now.  When withdrawals from September 11th are done, it will be a smooth ride with shortening SEPA queue until we start working on withdrawals made in the beginning of October.  I expect a huge speed bump in the first few days of October.Please report when your withdrawals arrive, and I will use your feedback to see if I can make a better forecast.  (Or if I am completely useless at this and should find something better to do. :-) Ikkje overraskande, dessverre. :-(I breva eg har sendt har eg spurt om meir enn berre mva, og eg har venta på svar sidan våren 2011.  Dei jobbar etter det eg forstår med å samordne seg på europeisk nivå, og der går ikkje prosessen spesielt fort.  Eg kan ta kontakt med dei att for å høyre korleis det går med saka. They did?  Do you have a reference?EUR withdrawal via SEPA and domestic JPY withdrawal has worked normally all the time, with a few hickups for JPY.  SEPA delay is about the same as it was in May, for exactly the same reason as a year ago, and changes are predictable from the volume.  To me it screams "they have problems sending international wires" and "they have a daily quota on their SEPA transfers".  If they were broke, they wouldn't be able to send any payments.I am not affiliated with MtGox in any other way than most of the people here.  I am a normal user, and that's all.  People should give a damn because I actually investigate things and check facts instead of posting pure speculation based on rumours and hot air. Because if you take a quick look at the numbers, it is not possible.If you build your opinion on known facts instead of whatever pops into your head, you will find this very unlikely.Beats me. They are working on that.  To do this properly they have to get licenced as a financial business, which cost a lot of money and takes six months to a year.  They couldn't afford the licencing costs until this year.  If we assume they started in April (should be able to afford it then) and it takes six months, this might be the core of the announced announcement.Creating multiple bank accounts (like finding a new bank that want to do business with a bitcoin exchange is easy) to work around the limitation isn't going to help them get a proper license. No, the only logical explanation has been posted in this thread about 20 times.  They have a daily qouta in their bank, a specific daily amount, in outgoing SEPA transfers.  Instead of letting a portion of their quota be unused every day, they fill the holes with small amounts when they can no longer fit the next transfer in queue.  If the next transfer in queue is 7k EUR, and they only have 5k left on their daily quota, they start grabbing smaller transfers from the queue until the quota until it is completely filled.  This is a sign of MtGox trying to pay as much as possible, which they wouldn't do if they were broke.  (And please read previous postings before asking about the quota  the subject has been thoroughly discussed, someone called their bank and got it from them as well, etc.) If you transfer 10 EUR to Bitstamp right now, you get 13.508, and if you withdraw 13.508 USD you get 9.9192 EUR according to the rates published in their API.  I.e. just over 0.4% spread.  My bank has half this spread for currency conversion in international or SEPA wires.  (Some banks, e.g. Scandiabanken have terrible currency conversion rates.  Beware!)  I have an EUR denominated account as well to avoid the currency conversion when trading in EUR.  E.g. when doing arbitrage from MtGox.I just had a look at http://data.bitcoinity.org/#caaaabcfba.  MtGox is on top of all listed periods except for 3d (Bitstamp on top) and 10m (btcchina on top when I checked).When I asked for the latest SEPA delay numbers today, I was told I couldn't get them until Monday because of ... good news.  I don't know what the good news are, but expect them to be about withdrawals.  I didn't get an exact date for the news to be released either.  As far as I understand they are about to take the very last step to something big, and have delayed other news and upgrades until this is finished.  People aren't going to regard any news as positive unless they deliver faster withdrawals, so there is no point in releasing any until this problem is fixed.
I know.  This is their biggest shortcoming.  They should really do something about it.  Now there is an extra conversion fee of 0.4% to deposit or withdraw EUR, and in addition to this there is the uncertainty of the USD value. :-(Yes, but I am sure you understand this is a meaningless comparision.  You compare one exchanges total volume to another exchange's volume in one single currency.  This is extra pointless now that people are getting out of USD for obvious reasons.No, I never wrote that.  I do not think Bitstamp should report in any other way.  Just that people should keep this in mind when comparing volumes.  Bitstamp's USD volume is artificuially inflated by the way the exchange works, while MtGox report actual volume in all currencies separately.Yep.  Bitstamp's failure to implement proper multi-currency trading is quite expensive for their customers.  (The SEK/EUR conversion rate you get in your bank is bad, btw.  I'm sure you can find a cheaper one.)  And you are forced to keep your assets in USD or BTC, and have nowhere to run if you expect BTC to fall and USD to drop heavily on Monday morning.  Your only rescue is to buy BTC and transfer your BTC to MtGox to sell for another currency.Of course.  But I hope you agree that comparing USD volume on Bitstamp with the USD volume of an exchange where you can trade BTC against multiple currencies is completely meaningless.  You are comparing total volume with an arbitrary share of the total volume.  Comparing Bitstamp USD volume with MtGox USD volume is equivalent with comparing Bitstamp USD volume with MtGox JPY volume or MtGox SEK volume. Interresting  if you chose any other time period, MtGox comes out on top.  And it is closer to 29% than 28%.  It doesn't include all currencies on MtGox either, but the volume in the missing currencies is so low I doubt it matters. It would be interresting observation if it was accompanied with an interresting analysis, and not a statement which is wrong: Yes, the USD keeps falling.  People seem to flee away from the USD where it is possible to do so.  On MtGox as well.  If you sell BTC because you expect the price to fall in a few days, you don't want to sit on a different currency which is even more likely to fall. I know very well what random means, thank you.  By choosing a smaller sample you amplify randomness.You are still comparing apples and bicycles.  Why do you include European trading on Bitstamp, but not on MtGox?  Why do you include Japanese trading on Bitstamp, but not on MtGox.  Because if you did, you wouldn't get the number you wanted, right?The largest exchange in the world is Room77 in Berlin.  No other exchange trade that many BTC against burgers every day.  No, wait!  I have larger volume than all other exchanges in the world trading NOK/BTC, so all the rest are tiny compared to me.  Even MtGox.  See, by choosing an arbitrary metric I can skew the numbers any way I want. So far I have been able to withdraw EUR via SEPA and BTC, and this cover all my needs.  I usually sell BTC locally at higher than MtGox price instead of withdrawing fiat.  Saves time and fees.  Better sell at a profit than pay a fee to wait for the banks. If you pick ten 24 hour samples by random, MtGox will lead most of them.  One 24 hour sample is hardly worth mentioning.  I have had days with higher volume on my simple OTC exchange (see sig) than CampBX and a lot of smaller exchanges.  This doesn't make me bigger than them.  If you take hourly volume, my volume has been higher than Bitstamp as well.  This does not make my exchange bigger than Bitstamp.  It is just a random fluctuation, and IMHO completely not interresting.BTC-E have multiple markets with separate USD and EUR volumes.  Not interconnected the same way as MtGox, but still more than one currency.  Bitstamp converts everything to USD at a fee of ~0.4%, and the same fee when converting back.  It is not possible to convert by trading on the exchange, so if you think the USD value is going to fall (more or less certain as long as the worthless creatures in the USSA Congress are on strike), you have to get your funds out of there.  At a fee.  On MtGox you can easily convert your USD and trade forex as well as BTC.  Even USSAnians can do that.Your illustration of MtGox losing US business isn't working very well.  Many people trading in USD on any exchange are not USSAnians, and many people trading other currencies on MtGox are.  Getting a JPY account to do fast arbitrage has become increasingly popular among USSAnians as well. Rate or volume?Anyway you made at least three mistakes:1. Arbitrary 24 hour period.  Look at the volume over time to get a real number.  30 day here: http://bitcoincharts.com/charts/volumepie/2. You are comparing apples and bicycles.  On some exchanges all the volume is counted as USD.  MtGox has a working multi-currency exchange.  This is their main feature.  If you deposit EUR and buy or sell and withdraw EUR, the trade will be reported as EUR.  Some other exchanges (noteably Bitstamp) will report this as USD.3. To compare exchanges, you obviously have to use their total volume.  Not some arbitrary currency. LOL!  Come back after a couple of months when you have learned something we grown-ups call addition.  To find total MtGox volume, you have to add the volume of all the currencies together. I cut the irrelevant part.  If you take an arbitrary 24 hour period, you can prove anything.  I've had larger 24 hour volume on OTC trading than CampBX on many days.  It doesn't mean my OTC exchange is larger than CampBX.Try this average from the last 30 days:  http://bitcoincharts.com/charts/volumepie/ You don't see the facts, you mostly make them up in your own mind.  Like that 10 million USD hole of yours.  Completely ignoring the fact that MtGox made huge profits this year.  Completely ignoring what we know about Japanese banking.  Completely ignoring what we know of all the withdrawal methods that went away.  Etc.  You make up your own set of assumptions, ignoring most facts.There you go.  If I cooked up my books by only writing down my expenses and not my income, how true picture would it make of my economy?  I would be very broke, that's for sure.How can this not be true?  Their number of customers increased from ~10k to 600k in less than a year, while at the same time all alternative withdrawal options disappeared one by one.  MtGox executed half of the number of international wires in the second largest bank in Japan.  And I don't need to repeat what Japanese have written here in this thread about the Japanese banking system.  Most of their customers are not experienced in international trade and international bank wires, and 1 of 10 wires were returned due to wrong or incomplete information.  This generate a lot of work for the bank.  In my bank I get punished by a 60 USD fee if a wire is returned.I can send money if I have it, but my bank wouldn't be able to cope if I tried to send 1000 international wires a day and 100 of them bounced.  My bank would kick me out.  For sure.This is 100% pure speculation from your part.  I would believe it if I heard it from their Japanese bank.Because deliberately mistyping my name is very serious indeed. Like promised.  The emergency withdrawal option is very limited.  There is probably a queue on that one as well now.Your mouth is big, your documentation non-existing, you are making up holes, and you fail to explain anything in a way that makes sense. Which planet have you been living on for the last three years?  This problem is not unique to MtGox.  40% of all exchanges have been forced to close in full or partly due to problems with banks.  MtGox has had at least three bank accounts closed.  (+ their PayPal account.)MtGox can process your deposit in EUR (via SEPA) next day, or JPY in Japan in 2-3 hours.  Please ask Bitstamp how their withdrawal time is possible, but their volume is much smaller than MtGox's.  This is probably an important factor.  Bitstamp had problems recently as well, with banks refusing to transfer deposits.  Full verification of identity is now a requirement to trade there. For their superior API, a decent multi-currency market (this is where I make most of my profit) and arbitrage against other exchanges.  I received an EUR withdrawal in September (took about two weeks), domestic JPY withdrawals take less than a week and BTC withdrawals are usually pretty much instant.  MtGox is still the largest exchange by far, in almost every currency, for good reasons.It is about time they find a solution to the international wire problem, however. Ouch.  This means SEPA delay is approaching May levels at five weeks or more.  There was very high EUR volume on MtGox on August 27th, 30th and 31st, and higher than normal EUR volume the entire first week of September.  Looks like a lot of this resulted in withdrawals.  September 9th and 11th had high EUR volume as well.  The rest of September is more normal.  I hope the situation improves.  Unfortunately I probably have to wait another two weeks for my September 11th withdrawal. :-(There will be an announcement with good news from MtGox this month.  I don't think people will be amused unless the good news are about withdrawals.  From #mtgox:Code:--- Day changed Fri Oct 04 201314:13 < ardana555> so when can we expect some new news on mtgox?14:36 < marionxd> ardana555: During this month14:36 < ardana555> marionxd: how do you know for sure?14:48 < marionxd> ardana555: because I am working at mtgox maybe14:49 < ardana555> marionxd: what information will there be in the announcement?14:49 <@marionxd> ardana555: You will see in the press release :014:49 <@marionxd> But good news ^^ SEPA or international wire?  If it is a standard international wire, it is going to be slow.  AFAIK there are still some left from June. Because, and I think you already know this, banks are not very happy with Bitcoin.  They had a hard time finding the Poilish bank after getting thrown out of France.  (Not thrown out, but the bank imposed impossible limits and prices.)MtGox are licensing as a proper financial institutuion in Europe.  When this work is completed, everything will become much easier.  This licensing is very expensive and takes six months to  a year.  They couldn't afford it until this year. All my manual trading is for arbitrage.  If you manage to lose money on arbitrage trading, you are doing it horribly wrong!  I have a bot on MtGox as well.  It has been making very good profit riding the waves today. :-)I have a long position as well, but I am not doing any minute to minute profit calculations on that one.  When I got into Bitcoin in August 2010, I mined and saved some of my mined blocks in what I call my pension fund.  Probably spent a kWh or two on each block on a computer which used to search for Mersenne primes, which means I actually saved money because mining consumes less energy (no FP ops).  I expect to sell those with profit in 30 years or so, and if Bitcoin falls to 0 I have lost nothing but the microscopic chance of finding a Mersenne prime on my computer. :-) See previous discussions about checks in this thread. In a legal way which scales to 600000 customers?  How? Did you receive the money today?
Friday is the last I heard of.  There may have been no new USD wire transfers since Friday, but I doubt I get to hear about them all.  A lot of first hand reports of USD wire transfers since June in this thread as well, btw. Of course not.  Is it still in confirmed state?  Since August when?MtGox has some problems, I have no problems admitting that, and have spent quite some time here on this forum documenting their problems.  But it is still the largest bitcoin exchange by far.  MtGox has 2/3 of all registered trading volume in EUR. I feel a disturbance in the force.  Based on hearsay, perceived optimism and speculation based on some recent developments.For the international wire situation to improve, other popular withdrawal methods have to be added.  I don't think any bank would take on a company like MtGox with 600k high risk customers using international wires on a regular basis as a customer.  The wire load must be reduced, and the only way I can see them do that is by adding new methods.Noticed that OKPay deposits are back?  Have a look at the wording here: OKPay is offering a solution, but in the meantime ...  I.e. the shutdown is temporary until MtGox can implement the solution offered by OKPay.  Looks like this has been done, at least partly, because the meantime is over for deposits.  Hopefully for withdrawals as well soon.  And there is a new bank for JPY domestic transfers, which means development for banking as well.I just hope the government shutdown in the USSA (is the Congress some kind of hospital for the mentally deceased?) doesn't stop the MtGox/CoinLab case from making progress.  For now this may be in the way of getting any other partners in the USSA. There was a heavy DDoS earlier today.  Not MtGox's fault.  End of August should be out now.  You should ask support if there are any problems with your withdrawal.  Last time I checked (Friday, I think) there were only a few left from August 31st.Terribly stupid time to lose your patience.  Your money are right around the corner, and you will lose at least 13% of the value by this method (including fees).  But please don't let me stop you or give you second thoughts about this.  Your loss will become my profit.  Depends on method and size.  See my previous posts for all details. I don't think anyone here suggested anything like that until you did.  However many people insist that international wires are fully automated in modern banks.  When even domestic transfers are based on signatures on paper, I find it hard to believe that international wires are fully automated in the same banks.  (And I don't know of any bank where international wires are fully automated.) So what?  Online doesn't mean "no fax".  There may be, and probably are, different procedures and requirements for business and personal accounts.  Many online only banks around here only offer personal accounts. It used to be faster until the beginning of June this year, and could be now as well if MtGox manage to fix their international wire problems.  The limited manual transfer at 5% fee has always been faster. No.  Their Japanese bank offer this manual transfer at a high fee, and you can't send a SEPA transfer from Japan.  You can send EUR as an international wire, of course. Complete and utter BS.  The Bitcoin network isn't doing a single FLOP.  It only does integer operations.  I don't know how or why bitcoinwatch.com cooks up his number, but it makes no sense whatsoever. Bidding high early makes sense.  If you think the price will end at 20, then be the first to bid 20, and you will be the last at 20 to be pushed off the list in case the price go even higher.  If you are among the late at 20, you may have to bid 21 to get back on the list.  Likewise it makes sense to bid 19 now if you are among the last to bid 18.  No point in being among the last at 19 as well. Norway is missing from your list.  Switzerland is on your list, but not a member of the EEA.  Switzerland and Monaco are part of SEPA however, if that matters. Regarding SEPA, yes.  Their  limit will not change until they have completed their registration as a financial institution.Regarding other fiat withdrawal option, I expect most of their problems will be resolved within a month, and the fastest fiat withdrawal option (except domestic JPY and manual express international wire) to take less than a week before Christmas.  I'm willing to bet 1 BTC on this. I have two reports of two successful withdrawals from IRC.  I asked them both to report here so the information would be first hand.  Both wanted to wait until Monday to have the full details of the transfer (e.g. originating bank).People are quick to complain when their withdrawal is late, and not so quick to report the good news when their money arrive. SEPA transfers take D+1 days, not minutes.  The explanation for SEPA delays can be found earlier in this thread (someone even called their bank to hear it from them), and everyone else are bored by hearing it over and over.  SEPA has been delayed for the same reason since they changed to the Polish bank more than a year ago. It will be the third highest then.  (First to bid wins if bids are equal.) When was the last time you tried?  I heard there was a few days delay when they switched banks, and there are no domestic transfers from Friday through Sunday.  And there are Japanese holidays, of course.  16th and 23rd this month. 2 @ 18 I don't know if this is good news or bad news, but it is certainly a big WTF regarding Japanese banks..:Code:11:05 < sturles> I noticed on the forum that Japanese domestic transfers come                  from a new bank.  I keep watching for reports of international                  wires from a new bank as well.  That would be a very good sign.11:08 <@MagicalTux> sturles, the new bank we use for Japanese transfers is a                     domestic only bank11:16 < sturles> Oh. :-(11:18 <@MagicalTux> they're the first bank we've seen in JApan that can do                     domestic transfers without the need for faxesFax!  In 2013!  For a simple domestic transfer!  Can you even buy fax machines any more?  Must be years since I saw one of those.  No wonder even Japanese transfers were slow during high volume periods.  People still think SWIFT transfers from the same banks are fully automated? They are back up.  I'm in with my old account, and my money is still there.
Almost a month now for SEPA.  Extremely high volume of withdrawals have caused the queue to grow again. :-( I have had this problem  delayed BTC transfers due to empty hot wallet or other problems  on every exchange I have tried.  No exceptions.  Usually the hot wallet is empty, and a refill will fix it.  Known cause of the invalid address error on MtGox.  No exchange I ever tried gave me an honest error message indicating empty hot wallet either. So you know how a modern Japanese bank works and do international wires?My bank is very modern  I have done all my banking online since 1997  but all international wires still need manual intervention by the bank (ACK/NACK, sometimes routing).  None are handled outside of normal office hours.  If it bounces, they will call me if they can't find an obvious fix (they may call the receiving bank first).  I would be interested to hear how this is done in Japan, since they, according to you, use a different system for international wires.  Please tell us more! I think the fact that JPY domestic transfers started appearing from a new bank (as reported by someone else in this thread) is a sign of progress.  It means they actually have at least one new banking partner.  I doubt the queue will get handled very quickly by the new bank.  1 of 10 withdrawal attempts from MtGox bounces due to wrong information (wrong account number, wrong owner, wrong SWIFT address, etc), and all of the bounces have to be handled manually by their bank.  This is what overloaded their old bank.  They will have to work slowly through the queue to avoid too much work at once, but hopefully at a much faster pace.  I hope people will report here when their transfers from June start arriving.On the other hand the SEPA volume has exploded, and there are still withdrawals in queue as far back as August 31st. :-( We have, from the same source, a number for their profit between April and August 20th.  8 million USD.  + 12 million visible bids in the order book + whatever is in the withdrawal queue + funds not in the order book + profit since August 20th (about 500k by my estimates, counting the 2.5% mixed currency conversion fee as income).  That is a lot of money.  I can only see 1.5 million possibly missing from the total, and that can not possibly explain any current withdrawal problems.  The numbers just don't add up to anything resembling a problem.  They have a few hundred thousands of BTC as well.Show me one single other company which actually did that.Why don't you find that credible?  At least it matches all curreently known facts perfectly well, which your explanation don't.Do you know any facts that I don't know?Then why do you think their profit is 0?  They got most of the money from CoinLab in April.  Why did they have any problems in the beginning of June then?  Nobody, not even you, have presented any indications of MtGox beeing insolvent in the beginning of June.  You have two weeks you can't explain, and even after those two weeks you are more than 10 million USD short of making MtGox insolvent with your calculations.  Even if not everything is backed up with money in accounts, they can't be more than 2 million USD short, and there are at least 12 million USD in bids in their order book.  They could keep up like nothing have happened and make that 2 million before Christmas.  Why wouldn't they?  Your explanation just don't make any sense.  Why should risk their customers if they, by your calculations, didn't have to?Huh?  They could let users withdraw the funds, if they didn't have banking problems.No, they admittedly (and easily verifiable) have a profit of more than 8 million USD as well.  Which, makes the hole only 2 million.  Which makes their positive balance at least 10 million USD + money in withdrawal queue + customers money not in visible bids (most of my money are not in visible bids).Obviously wrong to anyone who knows basic arithmetics.You mention the profit, but pretend it doesn't exist when talking about the hole.  Why can't their profit be used to fill the hole? CoinLab doesn't explain it at all.  They had millions on USD in profit, a fat order book and more than 5 million USD on the two bank accounts seized by the DHS.Dwolla were processing withdrawals until Friday 14th.  Only bank wires were delayed.  Five weeks for SEPA and more than a week for international wires.  If the DHS action started earlier, it had no effect on Dwolla withdrawals which it was supposed to target, but on SEPA (delayed for as long as I can remember) and wires from their bank in Japan.  Unlikely.  DHS didn't even target MtGox.  Only Mutum Sigillum LLC.Nope.  Your explanation doens't work. We only know the information from MtGox, and other theories have no supporting evidence.There is plenty of evidence on this forum. Bitstamp's USD volume is unknown.  They only pubslish their total volume and label it as USD.Much of the volume on MtGox has shifted from USD to other currencies.  A shift is not a reduction, and can only be explained by the USD withdrawal problems.  Not loss of faith.  Some days the JPY volume alone on MtGox is 50% of Bitstamp's total volume.  Loss of faith in USD then, perhaps? How do you explain the timing?  The withdrawal problems started around the 5th of June.  The first Dwolla seizure happened on June 14th.  You have nine days to explain.Smaller volume, actually.  And much fewer customers.What was the cause of their liquidity problems during the second week of June?Nothing of this, as far as it makes any sense at all, can explain the problems.  The order book is 12 million USD deep in bids.   Even if they didn't make any profit at all (8 million USD is from April to August 20th), they would have at least 2 million USD left of customer deposits to pay out of.  Only a fraction of their deposits are visible in the order book. The default for new accounts is to take all fees from the fiat side, and has been so for a year or so.  Many old cusumers (e.g. me) have switched on this option as well.  Which means most of their profit from this year will be in fiat.  The 2.5% currency conversion fee for mixed currency trades are in fiat as well.  MtGox can not sell BTC on their own platform.  I don't know if they are allowed to trade BTC on other exchanges.  Their strategy so far has been to use BTC as BTC, e.g. when buying other companies (two so far). Not true.Bitstamp publish their total volume only.  MtGox don't publish a total volume, but splits it into individual currencies.  If I deposit EUR on Bitstamp and withdraw EUR from Bitstamp, it is still counted as USD volume.  On MtGox it would be counted as EUR volume.  To compare the two you need to add all currencies on MtGox.  Many people don't know this. This is not true.  The intenational wire delays started one or two weeks before the Dwolla problems.  After the discontinuation of all other possible withdrawal methods in just two months.At least it is the most plausible explanation so far, and the only I can think of which explains their problems from the beginning of June.  The number of customers and trade volume grew tremendously during this time.  Last number I heard was 600k verified customers.  In the beginning of this year there were much less than 100k.We know that.  More staff on AML verification and support.  I think they are 14 now.  A new server cost thousands at most.  Not millions.  Mark already run a large business renting out servers (Tibanne).Still doesn't explain the problems starting in the beginning of June.  The licence they applied for costs 200k USD.  The already spoke to the US regulators (the reason for discontinuation of redeemable codes, one of the popular withdrawal methods), and were preparing for further licensing when DHS struck out of the blue.  We are not talking millions here either.Note that the 5% is a bank fee.Yes, and easy conclusions are often wrong.  The math and timing just don't add up.  Bank problems is a much more plausible explanation.So you think MtGox is 5% in minus, and the bank doesn't take any fee at all?  No, this does not sound anything near a plausible explanation to me.  Why is the 5% option very limited then, and not offered by default to everyone?  And why only for international wire?  A nice collection of speculations, but few are plausible and they certainly don't fit your conclusion.  You have to start looking earlier than the Dwolla seizures.  It is very obvious they were limited by their bank since June 5th, at least. Could you explain where MtGox's 10 million USD profit so far this year has gone, or are you only looking at one side of the equation?  Not to mention there are > 12 million USD worth of bids in the order book.  5 million doesn't explain anything.  You need at least 20 million USD to explain this as a lack of funds. Five weeks?  Sure it was SEPA?  Submitted at what date?  Is it still in confirmed state, btw? Their biggest clients have probably set up domestic bank accounts in Japan a long time ago for quick deposit and withdrawal. Latest information: The volume of SEPA withdrawals in the end of August and beginning of September was huge.  Many SEPA withdrawals ordered during the weekend between August and September are still in confirmed state.  :-( There is no end to the conspiracy theories in here.  JPY is a convertible currency.  MtGox are free to choose what currency they want to store their funds in.  I assume it is is most practical to use JPY in Japan.Those terms are terrible, and hopefully only for express withdrawal.  It should be easy enough to send JPY everywhere as well.  My bank will accept any currency and convert upon reception. It takes minimum 20 business days between each processed withdrawal.  A problem much discussed in this thread.  It is due to a very low daily limit in their bank in Poland. I withdraw fiat from MtGox and keep the advantage.  It works fine, just takes two or three weeks of waiting.  MtGox still has an undisputable lead if you count total BTC volume on all the exchanges.  A lot of the volume on MtGox has shifted from USD to EUR and JPY.  On some other exchanges all the volume is counted as USD, no matter what currency the fiat is deposited or withdrawn in, which makes one big misleading number instead of many real numbers. The reason why the price is inflated can be debated.  Panic, desperation and bad advice are probably the main causes.  I think the price is inflated because many people buy BTC on MtGox, like you suggest.  I do it the opposite way.  Sell BTC on MtGox and withdraw fiat, to make some on arbitrage.  Much more profitable.Default seems like a less probable outcome every day.  A steadily increasing share of trades are cross currency trades, of which MtGox makes 2.5% in addition to the normal fees.  This makes MtGox very profitable even at low volume.
In what way am I scaring you?Here is one report.  Search for more yourself.  You have to request emergency withdrawal from support. I doubt any checks are processed at all in my country.  The equipment was probably rusted away in a basement and thrown away 20 years ago.  We use plastic cards instead.  Probably the same in Japan.  How do you print a check in a country where checks don't exist?  The bank would have to redeem it somehow, wouldn't it?The person who called their bank reported directly in this thread.  Just a few pages back.  I suggest you ask the person who called the bank if he would be able to get the same information for other customers. See previous pages of this thread for first hand reports of emergency withdrawals.The spread must be much more than 5% for it to be worthwhile.  Even with normal SEPA withdrawal you need at least 5% spread to be sure to make noticeable profit.  Sell BTC (at bid) - fee.  Buy BTC (at ask) - fee.  Withdraw fiat - fee.  Transfer to another exchange - fee.  In between there may be a currency rate risk if the other exchange doesn't support EUR.  EUR/USD has been changing up to 2% in day lately.It is better if you have a domestic bank account in Japan and can withdraw JPY at a fee of only 200 JPY.  It is next day to a few days if there is very high volume of withdrawals.  On Friday the JPY volume on MtGox was more than 50% of the total volume on Bitstamp, so I suppose people with a Japanese bank account are making a huge profit on arbitrage.  Makes much more sense than withdrawing at a 5% fee.  But of course, they as well have to struggle with Japanese banking when sending the money to the next exchange.  In other threads you will see people complain over restrictions. The financial climate was different in 2007, which means it was easier to find investors in a new bank in 2007.  The changes in regulations since then hasn't made it considerably more difficult, just even more expensive.  The price tag is the reason why MtGox couldn't afford it until this year.As I understand MagicalTux, MtGox is setting up a financial institution in Europe, which is not necessarily a complete bank with lending and all. You can expect it to be sent (changed to pending) on the 27th or 30th, unless you had other withdrawals recently, or the queue has changed much since last time I asked. The limit was revealed by their bank when someone called them.  I don't think MtGox has published their limit.I haven't seen a check since the 80ies, except one.  Got one in return from some USSAnian scammer company.  I was told by my bank I had to travel to USSA to cash it in.  Would you be happy if you got a check which you had to travel to Japan to cash in?  Probably cheaper to take the 5% option. Nah.  Doesn't take 2 years.  New banks and financial institutions pop up all the time.  I even found an easily verifiable example.    Company formed  2007-06-05, registered 2007-07-17, got their full banking licence 2007-11-16.  5 months. So far MtGox has paid me in expected time every time, so I'm not wasting any time or money on the approaches your suggest.  Ask the DHS or Peter Vessenes for your money if you are in the USSA.  They created the problems in the first place. Looks like MtGox has given up the partner track, and is becoming its own bank (more or less).  This information came up in a discussion in French in #mtgox very recently:Code:20:19 <@MagicalTux> nous sommes en train de nous enregistrer en Europe comme                     entité financière, ce qui devrais nous permettre de gérer                     un plus gros volume sans causer de délaisMy knowledge of French is very limited, and I hope a native speaker can translate.  I have had some help from Google Translate and my wife, and think it means they are registering as a financial entity in Europe (EU), which enables them to handle a large volume of transactions without causing delays.Regarding partnership with existing banks and payment services, the response was:Code:20:24 <@MagicalTux> nos avocats nous ont déconseillé la même méthode pour                     différentes raisons dont je ne peux pas parler20:27 <@MagicalTux> plus exactement, nous avons conclus qu'il nous faut une                     license directement20:28 <@MagicalTux> (les raisons pour lesquelles bosser avec un partenaire ne                     rend pas l'activité plus légale sont compliquées)My understanding: MtGox's attorneys have advised against this for reasons which he can't talk about.  MtGox has concluded it needs a direct license.  Partnering with a bank doesn't make the activity more legal, and the reasons for this are complicated.More about becoming their own bank:Code:20:33 <@MagicalTux> cyrflo: comme dit plus haut, nous sommes en train de créer                     une entité financière en Europe20:34 <@MagicalTux> (il faut compter 6 mois à 1 an pour que ça soit fait)20:35 <@MagicalTux> Je ne peux pas donner plus de détails pour l'instant pour                     différentes raisons20:35 <@MagicalTux> cyrflo: c'est cher aussi, jusqu'à cette année nous n'avions                     pas les moyensMy understanding: MtGox is creating its own financial entity in Europe.  It will take 6 months to a year to do it.  He can't give more details at the moment for various reasons.  It is expensive as well.  They couldn't afford it until this year.  (This means MtGox is liquid as well, for those still in doubt.)He didn't say how long he has been on this track.  I don't know if he means 6 months to a year from now or from sometime earlier this year. Both scenarios are a bit far fetched.  The limit has been the same since MtGox got that Polish bank account in 2011.  Judging by the price difference ein EUR/BTC vs USD/BTC, much more money has gone in through that account than out.  Why would their bank lie about the limit, btw? I have a limit in my bank as well.  I don't usually reach the limit.Their limit is 120k EUR/day.  I have no idea why the limit is so low.  They are really sending that much, and the situation has in fact improved for SEPA.  In May a SEPA withdrawal took 5 weeks, and I don't think anyone believe MtGox were in a liquidity crunch in May. I got mine after less than 2.  Expecting the second by the end of this month (~8k EUR on September 11th).  2.5 months either means he made multiple withdrawals, or the amount was > 30k EUR, or there were special complications. Someone called their bank in Poland and asked about their limits.  It is somewhere in this thread.  Finding a good bank for a Bitcoin business is hard. I am trying to convince MtGox to put up an official page, but it is difficult.  Probably due to many special cases and tweaks.  The queue is never processed exactly in order, but optimized to minimize failures.  E.g. some banks return more transfers than other banks for no apparent reason, so don't spend the entire quota trying to re-send to the problematic banks.  Some people try to withdraw to an account under a different name than the account holder, so be careful with new accounts.  Etc.  If they publish official numbers, the numbers will either look very bad, or people negatively affected by the optimizations will complain about the official numbers being wrong. SEPA is EUR only.  USD is international wire, a different queue.  There are several queues, and you are punished for multiple withdrawals.  For SEPA you are punished for very large withdrawals (> 30k EUR) as well, because MtGox are limited by amount/day.  For other international wires MtGox are limited by number of wires/day. Those were cases of fraud, and illegal in all the involved countries.The US SEC complaining to Japan FSA about a problem created by the DHS?  Would be fun to see the response. Yes, there are many reports in this thread and in other threads on this forum.  And SEPA wire transfers, which are a special case of international wires, work.All lawyers I know, which are a few, are always very careful to make sure their statements are accurate and correct.  So much it can be very annoying at times.  If I claim they are wrong, they will just repeat the statement and tell me what I misunderstood, or refer to a law which they often know by heart word for word in it's original spelling.  You are the opposite of the lawyers I know.  You make statements which you either know are wrong or at last very inaccurate, and you don't make any effort to be accurate or correct.  Perhaps this is something you learn in shady law schools in the USSA.  A shame in my opinion.  No wonder lawyers are held in rather low regard in the USSA, judging from all the lawyer jokes. Sending money to and from phones is money transfer, and of course it applies.  Do pawn shops need a registration? This just states the facts.  It does not suggest that MtGox are able to apply for a MSB licence directly.  For that MtGox would need a subsidary in the USSA, which they didn't have at the time, and that subsidiary would have to apply.  Am I not right?See?  Exactly what I have been saying.  Mutum Sigillum LLC is engaged in a money transmitting business.  They did not claim the same for MtGox.And again.  Mutum Sigillum are claimed to be in the money transmitting business.  Not MtGox.Again: Which summer school did you attend to get a law degree? You are lying again.First of all DHS made no ruling against MtGox.  Just Mutum Sigillum.  At least in all the papers I have read.  If you have other information, please present it.  If you can't present evidence of the ruling, which you claim is a fact, I suggest you withdraw your claim.Who cares if DHS thinks MtGox is a money transmitter?  MtGox operates in Japan, and are subject to Japanese laws.  Not USSA laws.  This is even stated in the warrant.  They only went after Mutum Sigillum, wrongly claimed to be a subsidiary of MtGox, and not MtGox.
This is clearly wrong.  Mutum Sigillum is much older than MtGox, and not a subsidiary.  MtGox and Mutum Sigillum has the same owner, but one is not the subsidiary of the other.And they didn't at the time.You are mixing apples and oranges.  Mutum Sigillum transferred USD, not Bitcoins. I do US money transmission through secondary companies (banks), and I am not subject to US law.  The banks are subject to US law.  Not me.  I couldn't care less about the laws of the USSA.Same thing for MtGox.  Mutum Sigillum is subject to US law, and did engage in money transmitting between MtGox and Dwolla.  Dwolla are subject to US law.  Verdian Credit Union and Wells Fargo are subject to US law.  MtGox are not.  MtGox are subject to Japanese law.Where did you earn that law degree?  Some summer course on Bali? This must be the most desperate suggestion I've read so far.  thepiratebay.org is still alive, btw. By what definition?  Yours or Japanese law?  Usually financial insitutions are those which either create money (banks) or facilitate the transfer of money between different people/companies (payment services) or issue various financial instruments, e.g. securities, swaps, insurances, etc.  Just keeping other peoples assets safe does not make a fincancial institution. Why should MtGox, operating from Japan, follow USSA laws instead of Japanese laws?  Does USSA law apply to all bitcoin exchanges because what?  I think MtGox will get closed pretty quickly if they start operating according to a different set of laws than what governs them in Japan.MtGox has never been accused of operating as a money transmitter in the USSA.  Mutum Sigillum was.  You should read the warrant.  Have you ever read anything about law, or just pretending? Ei lita oppdatering.  Folk har oppdaga at SEPA-uttak fungerer.  Køa vert difor lengre.  Her er oppdaterte forventa ventetider for uttak:Uttak under 400 EUR går normalt på ei veke eller mindreStørre uttak tek 10 yrkedagar20 dagar mellom kvart uttakAlle uttak frå august og tidlegare er ferdige, med unnatak av dei som hadde fleire uttak i kø.400 EUR er eit dynamisk tal.  Dei fyller opp den daglege kvoten med små uttak, og kva dei definerer som eit lite uttak vil variere etter kor mange som er i kø.  Før var 1000 EUR rekna som lite, men no er det tydelegvis mange som gjer mindre uttak. Much of the worlds oil trade already happen in other currencies than USD.  Most of Europe, where oil is produced and consumed, trade in EUR.  The price is usually given in USD, but that's just for convenience.  Converting between EUR and USD is a trivial matter.As long as USSA is the world's largest oil importer by far (2 times China), USD will be the predominant currency for trading oil. Current status for SEPA.  Unfortunately it looks like the queue is getting longer again.  People have discovered that SEPA works:Lower than 400 EUR about a weekHigher amounts take about 10 business days (i.e. two weeks)20 business days between withdrawalsAll SEPA withdrawals from August and earlier have been processed, with the exception of some users who had more than one withdrawal in the queue.New information: 400 EUR is dynamic (was 1000 EUR last time I talked to support).  It depends on how they can fill the daily quota most efficiently. They are processing withdrawals in JPY (domestic) and EUR (SEPA), so they must have funds.  I doubt they are getting much fiat in to fund withdrawals from, which means they have reserves as well. MtGox is a place to buy and sell bitcoins.  When you transfer money to MtGox is it for the purpose of buying bitcoins. This makes MtGox more like a shop than a financial institution.   MtGox never advertised themselves as a place to store money.  And they are definetly not doing payment services, since you are unable to withdraw to other peoples accounts. Just your own.I would like to see the law stating they "probably" are.  Laws are usually very specific.  Either you are or you are not.  Their legal presence in Delaware don't make USSAnian laws apply to their Japanese operations in any way.  Otherwise it would be impossible for e.g. banks to have offices in Switzerland, where there are strict privacy laws regarding banks and their customers, and in other countries where the government demand that banks release information on their customers holdings. Strange.  People who ate pizza with Pirateat40 said the same thing about him.  Couldn't be a scam.  He was a honest person all the way through.  Some people didn't concede until months after he disappeared. I think you are wrong.  MtGox isn't a financial insistitution, and aren't registered under Japan Financial Services Agency.  There is no category for companies like MtGox.  Only banks and other companies involved in payment services, financial instruments, insurance, etc, are. Annoying colour removed.Counterexample: I tried using a bank which use Citibank as intermediate for SEPA transfers to transfer money to Intersango.  I was told by the bank they couldn't transfer money to Intersango beacause Citibank wouldn't allow it.  I left the bank immediately of course, and I never had any trouble transferring money to Intersango from other banks.  Since my customer relations with this bank ended after one day, I never got the chance to test it for transfers to MtGox. MtGox use the same bank in Poland that Intersango uses. Why is that in any way obvious?  Have you read the horror stories about Japanese banks on this forum?And the basis for your claims is?  How come EUR and JPY withdrawals work if MtGox are broke?  5 million is just a part of their profit this year, and they have about 14 million USD in visible bids in the order book.  Even if the 5 million USD which CoinLab and Peter Vessenes stole are lost, they are still only have about 2 million USD to cover (assuming their extra legal costs are less than a million USD, which they should be prior to meeting in court).  And they wouldn't need capital controls to keep 2 millions USD of deposits.  MtGox is still the only exchange where you can spend 2 million USD on BTC without moving the price very much. If you have been waiting for one SEPA withdrawal from june, you are either hiding something (e.g. that you made several withdrawals and have received them one by one 20 days apart), or there was something wrong with your transfer.  What did support tell you?   No, that's a different story.  Read both. Did you even read the counterclaims?40. I see some people yelling and calling their lawyers.  People who have enough BTC in an online wallet to pay a lawyer to do anything meaningful about this are incompetent in the first place.  Fees for decent lawyer start at at least 4 BTC an hour, and this involves dealings with a foreign company (most likely).  I wasn't affected, but if I was I would certainly sit back and see how it turned out before calling anyone.  A couple of weeks of trading fees is enough to reimburse all users.  Stupid USAnians seem to cling to their lawyers every time something unexpected happens. Most of those transactions date back to June or earlier.  Is the bug that old? This is not page 21.Page 21, the interesting part:
When dealing with million dollar lawsuits, lawyers will often advice you to keep your mouth shut and let them do the talking and writing.  Wrong wording and badly formulated accusations will hurt your case, and in this case the words can have a huge impact on the market as well.  The words in this document probably cost quite a few dollars each. Have a look at this, especially beginning of page 21, and seventh counterclaim and outwards from the end of page 39.  If this, any of it, bear any resemblance to truth, it makes Peter Vessenes the worst thief and scammer in the history of Bitcoin.  Forget the small fish like pirateat40.  Peter Vessenes is the reason why you don't get your USD withdrawals from MtGox.  He stole your deposits.  $5,315,210.79 worth of deposits.I can't think of anyone who deserve a scammer tag more than vess. If any of this is true (read from the seventh counterclaim on the end of page 39 through the twelfth which ends on page 47), Peter Vessenes stands out as the worst scammer in the history of Bitcoin.  You can forget about small the fish like Pirate.  Peter Vessenes stole the deposits.  The chairman of the Bitcoin Foundation is a thief.  CoinLab is in liquidation.  The money are in Peter Vessenes' pockets now.  No wonder he is smiling on the picture on bitcoinfoundation.org.MtGox has had unusal high income lately due to cross-currency trades which makes a 2.5% extra fee for currency conversion.  I'm sure MtGox will cover the remaining ~2 million USD (profit from April to August deducted) eventually, and this is not what limits withdrawals.  There are currently about 14 million USD in bids in the order book. On top of that.  CoinLab (aka Peter Vesseness  I nominated him for a scammer tag here on the forum months ago) stole even more than the DHS seized later.  Read it. Sorry for replying to a very old post, but this just turned up.  Looks like CoinLab stole $5,315,210.79 worth of customers deposits from MtGox.  More than DHS!  See page 21 from line 2.There is more in there as well. Have you tried to ask support about it?  Since it is your first withdrawal, there might be a problem with your account information.  Sure it was withdrawn via SEPA?  Method should be "European (EURO)", NOT "International wire". Eg får ein del spørsmål om uttak frå MtGox på IRC, og tenkte å oppsummere det eg veit.  Det vert litt detaljert, men folk spør om mykje rart..Den raskaste måten å ta ut pengar til ein norsk bankkonto er EUR via SEPA.  For å kunne ta ut EUR må du ha EUR på MtGox.  Dersom du har andre valutasortar du ynskjer på ta ut, må du først kjøpe bitcoin for pengane og selje bitcoina for EUR for å få EUR på MtGox-kontoen.  Ein vanleg verifisert kunde kan ta ut opp til 10000 EUR om dagen og 50000 EUR i månaden.  I utgangspunktet er grensa berre 1000 EUR om dagen.  For å få heva denne må du be support om å gjere det.  Det er som regel gjort på timen, avhengig av tid på døgeret.  For å kunne ta ut meir enn 10000 EUR om dagen må du levere papir med notarius- og apostillestempel.  Det er diskutert i denne tråden.Før du legg til ein konto er det lurt å sjekke om han kan motta SEPA-betalingar direkte.  Då må banken vere med i TARGET2.  Ikkje alle bankar er det, og dei kan ikkje MtGox sende til.  Det er ein hendig måte å slå det opp på via APIet.  (MtGox har API for alt.)  Her har eg brukt DNB og Skandiabanken som døme.  DNB er med i TARGET2.  Skandiabanken er ikkje med i TARGET2.  (Skandiabanken bør generelt ikkje brukast til utanlandsbetaling, men årsakane til det tek eg heller i ein annan tråd.)  Forretningsbankar er som regel med i TARGET2.  Dei fleste sparebankar er det ikkje.https://mtgox.com/api/2/money/swift/details?swift=DNBANOKK&prettyhttps://mtgox.com/api/2/money/swift/details?swift=SKIANOBB&prettyErstatt SWIFT-adressa i URLane over med den du har i banken din og sjå etter denne strengen: "sepa_transfer": trueNår du legg til kontoen (Funding options, Withdraw funds, Add withdraw method, Bank transfer, IBAN) må du passe på at det står "European (EURO)" som metode.  Dersom det står "International wire" bør du sjekke på nytt om banken er med i TARGET2.  Det er lurt å endre LABEL til noko kort og forståeleg som inkluderer SEPA eller Euro, i tilfelle du vil leggje til den same kontoen for vanleg internasjonal overføring seinare når MtGox har fått det i orden.OBS: Dersom du prøvde å leggje til ein konto på denne måten før 25. august, bør du prøve på nytt no.  Fram til søndag 25. august var SEPA avgrensa av:Code:if ($country['EU']) ...Eg forklarte MagicalTux på IRC at SEPA er EU + EØS (ingen i EU har høyrt om EØS), Monaco og Sveits.  Og då fiksa han det ganske kjapt:Code:14:06 <MagicalTux> guess I need an extra field then14:08 <sturles> Yep.14:11 <sturles> When do you think you can have it done?14:12 <MagicalTux> already added the field, now needs some code14:14 <MagicalTux> eating sushi at the same time14:15 <MagicalTux> https://mtgox.com/api/2/money/swift/details?swift=DABANO22 <- now shows sepa14:16 <sturles> \o/14:17  * sturles adds his account again to test..14:21 <sturles> Seems to work.  Thank you!Nuvel.  Dei fleste har sikkert hørt at uttak frå MtGox tek tid.  Det kan dei gjere, men det er mogeleg å optimalisere om du kjenner køysytemet.  For SEPA har MtGox ein kvote på 120000 EUR om dagen i banken sin, og då vert det kø.  Køa er kortare no enn på lenge, og ho er ordna slik:Uttak under 1000 EUR får prioritet og går som regel ut neste yrkedag.Uttak mellom 1000 og 30000 EUR går som regel på ca 4-5 yrkedagar.Uttak over 30000 EUR har veldig låg prioritet.  Del heller opp i mindre porsjonar.OBS: Når du har gjort eit uttak tek det 10-20 yrkedagar før du får utført neste uttak.Den siste opplysninga der er viktig å ha i bakhovudet.  Eitt stort uttak (under 30000 EUR) er betre enn fleire små.  Fleire små vil ta veldig lang tid.  Det første kjem med ein gong, og deretter går det 2-3 veker mellom kvar gong du mottek pengar.  Nøyaktig kor mange dagar du må vente er avhengig av lengda på den generelle køa for uttak på 1000-30000 EUR.Vonar dette var nyttig for nokon.  Eg svarer gjerne på spørsmål.  (PS: Eg anar ikkje kor lang "international wire" tek, men sovidt eg forstår er ventetida fleire månader.) Depends what your readers want, of course.  If they are located outside of Japan and want to withdraw fiat, then MtGox may be the wrong choice.  (So far it has worked fine for me in Europe, but I suppose it depends on your expectations.)  For people who just want to trade, and are satisfied with withdrawing BTC in the end, MtGox is a good place.  It is where the action is, and IMHO it is the only trustworthy exchange with interesting volume and liquidity. I will not go into any details of my own strategies.  I would make less money if other people copied it.  There are many ways to profit from multi-currency trading.  Just make sure you understand how the currencies relate to each other, and how this changes. Did you even read my answer?  Their bank was already struggling before the Dwolla seizure.  All this happened since mid April this year:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=179586.msg3120450#msg3120450Redeemable codes April 13th.  LR/Aurumexchange May 24th.  OKPay May 29th.  Dwolla June 14th.  MtGox were already struggling with timely processing of bank wires then.  This is from June 5th: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=225707.0MtGox experienced a tremendous growth during this time as well.  MtGox got 20,000 new users every day in April alone. This is not likely to happen, because:1. MtGox is still the safest exchange with noticeable volume.2. MtGox is the only exchange with a well functioning multi-currency market.  This adds an extra dimension to trading.3. MtGox has by far the deepest books and best liquidity.  You can trade large amounts without moving the price too far.4. MtGox is where all the action happens.  Other exchanges only react to the movements on MtGox.5. MtGox still has > 50% market share.I still do most of my trading on MtGox due to 1, 2 and 4.  Especially 2.  Mastering it can be very profitable.  I have added three zeroes to my initial investment since I first started to experiment with it 1.5 years ago.  This isn't possible on any other exchange.  You may be able do something similar by trading on multiple exchanges, but at a much higher risk. What was the response from support?  There is obviously something wrong.  Same account as last time, btw? Cancelled withdrawals may count as well.  It did in my case. You already made your profit, and cashing out should be faster than this. :-/  Have you asked support about this?  Perhaps the long queue works differently?  Have you cancelled any withdrawal during this period?Yep.  Arbitrage is risk free profit.  Keeping BTC is not, since the price may fall.  If you think the BTC price will go up, you should keep your BTC instead of selling.I aim for at least 12%, and this still happens when a rally is initiated (action always start at MtGox).  Lower than that isn't worth the trouble.  I aim for one withdrawal per two weeks, and am not in a hurry. USD to USSA is very slow, and you can send a thank you letter to a certain "special investigator" at DHS for that.  Withdrawals pose a threat to your homeland security, they say. What do you mean by money coming too slow?  You have to keep money on other exchanges and BTC on MtGox at the same time, so you can do the trades at the same time.  If you can't do both trades at the same time, you are doing arbitrage wrong. When did you receive your last withdrawal?  It seems the SEPA queue (esp. the long queue) is getting longer again.  I guess people have dicovered SEPA was very fast for a while. My last withdrawal went fine, FYI.  Please do as davidspitzer suggests, as it will allow me and davidspitzer here to do more profitable arbitrage between MtGox and other exchanges. You should read some of the statements from Japanese users here on the forum.  Japanese banks are still very manual and paper based.  Much like the well known Japanese bureaucracy.  One of the most common complaints are limitations to international transfers.  International transfers have been checked and acked manually in all banks I have used, and I have done all my banking online since 1997.  While national transfers are fully automated and processed instantly, it can take several minutes to hours from I issue an international transfer until it is processed by the bank, and it will only be processed during working hours.The largest problem for their banks are transfers coming in return due to wrong information or lack of information.  E.g. wrong name on the account (often people trying to work around AML).  All those cases have to be handled manually, and some of them involve a lot of work for the bank and for MtGox.  MtGox processed thousands of small wires daily, and the returns alone provided full employment for many clerks in their bank until their bank said stop.Remember up to the current situation the following happened:Redeemable codes discontinued on request from US regulators.LR and AurumExchange (several e-currencies) closed.OKPay stopped working with Bitcoin exchanges.DHS deemed the Dwolla route a threat to US homeland security.This left international wire transfer as the only option for more than 200,000 users.  At the same time many other exchanges have become thee victims of uncooperative banks and closed accounts due to legal issues, leaving MtGox's banking options severely limited. MtGox is not a broker, and not in the USSA.
If I want to buy 30k BTC, MtGox is the only exchange where i can do that at a reasonable price.  I would transfer 5 mill USD to MtGox to make mu purchase.  If it became known to other players that someone just transferred 5 mill USD to MtGox, they would make sure to buy first.  So MtGox would be useless for this purchase if they were that transparent.  I would go to one of the less transparent exchanges (i.e. ANY other excahnge) instead.  So would all other large players.  MtGox would lose their large players and die in a few days. Some of this information is very sensitive and some is useless.  E.g. oldest withdrawal in the queue.  If you intentionally DDoS the withdrawal queue by doing many small withdrawals instead of one large, you are placed far back in the queue every time a withdrawal is processed.  This is only fair.  Some of this is very market sensitive.  E.g. total deposits.  (Which are in many different currencies, btw, not just USD.)  They should not publish this, and if they did it would mean instant death as an exchange.  Large investors must depend on MtGox not publishing those numbers.  MtGox has very a very strict privacy policy as well.  It is important to ensure that no private information can leak out.  I can't see any other exchanges publish those numbers either.The only important number to most people is how long they have to wait for their money if they withdraw today, and how the queue is organized.  I have provided the know figures in this thread.  It is collected from various sources, and I wish MtGox would make similar information available. Have you ever written a press release which got the press' attention?  This is not the kind of information you would put in a press release.  Press releases should be short and to the point, and leave out details. It would in fact be very unprofessional to put details like this in a press release.  The 20 days are a variable depending on the queue length, btw.  It is more like 10 now.MtGox should however keep an updated information page about the status of withdrawals, queue disciplines and the length and trends of the various queues.  Much like the information I have collected from various sources. This coin selection bug is fixed now, isn't it?  Somebody are mining to a MtGox address.  Clever.  I can understand why MtGox didn't think of that. Have you heard of other people having the same problem?  This is the only report I have seen recently about delayed JPY domestic transfer.  What is the status of the transfer?  Confirmed or pending?In other news: My SEPA withdrawal went pending today.  Expect to have the money tomorrow.  Will buy BTC (most likely from a private seller to save time and fees), sell again on MtGox and hopefully make 10%. I don't know if the limit is <= 1000 or < 1000.  The 10 business days are counted from the date your last payment was completed.  Unfortunately cancelling seems to count as completed as well.  10 days is variable.  It depends on the current queue, and used to be higher. Do you have a counter-example to this? (Days are business days.)  I've noticed one claim of delayed JPY domestic transfer as well.https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=179586.msg3024749#msg3024749 Long story short: There was a problem with it, so the first attempt failed.  The next attempt got in the long queue because it became the second attempt in less than 10 days. It should go out tomorrow. Interesting.  I know there have been delays earlier due to very high JPY withdrawal volume.  I suspect this is due to MtGox having to move money from their deposits in other currencies to a JPY account before being able to process more withdrawals, and this may (or may not) take a few days depending on how MtGox have placed their money.  You could try asking in #mtgox or ask support directly. This is exactly as expected and explained earlier in the thread.  To give all users a fair chance to withdraw, your next withdrawals will go to the long queue when one is processed.  Currently this long queue is about 10 business days (depends on the queue size for new withdrawals).  In order to get your money faster, you should cancel the two 1k withdrawals you have left, and make one withdrawal of 2k. 100 mil er litt langt å reise for å lese eit brev.  50 mil kvar veg for min del.  Er det lenge til de har tenkt å publisere brevet? 10 000 EUR.  You have to ask support to increase your limits above 1k EUR / 100 BTC.  This is a security feature.  I keep my BTC limit well below max, just in case. Er det mogeleg å få ein kopi av det brevet?  Kan du scanne det inn og leggje det ut ein stad? Why?  MtGox don't transfer funds, except via banks.  Banks are licensed.  If sending money via banks was illegal without a license, it would be impossible to do any kind of business without this license. Crap, I'm breaking the law in the USSA if I exchange my NOK to USD in another country before I travel to the USSA?  Not that I ever would travel there, but I'm sure this comes as a surpise to many people.  How can I get a license to exchange my money to USD?  Many people do this every day, so I'm sure there is a quick and easy procedure.  How can my local bank, which has no presense outside my region with about 50 000 inhabitants, get a license?  Do they have to apply for a licence for every currency they want to exchange?You are trolling, of course.  Very amusing.I don't remember exactly how MtGox got away with not needing a license to hold peoples money.  MagicalTux detailed it here on this forum a long time ago, just after buying MtGox from Jed.  Something along the lines of: When you transfer money to MtGox is it for the purpose of buying BTC.  If you withdraw the money again, either because you decided to not buy BTC after all, or you sold BTC, you can only withdraw the money to your own account.  You can try searching for it here on the forum.  MtGox is more like a market where you can buy and sell e.g. Magic the Gathering cards (not very regulated), than a bank (strictly regulated). They need a licence for that in Japan!?  I don't need a license for exchanging currency here in Norway, and Norway is quite strict on this stuff.  Do you have a reference to the law they are breaking?Edit: MtGox are actually not exchanging USD to other currencies.  You can exchange USD for BTC, which is not regarded a currency in Japan, and exchange BTC for EUR.  Avoiding direct exchange of both currencies. Read my answer above.  It is more or less impossible to prove given finite time and resources, but easy to disprove if they don't operate legally.  Just find an example of MtGox breaking the law in Japan.  The burden of proof is on those who claim they operate illegally.This is easy.  Bitstamp issues electronic money (Ripple USD) without proper licensing, which is a clear breach of the e-money directive which all member states of the EU and EEA have implemented in their national laws.  England is a member of the EU.I have posted this before, and you are constantly forgetting or ignoring.  I have collected facts, which nobody else seems interested in, and posted them here for everyone to verify.  And, yes I have made a withdrawal from MtGox to test if my facts are true.  I know it would be stupid, I should have kept the BTC I bought instead of selling them on MtGox or anywhere else, but I did it to test if the facts I have collected hold.  So far I haven't find any counterexamples.  Just your constant nagging about old transfers, while you neglect to tell about the transfers which went through and put your other transfers back in the queue.Because someone wondered why the price difference is high, and this gives a good explanation of why it is so. I can't submit any kind of proof which you are going to accept. It is a case where proving compliance is very difficult.  It would require me to go through every detail of their operations, showing that everything is according to Japanese law (which I don't know).  Proving the opposite would be very easy, however.  Just find one example of MtGox doing something which is not in full compliance with Japanese laws or regulations.  Perhaps you could try that, and agree that MtGox is compliant unless we can find an example of MtGox breaking any law or regulation in Japan or other countries where it is represented (e.g. Poland).Did he tell why they choose to operate in violation of the law, risking their business and customers money? MtGox is operating fully within all regulations in Japan, where they are located and registered.  MtGox does not issue any kind of e-currency, and would be operating legally if they moved to (most of) Europe as well.  MtGox are well lit.  They even have a known owner and a physical address in Tokyo.  We do not know who the owner(s) of Bitstamp is/are, or where their physical office(s) (if any) are located.  We only have an address to a maildrop in London and a bank account in Slovenia. Would you really deposit as much as 30k EUR on Bitstamp?  Bitstamp issues USD on Ripple, which is an e-currency.  They do this without the proper licencing, authorization and insurances in place, which of course is illegal.  Even more illegal than transferring money between two bank accounts without a money transmitter license.  If you deposit 30k EUR there, I hope you can afford to lose 30k EUR if Bitstamp gets closed before you are able to buy BTC and move the BTC to MtGox. It is a gamble, and not my kind of gamble.  I suspect this the main reason why the price difference rarely goes below 8%, and why the whales still play on MtGox.
It is being exploited, but carefully.  There aren't any other trustworthy exchanges with enough BTC in their order books for it to be interesting.  Would you deposit millions of USD on an exchange operating in violation of the law?  Or on an exchange operating from the USSA?  I do my arbitrage by buying directly from people at lowest of Bitstamp bid / Bitcurex ask, and only keep small amounts on the exchanges. Only two accounts in the USSA containing a small part of their USD got frozen.  It only amounts to a part of their profit this year.  There are no reports of delayed JPY withdrawals indicating lack of funds.  Currency exchange takes place in their Japanese bank.  MtGox takes a 2.5% currency exchange fee, and I suspect this contributes a lot to their profit on low volume days when cross currency trades constitutes as much as a third of their total volume.  Selling volume in JPY indicates that at least 200000 USD worth of JPY is withdrawn on an average day, sometimes more. SEPA > 30k is more than two weeks delayed, and it will usually be faster to split up, yes.  Did you receive any other withdrawals the last two weeks which means you have been pushed back in the queue? There is no queue for domestic JPY transfer.For SEPA there has been a queue for as long as I can remember.  It is shorter now than in years.  MtGox are limited to 120k EUR / day.International withdrawal had a collapse after all other popular withdrawal methods were removed.  First redeemable codes (on request from US regulators), then LR (US again) and AurumExchange which carried several popular e-currencies, then OKPay, then Dwolla (the usual suspect).  Thousands of SWIFT transfers of a few hundred USD each then overloaded MtGox's bank.  This doesn't surprise me at all if what I read about Japanese banking in this forum is true.  (And I believe it is, knowing Japanese bureaucracy.)  Now MtGox are limited to 10 international withdrawals per day, and due to the investigation in the USSA (them again) they have trouble finding new deals with other large banks.Fortunately the problems mostly affect USD withdrawals.  They brought this upon themselves, and should go kick their government's ass.  Or the DHS.  I'm not sure who rules who. I quoted MagicalTux somewhere in this thread.  The exact terms are "under a light NDA" (quoting MagicalTux). 2013-06-18 is the oldest I've seen from someone who haven't got a single withdrawal processed since then.  What state is the oldest in?  Confirmed or pending? I withdrew about 7k EUR almost four days ago.  If the information I have is correct, it should get to pending state (i.e. sent to their bank) on Monday, and received by me on Tuesday.  One aspect makes me a bit worried  I have the letter ø in my address.  This is not an allowed character in the bank systems, which are largely built to be compatible with really old stuff written in Cobol in the 1970ies on IBM mainframes using EBCDIC character set.  I hope MtGox transcribes it before sending the transaction to the bank.  Didn't think of that until after I made the withdrawal.Really bad idea to withdraw anything the way the price is going.  Should have kept the BTC instead of doing arbitrage.  What's the use of fiat anyway? Ask support.  SEPA takes less than a week (unless you make frequent withdrawals), so why bother? Can you document this? Of course not. You made it up.And maybe MtGox is an alien, and a time-space disturbancy caused by an angry wormhole caused SWIFT transfers to be distorted! Perhaps one could launch a contest. Make up the silliest stories around something which there is a very good and plausible official explanation for.If you take a 10% writedown you are being incredibly stupid, yes. I'll agree to that. Even MtGox offer express manual withdrawal at a 5% bank fee. (This is a bank fee, not a MtGox fee.) You have got at least one withdrawal already, right?  If the international withdrawal queue works like the SEPA queue, you are moved to the back of the queue when one withdrawal has gone through.  I.e. your new place in the queue is the date when you received your last withdrawal from MtGox.  MtGox are limited to 10 international transfers per day.  If the didn't do this, a people could easily do a denial of service attack against the rest of their customers by making many withdrawals instead of one. 10% markup?  You have misunderstood something.  If you buy BTC and sell BTC on MtGox, you get MtGox price both times.  MtGox price is still good market price as well many places.  I sell at MtGox ask + a margin everywhere (#bitcoin-otc, Localbitcoins, etc), and have no problems selling a that price.You can wait for the USD withdrawal to come through if you wish.  It is probably going to take at least two or three weeks. Sounds about right.  It is now in the queue for being sent to the bank.  Next step is pending (sent to the bank) then processed (transfer completed by their bank). In that case there are no advantages with Poland. Still confirmed.  It will enter pending on Monday if 4 days hold.  Perhaps even tomorrow if the queue is a bit shorter than 4 days (counting hours here).  It will not go anywhere during the weekend, I'm quite sure of that. AFAIK there is only one advantages with Poland and some other countries: Bank transfers are final. The bank won't return an incoming transfer unless MtGox agree.Besides from that, it just happend to be where they finally found a bank willing to deal with a Bitcoin exchange, after their French bank threw them out.  They don't get very good terms at the Polish bank, but what can they do?  Not many banks in Europe are willing to do business with a Bitcoin exchange.The other strategy (bitcoin.de and Bitcoin-Central) is to let each customer effectively have their own bank account tied directly to their exchange account.  We have yet to see how this works out.  It will probably be difficult for Non-EU citizens to get accounts there. And you haven't had other withdrawals come through the last 10 bank days?  I don't know how other withdrawals affect the SWIFT queue. Has the transfers been in pending state all this time?  The state before pending is Confirmed.  Pending means it has been sent to the bank, and if it stays in pending state for more than 5 business days (2 for SEPA), you should contact support.  There is probably something wrong so the bank couldn't send it. AFAIK the fee is the same for everyone who request the express manual wire transfer.  Never heard of anyone paying more than 5%.  The fee goes to the payment provider, if I understood this correctly. Only bank days (business days) are counted, so 2 weeks = 10 days.  Your next withdrawal should reach Pending any time now then.  Please keep us updated.The waiting time depends on the FIFO queue for SEPA withdrawals, which is 4 days long currently.  I.e. a SEPA withdrawal between 1k and 30k EUR will reach pending state after four business days.A few other interesting pieces of information:The international transfer queue is actually progressing, and has reached mid June.  If anyone have an international transfer issued before June 20th which has been in pending for more than five days, you should contact support.  There is probably something wrong with it.  A misspelling, mistyped account number, your bank holding back the payment (there are a few examples of Citibank doing this), etc. ? You should take a introductory course in elementary logic.Do you think all historians who write about the black plague have tried it themselves?  Or that everyone who defend the right to abortion have tried an abortion themselves?  Or the opposite?I try to collect facts, and to help people do smart decisions based on the facts.  Nothing else.  I also have a considerable amount invested in Bitcoin, and I run a small Bitcoin business myself.  And I do arbitrage between MtGox and other exchanges like most other people posting here.It would be impossible to give a formal proof of correctness.  (For the reasons why this is impossible, I suggest an introductory course in formal logic at any university.)  The information can however easily be proven wrong by giving one single counterexample.  I.e. an example which contradict the hypothesis.  As long as no counterexamples are found, and there are a lot of confirmations, I assume the information (hypothesis) to be correct, and you missed my ass by miles.  In case other people want to know about where I got the 10 days from: I let someone from MtGox support have a look at my previous version, and got some clarifications and updates.  The reduction from 20 to 10 days happened very recently.I am just a normal customer of MtGox.  I never did any work for MtGox, nor did I ever receive any form of compensation from MtGox for providing facts here or elsewhere.
Call the bank again and ask if the 120k limit is per customer or per account.  I bet it is per customer.Call a few other banks and ask if they would like a large Bitcoin exchange for customer.  Tell them about the fraud problem as well, and the sad stories about the banking problems of other Bitcoin exchanges, in case they haven't heard them.  Perhaps Bitcoin24 could be a good example in Poland? Updated short summary of what we currently know about withdrawals.Changes: SEPA > 30k EUR have very low priority.  It will usually be faster to split those in 30k chunks to get in the normal FIFO queue.  Users can now make one SEPA withdrawal per 10 days.  It used to be 20.  Normal withdrawals are processed in FIFO order, except for very small ones which get priority and are used to fill their daily quota.JPY domestic is next dayone extra delay recorded due to misspelling of Japanese nameone day extra recorded due to extraordinary volume (JPY withdrawal volume was > 1 million USD yesterday)EUR via SEPA is less than one weekmaximum per user is one withdrawal per 10 dayssmaller than 1000 EUR will get in a priority queue and used to fill the daily quotalarger than 1000 EUR, up to 30000 EUR are processed in FIFO orderwithdrawals > 30000 EUR will be delayed for more than 10 days; split in chunks of 30k EUR for faster processingInternational withdrawals are very slow.Only 10 standard international withdrawals are processed daily.Queue is strictly FIFO, unclear if FIFO is per user or per withdrawal.It is possible to make an express manual withdrawal via another payment provider for a fee. If you need the fiat, and you can withdraw either JPY to a Japanese account or EUR to an account within SEPA (EU + EEA + Switzerland and Monaco), you should sell at MtGox and withdraw from there.  The price is better there than on all other exchanges. You should cancel it and withdraw EUR via SEPA instead.  You will have your money in less than a week.See:(There are NO known counterexamples.) Yesterday alone people withdrew more than 100 million JPY from MtGox.  Presumably to do arbitrage.  You can't do arbitrage without depositing BTC.  I deposited 80 BTC myself recently, bought from other exchanges, to do arbitrage, and will deposit 80 more as soon as my withdrawal arrives.Btw, there are about 53k BTC in open asks at MtGox.  It has been below that many times before.  E.g. in April this year. A long list of people, just read backwards in this thread and others. Why do you keep spreading those lies?  You can't find ONE SINGLE EXAMPLE of someone not getting a SEPA transfer in time according to the rules I just gave.  How much are you making on arbitrage by discouraging people to withdraw fiat? Not at the current limit.  The queue has shortened over the last couple of months, and I hope the ~20 days between withdrawals will be reduced as well.  You could apply for trusted status, of course, and withdraw 100k in one go. Scroll back a few posts. I did: I think it is important to get the facts right.  Many people have lost a lot of money due to the FUD people spread about withdrawals.  I could have joined in and spread more FUD to make even more on arbitrage, but that would go against my principles.  Have you never defended something you didn't try yourself? Even if I did a withdrawal, it would be only one example of a successful withdrawal.  I think it is important to get the facts right.  So far all delays have been explained, and within expected limits.  There are plenty of people reporting successful withdrawals.  You don't need another one.A short summary of what we currently know about withdrawals:JPY domestic is next dayone extra delay recorded due to misspelling of Japanese nameone day extra recorded due to extraordinary volume (JPY withdrawal volume was > 1 million USD yesterday)EUR via SEPA is less than one weekmaximum per user is one withdrawal per 20 daysvery large withdrawals can be delayed up tp two weeksInternational withdrawals are very slow.Only 10 standard international withdrawals are processed daily.Queue is strictly FIFO, unclear if FIFO is per user or per withdrawal.It is possible to make an express manual withdrawal via another payment provider for a fee.Any counterexamples? In Computer Science we often use more efficient or fair queue diciplines than FIFO.  FIFO is not a perfect dicipline if the object is to give as many customers as possible acceptable service, and very unfair if they are limited to a number of transactions/day.  In that case anyone can stall the queue, causing Denial of Service to other customers, by making many small withdrawals instead of one large.You have had a 10k EUR SEPA withdrawal in queue for over 9 weeks?  I just did a 7k withdrawal.  It will be interesting to see how long it takes.  I never withdrew fiat from MtGox before. 55K isn't that bad.  It was lower in April. The security breach happened months ago.  If you just added something, you should be safe. A little under 8.3% now.  May still be worth the trouble, but not much longer as the spread goes down.  I expect it to go down even further when banks start moving again in the morning.  Price in EUR (or in JPY) on MtGox is 2.5% lower than price in USD, so 5.8%.  2% in fees, including transaction fees, bank fees and currency conversion fee from EUR to USD if I use Bitstamp.  3.8% left.  Bitcurex is a bit more promising right now, but very low volume.  Not sure if there will be more profitable arbitrage left when the money arrive if I withdraw from MtGox now. Have you ever written a press release?  It is supposed to be as short as possible.  A press release listing every little detail will get ignored by the press.  I have asked support to make a page listing all current withdrawal issues and expected time for the various methods, and hope this helps.If you people had bothered to ask support why your SEPA withdrawals were slower than expected, which would only take a minute, you would have got the same answer as the guy i cited.  Why do people bother with multiple microtransactions via SEPA anyway?  Doing all in one withdrawal makes sense.  It lessens the load for everyone. I didn't have to contact support.  MagicalTux explained it on #mtgox today:Code:13:30 < jouke> Just received an answer on my ticket: "We were bound to certain                withdrawal limits per day which forces the requests to pile up                in long queue. We suggest you to cancel all your pending                withdrawal request and make a new combined single request. So                that it be processed faster."13:32 <@MagicalTux> remember one thing13:32 <@MagicalTux> if you did multiple requests, only one can be processed                     every ~20 daysIn short: Cancel all your tiny withdrawals and merge them into one.  It will be processed much faster. Bitcoin.de does not handle fiat.  It is more similar to Localbitcoins than MtGox.Bitstamp can not have been entirely honest with their bank, since some of what they are doing is illegal.  Bitstamp has put all their eggs in one basket.  Any problems with that bank, and their customers will be quite deep in it..MtGox are negotiating with the same bank that Bitstamp is using.  It is very important to MtGox that their bank understand what they are doing, and to ensure that MtGox and their bank operate safely within all regulations (contrary to Bitstamp).  According to MagicalTux this takes longer than expected.You could have mentioned Bitcoin-Central as an example.  Bitcoin-Central was headed in the right direction by basically getting lisenced to operate as a bank themselves.  Customers were about to get their own IBAN at Bitcoin-Central when they had to close due to a security breach at their hosting provider.  I hope they'll open again soon. Don't forget when MtGox lost it's first bank in France.  In the case that followed MtGox won a very important victory for Bitcoin in Europe: Bitcoin isn't an e-currency.  If it was, it would be strongly regulated.  Fortunately no money were lost, but MtGox had to find another bank.  This wasn't easy.Intersango have had their share of problems as well.  They got their accounts in the UK closed.  I don't know if Intersango got their money back yet, or even a list of the most recent deposits.  Intersango found a new bank in Poland, which is the same bank MtGox is using after getting a tip from Intersango.  One thing is certain: There are not many Bitcoin friendly banks around. August 20th 2013.  There are many conformations of USD withdrawals after July.  Why do you think it is impossible to wire money to the USSA after July?  When I buy bitcoins from people in the USSA, I send the money through a bank.  This is OK, because banks are licensed money transmitters.Why do you think this is bullshit?  They had done a few changes by then, on request from regulators.  Changes regarding AML requirements and discontinuation of redeemable codes (another popular withdrawal method I had forgotten about).  I assume this means they had actually talked to them.  This DHS seizure due to money transmitting is a bit far fetched at best.  MtGox were using Dwolla and banks as money transmitters in the USSA, and their only mistake was to use an account owned by a different company ad an intermediate when transferring funds to and from Dwolla.  This other company, Mutum Sigillum, were acting as money transmitter between MtGox and Dwolla.  This is IMHO a detail which is easy to overlook, and the DHS certainly overreacted.It is a smallish bank in Poland.  The large multinational banks in Europe don't want to have anything to do with Bitcoin.  They are working on getting more, but this takes time.  It is important to MtGox he new bank understand what they are doing.  MtGox do not want to risk to have their new bank account closed or restricted.
It was given as "today" in the citation from "yesterday" in a post from August 21st.  Via some clever mathematics or a calendar, we can calculate the exact date to August 20th.  No date was given for the time of withdrawal.  This example only shows that USD withdrawals go through as well, even quite large ones, just very very slowly.  The official number is 10 transfers per day until they either manage to either find a bank willing to do their number of wires per day, or another method to serve all the small withdrawals.  International wire isn't well suited for that.  A licence to transmit money in the USSA (the main problem) will probably solve the problem as well. You have to document your claim of thousands of withdraws pending.  I count a total of three recent SEPA withdrawals in this thread which have been pending for more  than two weeks.  Each one reeported over and over.  Standard international withdrawal is very slow.  We know that.  There is a huge backlog from the middle of June.I'll try a four digit SEPA withdrawal next week, and report back. Please tell us how seizing less than 2/3 of their profit since April this year could possibly make them bankrupt.  I've heard this story many times, but nobody are willing to answer this simple question.Since you are unwilling to contact support about your pending transfer, I'll ask them a general question on Monday.  Just how many pending SEPA transfers there are > 2 weeks old.  Except, of course, those which are pending due to missing user input.  A common error is to choose International transsfer instead of SEPA, btw. Yep, all the people receiving SEPA transfers must be big fat liars, spescially fat, and certainly bigger than you.I bet you got your money as well, and just do what's economically sound.  Spread the FUD so you can make more money on arbitrage.What did support have to say about it, btw?  Written on the support pages: On a daily basis, due to missing or incomplete information we have transfers that we or our bank cannot process until we hear from our customers. https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=179586.msg2988898#msg2988898 SEPA withdrawals working faster than ever, and next day JPY withdrawals always working is not a sign of financial trouble.  Some high volume days more than 20% of their volume has been from sales in JPY and EUR.  I expect those money leave for arbitrage pretty quickly, and look!  Difference between exchanges went down pretty fast as well!  So far nobody has complained about late domestic withdrawals, except one who got it late because he misspelled his Japanese name.  And how on earth could MtGox have spent tens of millions in half a year, which would be required to get in financial trouble?Please elaborate.  In the time leading up to this, the following happened:SEPA amount per day limit hit (a very long time ago).  Many Europeans choose international wire instead.LR was busted, AurumExchange closed.  Withdrawal to several e-currencies no longer possible.OKpay stopped dealing with Bitcoin exchanges.  Another popular withdrawal method gone.Dwolla stopped, all US customers now have to use international wire.MtGox overloaded their bank with small wire transfers which would normally have gone through one of the methods above.This was a short summary of the official story, and it looks perfectly plausible to me.  What I have trouble believing is some diffuse story about MtGox somehow wasting tens of millions of USD to become insolvent.  You need to elaborate on that.In their bank accounts, of course. Sure it was sent as SEPA?  Have you contacted support and asked why it hasn't come through? Page 50 of this thread iirc.. SEPA has been working all the time, just slowly, and is now faster than it has been for almost two years.  Domestic JPY withdrawal has been working (next day) all the time.The number of bitcoins in bids above Bitstamp price on MtGox is about three times the entire order book at Bitstamp, and moving fiat out of one exchange, and then in to another takes time, so the difference will last for a while.  Especially during weekends when moving fiat is impossible.  We can enjoy the spread for as long as the FUD campaign against MtGox last, at least.  People tend to not trust Bitstamp with a lot of fiat ot BTC, since it operates in violation of the law, the owners are unknown to the community and their address is a maildrop in London.  We have seen many exchanges disappear with all assets before. Yes.  Delay for SEPA is up to two weeks, in most cases less than a week.  I also got some information from MtGox today: SEPA withdrawals are sent to the bank very early in the morning.  In practice you can expect it will be sent next business day at best.  Huge SEPA withdrawals (not to worry about unless you have trusted status) get lower priority unless the user inform MtGox in advance. Yes, many people are reporting successful withdrawals in various currencies.  Read a few pages back. They won't be able to buy 2 million USD of BTC with their USD in cold storage.  Should they show up at MtGox's door in Tokyo with a couple of suitcases (or a fridge) full of dollars and buy BTC?Large traders don't need to worry about the fee schedule.  They are in the lowest tier already, and MtGox is the only exchange where they can do large trades without moving the price too much.  It is the only exchange which they can trust a decent amount of money to as well.  Small traders may worry about the fee schedule.  The number of USD they need to trade to get a lower fee has increased quite a bit. They don't need to, so I doubt it.  That buyer wanted BTC (obviously).  If they had tried to buy the same amount of BTC on another exchange, they would have paid more due to much lower liquidity at the other exchanges.  MtGox was the cheapest exchange to use for this trade.  And please name one exchange you think it would be safer to keep two million USD on. Ehm.  It's public.  Anyone can verify this by looking at the transaction volume in the various currencies, multiply and add. Don't tell me this came as a surprise to you?  It is completely un-dramatic and the only unknown was the sum.  I expected it to be in the same ballbark as the Verdian Credit Union seizure at 2.9 million USD.  It was a little less.  So a little lower than expected, but still in the same ballpark.  And the total is still lower than MtGox's revenue since April.  How can anyone feel slapped in the face by this?  Do you feel that way?  What did you expect the number to be?Income since April (4 months): 8,000,000 USDOperating costs since April: 4 * 36,000 USD = 144,000 USDSeizure: 5,000,000 USD.Total revenue since April: 8,000' - 5,144' = 2,856'Almost 3 million USD profit since April, even if the seized funds are counted as lost!  Looks very healthy to me, and I assume MtGox had some profit before the end of April as well.  I would be worried if the last seizure was more than 8 million USD, but what did you expect when it was done a few days after the first? Less than I expected.  Why?  And why are you calling me an idiot? Here is what pending means:Code:14:52 <@MagicalTux> "pending" means we have asked our bank to send the funds, but haven't confirmed the debit on the bank account yetSo:They obviously can't send proof that the money have been sent or give a date until their bank has confirmed sending it.  They can however try to cancel the transaction with their bank.  I don't know how that procedure works.  However, I know this exact date is a particularly difficult one.  It could be hanging at the Wells Fargo account which was seized the morning after, and in that case MtGox will be unable to check status and won't be allowed to comment while the legal action is going on.  In short: MtGox can't do anything about it, and can't even tell you what the problem is.Eh, no it isn't "exactly fraud" if they asked their bank to do the transaction, and the bank is dragging their feet or forbidden by law enforcement to tell MtGox about any movements on the account.  And they obviously can't credit your account on MtGox until the transaction is cancelled at the bank.  And it is certainly not stolen money.  Worst case it may be seized money, which will be returned when MtGox can access the account again.I think it would be a waste of time and money.  Try contacting support in a more friendly tone.  I cancelled a transaction today after I noticed it was sent as international transfer (months) instead of SEPA (days).  It took three minutes from I sent the request until it was cancelled and the money credited back to my account.  My transaction was still in confirmed status, i.e. confirmed by MtGox, but not sent to the bank yet. I'm sure MtGox would return stolen money if they were deposited on MtGox. Go see a decent zombie flick and come back when you know what a zombie epidemic is.AFAIK MtGox has no other investors than Mark.  Mark is the sole owner of the company.MtGox are not allowed to comment on the current situation regarding legal actions in the US.  This is the answer we get over and over whenever someone ask.  Doing so would make them real criminals.  They are walking on a very thin line here, and saying too much would risk customers funds for real.  The reason why MtGox enjoys so much trust is the fact that they don't put their customers at risk.  Unlike other major exchanges which operate illegally in broad daylightWe know there is some investigation related to the US (only USD withdrawals are affected), which MtGox aren't allowed to comment on, and that international withdrawals (i.e. everything but SEPA and JP domestic) are limited to 10/day.  We also now that it is possible to request a prioritized transfer, which I assume is done via a third party money transmitter at a high cost.What do you think would is most unprofessional of the following?:1 Abiding to what law enforcement tells you, even when it causes frustration among customers.2 Operate illegally in broad daylight, risking shutdown and seizure of customers funds.3 Not abiding to orders from law enforcement, risking shutdown and seizure of customers funds. Never underestimate the power of trolls on the internet.  You didn't think it was solved, or you would have withdrawn earlier, right?  Trolls have been feeding a zombie epidemic.  People are seduced into believing in crazy stories about millions of USD mysteriously disappearing from MtGox.  The people become zombies who buy BTC on MtGox and sell at a loss on other exchanges to "secure their money", and go on to spread the epidemic further.  This is very profitable for the trolls who cash in large amounts on arbitrage by doing the opposite of the zombies.Equalization takes time.  Right now there are bids for 14439 BTC on MtGox at Bitstamp price or above.  That's more than the entire order book on Bitstamp, and a lot of money has to move before the price is equal.
Those are old.  The reduction of SEPA queue to a week or less happened very recently.  Last word from marionxd (MtGox support) in #mtgox on Freenode is: "Europe is currently solved."  Contact them if you don't get your latest SEPA withdrawal today.Spread between MtGox and Bitstamp supports this.  It is currently below 9%, and I haven't seen it above 10% all day.  Arbitrage is working.  I expect the difference to stay well below 10% until tomorrow evening, perhaps rise a bit during the weekend (no deposits), and return to below 5% next week.  Less than 5% is hardly worth the trouble of moving fiat around, but I guess some people will anyway.Btw, why don't you ask for a higher withdrawal limit?  My limit is 10k EUR, and my status is verified. Or staying at MtGox, but out of the order book.  10k or more BTC suddenly coming out of nowhere (not corresponding with recent large transactions in the blockchain) in a big dump happens now and then.  Keeping them out of the book makes an impression of buying pressure. Are they listed as SEPA or International?  SEPA is fast, international fits your description. Very slowly.  There is still more BTC in the order books on MtGox than there were in April.  But, yes.  It looks like some are hoarding BTC.  Prepare for rally! People are moving fiat money from MtGox to other exchanges to buy BTC at a low price, which they sell on MtGox for what the BTC is worth.  Repeat.  This is arbitrage.  Read about it.  BTC is BTC.  EUR is EUR.  You become richer in the process, which makes it a smart move.  Hence smart money.Eh?  You count it wrong so you can pretend to yourself it is declining?  You add up all currencies at Bitstamp because Bitstamp don't know how to implement a real multi currency exchange, so why not use a comparable measure for MtGox? Yep, it's the smart money doing arbitrage.  Difference between MtGox and Bitstamp is back below 10% now: 23:33 <gribble> mtgox premium over bitstamp is currently 9.6536870263 %.Your volume for MtGox is too low, btw.  You only counted USD volume.  Add almost 4k EUR trades, almost 1.8k JPY trades, and more than 2k in other currencies. They are buying BTC in large quantities to move out of MtGox, but they don't move it out of MtGox?  Is this some kind of New Speak for speculative buying because they believe the price is going up?  Not Exactly New in the world of Bitcoin trading.  What about the even larger price increase at Bitstamp?  Is that people buying BTC on Bitstamp to move out of Bitstamp, but they don't actually move it out of Bitstamp, or something?  No, this is entirely in your own head. (I have no idea what you are trying to say with that graph.  It shows that the big traders are still playing at MtGox.  Not much more.)Smart money is becoming more smart money through arbitrage.  Did you make your favourite graph again today?  (Remember to fix the CoinLab rectangle, btw, and perhaps add LR and OKpay.)21:20 <gribble> mtgox premium over bitstamp is currently 9.74957668657 %. Third hand information on this forum is very often wrong.  Perhaps RealSolid could tell us what MagicalTux actually said.  Did he explain how MtGox still manage to get USD wires out to customers? From #bitcoin-otc on Freenode yesterday:Code:15:43 < joesmoe> received wire from gox today, just to clarify, transfers are working, albeit slowly. 6 figures USD.Here is another one showing that MtGox indeed can wire money to the USSA (Luke-Jr lives in Florida):Code:13:18 <@MagicalTux> [20:18:44] <Blitzboom> how does a manual process work, and how much does it cost? <- you need to request it, and cost is only disclosed under a light NDA13:19 < Luke-Jr> MagicalTux: what's involved in "go through the manual process"? I have a wire outstanding 21 days now, didn't realize there was more to it..13:19 <@MagicalTux> Luke-Jr: contacting me usually works13:19 <@MagicalTux> we'll need the reference id for the transfer too13:20 <@MagicalTux> (or many transfers we can send as one) Looking good.  Just read a few pages back.  Note that SEPA maximum is 50 000 EUR.  Larger single transactions can not be sent via SEPA, and will become international wire. Probably, if I'd looked. :-)It is looking very healthy.  Bids increasing since beginning of July, and more than 72k BTC on the ask side.  Ask side has decreased a little, but no abnormal fluctuations.  Still higher than the beginning of April.  The zombie outbreak is smaller than I expected, but I guess the other exchanges can't even take a small one without tanking. The smart money are still on MtGox doing arbitrage, just look at the JPY and EUR volume recently for proof.  The big players are still there, just look at the total volume recently for proof.  MtGox's order book is currently 13.5 million USD deep on the bid side.  500k less than the most I have seen, which was 14 million USD.  And there are no other exchanges showing more depth due to money leaving MtGox.  Evidence shows that very little money is leaving MtGox, and their market share is very healthy.  Even increasing during the last few days.You have to explain how a company with a very healthy turnaround and profit and a sustained market share > 50% can go bankrupt due to information policy.  Bitcoin exchanges have traditionally closed due to banking problems (most common) or technical/security problems (deleting wallet, security breach, etc).  I don't know of any exchange going out of business due to information policy.Bitstamp are in direct violation of the law in both GB, where the company is registered, and in Slovenia where their bank account is.  Do you think any smart money are going there?  At least MtGox has the formalities in order in Japan where they are registered.  Customers from the USSA have some problems due to their own incompetent government agencies.  That's fortunately not a problem for me, but may be for exchanges dealing with US customers.  Better be 100% in line with local laws and regulation when that happens, or go the way of Bitcoin24. This fits well with the latest information from MtGox.  SEPA withdrawal times are decreasing.  Aug. 9th was a Friday, and if it was done in normal daytime in Europe processing started on Monday 12th.  It should arrive any time now.  Just cancel your international wire.  It is going to take a very long time.  As a verified user you can easily increase your daily limit to 10k EUR by asking support. I can't see any reason to be concerned about MtGox's economy at their current volume.  Their income is good and likely much higher than their expenses.  People have been claiming bankruptcy over the Dwolla seizures, but when the amount became public the size fit straight into Mark's description.  Not a problem.  CoinLab is in liquidation, and the suit was without any merit anyway.  They never did anything to get licensed as a money transmitter.  So far MtGox seems to be in good health economically.Their information could be better, more precise and more updated, but so far I haven't had any problems staying informed by watching the right channels.  Just don't believe anything the trolls here tell you second-hand.Please tell me which facts I am denying. I'll not claim never, but yes.  Total trade volume the last month has been record low.  It was quite low in July 2011 as well.Smart money wouldn't buy at 10 to 20% above the price at other exchanges unless it is a speculative buy in expectation of increasing prices.  Those money won't leave.  Smart money intending to leave will leave as fiat.  Dumb money intending to leave will do so at a 10 to 20% loss, but this will show as a volume spike on at least two exchanges.I dislike smear and FUD campaigns, and my only motivation is to stop the epidemic of zombies losing their money on bad advice. Bitstamp's API is pretty bad, and the security is even worse.  You  send your username and password in every request.  No API keys and no grading of permissions.  If you are somehow tricked into sending a request to the wrong server, you just gave away your account.  MtGox's API is much better in all regards.  A request sent to the wrong server contains no information of any use to anybody.Bitcurex has an API very similar to MtGox v0, btw.  Should be trivial to port. Their market share has always been following volume, and volume has been extraordinary low for a while.  MtGox went back over 80% for a while yesterday when volume was high (24h volume). International wires are processed in receiving order.  No word about the processing order of SEPA withdrawals, but I suspect they start with the oldest and run through the queue while skipping those which are too large to fit within the daily quota.  This means smaller SEPA withdrawals will have a small advantage.If you have been waiting 5 weeks for a SEPA withdrawal, you should contact support and ask if anything is wrong.  It probably is.  Some wrong info perhaps, like joesmoe who misspelled his Japanese name, or it got in the international (SWIFT) queue by mistake. You should send as EUR SEPA (if your account is within the SEPArea), not international wire.  SEPA should take a week or less. Numbers tell otherwise.  Well over 50% market share, and by far the deepest order book of all exchanges.  MtGox is clearly the most trusted of all exchanges.
They do, but due to the time it takes (1 business day for withdrawal from MtGox + 4 days for deposit to Bitstamp/BTC-E/whatever) it takes a while, and there is some risk involved.  You lose a week of trading on MtGox, which can be just as profitable.  I assume this is the reason why JPY volume at MtGox stayed fairly low until the difference passed 10%.  From that time it takes about a week until the money withdrawn are deposited on Bitstamp.  And don't forget that Bitstamp only allows a small amount for first time deposit.  I guess most Japanese haven't bothered to send their money to a foreign exchange before, so that's another clamp.  The difference will stay high for at least one more week.  The supply of stupid people selling at a loss is endless. If they wanted to do arbitrage, they would be selling on MtGox, not buying.   Much of the volume is from bots, yes.  There is no signs of whales exploiting the spread.  They would have to risk a lot of money on an exchange operating on borrowed time, and I don't think anyone would risk a "whale" amount of money on Bitstamp after what happened to bitcoin24.  But there are many individuals making a fair amount on four digit EUR amounts.  Including some people trolling here. Do you have proof of this, or are you making up even more bs?People are withdrawing all kinds of amounts.  1000 EUR makes no whale. People wouldn't lose money on the spread if they weren't listening to your FUD.  This is like watching a zombie movie.  Zombies trying to infect stupid people to make more zombies.  I make money on the spread.  So do many other posters in this thread, but not all of us are doing out best to escalate it.  To me what's best for Bitcoin comes before what's best for my own wallet. Please share the data you have on when the CoinLab suit started.   MtGox has well over 50% of the market and shows no signs of dying.  It is the only exchange featuring proper multi-currency trading, it has the most secure and mature API, has the deepest books and is the most trusted of all exchanges.  MtGox has survived worse problems in the past, and will come out stronger. Most EUR exchanges, e.g. bitcoin.de and Bitcurex, are somewhere between MtGox and Bitstamp now.  Back up after being on Bitstamp level for a while.  Could be due to the difficulties many have when trying to deposit money at Bitstamp after the flagging of their account. No, the account has to be in your own name.  Your cousin could open a MtGox account, and you can transfer BTC to him for him to sell and withdraw. Bitcoin exchanges are not traditional markets.  Traditional markets for currency exchange is banks, and only open during the banks opening hours.  There are plenty long arbitrage possibilities in Bitcoin.  Between exchanges, and even local to multi-currency exchanges.  You do not have to go far from the banks to find arbitrage opportunities which are more risky to exploit.  E.g. my stock example.I would like to point to this here as well.  Do you really believe Bitcoin exchanges are even remotely close to banks in terms of liquidity?This is funny, because here you claim it is about lack of trust, not low liquidity.  You even moved the Coinlab rectangle two weeks to the right because the facts didn't fit your theory.Now, here you have a point.  Due to one of the easiest arbitrage exchanges for buying right now are operating in obvious violation of the law, I don't want to risk much money there.  Neither does anyone else, which you can easily see from the depth of their order book.  Keeping millions of dollars there (unless you mean Zimbabwe dollars) is completely out of the question.  And they don't allow me credit, like the markets you are comparing with do.  This of course limits my own arbitrage possibilities.Eh?  No.  You are ignoring a large number of facts here.  How much experience do you have with real life arbitrage trading?  Any at all?  Read a little about it on the internet, perhaps?  Not quite understanding all the basics?Taking out a 0.1% arbitrage possibility in the Bitcoin markets will make you lose money.  Come back when you can explain why.  People have no problems cashing out six figures of USD or EUR from MtGox, and JPY withdrawal has never been limited.  I guess most of them will be careful of placing a six digit amount of USD on an exchange operating on borrowed time to take out a limited amount of arbitrage. So how do you explain the identical trades in opposite direction on MtGox and Bitstamp at exactly 8% price difference for days?Does writing two arbitrage bots operating in several currencies count as a fraction of knowledge?   Their problem is that they keep running out of fiat on one side, which takes time to move.  Time means the market isn't entirely liquid.  This won't change until all exchanges work as banks as well, with the possibility to borrow fiat and BTC.  There is a fine balance to maximize the profit without running out of funds.  (Which they do all the time  moving funds fast enough is impossible when it has to happen through banks and the markets are open 24/7.)  Arbitrage opportunities can exist in other markets as well, for a relatively long time, when the market isn't entirely liquid.  E.g between stocks in the same company on different exchanges operating in different currencies when currency rates fluctuate. You wouldn't waste the opportunity on 10% when 20% is in sight, would you?  Arbitrage bots have a trigger point.  The difference between Bitstamp and MtGox was exactly 8% or below for days, and it seems a higher difference triggered a bot to trade on both exchanges.  The panicing hoardes probably exceeded the financial capacity of this bot, and it ran out of funds, which made the max 8% difference end abruptly.  Expect it's trigger point to be raised when it is funded again.  I'm sure the bot could make profit on 5% or 3% as well, but it would run out of funds faster then and miss better opportunities later.There is an idiot born every minute, and all of them seems to be busy giving their money to arbitrageurs now.  The amount of money given away is so high, not many people have the capital needed to hold the spread stable.  As more people get into the game, the difference will go down and become more variable with highs during weekends (no new money getting in or out of exchanges, but BTC may move). Very easy.  MtGox has one orderbook.  (With some currency conversion quirks which can be confusing when you try to understand them, but there is really no need since it is transparent to the users.)  All BTC offered in all currencies are available in all other currencies as well.  The JPY order book is just as deep as the other order books. Correct, and not everyone have an EUR account in the SEPA.  Not everyone have a bank account at all.  Closing of AurumExchange and OKPay made withdrawal of fiat impossible for many people until they got themselves a bank account.  Nevertheless your claim was bombastic in capital letters, as if it applies to everyone:No, what you claim are FACTs are not even remotely close to facts.  Perhaps a FACT is different from a fact?  A FACT is just a kind of almost fact which could be true if you bend it and add a few ifs?For certain values of need, perhaps.  I doubt it applies to many people.  Many people listen to your FUD, panics and leave at a loss.  I feel sorry for them, but it is their choice.Or anyone in Japan or most people in Europe, or anyone trusted who is willing to pay for an emergency manual withdrawal, or...  Your small percentage is getting quite large.  20% of the volume on MtGox yesterday was either JPY or EUR.  Yes, there have been reports on EUR withdrawals waiting long, but most people report quick service.  Could be worth a talk to Support if it takes too long.  Some banks have different BIC for SEPA and SWIFT, and usually the code used for SWIFT is the one most visible.  Apparently MtGox have some problems in that regard.YOU did.  Stating is as a FACT in capital letters:Please tell me where I'm wrong.  I'll be happy to correct my statements if they are wrong.  There are a lot of comments and threads here on bitcointroll where people are claiming they have received their fiat withdrawals.  Even today.  Why do you ignore them?  Yes, there are a few large pink noisy elephants in the room (not many), but there are a lot of happy flies as well who make a lot less noise.  Why ignore the happy flies?  People have trolled about MtGox since  2010 when their PayPal account was closed.  I did it myself back then.  Still MtGox is up and running as the most liquid, highest volume exchange with the deepest order books.  I think most of their customers have got used to the FUD here on bitcointroll.  MtGox is solid as a rock.  Built to withstand Japanese earthquakes. Yes, you have missed it.  JPY is a convertible currency.  Any other convertible currency, e.g. EUR or USD, will do. Ditto.  You remind me of my five year old when you claim that withdrawing fiat is impossible, and you haven't even tried many of the methods which everyone who have claims are working and fast.  Denying obvious facts, sticking to the methods which you know don't work, arguing that people should take a loss instead of a good arbitrage.  Pathetic. Obvius BS.  There is no such thing as an IBAN transfer. What you call a fact is not.  Many people here have gotten fiat money out from MtGox.  JPY transfers arrive next day.  No reports claim otherwise, unless you spell your name wrong.  You and some people here spreading FUD for your own profit.  Your FUD campaign is what it is, and not even remotely related to fact.They are quite stupid, panicing or falling for your FUD campaign.  First of all it is quite easy to sell at MtGox prices elsewhere.  I've always done that to avoid withdrawal fees.  There is no need to sell at a loss.  Secondly it is possible to get fiat out of MtGox.  See multiple confirmations in this thread.Delayed is quite different from impossible. Common error to believe that 99% agrees with oneself.  If you count carefully in this thread, you will notice that less than 99% of posters have this problem.  And people who don't have this problem are unlikely to come here and complain in the first place.  And you only prove my point again.  The cause of the discrepancy is the problem of moving fiat reducing arbitrage possibilities, not lack of trust (as shown by every other metric). We can probably discuss this forever, but your graph still hides a lot of facts.  E.g. everything before April.  The fact that BTC-E followed nicely before and after the first period in May, but went below both Bitstamp and MtGox during the first period of divergence in May.  Does that mean BTC-E is the most trusted of those three?  The CoinLab suit started almost two weeks before your rectangle naming it, and instead your rectangle conveniently includes the announcement of new verification requirements and the end of OKpay (fiat withdrawal difficulties).  To name a few examples.
If you think the text on the graph proves anything, you are wrong.  My theory describe this better IMHO, and in addition doesn't need to hide the fact that MtGox is the most trusted of all the exchanges according to all the metrics.  There are various reasons for the lack of trust in other exchanges.  E.g. unanswered questions regarding regulatory status, lack of AML procedures, and in some cases obvious breach of laws. What does support have to say about it? I guess we disagree on this point.  I believe the discrepancy between MtGox and other exchanges is due to difficulties of getting USD (primarily) out, making arbitrage difficult.  Just as high fees does, as explained by smoothie.  You think the reason for the discrepancy is due to lack of trust in MtGox, even if every possible metric of trust show the opposite.  So I believe you are wrong, and I doubt you did the math yourself. The answer is more complex than you think.  First of all the total volume crashed.  MtGox is boss at high volume, and at low volume it is more even.  The volume has been record low for a while, and the reason why the picture is very different today.  Second, while USD volume at MtGox has gone down, EUR and JPY volume has gone up.  Those are the smart money doing arbitrage, buying BTC from other exchanges to sell at MtGox.  Then there are people panicing, of course due to USD withdrawal problems.  (That's your dumb money leaving at a loss.)If you have an EUR withdrawal waiting for more than a week, you should check and make sure it is a SEPA withdrawal.  It is easy to make the mistake of making it an international transfer instead.  Then contact support to make sure everything is in order.  No errors in forms or anything else making the transfer fail. I have never seen MtGox's market share below 50%.  Not even a 24 hour period.  Some people making that claim have done the mistake of ignoring all currencies on MtGox than USD.  Non-USD volume is usually a large part of the total volume on MtGox.Take the last 24 hour volume:51403 BTC traded in USD 7615 BTC traded in EUR 3086 BTC traded in JPY ... [ + a few k in other currecies ]Non-USD currencies make up more than 20% of the total volume today.  And note that people have noticed they can withdraw JPY very quickly and move to other exchanges for arbitrage.Bitstamp?  19367  BTC total today.   Less than 1/3 of MtGox.BTC-E?  4587 BTC total today.  Less than EUR volume at MtGox. Eh?  You tell me "this" is incorrect (What is incorrect?) and make no attempt to prove it.  The difference in volume of the two exchanges is way more than 10x.  Depth and liquidity as well. Ah.  So the BTC-E discrepancy is due to difficulties getting fiat in and out of the exchange, while the MtGox discrepancy is due to distrust?  That's a new one!If we are to believe the order books, a lot more BTC and their fiat is trusted to MtGox than to BTC-E.I think it is the other way around.  Discrepancies are high for both due to difficulties getting fiat in or out.  MtGox price, volume, depth and liquidity is higher because people trust MtGox more than they trust BTC-E. You think a lot of strange things.  Like that friends and family of MtGox staff has to pay a 5% fee to withdraw funds from MtGox, instead of the standard 200 yen fee for a next day domestic transfer, and present it like they have an advantage.  You are a troll, oyvinds.  Nothing less.  Your personal thoughts aren't worth much. Not to prove his claim of no such discrepancies before that date.  Try to make a similar graph for BTC-E and MtGox for the lifetime of BTC-E.  "Because BTC-E is more trusted?"  Nah. There is a different perspective which you are happy to ignore: Deposit problems at Bitstamp.  You have one exchange which many people can't withdraw fiat from, and another one which many people can't deposit fiat to.  The result can hardly surprise anyone, and has nothing to do about trust.MtGox volume is many times the volume of Bitstamp.  The large leads the small.  Surprising?  No. 20% wasn't sustained either.  Bitstamp followed MtGox's lead after a while, like a good dog.  A bit more reluctant than usual, but still did.  And spread is back to "normal" for the last week.17:56 <gribble> mtgox premium over bitstamp is currently 12.2196192237 %.Your graph only starts at the end of April, and still has too few datapoints. When did you get out of your diapers?  There has been spikes of > 20% many times.  E.g. during the crash from 260, and the rally afterwards.  Quite recently. Why do you even bother to ask your question here?  Just ask support.  The bank fees for an overnight SWIFT transfers are steep.  I assume you have to be trusted to get that option, and it will probably not be a good idea if you transfer less than six digits of USD.Anyone with a domestic bank account in Japan can make even better profit.  The fee for an overnight JPY withdrawal is only 200 JPY (2 USD).Eh?  If it has ever been a secret, it hasn't been well kept.  You don't impress anyone buy acting surprised.Oh, please stop barfing all over the forum.  Are you drunk or something?MtGox staff live in Japan, and I assume most of their friends and family do as well.  Why pay a high withdrawal fee for express SWIFT transfer, when you can get a cheap domestic transfer faster?  You should stop doing drugs. Your 20% isn't sustained.  10% extra spread for hours isn't uncommon when MtGox leads a rally:15:18 <gribble> mtgox premium over bitstamp is currently 13.3164556962 %.Do you think the sustained spread between BTC-E and Bitstamp is because people have more trust in BTC-E than in Bitstamp?  Some people in financial trouble are buying BTC at MtGox to sell at other exchanges, but this is hardly about trust, is it?  There are more than 68k BTC for sale in the order book on MtGox.  That's a lot of money for an untrusted exchange.[/quote] If it was a bank run, the volume at other exchanges would equal that of MtGox because people were buying on MtGox to sell on other exchanges.  But it isn't.  Not even close.  Volume on MtGox today is much higher than on other exchanges.  USD volume alone is more than 3x the volume on Bitstamp, and 4x when you add up the rest of the currencies on MtGox.  No signs of empty hot wallet on MtGox today either, so probably just a normal rally where MtGox is leading as usual. Yep, Bitstamp and other exchanges lag behind when there is a rally.  This isn't news.  Has been this way since MtGox grew to become the largest exchange. Many people have difficulties grasping this..The difference is rarely 2.5%.  Here is a current picture of the best bid and best ask in various currencies (just a small selection), and their ratio to the best bid and ask in USD:Code:Tickers and ratio to USD:EUR:    88.24500 0.9909    88.95000 0.9955GBP:    74.25805 0.9773    75.00000 0.9837AUD:   127.32911 0.9833   129.99000 1.0005JPY: 11316.46600 0.9773 11704.00000 1.0073PLN:   372.00000 0.9880   377.00000 0.9979NOK:   687.66483 0.9773   711.89899 1.0083As you'll see from this very few of the currencies have a 2.5% (0.975 or 1.025) ratio to USD.  Some currencies here has a ratio of 0.9773 on the bid side.  This is due to a bid in another currency (not displayed here) which is a 0.23% above the best USD bid.  It shows up at 0.9773 ratio to USD on all other currencies, including USD.  If someone sell in one of those currencies, it will be a mixed currency trade against that currency, not USD, which means the trade will happen at a price better than 2.5% below best USD bid.  Best ask are close to 1 for all currencies due to an ask in one currency (possibly GBP here, haven't checked) which is far below the best ask in USD.  This will show up fairly close to the best ask in USD as well.  The round numbers (129.99000 AUD, 11704.00000 JPY) indicates that the ask was placed in this currency.  If it is converted from a different currency, it is unlikely to be this round.  As you see you will usually trade against an order in the same currency.  Mixed currency trades are actually not very common.  Mixed currency against USD is even less common, since many use this as a metric of how the price should be, and bid or ask a little bit better in their own currency to pick up such trades.There is no fee for anyone.  If someone buy the GBP ask at 75 using another currency, e.g. JPY, she will pay whatever her bid is in JPY.  The buyer gets her BTC at what she bid in JPY, and the seller will receive 75 GBP for each BTC she bought.  MtGox will do the currency conversion internally (at 2.5% comission).  This happens behind the scenes. It is even more costly to withdraw from BTC-E.  This is mostly about trust.13:49 <gribble> mtgox premium over bitstamp is currently 14.0344717342 %.Lowering a bit.  Rally at MtGox, and Bitstamp follows as usual.  Just lags a bit behind.  Expect the difference to fall more as it catches up and the rally ends at MtGox. True, but BTC-E has been 5% or more below other exchanges for months in the past.  Only broken by sudden rallies or crashes.  The large spread between MtGox and a few other exchanges today is due to panic, and isn't going to last.  Just have a glance at the JPY volume today.  Those money will be at other exchanges in four days.  Exploit the spread while it is still possible. +1.  It is not like 50% or more arbitrage opportunities never existed before in Bitcoin.  I have exploited quite a few, and two days of SEPA transfer time has generally not been a hinder to exploitation.  Not at this volume, of course.  5% has been normal for a long time between BTC-E and more trusted exchanges.  >3% between BTC-E and Bitstamp now, for example.
Looks like this is changing.  BTC/JPY volume at MtGox last 24h is more than 1/4 of BTC/USD volume at Bitstamp, and rivals BTC/USD volume at BTC-E.  Not all of this is going to withdrawal of course, but I assume a large part of it is.  At 14% price difference, some are looking at a huge profit.  Probably still not enough to equalize the prices, but perhaps enough to reduce the difference somewhat. Oh, yes.  Some people are, but not enough.  Check JPY volume.  Domestic JPY withdrawal is next day, but SWIFT transfer to other exchanges take some time.  Looks like between 50k and 100k USD are transferred via JPY every day. You could e.g. send JPY to Bitstamp if Bitstamp's bank offer a better JPY to USD exchange rate than yours.  And it is pretty good, IMO.  Less than 1% loss there.  Exchange fees (0.5% or less x 2) and SWIFT transfer fee (fixed sum) are going to be the main expenses.  Not much for a large enough sum.  8000 USD or more, and you should be able to get away with less than 2% in fees.  The BTC/JPY rate may be up to 2.5% worse than BTC/USD, but usually the difference is smaller.  Sometimes the BTC/JPY rate is even better than BTC/USD, but probably not at high volume. I thought my source was well known, and I already provided it.  gribble is a bot in #bitcoin-otc and other Bitcoin related channels on freenode.  It fetches the tickers from both exchanges and calculates the difference.  It works with several exchanges.  E.g:09:35 <sturles> ;;premium bitstamp btce09:35 <gribble> bitstamp premium over btce is currently 2.01656900384 %.The samples were taken at random times.  The samples in your graph seems to be very far apart, and is certainly not accurate enough to prove anyone a liar. SWIFT transfer is futile at the moment.  EUR (SEPA) or PLN (domestic) will be much faster. Nah.  When I opened an account in Germany, the registration form was in German.  The language isn't important as long as you understand it.  Which is why many people choose to use a consultant to open an account in a foreign country.  But many banks, in Germany and elsewhere, don't allow foreigners to open normal domestic accounts.  Took me a while to find one. Their polish bank has a daily limit, and this has been a problem for SEPA and PLN withdrawals for years.  They are working on getting EUR accounts in other banks in the SEPArea, which will solve the issue.  (Assuming the PLN withdrawal volume isn't too high.)Domestic JPY withdrawals works fine, and arrive next day.  No known delays.  JPY to Poland and GBP to Isle of Man will be SWIFT transfers, which we know is very limited in capacity right now.  If I were you, I would start a wire-through service via my Japanese JPY account.  Buy BTC from people via SWIFT transfer from your account, exchange the BTC for JPY at MtGox and transfer back to your account.  You can take at least 5% profit on every transfer.  One day turnaround if you can convince people to send BTC first.  Or transfer money to other exchanges and buy directly, but this will take longer time due to the time a SWIFT transfer take.  Three times 5% is better than one time 10% in the same time frame. Must have been taken just after some large trade.  Here are my samples from the time around my post (timestamps in CET):20:12 <gribble> mtgox premium over bitstamp is currently 9.43015538326 %.20:53 <gribble> mtgox premium over bitstamp is currently 9.80714742711 %.22:18 <gribble> mtgox premium over bitstamp is currently 9.15855226897 %.Currently:07:18 <gribble> mtgox premium over bitstamp is currently 9.95425434584 %.Far below the 12% to 14% from a couple of days ago. The reason for this was an error in the Japanese spelling of his name.  His JPY transfer arrived the day after he contacted support and corrected the error.  There have been many reports on this forum, even in this thread, that JPY transfers work fine both ways. Yes.  If you found an example of JPY rate same as USD rate on MtGox yesterday, you were lucky.  Most JPY trdes on MtGox yesterday were mix currency, i.e. a trade done in JPY and matched with an order in a different currency at 2.5% conversion fee. They can.  Withdrawal of JPY to Japanese bank accounts work fine and arrive next day.  JPY has sailed up as the third most traded currency at MtGox now, and the price difference between MtGox and Bitstamp is slowly decreasing.  Below 10% for the first time in days now. Eh?  What OhShei8se writes is 100% true.  I've received a cheque myself which couldn't be redeemed outside USSA (and possibly Canada).  No bank in my country wanted it.  Scammers.I don't think national cheques exist in my country any more.  Haven't seen one since the 80ies.  Checked my bank's price list now, and hidden in some price list for special services I found a price for currency cheque.  So it seems they do one kind of cheques.  It is the second most expensive service in my bank's price list, after taking up a new loan.  85 USD.  Recalling a currency cheque, in case it is lost in the mail, is the third most expensive service in my bank.  (I wonder if this is what was previously called a "travellers cheque"?) Then there is a swiftcheque (same price), which is basically as SWIFT transfer to someone without a bank account.  I suppose those will have the same limit as other SWIFT payments.There are many kinds of cheques, and not all can be redeemed everywhere. Quoting out of context again.  There are three types of wires via bank: SWIFT, SEPA and Japanese domestic transfers.  vinne81 transferred EUR, which I assume is via SEPA (fastest with the exception of domestic transfers).  MagicalTux was referring to SWIFT wires.  The queues for the two are different, since there is a limit on number of transfers per day for SWIFT and amount per day and month for SEPA.  I assume MtGox try to fill up their daily quota of SEPA volume by smaller transfers if the next one in the queue is too large to fit.Please stop quoting out of context and talk about all wires as they were the same kind. See my own offers.  I sell at MtGox ask + 2.5%, and buy for MtGox bid - 1%.  If it was difficult to sell at MtGox bid + 2.5%, I wouldn't sell 200 to 500 BTC a week at this price.  Note my buy offer at MtGox bid - 1% as well.  Not above MtGox price, but not very far from it either.  When I can sell 200 to 500 BTC a week at this price, I consider it easy.  My buy offer is high to keep liquidity high with domestic transfers.  SEPA transfers to e.g. Bitstamp take suspiciously long time to get credited sometimes, and this can put me in a BTC liquidity squeeze in periods of high volume.  (My primary goal is to offer a fast and painless way to exchange between BTC and NOK at goot rates, not making as much profit as possible.)I think you are absolutely wrong, or perhaps you never even tried?Yes, I do.  Those are quite small compared to MtGox.A handful a day at Localbitcoins, one or two via email and and 10 to 30 via IRC.  I doubt the other facilities process millions of dollars every day.  The total order book at Bitstamp (bids) is only 1 million USD deep.  Not able to support millions of dollars every day, unless you mean Zimbabwe dollars. I never used any of those, and have no idea what their references are.  If any.  I tried to check Bips, and the only reference I found on https://bips.me/pricing was MtGox.  Their API seems to require a key, and I couldn't be bothered to find out how to make one.Try to find a sell offer on Localbitcoins below MGox price.  Try #bitcoin-otc.  See the URL in my signature.My claim was:Believe me, it is. SEPA is much faster than SWIFT at the moment for EUR.  SEPA queue is actually getting shorter.  If you can't wait a week or two for your money, there are a few other options giving much better prices than Bitstamp, which I consider the panic option.  E.g. sell BTC locally for cash via Localbitcoins.com. Because it is amazingly easy to sell at or above MtGox rates just about everywhere, except on a few exchanges.  MtGox is still the reference rate most places.  If you have a bank account in Japan there are no problems withdrawing either, but you will currently get 2.5% less if selling BTC for JPY on MtGox compared to USD.  SEPA withdrawals will go through as well, but there are still delays for SEPA withdrawal making it unattractive compared to the other options.  If you have money to place in medium term savings, you can deposit on USD MtGox via BTC at instant 10% profit.  Expect very competitive BTC prices on MtGox when their fiat withdrawal problems are solved.  I don't want to be out then. If Bitcoin is money, there is no (sales) tax on the commission either.  Just as there is no tax on bank fees or interest.  (Because if there was sales tax on fees, the bank could just lower the fees and adjust the interest.  And vice versa.)  Either there is 25% sales tax on sale of bitcoins, or there are no taxes on sale or exchange of bitcoins, including commission and fees. A million SWIFT transfers is some number you pulled out of your hat.  You imply the bank has several million large companies as customers.  This is not realistic.A SWIFT transfer isn't much manual work.  Returns and rejects are.Source?Here is another quote from IRC, which you conveniently ignored:Code:14:10 < sturles> MagicalTux: Why only 10 SWIFT transfers per day?  Is that commonplace for customers in your bank?14:12 <@MagicalTux> sturles, most companies in Japan will do one, maybe two SWIFT transfers a month to providers overseas (actually most will do zero)Do you really think the bank has more than 30 million companies paying via SWIFT (most companies will do none) as customers?  Assuming 2 million SWIFT transfers a day where MtGox has half.  Let me ask again: Can you provide a source for that number?  In most cases a simple payment by credit card or another method will do fine, and there is no need for a SWIFT transfer.  Not daily.  Not every week.  Not even every month for most companies.Or it could be that Japan, as a highly advanced and organized society, has more practical payment options available to them.  E.g. international credit cards with low fees. I can see:1. No mention of overloading computer systems.2. No mention of a million SWIFT transfers every day.Japan is economically very different from the rest of Asia.
Yes, and I can not remember any mention about overloading computer systems.Btw, Japan is a very large and developed economy, very different from the developing economies in the rest of Asia.  Most of the economic activity happens within Japan's borders, and most foreign trade is done by large companies buying and selling products in bulk.  10 SWIFT transfers a day isn't much, but I can believe MT's claim of that being more than most companies in Japan.  Toyota don't send a SWIFT transfer for each foreign part in each car.  They buy large shipments in bulk, and probably send payment for much less than 10 foreign orders a day by average. Do you have a reference for computer systems?  My impression is that all irregularities which make manual work for the bank is to blame.  E.g. wrong names or other information on accounts, or other banks returning or refusing to process transfers, or requesting return of transfers.  I'm surprised to hear it was the computer systems. Examples?  MtGox and their employees are not allowed to trade on their own exchange.  I suggested that MtGox introduced an option to take all fees in fiat, which they did and made default for new accounts.  They have made much less BTC from fees since then.  AFAIK MtGox never exchanged their BTC into USD due to regulatory issues.  (MtGox would have to do that on another exchange, if they are permitted to trade BTC at all.)No, a lot of thee fees have been spent on buying companies.  17k BTC on some exchange in Poland which managed to delete their wallet (17k was enough to reimburse their customers), some on a market watch site, 25k on Bitcoin Foundation membership, etc.  AFAIK this is their policy.  Spend the BTC as BTC. +1.  Several of the people trying to escalate the situation by spreading rumours here, are busy taking arbitrage as well.  (I know a few, but won't mention names.)  Spending some time here to talk people into giving them 10% of their money by selling for cheap on other exchanges is very profitable. This is true for all exchanges.  If I believed any of them were insolvent, I wouldn't keep money there.The BTC MtGox made in fees for the first year of operation after introducing fees alone is worth millions of USD now.  And there are 14 million USD (fiat) in the order book alone.  This is USD which hasn't been withdrawn yet.  I don't believe it is possible for MtGox to waste 14 million USD in this short time.  And so far withdrawals in JPY to banks in Japan flows normally.  This is consistent with the explanation of wire transfer problems and no solvency problems. At least my fiat seems to be safe at MtGox.   10% instant profit on deposits via BTC, and it may be a smart place to hold fiat when fiat withdrawals are back to normal.  I see cheap BTC on the horizon.  Simple to change currency as well, when the USD goes down the drain.  Even at a profit, depending on the price differences between different currencies at MtGox.  My bot has been juggling between BTC and different fiat currencies very successfully for a while.  Not an ideal place to keep fiat right now for those who can't afford it, of course. This is the only report I've seen about delayed transfer of JPY to Japan.  Everyone else seem to have their money in their account on the next day.  Perhaps there is a queue issue?  As long as the previous withdrawals are stuck in queue, the later JPY transfer will not be executed?  This is pure speculation, of course.  I would contact support.  If it fails, contact Mark on IRC when he is awake.By the way -- sending 10 SWIFT transfers on one day is not the same as sending 10 every day.  Of course I wish we knew more about the reason for this limit. Did Mark ever claim MtGox was MSB compliant in the US?  They relied on Dwolla, which is (or claims to be) and banks (which are).  Then DHS came about and declared Mutum Sigillum a threat to USSA homeland security due to some technicality in how MtGox transfer USD to and from Dwolla.  See: http://numismatics.pwnz.org/15may-dhs-seizure-of-mtgox-funds-held-by-dwolla/ So you don't think the shutdown of Dwolla increased the load of USD withdrawals via their bank?  Interesting.  Why? Read again.Please tell us more about the laws and regulations against money laundering in Japan.  What are the limits and what is MtGox required to report?  When are they required to be more careful? I know.  Laws against money laundering make a lot of trouble for their customers.  But you are attacking the wrong people for it.  You should attack the government instead.  And their bank regarding the limit of SWIFT transfers per day.  Fortunately MtGox are working with other banks to solve this particular problem, and the SEPA queue is already getting shorter.  To raise the amount limits beyond what the anti money laundering laws permit, you have to go elsewhere, however.MtGox's track record is better than most other exchanges.I haven't seen a check in my country since the early eighties.  I got a check for 20 USD from an US company in 1998, but it was only valid in the USA.  Travelling to Japan to cash out a check wouldn't be very attractive either, if they still have checks in Japan.  Are checks still used anywhere?Edit: I would actually be very pissed if any exchange sent me a check which I would have to travel around half the world to redeem, and call that a payment.  I didn't do more business with the US company either.  Scammers. Do you have a source for your claim that the bank in Slovenia rejected their application, or are you making that up?Reducing SEPA delay is very good news.  SEPA withdrawals have been delayed for weeks and months for as long as I can remember.  The forum threads about SEPA delays are years old.  SWIFT used to be the solution (at a higher fee), and when that ceased to be a solution, the matters got even worse for a while, and are now finally improving.If you lift the rock you live under and look back, you may notice that 40% of all Bitcoin exchanges have either been forced to close or have had serious problems due to banks not wanting them as customers any more.  Banking and Bitcoin have never been good friends. Bitcoin exchanges in Europe are limited to very few banks which are not hostile, and those banks are in countries far from the exchanges.  This should tell you something.The USSA are issuing "National Security Letters" by the truckload these days  everybody has at least one  and secret laws, regulations, courts and concentration camps make sure we don't want to talk about it to each other.  This isn't news.  When dealing with the USSA we are not allowed to speak our own opinion.See previous note about exchanges closing or getting in serious trouble due to banking trouble.  Are Barclays still sitting on Intersango's GBP?  It is vitally important that the banks understand what MtGox are doing.  Otherwise we'll just end up with even more trouble and locked funds.I understand that the SWIFT limit is not exactly the same as their USD problem, but this may be a misunderstanding.  At least he explains how they are working to solve their problem with SWIFT transfer limits.  I agree that fixing the problem is more important than talking about it.This has obviously changed.  Perhaps they have listened to all the protests.  I don't know.   At 10 SWIFT transfers a day the delays will obviously be endless unless they focus on solving the problem instead of the exact ordering of the queue. You quoted Mark out of context.  SEPA != SWIFT  As I understand it SWIFT transfers are limited by number of transfers, while SEPA is limited by a daily amount.  It only makes sense then to fill the daily SEPA quota with small transfers to maximize their throughput. Here are some new IRC quotes for you, reordered for readability:Code:13:43 < sturles> SEPA has been delayed for as long as I can remember.  I wish                  MtGox had more SEPA banks, but they generally don't like                  Bitcoin buisnesses.  Perhaps the one in Slovenia which                  Bitstamp is using could be worth a try?  Could be troubled                  with the same issue, of course.13:48 <@MagicalTux> sturles, we already applied to that one13:53 < sturles> MagicalTux: Great!  Lower SEPA delays would do wonders!  In                  fact all good news regarding delays would be wonderful at this                  time..13:54 <@MagicalTux> sturles, we've been reducing SEPA delay day by day13:54 <@MagicalTux> things are much better than one month ago13:54 < sturles> Have your limits increased?13:54 <@MagicalTux> nopeThis is great news!Code:13:50 < samson_> MagicalTux: Would you say we're facing a banking embargo on                  the entire Bitcoin business ?13:51 <@MagicalTux> samson_, things are not easy, but it's far from what you                     could qualify as "embargo"13:51 < samson_> ok thanksDifficulties (we know that from many countries, e.g. UK), but no organized embargo.Code:13:58 < sturles> Btw, there are roumous now that USD withdrawals are somehow                  blocked entirely.  Is there any truth to that?  Some people                  intepret this as "US government are blocking all USD                  withdrawals": <@MagicalTux> cyro432: not much we can do right                  now because of US govt13:59 <@MagicalTux> sturles, "blocked" is not the correct word14:00 < sturles> What is the exact problem then?  You can see here how the                  speculations go: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=179586.msg2918767#msg291876714:01 <@MagicalTux> sturles, we are not allowed to talk about the exact problem                     (doing so would only make things worse)That's no explanation of the problem, but explains the lack of news.  For other currencies:Code:13:58 < SleepersTide> MagicalTux: Are Australian bank transfer withdrawals                       being processed normally?13:58 < SleepersTide> (also how long do those take?)14:00 <@MagicalTux> SleepersTide, right now all SWIFT transfers are processed                     up to the limits of our current bank (up to 10 transfers                     per day - we should be able to increase that as soon as we                     have more banking partners ready - it's taking longer than                     expected because of the time required by the people at the                     bank to understand our business)14:10 < sturles> MagicalTux: Why only 10 SWIFT transfers per day?  Is that                  commonplace for customers in your bank?14:12 <@MagicalTux> sturles, most companies in Japan will do one, maybe two                     SWIFT transfers a month to providers overseas (actually                     most will do zero)14:14 < Delerium> when you say transfers per day you mean 10 swift runs                   (containing LOADS of transfers within) or literally just 10                   transfers14:16 <@MagicalTux> Delerium, literal14:17 <@MagicalTux> when we were in the second largest bank in Japan, we                     represented more than half of all the volume of SWIFT                     processed by that bank (almost overloading their systems a                     couple of times)With only 10 withdrawals per day in all other currencies than JPY and EUR, it is going to take time.  And he confirms again that MtGox are in fact overloading their bank.  The discussion is still going on, btw.  About ordering and more about transparency:Code:14:17 < rfish> MagicalTux:  I think you owe it to customers to make the numbers                of swift transfers you are doing per day more public and explain                the reasons14:18 <@MagicalTux> rfish, rather than spending time on this, fixing it is                     likely going to bring more on the long term14:18 < rfish> MagicalTux: And you should be fair about which you do, like                wires greater than X amount, in the order they are received14:19 <@MagicalTux> those wires are processed in received order, nothing else This is pure speculation.  From the context I assumed, and still assume, he was referring to the Dwolla case which significantly increased the load on USD bank wires.  Why don't you ask him yourself?  He is frequently active and answering questions in #mtgox on freenode.  I'm sure he would have been there a lot more if it hadn't been for the zombies nagging about scamcoins they want on MtGox whenever he types something.  It is early morning in Japan now.  He'll be there soon. I don't get it.  What is new here?  The Dwolla seizure has been known for a while.  Have you been living in a cave for the last three months? Eh?  I read: Due to the US government regarding MtGox a threat to their homeland security, we are unable to process the bulk of our USD transfers via Dwolla like we used to.  This fact has been known for a while.  There is no word there about banks, and no news. Read again. So you are not a customer.  You are not entitled to vote.Why do you think the U.S. government have any interest in solving the problem after all they've done to create it?  If you are an enemy of Bitcoin and want to make trouble for alternative exchanges as well, SEC is the way.  Bitstamp can be closed any time due to obvious breach of an EU directive.  Bitfinex do their trading at Bitstamp and will go down the same drain.  What are we left with then?  Do you want to trust your money with BTC-E?  An exchange in China, perhaps? Probably smaller withdrawals (queue is largest first) or withdrawals involving Citbank (blocking, returning, etc).
Really?I don't care much about USD anyway.  I'm fine as long as BTC and EUR goes through.  There are plenty of people confirming SEPA withdrawals, and BTC withdrawal has always worked. Do you really think people deposit large sums of money at MtGox now, in this market?  Don't think everyone receiving a wire from MtGox will come to bitcointalk.org to brag about it. I've had SEPA transfers to Bitstamp take a week, and I don't want to trust them with a lot of money due to dubious legal circumstances.  Low amounts + time means I get liquidity problems myself unless I can buy faster.  If other people want to take the risk, it is fine with me.  I do send money to Bitcurex for easy arbitrage, but the volume is rather low there. Not as long as people are still receiving their wires, and there are steady reports from people receiving their wires.A few things to think through before filing a complaint:Is MtGox the only exchange keeping US customer funds?  Does bitcoin count as funds?Does SEC have a positive attitude towards bitcoin?  Could this affect their acts?DHS already deemed money transfer by MtGox a threat to US homeland security and confiscated a small part of their funds.  Could this apply to other exchanges?At least one very large and powerful US bank is actively blocking transfers to and from MtGox and at least one other exchange (by personal experience).  Why don't you file a complaint over the bank instead?  Could a complaint over MtGox make matters worse?The second largest exchange is in obvious breach of an EU directive (the elctronic money directive), and could get closed any time.  Could this happen if SEC and/or DHS decides to take actions against Bitcoin in general?Could bitcoins kept at the exchanges get confiscated in addition to money?How about web based wallets etc hosted in the US holding bitcoins, if bitcoins are funds?Do you have a good place to hide in case your complaint leads to people losing their money kept at MtGox (millions of USD) or at other exchanges, wallets, etc? It will only help them work more efficiently with something completely different from making actual withdrawals.  All this "helping" from CoinLab and DHS has caused enough problems as it is.  You will probably end up blocking withdrawals completely.  This may be your objective, of course. A cheque?  Do they even exist any more?  I haven't seen one since the early 1980ies.   I and other customers would be grateful if you could wait until their banking problems are solved.  If it isn't helping, don't.I'm helping Norwegian customers withdraw, at the same time reducing the number of withdrawal requests from MtGox, by automated buying of bitcoins for NOK at a rate 1% below best MtGox bid.  Payment same day for amounts less than 10k NOK (~2k USD).  This is significantly higher price than offered at most other exchanges, and even cheaper for the customer than withdrawal via international wire from MtGox.  Not to mention much faster, and I manage with a small profit due to many people buying smallish amounts from me at MtGox ask +2.5%.  I typically buy ~100 BTC a week this way, and ~100 from exchanges.  Lowers my capital needs as well, since less funds are tied up in transfers to exchanges.  Earlier more than half of my trading funds used to be tied up in transfer at any given time, price increasing and currency rates worsening while I waited for funds to arrive. Passord er pr definisjon security through obscurity.TLS sikrar ikkje i det heile mot mange typar åtak og brukarfeil.  Nettopp difor er det lagd fleire standardar for å fungere saman med TLS for å forbetre tryggleiken.  Dei er på ingen måte obskure, men secure by design.  Til dømes signert REST (brukt av MtGox, Bitcurex og Amazon).  Det sikrar mot åtak som TLS ikkje gjev noko vern mot.  Kvar request må vere signert og unik.  Enkelte (Localbitcoins, Bitcoin-Central, Google, Facebook) brukar OAuth 2 til API-autentisering og autorisering, men OAuth 2 er ikkje sikrare enn TLS.  (OAuth 1 kan signere requestar, men har andre problem.)Kva om ein brukar skriv feil ein gong han skal bruke APIet og hamnar på justcoin.co (førebels ikkje registert) i staden for justcoin.com?  Då har eigaren av justcoin.co API-nøkkelen til brukaren i loggen sin.  So enkelt er det å få API-nøkkelen på avvege.  Ville ein gjennomsnittsbrukar då tenkt at eigaren av justcoin.co no har full tilgong til kontoen, sjølv om brukaren har tofaktorautentisering på web-grensesnittet?  Med signerte requestar kan du ta det heilt med ro.  Dei er verdilause for alle andre.  Det er eitt døme der at TLS ikkje gjev noko vern, medan signert REST er sikkert.Eg brukte forresten nett på båten mellom Hirtshals og Bergen her om dagen.  Det var gratis og tregt som fy, og all trafikk, inkludert SSL, gjekk via ein proxy som komprimerte bilete og cacha grundig.  No godtek ikkje eg kva som helst av sertifikat, men ein brukar som "måtte" ha tilgong til Justcoin der og då ville kanskje gjort det.  *Poff*.  Med signerte requestar er det derimot trygt, og eg kunne handle gjennom APIet til MtGox utan å vere redd for at brukbar autentiseringsinformasjon kom på avvege. Do you really think filing a complaint will help speed up withdrawals? Hours, not days.  For deposits.  Withdrawals take up to one day. I sent EUR (SEPA).  Skandiabanken told me they use Citibank for all their foreign transfers, and Citibank blocked it.  I complained to "Finansklagenemnda", and Skandiabanken refunded all fees I had when I express transferred the amount from the bank I normally use.  I noticed that Skandiabanken has terrible currency conversion rates as well, and I actually saved money by paying the fee to transfer from my normal bank.  Hidden fees like this is another reason to stay away from Skandiabanken. Er API-nøkkelen framleis SHA256 av brukarnamn + passord som vert sendt med som argument til GET, eller har de klekt ut noko betre?  No skal det seiast at eg, etter å ha jobba med Unix og Linux i over 15 år, alltid utan nokon som helst brannmur eller anna fjas mellom meg og det opne nettet, aldri har sett eit virus på Linux.  Dersom slike faktisk finst, skal ein vere ein sjeldan kombinasjon av uforsiktig og kunnskapsrik for å installere det. I tried a new bank one day.  I cancelled my account after one day after trying three transfers.  One of my transfers, to Intersango, got blocked because this bank used USSAnian Citibank as intermediate for international transfers, and Citibank blocked transfers to Intersango.  I haven't had this problem with any other bank I have used.  The bank was Skandiabanken, btw.  Stay away!  Citibank is actively blocking transfers to some exchanges, and is a hub for international transfers. My bank has a limit on how much I'm allowed to transfer each day and each month.  I think it is quite common, but most people and businesses stay far below this limit.  I can only raise mine to a certain level, and I don't know how I can go above that level.  Probably by paying high fees. Are there any more trustworthy exchanges?  BTC-E is very low on my trust scale.  Withdrawal via bank transfer costs 150 USD minimum.Bitstamp is in obvious violation of EU regulations, and could be closed any time. (Issuing Ripple USD, which is electronic money according to Directive 2009/110/EC, without proper authorisation.)  Their address is a maildrop in London.  I have no idea who owns it.  Their API is horrible.  I wouldn't trust them with large sums.Bitcurex perhaps?  Simple interface, API similar to MtGox, been here for a while, quick deposit and withdrawal, no trading fees, but very low liquidity and volume.Bitcoin-Central has proven to be trustworthy, known and respected owner, but is still down after a security breach at their hosting provider.Intersango's owners seems to have lost interest in the exchange. Why would any LEA delay wires to countries outside Japan?  There is no need to travel to Japan to open a bank account there, btw.  Easiest (and quite expensive) is to contact an attorney in Japan to make the arrangements.  You may contact a bank directly as well, but be prepared for a time consuming process of getting all the formalities in order. For information, if getting a bank account in Japan is worth your time.  From #mtgox on Freenode:Code:10:12 <@MagicalTux> SEPA is currently the 2nd fastest way to get funds in/out of MtGox10:13 <@MagicalTux> japanese domestic transfers are credited within 1 to 3 hours10:13 <@MagicalTux> and withdrawals are credited next day10:19 < sturles> MagicalTux: How hard is it for a foreigner to get a bank account in Japan?10:19 <@MagicalTux> sturles: surprisingly simple10:21 < sturles> This may explain the high JPY volume at MtGox recently. :-)10:21 <@MagicalTux> ya Haha!  Have you ever tried to withdraw USD from BTC-E?  Their fee for bank transfer is minimum 150 USD.  BTC-E has always been below MtGox due to their slack AML requirements, making it a favourite for criminals who wants to get rid of stolen and dirty coins, and due to general lack of trust in BTC-E. Except for several people reporting in this and other threads.  Plenty people are getting their wires, and don't make fuss about it, while other people make a lot of noise about their delayed $100 wires in various troll froums like this. More likely he is using a VPN service located in the Netherlands.  I've had a few users on the same VPN service, contacting me on IRC to buy bitcoins.  (Probably just one using different nicks.)  His payments to me seem to fail for some reason.  Perhaps the banks do better checks for payments to foreign accounts.
That won't be a problem.  The coffee is only that how when it is freshly brewed, and my cup will be cool enough after the short walk from the coffee machine to my office.  The cup isn't a good heat conductor anyway, so the outside surface will be kept colder than the inside by the colder air on the outside.  I'm more worried about the Block Erupter being able to withstand > 85°C, but I expect that hot coffee will cool off quickly enough.  The heater will only start to have a measurable effect on the temperature from about 60° C, or thereabouts, making the temperature decline slower than it would when the cup is placed on a normal cold desk.  The temperature will converge to a floor higher than ambient. I'm not going to boil water in it.  I just want to keep it warmer for longer.  Even 2.5W is better at that than 0W. I have a USB Block Erupter.  The heat spreader gets very hot, and it seems very close to the USB powered coffe cup warmer the Jalapeno was supposed to be.  The only missing piece is a holder for it.  It should be a very simple design, suitable for 3D printing.  Print, insert Block Erupter and connect.  Perhaps with space for a metal plate on top to protect the Block Eruptor from cofeee spills.Unfortunately I have no experience in 3D design, no 3D printer, and very limited time.  So I'll just leave my idea here, and hope someone picks it up.  Actually, I'll donate a bitcoin to the first design I'm happy with, if it is published under a free licence! Some of the altcoins, like litecoin, have extreme fees on microtransactions.  Just another way to solve the problem. De kan alltids kjøpe inn av meg når bufferet er tomt.  Då vil de alltid klare å betale ut innan 24 timar; i alle fall på kvardagar. ;-) Sel de bitcoin de ikkje har!?Det gjer eg aldri.  Om eg ikkje har nok bitcoin att i bufferet, kjøper eg alltid inn før eg stadfestar handelen.  Alltid.  Normalt prøvar eg å ha dobbelt opp plassert ulike stader, slik at eg kan betale frå ulike kjelder dersom noko er nede.  Dersom eg ikkje har bitcoin inne eller nok pengar på børsen, sel eg ikkje.  Då må kunden vente.  Eg stolar ikkje på at bankane får fram pengar i tide, eller at børsane klarar å kreditere kontoen min som dei skal, og heller ikkje at børsane klarar å betale ut bitcoin når dei skal.  Eg overfører alltid nok bitcoin til lommeboka heime før eg avsluttar for kvelden, slik at eg kan betale ut om morgonen sjølv om børsane er nede eller alle fiber over Atlanterhavet er kappa.  Den lommeboka har eg kryptert backup av fleire stader, saman med alle notatar eg gjer for kvar handel (IRC-nick, bitcoin-adresse, btc og sum som skal betalast er alt eg noterer).  Det einaste eg er avhengig av er å finne nett ein eller annan stad i byen.I verste fall kan utbetalinga bli eit par timar forseinka.  Det har skjedd dei siste par dagane fordi ADSL-linja mi heime har vore nede.  Dvs at dei som har kjøpt og betalt bitcoin kvelden før ikkje har fått dei utbetalt før i 9-tida om morgonen.  Vanlegvis betaler eg ut før 8, ved lunchtider og på ettermiddagen.  Bankane overfører pengar segimellom fire gongar for dagen.  Det er ingen grunn til å somle i 24 timar med utbetaling. In what way does this vote make any sense?  US isn't going to regulate Bitcoin, in the same way the US isn't going to regulate EUR or GBP.  Economic activity involving currencies, goods and commodities are regulated.  Bitcoin is no exception.Bitcoin is probably the most regulated currency of all to begin with.  The regulations in place for limiting supply, validating transactions, etc, are very strict and unchangeable.  Much stricter than for any fiat currency, and this is the main reason for Bitcoin's success. Det skal gå, men du må gjere uttaket i EUR eller SEK.Eller du kan kjøpe bitcoin og selge direkte for norske kroner til meg.  Sjå http://bitmynt.no for kurs.  Då har du pengane same dag eller seinast neste yrkedag.  Eg har ei ordning med automatisk kjøp der du får ei bitcoin-adresse som du kan sende til når som helst.  I det klienten min oppdagar ei overføring til den adressa, reknar han ut kva du skal ha etter gjeldande kurs og sender pengar so snart transaksjonen er stadfesta.Kjøpskursen min er beste ask i USD på MtGox - 1% konvertert til NOK med siste publiserte kurs frå norges-bank.no. Really?  Where is "we are bankrupt" or "we have grown larger than the bank" on your scale?  How about a hack?Based on the price development, I would place it at about 2.  Trading going on as normal, more or less.  Prices are not moving off the charts, as they would if the impact was off the scale. When I was born the smallest denomination of coins in my currency was worth about 0.001 USD.  Everybody agreed it was dumb and an annoyance and a waste of time and wallet space, so we stopped production of the coins.  You can still use them for payment if you have some, but a merchant don't have to accept them.  I don't think many will.Over the years the same thing happened to the lowest denomination of coins several times.  Last year production of the coin worth ~0.1 USD was stopped.  The lowest denomination now is worth ~0.2 USD.I can't remember to have heard a single complaint about this.  Nobody wants their pockets to be full of worthless change.  You can collect the coins if you want to, try to spend them if you want to, accept them if you want to.  But people and businesses in general are no longer wasting their time on them.This is more or less what is happening here.  If you have a special interest for nanotransactions you can still do them with people sharing your interest.  Common users will happily ignore the nanotransactions until someone else mine them, because they are dumb and an annoyance and a waste of our CPU time, network, storage and electricity. An exchange cannot possibly transfer anything from my private wallet to another private wallet.  That would be impossible without controlling my wallet, and if they control my wallet they can confiscate my funds.  And no, it is not illegal to facilitate private trade.  That would make any flee market illegal.Show me the regulation or go away in shame. What are the soldering points suitable for a pin header for?  JTAG?  Some other interface? They can confiscate funds, bitcoins or fiat, on a customer account.  Easily.  They can't confiscate funds in the customer's private wallet.  Neither can banks. Mi utheving.Sei meg, er målet å støtte SSL-proxyar som dekrypterer innhaldet og endrar det før dei sender det vidare til Justcoin?  Seriøst?  Dersom innhaldet er kryptert heile vegen mellom klient og tenar, slik poenget er med SSL, kan ikkje proxyen tukle med innhaldet.MtGox plasserer signaturen i ein header dei kallar Rest-Sign.  Problemet med klientar som ikkje støttar det, kan ein komme rundt med å bruke ein annan form for autentisering og kaker i web-grensesnittet.  Det viktigaste er at denne autentiseringa brukar unike verdiar som ikkje kan brukast på nytt, slik at ein ikkje kan få tilgang gjennom å spele av ei autentisering som er gjort før.Noko anna som bør på plass er aksess-kontroll for API-nøklar.  Eg vil skilje mellom API-nøklar som kan be om informasjon, nøklar som kan kansellere ordrar, nøklar som kan leggje inn nye ordrar og nøklar som kan brukast til å gjere uttak.  Den første typen brukar eg ukryptert i script for å hente ut informasjon og lage fine grafar i Munin.  Dei andre krev varierande grad av ekstra sikring. Jobbnettverket mitt er ikkje slik, men det er slik på mange skular og arbeidsplassar i dette landet utan at dei fortel brukarane om det.  Det var nyleg ein tråd om dette problemet på EFN-lista.  Dei har ikkje plikt til å fortelle noko om det til brukarane.  Slike proxyar loggar URLar han hentar, og då litt API-nøkkelen i klårtekst i loggen.  Ei god kjelde for API-nøklar om du har tilgang til ein slik logg.Nettlesing på standardnettlesaren på ein Nokia-telefon går gjennom ein slik proxy.  Nokia hevdar at dei ikkje loggar noko.  Sikker på at dei ikkje gjer det når det kan liggje raske pengar i det?  Har dei fortalt brukarane om det?Treng ikkje det heller.  Om du har ein iPhone som ikkje er oppgradert på ei stund, eller iPhone 3 og eldre, har du ein SSL-bug.  Med denne kan kven som helst utgi seg for å vere Justcoin, til dømes dersom du surfar på eit ope trådlaust nett.  Med andre ord: Ikkje bruk Justcoin på usikre nett (dvs ikkje via GSM eller trådlaust som er sikra med noko anna enn eit privat brukarnamn og passord) dersom utstyret ditt eig deg, og ikkje omvendt.Det har vore mange bugs i SSL-implementasjonar gjennom tidene.  Somme svært alvorlege, som at kven som helst kunne lage eit sertifikat for www.google.com\0.sitt.domene, og somme SSL-bibliotek ville tolk det som eit sertifikat for www.google.com.  Det er ikkje rart heller, for i ASN.1, som vert brukt til å kode strengar i X509-sertifikat, er det uendeleg mange måtar å kode akkurat det same på.  For eit par år sidan såg eg eit sertifikat som Firefox, Opera og IE tolka på kvar sin måte.   Dei har kanskje samkøyrt seg no, det veit eg ikkje, men ASN.1 er både tvetydig og skikkeleg vanskeleg å gjere rett.Moralen er: Ikkje legg alle egga i korga som heiter SSL.  Eg var forresten på eit veldig interessant foredrag om SSL-iverset av EFF på 27C3 i Berlin.  Her er detaljane, og det finst opptak på nettet: https://events.ccc.de/congress/2010/Fahrplan/events/4121.en.htmlNo demonstrerer du manglande forståing av SSL att.  Det er nok at ein av sertifikatautoritetane som nettlesaren din stolar på er kompromittert.  Firefox og Microsoft stolar på mange hundre ulike sertifikatautoritetar i 52 land, og direkte og indirekte mange tusen (over 4000 sist eg sjekka) ulike rotsertifikat.La nokon ta ein uavhengig gjennomgang av tryggleiken *før* de lanserer tenesta. I use 10 at 2 Ghash/s. Yes, the fee is calculated from the size of the transaction in KB.  If you send 1 BTC consisting of 1000 0.001 coins..  Hmm, no.  That would be impossible, I think, because the transaction will have too many inputs to be valid.  If you send 0.1 BTC consisting of 100 0.001 sized inputs, the transaction will be approximately 18 KB large.  That means at least 0.009 BTC in fees, given a base fee of 0.0005 BTC per KB.  Which means 9 more 0.001 sized inputs have to be added just to pay the fee, which increases the fee to 0.01 BTC, and another 0.001 sized input has to be added to cover that as well.  If the input coins are young (recently received), it will cost even more.  You end up paying 10% of the transaction value in fees.  A transaction of 0.1 BTC from one 0.1 BTC input received a long time ago (more bitcoin-days destroyed), is only 180 bytes of inputs and will normally be free if the input is old enough. Dersom de går med underskot med 5% margin på begge sider, gjer de noko veldig feil.  Med slike marginar og godt med kapital i botnen, hadde eg hatt i god årsløn med dagens omsetning.  (Men eg hadde eg neppe vore i nærleiken av dagens omsetning med slike marginar..)Om du ikkje spekulerer i konkurs då.  Somme gjer det òg. Vissomatte og dersomatte og brukaren må sjølvsagt forstå.  Det er nettopp denne haldninga til tryggleik som gjer at eg ikkje kjem til å bruke Justcoin.Kva med å heller fikse Justcoin slik at det vert sikkert med passord som er sikre alle andre stader?  Når eg knekk passord pleier eg å køyre ordlister på relevante språk med eit hundretals reglar + tal lagt til.  Om det feilar går eg over til å bruke teiknfrekvensar generert frå kjende passord.  Det tek dei aller fleste brukargenererte passord, og det er brukarane som lagar passord på Justcoin òg.  De kan sjølvsagt leggje ei åtvaring på registreringssida om at de handterer passord på ein uansvarleg måte, og at dei difor bør genererast tilfeldig og vere ekstra lange. Kva meinte du med det?  Du testar sjølvsagt ikkje alle mogelege passord mot APIet når du har hashen!  Då sjekkar du om hashen stemmer, og gjer ikkje eit einaste kall mot Justcoin før du veit passordet.Ein børs som lagrar verdiar for kundane bør ha tryggleik som in bank, ikkje som leikehytta til ungane.
Dersom du vil kjøpe til MtGox-kurs, er det lurast å sende pengane til MtGox og kjøpe der.  Det spørs om du finn nokon som vil selje til MtGox-kurs for kontantar, men du kan alltids prøve på localbitcoins.com.  Om du kan betale med bankoverføring er det mykje enklare å få kjøpt til ein god kurs. Dersom Justcoin har lagra API-nøkkelen din, og du hugsar e-postadressa di, skulle det vere ein smal sak å finne passordet. Hashen, som og vert sendt som ein del av URLen som parameter til GET, er sha256 av e-postadresse+passord.  Usalta.  I Bitcoin-miljøet reknar vi farten på rekneutstyret vårt i Gahsh/s.  Det er 1 000 000 000 slike hashar kvar sekund.  Ei stor ordliste har ca 100 000 ord.  Dvs at du kan teste 100 000 variantar av alle vanlege ord i eit språk kvart sekund med 1 Ghash/s.  Dersom du har basert passordet på eit ord (til dømes "0nOM4toP03t1k0n6367"), kan nokon med 1 Ghash/s finne det på sekundet.  Legg til eit par sekund for innskotne teikn som ikkje berre er omskrivingar av bokstavar.Tryggleiken til Justcoin baserer seg på at alle komponentar fungerer 100% utan feil i noko ledd, og at all programvare er feilfri.  (Samstundes brukar dei sjølve programvare med kjende bugs.)  Det er etter mi meining veldig naivt.  Eg ventar med Justcoin til dei har gjort ein grundig gjennomgang av tryggleiken i systemet.  Lagrar du store kontantsummar i huset, legg du dei ikkje på golvet innanfor ei vanleg låst dør.  Du kjøper alarm til huset og eit pengeskåp til pengane.  Fleire lag med tryggleik. This is only counting USD trades at MtGox, and it on a very slow day.  MtGox's market share ususally shoots up when the market starts moving.  The other exchanges don't have enough in their order books. Dersom kunden er mva-pliktig må han kunne trekkje frå inngåande mva.  Seljar skal føre mva på salsdokumenta.Nettopp.  Då betaler de ikkje mva likevel, med andre ord.  Betalar de skatt, eller har de ikkje ordna det endå heller? :-) Det kan hende, men de tek berre pengar via bankoverføring.  Då er det alltid banken som skal rapportere om evt mistanke om kvitvasking.  Der er kvitvaskingslova heilt klår.EU har same reglar som oss.  Andre land kan ha KYC (know your customer)-lover, men eg har ikkje funne nokon slike som er relevante for oss.  Du får dessutan legitimasjon i det du mottek betalinga via bank.  Det som kan vere litt dumt er om folk kjøper bitcoin for andre sine pengar, og den som har betalt kjem og ber om å få pengane attende.  For å ha eit forsvar i slike saker, må de be folk om å legitimere seg.  Det gjer de ikkje.  Nei, SMS gjeld ikkje som legitimasjon.  Heller ikkje namn, addresse, osv, som de ber om i skjemaet.Nei.  Det er so feil som det kan bli.  Den revisoren din kan umogeleg ha gått på skule.  Dersom Bitcoin er ei vare, skal de ta 25% mva på sal av Bitcoin som de har kjøpt frå utlandet (ingen inngånde mva).  Då kan de ikkje selje dei til 4,9% over innkjøpspris.  Ei vare er i mvalova definert slik (§1-3 (1) d): varer: fysiske gjenstander, herunder fast eiendom, og elektrisk kraft, vann fra vannverk, gass, varme og kuldeEg trur deg ikkje.  Det du skriv er stikk i strid med mvalova, og den bør alle du nemner kjenne til.  Mange av dei har til og med skumma gjennom den første sida.  Står organisasjonsnummer og kva kjøpar har betalt i mva på kvitteringa dei får for kjøp av bitcoin?Sist eg purra på saka mi var rett før påske.  Dei hadde ikkje komme noko vidare då.  Det er framleis Skattedirektoratet som har saka.  Eg har hatt noko utveksling av e-post med Skattedirektoratet, sidan saka vart vidaresendt til dei, men det er lenge sidan sist det var noko utvikling.Eg handar ein god del med utlendingar òg.  Blant dei er det stadig folk som kan betale gjennom Moneybookers.  Eg har ingen konto der, vil ikkje stole nok på dei til å ta store handlar der, og eg vil ikkje bruke tid på småhandlar via Moneybookers.  Eg insisterer på bankoverføring for å kunne flytte pengane effektivt, og av og til handlar eg med små summar kontant.  Det er eit heilt greitt alternativ til minibankuttak.Dersom du hevdar at Bitcoin er ei vare (det er feil) og ikkje tek 25% mva av salet, so prøvar du i alle fall å lure nokon. Eg spurde Skatteetaten om dette for meir enn to år sidan.  Først i sjølvmeldinga for 2010, deretter i eige brev til Skattetaten som seinare har gått vidare til Skattedirektoratet.  Dei har ikkje svart endå, so uansett korleis folka dine har tolka dette er denne tolkinga svært usikker.  Dei har neppe meir kunnskap eller autoritet enn Skattedirektoratet i skattesaker.Bitcoin er ikkje ei vare (vare er definert som «fysiske gjenstander, herunder fast eiendom, og elektrisk kraft, vann fra vannverk, gass, varme og kulde»). Bitcoin passar betre i sekkeposten tenester (definert som «det som kan omsettes og som ikke er varer etter bokstav b, herunder begrensede rettigheter til varer, og utnyttelse av immaterielle verdier»), spesifikt elektroniske tenester («fjernleverbare tjenester som leveres over internett eller annet elektronisk nett og som ikke kan anskaffes uten informasjonsteknologi, hvor leveringen av tjenestene hovedsakelig er automatisert»).Eg kan ikkje sjå at Bitcoin har noko anna bruksområde enn som betalingsmiddel.  Sjølv finansministeren kallar Bitcoin ein virtuell valuta, og både valuta og omsetning av valuta er spesifikt friteke mva.  Då er Bitcoin ei finansiell teneste etter mvalova §3-6 (spesifikt «omsetning av gyldige betalingsmidler», og friteke mva.  Men her har Skattedirektoratet ikkje konkludert.Du må attende til forarbeida for å finne ei slags forklaring på kva som er meint med gyldige betalingsmidler og finansielle tjenester.«Finansielle tjenester omfatter, etter vanlig språklig forståelse av begrepet, et vidt spekter av tjenester innen bank og finans. [...] I tillegg omfatter begrepet omsetning av valuta og finansielle instrumenter mv. samt investeringstjenester og valutamegling.»Det finst òg ein definisjon av betalingsmiddel i Finansavtalelova: pengesedler og mynter samt innskudd og kreditt på konto og elektroniske penger som definert i lov 13. desember 2002 nr. 74 om e-pengeforetak § 1-1 annet leddBitcoin er ikkje elektroniske pengar etter lovdefinisjonen pga måten nye Bitcoin vert generert på.  Men det kan vere innskot på ein konto.  Konto er definert som «en betalingskonto i navnet på én eller flere kunder som benyttes for å gjennomføre betalingstransaksjoner»  Problemet er at ein Bitcoin-konto ikkje har noko namn på seg og ikkje er tilknytt nokon finansinstitusjon, og kontoen er lommeboka som er under full kontroll av brukaren sjølv.  Å kalle det ein konto i namnet på ein kunde kan difor vere å strekkje denne definisjonen for langt.  Denne definisjonen vart skriven lenge før Bitcoin var påtenkt.Eg er veldig interessert i å vite korleis rådgjevarane dine har resonnert seg fram til kva Bitcoin er.  Og sidan de tek mva av salet (du hevdar at eg ikkje kan gå med overskot dersom eg har kontroll på mva av mitt sal), kvifor tek de ikkje 25% av salssummen slik lova krev?  Du skriv at de kjøper bitcoins på internasjonale børsar, og då er det mva på heile summen når de sel tenesta vidare her i landet.  Dersom Bitcoin er friteke mva som betalingsmiddel, er det heller ikkje mva på omsetninga av dei (mvalova §3-6).Eg tvilar sterkt på at de har undersøkt noko som helst av lover.  Til dømes har du til no ikkje skrive noko som er sant om kvitvaskingslova. Eg driv privat på hobbybasis, og er difor ikkje mva-pliktig.  Eg har oppgitt alt etter beste evne til Skatteetaten kvart år, men dei har framleis ikkje svart på spørsmåla eg sendte dei i samband med sjølvmeldinga i 2010 om korleis eg skal oppgi alt saman.  Difor er det litt omtrentleg i fritekst i post 5.  Det einaste substansielle svaret eg har fått so langt, er at eg kan drive med handelen som ein hobby so lenge han ikkje har næringsmessig karakter.  Dvs at eg ikkje har mål om forteneste og det ikkje vert ein leveveg.1. Ein bitcoin på ein børs vert gjerne handla fleire gonger før han forlet børsen.  0,5% + 0,5% + 0,5% ...  Vert fort pengar av det.2. Eit enno større problem med SMS-betaling er at folk ikkje betaler telefonrekningane sine.  Då kjem heller ikkje pengane.  Eg reknar med at det er grunnen til at alle SMS-til-bitcoin-tenester eg veit om har vorte nedlagde, og at det einaste folk får kjøpt via SMS er verdilause tenester som ringetonar, horoskop og donasjonar til gode føremål.  Litt som å selje bitcoin på kreditt. Reklame på Google og Fjasebok kjem vel ikkje berre plutseleg av seg sjølv, eller?De gjer ikkje det so lenge de tek betaling via bankoverføring.  Då er kjøparen alltid kjend.  Men de krev mykje meir informasjon av kjøparen enn det som trengst for å identifisere vedkommande, og forklaringa er berre utanomsnakk.  Nei, det er ikkje kriminelt å handtere store verdiar.  So lenge de tek betalt via bankoverføring er det banken som står for all rapportering med omsyn til kvitvasking, osv.  De har ingen sakleg grunn til å forlange all den informasjonen de ber om.Eg brukar ikkje veldig mykje tid på kvar kunde.  Det er rutine som går innimellom andre oppgåver på jobb eller heime på kveldstid.  Med automatisert meinar eg at alle oppgåver, frå å rekne ut kurs, pris, etc, til standardfraser er automatisert.  Enkle kommandoar i IRC-klienten som /k 5 for å rekne ut kurs og pris for 5 BTC og føreslå ein handel.  /s for å stadfeste handelen, kjøpe inn bitcoin og skrive "Takk for handelen!" til kunden.  Enkle perl-script i irssi.Ja, det kostar litt tid, men det er greitt.  Hobbyar kostar litt tid.  Ikkje marknadsføring  dei fleste finn enkelt fram via Google.Det kan fint bli ein fullverdig butikk med færre og større ordrar òg.  Eg sel for ca 500 000 i månaden.  Mange verksemder klarar seg med mindre omsetning enn det.  (Då tek dei sjølvsagt høgare marginar på varene sine.)  Av mine 2,5% går ein del med til ulike gebyr, valuta, osv, so det er langt frå 2,5% forteneste på dette.  Men det er betre rente enn i banken på bunden kapital. Du må orsake, men det var eit naturleg førsteinntrykk når sida presenterte seg som eit titals andre svindelsider har gjort.  PayPal-betaling, pakketilbod og elendig ortografi.Kvifor krev de at alle som handlar hjå dykk skal ha ein radiopeilesendar som heile tida loggar kvar dei er og kven dei kommuniserer med?  Eg krev ikkje det.  Eg tykkjer det er alt for sterk inngripen i privatlivet til kundane mine, og ynskjer å halde tenesta opa for dei som vel å ikkje gå med radiopeilesendar.Nei, det er ikkje ulovleg etter kvitvaskingslova før du kjem opp i store kontantsummar og har grunn til mistanke.  Ein butikk krev normalt ikkje personalia av kundane sine for småkjøp.  Skal du kjøpe ein ny bil og betale i kontantar, kan det hende du får spørsmål.  Vi er heller ikkje rapporteringspliktige etter kvitvaskingslova.  Ved bankoverføring er det banken som er rapporteringspliktig.  Forhandlar treng ikkje vite noko som helst om kunden. Det er IRC som gjer at eg kan operere med dei kursane eg gjer, og samstundes handtere risikoen.  Ein røynd kunde gjennomfører ein IRC-handel på få sekund.  Nye kundar får personleg hjelp, som byggjer tillit og eit godt kundeforhold.  Alle rutineoppgåver rundt IRC-handelen min er automatisert.Eg set stor pris på konkurrentar, so lenge dei er seriøse.  Eg har nyleg tilbydd likviditet til ein annan konkurrent som er i startgropa.  I tillegg har eg sendt alle som vil kjøpe bitcoin av meg for betaling via PayPal vidare til bitcoinsnorge.no.  Det er ein risiko eg ikkje har råd til å ta med mine kursar.  (Dei fleste valde å kjøpe av meg for bankoverføring i staden, sidan det vart ein del billigare.  No overfører bankane fire gonger om dagen, so det går ganske fort.) Kanskje.  Det kan og hende at dei kjøper inn når kunden seier at han skal betale, og tek på seg risikoen for at kunden ikkje betaler likevel,  kombinert med at kursen går ned.  Med 5% margin på både kjøp og sal, er risikoen liten og fortenesta høg dersom dei handlar på den måten. MagicalTux answered this on IRC:Code:05:41 < zivester> I'm asking, if I have USD in my mtgox account... is that money in Japan or USA (or somewhere else)05:42 <@MagicalTux> zivester: mostly in Japan05:42 <@MagicalTux> we had some funds in the US on Dwolla, but we can cover for thatNo exact numbers, but that isn't our business.  MtGox have often had delays in paying out Dwolla in the past because they never kept much money there.  Dwolla has a limit of 5000 USD per transfer as well, so the need for funds on Dwolla is very limited. Det var ikkje det finansministeren sa.  Og du tek feil.  Det er MVA på bytehandel, sjølv om ingen pengar er involvert.  MVA-lova § 4-3. Hard to know, because they are Special Agents.  They went to special schools for special children, attend the Special Olympics, etc.  They are not like the rest of us. HereMark Karpelles signed something which was correct in 2010, but isn't as of Q2 2013. In dictatorships, like the Democratic Republic of the USA, the government can seize any bank account any time.  They have secret laws, and special government departments  can issue secret gag orders which are called "National Security Letter" in the "Land of the free".  Japan is a democracy.  Not as easy for foreign governments to seize money there.No account belonging to MtGox has been seized or frozen.  The accounts in question belong to Mutum Sigillum LLC, an US payment provider which MtGox uses.  We do not know why Mutum Sigillum LLC were targeted.  MtGox is affected, but I doubt they would ever get invited to court to defend another company. Note that it wasn't MtGox's accounts which were frozen.  The accounts belong to Mutum Sigillum LLC, their payment provider.  There has been no word from them about their involvement.  Probably got a national security letter with a gag order.  This is "Land of the Free" after all, not Soviet Russia.It is unlikely that MtGox had much money there.  From IRC a while ago: International wire is what most of their customers, at least by volume, have been doing always.  Dwolla is OK for small transfers.  I have been using international bank transfer instead of SEPA because the price in USD is usually below the price in EUR, and liquidity in USD is much better.  For international wires you don't have to wait for AML stuff either.  It is clearly the best option in most of the world.  Dwolla may make sense to USAnians who transfer less than 5000 USD at a time and don't mind waiting for a month to get started.  Small time miners who need a few dollars to pay their utility bills. People are so irrational it hurts!It has become slightly more difficult for USAnians to transfer money to MtGox.  The only rational thing to do would be to get in all USD they have and buy BTC now!  It is the only logical move.  Moving USD from the USA to Bitcoin exchanges isn't going to become any easier, and it will be easy to find private buyers paying a good price for BTC within the US.For the rest of the world, i.e. 60-70% of the customers, the change is irrelevant.  And those are the ones buying!  The price at MtGox is higher in most other currencies than USD at the moment.  Indicating that people trading in other currencies are buying while the USD users are selling.This is completely irrational, but as expected.  Most people follow their feelings, not logic.  They don't think first, and if they do it is to justify what their feelings tell them to do. +1 This is just an annoyance.  There are so many other ways to move money in and out of MtGox.  Let's focus on more important news. Or just use international bank transfer or another method to save you some trouble and get a better price for your coins.  (Unless you only have a tiny amount to sell, which any exchange can handle.)I don't quite understand the drama this causes.  SEPA withdrawals are delayed 4 weeks now, and have been disabled many times.  This hasn't caused much disruption to the price.  Only 30-40% of MtGox customers are based in the USA, and almost all of them have other options to get money in and out of MtGox.
Yeah!  So, let's start listing more competent exchanges.  We can start the list with... Eh..?  You start!This time it is some bureucrat in a remote fu**ed up country doing his job.  Protect the banks. No, no court will seize other peoples money to pay MtGox' debt to the scammer Peter Vessenes and his gang.Yes, we will.  First the U.S. court must conclude the case with a sentence, and MtGox must accept it (i.e. not appeal the judgement).  If MtGox don't pay in time, the scammers have to go to Japan and ask a japanese court to seize the money. Why have you been doing that in the first place?  Sending out payments which the receiver is unable to use without paying a fee much larger than the payment received, is just telling the users to "f**k off, we don't want you here, go away". As long as a tx includes a fee  any fee  the first one to mine it will get that fee.  In the future, if the price of BTC increases and as the block reward is reduced, miners will probably mine transactions with lower fees as well.  Even a low fee is extra income to the miner.  First to mine collects it.There is a small cost related to mining very large blocks (larger risk of getting orphaned), which is the main reason for ignoring transactions with insignificant fees.  There is a small hidden cost related to mining transactions which never will be spent as well, due to the increasing utxo set, so I expect most miners and pools to happily upgrade to 0.8.2 as soon as it is released. No decimals are knocked off.  The minimum value is calculated from the minimum fee.  When the minimum fee goes down (it has gone from 0.01 BTC to 0.0001 BTC while I have been using bitcoin), the size of economically unspendable outputs will decrease as well.  In the future the minimum fee will get calculated dynamically based on which transactions actually make it to the blockchain, and eventually a 0.00000001 BTC output will become standard again.I disagree. Pruning valid unspent outputs would IMO be a much more drastic measure. A large enough fee can buy almost any valid transaction a place in the blockchain.  Why anyone would want to spend a high fee to insert an unspendable amount into the blockchain is unknown to me, but you are free to do it.  You can even send 0 BTC if you want to, but expect to pay a decent fee to get it mined.When I started using Bitcoin, and Satoshi was still active, it was impossible to send less than 0.01 BTC using the standard client.  Looks like it was a big mistake to make it too liberal in later versions.  When the default client settings move back slightly towards what they used to be, due to the irresponsible spam of unspendable transactions, people who don't have a clue about how Bitcoin works start screaming and whining about censorship and whatnot. Two other corrections here: 1. Miners never had to include any transactions in a block.  They have always been free to chose.2. Relays never had to relay any transactions.  All nodes are free to chose which transactions to relay.This is, always has been, and will still be in 0.8.2, depending on txfees and other characteristics of the transaction.Which makes gweedo's entire post wrong, like all of his posts in this thread.  There is not a single clue in his head about how bitcoin works. Thank you for making me press the ignore button. You have absolutely no clue whatsoever.  And since you obviously don't bother to read anything which doesn't line up 100% to your religious fantasies about how Bitcoin works, I don't expect you will ever get one.  Do you even run a Bitcoin node?  Noticed it takes quite a bit of disk space and it's memory footprint seems to be increasing by the day?  Not a DoS in progress, you say?  I can't even run a full node on the computer I'm typing on now any more.  It has mined quite a few blocks in the past.My miners are high on the seed list.  Just stopping any dust transactions right there and not passing them on to other nodes will make them more difficult to get through.  And I still find a block now and then.  Mining solo makes more BTC in the long run than mining in a pool, and I get them in nice, large non-dust chunks. :-) Sorted the list.36% think it is bad, and 59% agrees perfectly with the change.  (The number will be adjusted with the price of a transaction, and yes it will be revised when the automatic txfee market is done, so both agree.)  0.6% thinks the limit should be lower, and 5.6% thinks it should be higher than 5430 Satoshi.  In total 64% thinks it is a good idea.  A large majority. Why didn't you complain when 0.00000000 outputs were made non-standard in the same way some versions ago?  Same problem, same reason to make them non-standard.  Spendable, but only in theory because it doesn't make sense to pay fees to spend them.  You can still send the transactions, and evil miners may mine them just like other dust creating transactions.  I don't want them in the blockchain, so I won't help you relaying or mining them.  That's my choice.  You can't force me to, just as I can't force you to stop behaving badly. Hmm.  The majority among those who are voting seems to think it is a good idea.  I only see a couple of very loud voces speaking against this change, and none of them have demonstrated the slightest understanding of it.  I haven't seen a single developer speak against the change.  Gavin is one of many.  Those who were given more mouth than brains seems to overlook this fact as well. I've upgraded my miners to the current git already.  No more unspendable spam or DoS outputs relayed or stored into the blockchain by me!  (I mine solo.) One line in bitcoin.conf is enough.  You will need quite a bit of RAM to handle all the spam in mempool, since it will take a long time to confirm. By not upgrading, you wil not get the benefit of lower txfee either.  The txfee in 0.8.1 is much higher than your 54µBTC.  If you want to go back to the versions where even smaller transactions were considered standard, your txfee will be five times higher than in 0.8.1. Which is good, because it makes it a bit more difficult to be an evil miner.  No, this has nothing to do with censorship.  It is pure common sense.Which version are you on, btw?  You know outputs of 0.00000000 were "censored" (i.e. made non-standard) around version 0.6 or so, right?  Those are still allowed, just not considered a standard bitcoin transaction any more.  Those are just as useless as outputs of 0.000005 BTC, and waste just as much space in the blockchain, but better because they can be pruned and don't waste resources in the UTXO set.It says "programmer for hire" under your name.  Perhaps you rent out your daddy or something? Actaully you should be doing the reading, because your claim is completely wrong.Miners choose what transactions to include or not include.  Many choose not to include e.g. S.D stransactions or very small transactions.  This change makes it default to not include transactions which the receiver can't spend without paying more in fees than the transaction is worth, but an evil miner can easily change this and include the transaction if he wants to contribute to a denial of service against bitcoin users.  It is a soft rule, not a hard rule. I don't believe for a second that you are an actual programmer, btw. And switch to another *coin without the 1 MB block limit (this is a hard limit which is impossible to remove, in the same way that there can never be more than 21 million bitcoins) and no fees and by buying more disk and faster network and really fast CPUs to everyone.  Yeah.  Easy!  Because we need spamcoins! It is a default soft rule, not a new network rule.  I'm sure many miners will continue to relay and include those transactions in blocks, but the transactions will be harder to get through.I think it is a wise move.  It helps users, because those small transactions are unspendable without paying more in fees than the inputs are worth.  Nanotransactions can be used to DoS the receivers wallet by making unspendable balances.  The limit will probably be reduced in the future when the default minimum fee for large transactions (in bytes) is lowered (it was recently lowered from 0.0005 to 0.0001 BTC). 75 million USD.  Driving a competitor bankrupt through lawsuits is a very USAnian form of "free market competition" which the rest of the world don't understand.  MtGox deserves it just like people sharing a few music files on the internet deserves to pay millions of USD in compensation to RIAA, or someone selling hot coffee deserves to pay millions of USD in compensation to someone spilling it on themselves.No court in the rest of the world would take this seriously.  Which is probably the reason why CoinLab wanted a court in the USA, probably known for outrageous compensations like this, chosen in the contract.  CoinLab has been a scam all the way.
I would like to nominate Peter Vessenes (vess on the forum) for a scammer tag.  The heavy selling in the days before the lawsuit was files was supicious.  Then the filing just in time for The Golden Week in Japan when all banks there are closed.  Coincidence?  No way.  And trying to heist 75 million USD from the largest and most important bitcoin exchange?  Deserves a scammer tag if you ask me.  No.  Give him three scammer tags. I would like to nominate Peter Vessenes for a scammer tag.  The selling before the lawsuit was supicious.  Then the filing just in time for The Golden Week in Japan when all banks there are closed.  Coincidence?  No way.  And trying to heist 75 million USD from the largest and most important bitcoin exchange.  Deserves a scammer tag if you ask me. Du kan alltids tipse han om http://bitmynt.no.  Mykje betre kursar og enklare handel, spesielt for kjøp.  Eg krev heller ikkje at dei eg handlar med har mobiltelefon (mobiltelefonnummer er obligatorisk felt når ein legg inn ordre på bitcoins-norge).  Har ikkje mobiltelefon sjølv, og kjem heller ikkje til å få det pga DLD.  Tenaren står i Tyskland der slik datalagring er forbode, so det er trygt å sende meg e-post.  Gjerne kryptert.  Bank-transaksjonar er ikkje anonyme, men det kan eg ikkje gjere noko med.  Mange som interesserer seg for Bitcoin er òg opptekne av personvern. Eg tek dei på alvor og registrerer so lite eg kan. Takk, fiksa! Eg har veksla Bitcoin mot norske kroner på IRC (#bitcoin-otc) sidan hausten 2010.  Målet har heile tida vore å gjere bitcoin meir tilgjengeleg for nordmenn, og eg kjøper og sel for den minst mogeleg margin.  Dette er ein hobby, og det har eg tenkt at det skal halde fram med å vere fram til alle skatte- og avgiftsmessige spørsmål er avklart.På bitmynt.no har eg lagt opp kursane mine, automatisk oppdatert frå beste bid og ask i USD på MtGox og konvertert til NOK med siste USD-kurs frå Noregs bank.  Det er ei lenke der til ein web-basert IRC-klient og ei side om korleis handelen føregår.  Og det er alt.  Skrive i HTML slik eg lærte meg det i 1993.Kursen min for sal er beste ask i USD på Mtgox konvertert til NOK + 2,5%.  For kjøp er det beste bid i USD på MtGox konvertert til NOK - 1%.  Det er det beste eg får til utan å tape pengar eller ta for stor risiko.Eg har ei teneste for automatisert kjøp (dvs at eg kjøper til kursen som gjeld i det øyeblikket eg mottek BTC), men vil gjerne vite kven eg kjøper av først.  Ta kontakt på IRC eller e-post for detaljar, oppsett og vilkår. Her er det lova seier:Ripple IOU vert etter denne lova pengar i det andre føretak godtek dei som betalingsmiddel, og det kan du ikkje hindre nokon i å gjere.  Om ingen andre gjer det, og dei berre kan brukast som betalingsmiddel på børsen, er det ikkje elektroniske pengar.  Men då er dei ganske ubruklege..BTC er ikkje elektroniske pengar, fordi dei ikkje tilfredsstiller punkt 2.  Men dersom BTC vert definert som pengar, vil ein Ripple IOU i BTC vere elektroniske pengar etter denne lova.  MtGox vil ikkje støtte Ripple fordi advokatane deira meinar det er ulovleg.  (MagicalTux nemnde det i forbifarten på IRC tidlegare i år, eg har dessverre ingen logg.) Merk at Ripple er elektroniske pengar etter e-pengedirektivet.  Du kan ikkje utstade Ripple IOU i Noreg (eller resten av EU/EØS) utan å vere registrert som e-pengeforetak med alle konsesjonar og løyve i orden.  Slå opp lov om e-pengeforetak på Lovdata. Det største problemet med PayPal er stolne PayPal-konti.  På PayPal trengst berre e-postadresse og passord for autentisering, og 75% brukar same passord over alt.  Lurer på korleis dei handterer det når nokon kjøper bitcoin for stolne pengar.  PayPal reverserer 100% av slike handlar, med mindre seljar kan dokomentere at rett vare er sendt til den registrerte postadressa til eigaren av kontoen.  Stolne PayPal-konti får ein kjøpt billig på den mørke delen av nettet.  Kvar gong det er ein større passord-lekkasje ein eller annan stad på nettet, fløymer både IRC og dette forumet over av folk som vil kjøpe bitcoin og betale med PayPal.  Dei får annonsere tenesta si på Economy > Marketplace > Currency exchange og sjå korleis det går.. "Han sier hackerne lot en mindre handelsplass stå uten angrep, og der kjøpte de Bitcoin billig.""Eksperten" Per Thorseim fall for tulleposten på pastebin, forstår eg.  Når han er sopass naiv burde han ikkje ha lov til å kalle seg "ekspert" på noko som helst. Dato? This is a good bot!  I don't know if the strategy is good or bad (probably among the better), but it provides liquidity on both sides of the spread.  This helps stabilizing the market price, reducing the amplitude of the price movements.  A more stable price will help adoption of Bitcoin as a currency, which is good for the price in the long run.Many bots spend too much time trying to analyze the market in every possible way, getting it wrong 50% of the time.  I have a plain stupid no nonsense bot myself, and it is very profitable.  It's intelligence is on the same level as this bot, and it is a slow market maker bot like this one.  I wrote it in two hours in perl.  The strategy is different, but just as mechanical.  Stupid strategies often work best.My strategy for surviving DDoS attacks on MtGox is to just cancel all orders as soon as lag > 60 seconds, and sit in the corner and wait until lag is back to < 1 second.  This far from perfect, but so far the best I've found. Eg tek inn ein viss margin på begge sider.  Normalt må eg kjøpe inn bitcoins på MtGox.  Dei er dei einaste med nok likviditet til at eg kan tilby ein so låg margin.  Då er MtGox ein naturleg referansekurs.  For å kjøpe på MtGox må eg både betale gebyr for overføring (fast sum + overkurs) og for handel på MtGox.  I tillegg sit eg med ein del valutarisiko som ofte er i min disfavør etter kvart som USD svekkar seg i høve til NOK.  Som regel er fortenesta mi på berre ca 1% etter fråtrekk av alle gebyr, og om eg har hatt uflaks med kursen på overføringstidspunktet kan eg sitje att med tap.  (Etter eit par runder med slik uflaks heva eg marginen min for sal frå 2% til 2,5%.)  Målet mitt er ikkje forteneste, men eg vil heller ikkje tape pengar på å gjere Bitcoin lett omsetteleg for norske kroner.Eg kan sjølvsagt ha flaks og få tak i bitcoin til lågare kurs enn på MtGox.  Då er fortenesta høgare.  Evt at eg tek bitcoins frå eit buffer, satsar på at kursen går ned og legg inn eit lågare bod på MtGox.  Men det er med stor risiko.  Dersom kursen går opp, må eg kjøpe inn til ein høgare kurs enn eg selde for når eg skal fylle opp att bufferet.  Alt dette meinar eg er mi forteneste, mitt tap og min risiko.  Eventuell forteneste her må etter mi meining (men kanskje ikkje Skatteetaten si) vere kapitalinntekt som ved aksje- eller valutahandel.Det er ikkje mva av overkurs for pengeveksling.  Når eg sender pengar til utlandet og mottek pengar frå utlandet same dag i banken, brukar banken ulik vekslingskurs alt etter om pengane går inn eller ut.  I somme bankar (spesielt Skandiabanken) er denne differansen høg.  Men det står ingen stad på kvitteringa frå banken at eg har betalt mva for den differansen.  Det skal spesifiserast dersom eg har gjort det.  I Lov om meirverdiavgift er det fritak for finansielle tenester.Det er "omsetning av gyldige betalingsmidler" som er hyssingen vi må prøve å gripe tak i.For å finne ut kva dei meinar med betalingsmidler, må vi til forarbeida til lova.  I Ot.prp. nr. 2 (2000-2001) står m.a.:Les gjerne heile 7.2.5.5 for litt kontekst og bakgrunn.  Bitcoin kjem ikkje opplagt inn under denne definisjonen, men Bitcoin var heller ikkje påtenkt i 2000.Mva skal alltid merkast tydeleg på kvitteringa, ja. No reklamerer dei på Facebook, seier folk som er der.  Nokon som er der bør kanskje rapportere svindelen? Eg ville endra litt på spørsmålet.Sjølv tek eg ikkje vekslingsgebyr.  Eg tilbyr ein vekslingskurs.  Den har referanse til ein annan kurs, men differansen er ikkje eit gebyr.  Sjølve vekslinga går direkte mot meg med min kurs.  Enkelte betalingsmåtar kan ha eit gebyr.  Betalingsgebyret kan det vere mva på, men det er nok avklart for lenge sidan.  Kjøp og sal av valuta vert som regel omtala som veksling, ikkje kjøp og sal.  Eg trur det er lurt å halde seg til den terminologien for å gi færre assosiasjonar til varer og tenester som det er mva på.Bitcoin har ikkje nokon annan funksjon enn betalingsmiddel.  Som andre betalingsmiddel kan bitcoin brukast til å lagre verdiar, og som andre betalingsmiddel kan ein spekulere i kursendringar, men eg kan ikkje komme på noko anna bruksområde for bitcoin enn betalingsmiddel.  Dermed er bitcoin eit de facto betalingsmiddel, og det er betre å skrive at bitcoin ikkje har annan funksjon enn som betalingsmiddel/virtuell valuta (ref Sigbjørn Johnsen til Stortinget).  Elles forvirrar vi dei berre.  Spørsmålet er om bitcoin er eit de jure betalingsmiddel eller på annan måte har fritak frå mva.Spørsmålet om kursendringar må nyanserast litt.  Når ein oppgjev bitcoin som formue, er det kursen ved årsskiftet som gjeld.  Ved inntekter frå sal er det kursen på salstidspunktet som gjeld.  Ved kjøp er det kursen på kjøpstidspunktet som gjeld.  Det er ganske opplagt.  Men ved graving ettter bitcoin kan det vere litt ullent.  Då grev ein bitcoin fram av ingenting, og er det då kursen på tidspunktet då dei vart gravd fram som gjeld for evt utrekning av inntekt, eller skal ein berre bruke kursen ved evt sal og for årsskiftet for det ein eig?  Eit nærståande spørsmål er om ein kan trekkje frå utgifter ein har til bitcoin-graving. Til dømes straum og utstyr.Nei, Skatteetaten godtek ikkje moms, skatt eller avgifter i andre valutasortar enn norske kroner.  Sjølv for oljeindustrien som har nesten alle inntektene sine i valuta (her er det ein fin karusell som staten ganske sikkert taper på, sidan oljefondet vekslar pengane attende til utanlandsk valuta).  Det spørsmålet er overflødig.Eg er gjerne med og spleisar på gebyret.  Reknar med at Skatteetaten vil ha det i NOK, men du aksepterer kanskje Bitcoin? :-) Eg har handla med bitcoin for norske kroner via IRC sidan 2010.  Då var det ei større plage å få fiat inn.Nei, eg er ingen bank eller børs, og vil difor ikkje halde bitcoin (eller pengar) på vegner av andre.  Når dei er overført har eg kjøpt dei. Stive prisar har dei og.  Eg sel bitcoins for beste ask på MtGox + 2,5% og kjøper for beste bod - 1%.Kjøp er halvautomatisert.  Gi meg namn og kontonummer og få ei bitcoin-adresse.  So snart klienten min ser ei overføring til den adressa, hentar han ticker frå MtGox og USD-kurs frå Norges Bank, og reknar ut kor mykje du skal ha.  Når bitcoin-transaksjonen har 6 stadfestingar vert pengane sendt til kontoen som er registrert på adressa.  (PS: Om du skal selje for meir enn 10000 kroner i slengen er det fint om du gjev meg eit hint på førehand for å vere sikker på at eg ikkje har sendt alt til MtGox tidlegare på dagen.)Denne tenesta gjer det veldig enkelt for verksemder å ta imot bitcoin som betaling.  Kursrisikoen er liten og pengane kjem på konto like rakst eller raskare enn ved kortbetaling.Eg har lagd web-tenester for både kjøp og sal, men i motsetnad til "Bitcoins Norge AS" ventar eg med å leggje dei ut offentleg til spørsmålet om mva er oppklårt.  Førebels må du kontakte meg på IRC eller e-post for å få registert ei adresse på kontonummer. Merk ordet vanligvis her:Dei kan godt bruke meir enn 3 mnd på jobben, og du får ingen rabatt. So you'd rather trust your money to an exchange run by some anonymous owner in Russia?  Want me to make a list of such sites going down or getting "hacked", and their owners, coins and money were nowhere to be found?  Ever wondered why the price on BTC-E is so much lower than on MtGox?  Hint: BTC-E doesn't have any policy against money laundering.If you have a serious amount of money invested, trust is essential.  Which is why MtGox still rules.  Mtgox may be slow at times, but I trust them to not lose or run away with my coins or my money, and I trust them to not risk my money by breaking laws.  And MtGox is the only exchange providing enough liquidity for my needs. Microsecond while giving everyone on the internet direct access to their API for free and keeping balances as well, or is this a paid service for few for trading and quotes only?I'm sick of people who knows something about fish, and think everything they know about fish must apply to planets as well.  If you want to make something else, then go ahead and do it. His CEO made him be at NYSE instead of NASDAQ when JNPR went public, to make sure he wouldn't ruin the event.  They took the photo and everything to make it look authentic. That's my guess.
Same on Instawallet and Paytunia, and now this: http://blockchain.info/address/1LrPYjto3hsLzWJNstghuwdrQXB96KbrCyPlease not now.. After having used a wallet for a while, my list of unspent outputs grow larger and larger.  Small outputs with thousands of confirmations.  To me it's dust, because I rarely send a payment of less than 1 BTC.  The reason for this is IMHO bad selection of inputs.  The client tries to find the transaction which spends the least inputs, instead of making the transaction with the highest priority.  This costs unnecessary fees as well.E.g. I recently sent a payment of 3 BTC.  The client found a 3 BTC input with seven confirmations, decided it needed to add a fee and selected an extra input to pay the fee.  The extra input made a change output necessary, and I ended up with a rather low priority transaction with two inputs, two outputs (one very small), and a fee.The client had many larger and older outputs to choose from, which would have genereated a higher prioirity transaction with one input and two outputs, no output smaller than 1 BTC.  This could have been sent without a fee.Another possibility is to collect some of the dust (possible inputs < 1 BTC) with thousands of confirmations, adding up to 3.  If the resulting amount is larger, see if it can be reduced to exact by removing inputs.  If not leave a change, or possibly a fee if the extra output would require a fee > change amount.I think the use-oldest-first method has a few benefits.1) It is very simple and predictable.2) Old dust will be collected.3) In most cases it will generate a higher priority transaction due to higher age of inputs, making the transaction confirm faster.Comments? What configuration will work in all cases?  This may be impossible to tell, because it is impossible to prove if bitcoind and all it's components works correctly in all cases.  This follows from The Halting Problem described by Alan Turing.Testing and avoiding bugs is important, but it is just as important to handle situations like this when they occur, and I think this one was handled very well.  A hard fork with two parallel blockchains going on forever was avoided.  Because bugs will happen.  No amount of testing or algorithm proving can eliminate all bugs.I have this user on ignore.  I am not alone, as you can see from the piss yellow background of his ignore link.  Nothing even remotely clueful, interesting or constructive comes from his keyboard. AND, as all critics ignore because they are clueless and it invalidates their criticism, the bug isn't in bitcoin at all!  It is in some versions of BDB on some platforms.  The developers wisely chose a better database for 0.8, but unfortunately the bug manifested itself in a bad way (it could have been worse, e.g. if the bug in BDB made remote code execution or altering old blocks possible) before almost all nodes had upgraded.AFAIK none of the current developers are involved in BDB development, and BDB was chosen by Satoshi.  Satoshi made a few errors, but I wouldn't call him an idiot.  Shut up or do a better job. Yes, and it should have the opposite effect.  People should hold their EUR knowing it will buy more BTC (from the USD order book) the next day.  Perhaps even sell for EUR and hope to buy back cheaper because USD is the dominant currency in BTC trading.  Unless they think BTC will be cost at least 0.5% more in USD the next day.  Which means the EUR, GBP and AUD buyers must have very strong belief in price increase.  And I assume the opposite is true for the USD users who are selling, because they are not selling for EUR, GBP or AUD. Obviously, which is one reason to buy coins.  Deposits of that size triggers identity verification, and if you just use MtGox as a currency exchange between fiat currencies you don't get any anonymity.  Just a very expensive currency exchange.  At least 4% including two trade fees and the known rate change, which is even more than PayPal charges.  People using AUD, GBP and EUR are buying coins, not changing from one fiat currency to another.This change of sentiment happened after Bitcoin-Central announced their deal with a PSP.  This was even announced on the BBC, and may have increased belief in and knowledge about Bitcoin in Europe, while it seems some Americans have reacted negatively to the news.  Many of my regular customers bought a lot after the news came out (NOK and EUR), and put me temporarily out of funds on the exchanges (doesn't happen often).  AUD users have always been buying more than selling, and it may be that they as well had a positive reaction to the news.   This is just one possible explanation. That doesn't make sense.  Paying 2.5% + trade fee for currency conversion?  And often when it is already known that the AUD/GBP/EUR price will be much better the next day, making the effective conversion fee more than 3% in the USD -> currency direction?  (MtGox only change their exchange fee once a day.)  Even credit cards have better exchange rates, and the timing is exceptionally bad. Comparing the price at two exchanges directly doesn't work for several reasons.  BTC-E is always lower as well.  Bitcurex and Intersango are ususally below MtGox EUR price (compared to USD it is more mixed).Currently the USD is doing much worse than any of the listed currencies.  This may actually be a reason why people choose to keep their own currencies when transferring to MtGox.I don't think mining is an important factor here.  The volume in those three currencies alone is far higher than the mining rate.  Could be trade balance, if the sellers trade in USD and the people who pay with Bitcoin come from all over the world.  Winter in Europe creates a high demand for alpaca socks, of course.  I have been watching the trade feed from MtGox for currencies other than USD, and have noticed very different behaviour for traders using USD compared to other currencies.  While the USD traders keep selling, often large amounts in bulk, traders keep buying in other currencies.  GBP, EUR and AUD are especially active.  The prices in GBP, EUR and AUD are almost constantly 2.5% higher, which is where the currency's bid meets USD ask.  (Asks are matched from the USD order book, and exchanged at a 2.5% fee.  This is shown as mixed currency in the feed.)  Large USD sales are often satisfied from bids from the other currencies, and followed by large buys in other currencies.  Recently, when the price hit 13.9 USD, the buying from 13.5 and up was mostly done in non-USD currencies.  Same thing happened when a 10k sale for USD, followed by other large sales in USD, made the price drop below 13 USD.  Large AUD buys pushed the price back up to 13.3 USD.  The last week 18716 BTC was bought in AUD, 10359 BTC bought in GBP and 6767 BTC bought in EUR from the USD order book at a 2.5% fee.  Mostly triggered by bids in those currencies, but also by market sales in USD.  There were no matches in the other direction (where an order from another currency was matched against the bid side of the USD order book).Is this significant?  Why are the USD users so very pessimistic, while the users of other currencies are so very optimistic?  Is it just dumb users buying BTC in other currencies, while the USD market is speculators selling?  I assume most serious investors would do a currency exchange in their own bank when transferring to get a better rate than the 2.5% MtGox offers. There is a large number of people from the UK on #bitcoin-otc every day outbidding each other to get hold of coins.  Not very difficult to cash out there.  On MtGox the price in GBP is constantly 2.5% over the price in USD.  I don't know if you have noticed, but it is the GPB (and AUD and EUR) buys that keeps the price falling like a rock at MtGox when people sell thousands of coins for USD.  The overprice at MtGox should cover the fees if you cash out there and transfer the money back to an UK account as a normal international money transfer. Nobody have to cash out via Euro.  Users can cash out bitcoins any time at no fee, and sell elsewhere for whatever currency they like. Anyone in Europe (the civilized part) can transfer Euro to you for free or minimal charge.  You can do the same the other way.  SEPA transfers are quite fast.  The regulations say maximum D+1 (banking days), and in my experience same day transfer is quite common if you send early.  D is either the day you issue the transfer, if you do it before an afternoon deadline published by your bank, or the first bank day afterwards.SEPA bank transfers are not harmed by weird USAnian regulations which forbid you to send money where you want (e.g. to companies with relations to Cuba).  Some bank I tried for one day refused to send money to Intersango because of some issues with an USA based intermediary bank, and I guess you must have a lot of these problems if you are trading all over the world.  (I filed a complaint to my national regulators.  The bank called me the day after with a lot of excuses and sent me a compensation because they hadn't specified the restrictions imposed by the intermediate bank in their terms of service.  Tried the bank once due to free international transfers, but I would rather pay a fee than cope with unreliable service.) I transfer thousands of EUR to Intersango every week.  How much can you eat? This is fantastic news!  Welcome as my new Euro bank! Someone has either messed up EUR and GBP or bid and ask.  Currency mixup and bid/ask mixup happens on Intersango and other exchanges. Yeah, right, because I'm sure he wants to impersonate you and perhaps even abuse your -19 rating on #bitcoin-otc.  Can I have your ID as well, please? That's the theory, yes, but it doesn't check out very well when you analyze the orphaned blocks vs the winning blocks.  The advantage to smaller blocks is very small.  There may be one for very small blocks, e.g 1 transaction blocks.E.g. for the latest orphan, the Bitminter block was 242.8 KB.  The winning block was 250.8 KB, i.e. larger than our.I have another suggestion: Start making new work as soon as you get a new valid block header built on top of the one we are working on.  The likelyhood of the block being invalid, is low.  This will give us a head start on the next block in front of the other pools.  We may delay LP until the new block is validated. Are you sure this works?Last time I did a shallow analysis of this, I found that while there was a connction between block size and the chance of getting orphanded, the larger orphaned block was almost always newer than the winning block.  Which means that the orphan block is larger because it has been accumulating more transactions while the older block was busy propagating through the network.Smaller blocks means we have to wait longer for normal transactions to get confirmed by the network.  SatoshiDice transactions have a fee, and will win over standard no-fee transactions from normal clients, MtGox, etc.By reducing the number of no-fee transactions we actually give higher priority to SatoshiDice transactions.  Blocking transactions to or from 1dice addresses with fee < 1 BTC is a better solution, IMHO. Her er mykje interessant.  Til dømes:Eit namn har ikkje verkshøgd, og er difor ikkje verna av norsk opphavsrett eller opphavsrett etter Bern-konvensjonen.  Spørsmålet er då kva lover ho tek utgangspunkt når ho gjer dette, og kven som skal handheve desse lovene?  Denne lova gjeld kanskje berre i hennar eigen jurisdiksjon, dvs ein sjølvpålagd restriksjon som ikkje gjeld for nokon andre? I'll try my question again: How about laptops without Windows?  Windows is an expensive piece malware I don't need, and I certainly don't want to pay for it.
Scammer tag for Darkster.  This is a no-brainer. -----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----Hash: SHA1This rating is not yours.  It is mine.  Verifiable by checking this PGP signature against my PGP key registered on #bitcoin-otc.  You are a scammer.-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----Version: GnuPG v1.4.10 (GNU/Linux)iQEcBAEBAgAGBQJQppnPAAoJEO5ogPUS9VkP+xcH/3hV8yG0/uo1U3G2wlMMwFM2mSdSZOZJ0C4/21DVBDzLZCvubN3dVGJ3OdBkm7UwNnoyz+XutH616Tb/d2AvmKNsOAv/cUNcp6R6rDnxtk3NFxhwMdX50jLyMt6txYKi76LtWTVKiEDoX3ddIY7yRgmpLckEX/2d4gZApp4io20R7x447oT44iKVNG1rV7l1XIIGSnt6UsJkUU+xPuKDunjbMYji98hi9INRZRZg/JI10UqJGM38UaBIojzoJ9SfZI6Gn8ZbbXnVd6qQ5PzjbSZOkJBhtv8SQMTp/YNrSTanxKdu/jk9+uD7k/yvPbkpY0rHR+kWRZmXpv70JgbpcxY==T2CB-----END PGP SIGNATURE----- Four. I'm looking for a laptop without Windows included.  I haven't used Windows since 1989, and don't want to pay for something I have no intention of using.  Why don't you sell any laptops without Windows? Then perhaps the republican majority will?I'm not even going to begin on this one.  You obviously don't know your history.In the long run, perhaps.  If you think throwing most government paid workers into unemployment this week, and at the same time cutting public investments in infrastructure and other projects will do any good to the economy, your are obviously on drugs.  Greece is trying a very mild version of this.  Cutting public spending while avoiding to do anything serious about their tax evasion problem.  Now look how well it works for them!  A tax increase is the only way to balance the budget in the short term without creating a massive recession.  And we will see if the republican majority will be able to keep the balance while cutting taxes when the economy allows it.Much of the public debt comes from bank bailouts.  I'm sure the bankers are able to pay a little of that back now.  The bank managers are not getting thrown out of their homes.  Some do not even depend on charity to survive.  And what I really don't understand is why the giant oil companies should pay zero tax, and receive money back from the government on top!  Oh, yes I remember, it was Bush/Cheney who fixed that to help their poor hungry buddies in big oil. The USD gained on all major currencies today.  Up 0.42% against EUR.  Probably not due to Obama winning, since that is exactly as predicted by all betting companies during the entire race.  (Never mind the polls.  Polls are inaccurate.)If anything is impacting the USD, it is the current deadlock in Congress.  Congress has become a Polish parliament.  The political climate is freezing cold, and everybody seems occupied in an eternal pissing contest.  The Fiscal Cliff is getting closer.  If Congress can't clear out the fog of damping piss and find a solution very soon, the U.S. credit rating will drop.  And that will have an impact.Fortunately the Democrats gained in both chambers of Congress, on the expense of a few hard lined Tea partiers, and this gives slightly better odds of a solution.  Even Romney said he would close tax loopholes.  If they at least can agree on those, and let the Bush tax cuts expire, they will have time to make necessary cuts in public spending without sending the economy straight into recession. Back today as well, now using a cloak.  Two nicks:starryeyez!~parmablac@unaffiliated/kalacoashilohsandi!~parmablac@unaffiliated/kalacoaUsing GPG key 9498C9984C9B01C3: "Masteris Keena <wahlilbaby@gmail.com>"Tried to buy a BTC from me, paying from Tim Wheat <fuzzyshark44@gmail.com>.  He must think I was born yesterday. The effect is quantifiable.  It actually works for precisely the same reason that many alternative treatments, prayer and whatnot works.  It works by the same mechanism as the placebo effect.  Any treatment works very well if you believe it works.  Only a very few people has a rare gene which code for placebo immunity.  There is the Nocebo effect as well -- if you believe something will make you ill, it probably will.  You may look up Confirmation Bias as well.There is one more reason why private schools achieve better results.  By average pupils at private schools have better educated parents than pupils at public schools, and there is a huge correlation between parents education level and their children's grades at school.You can choose to spend your money on insurance companies, or you can choose to spend the money on doctors, hospitals and medicine.  The latter will improve your health at a lower cost than the former.  Send the money directly where the money are needed, and don't let unnecessary people and companies take their cut on the way.Edit: Fixed quoting So there are three kinds of schools.You requested tax breaks for sending your kids to a private school.  What's the difference?  You must love bureaucracy!  Instead of sending one payment directly to the school, the government should send one payment to each of the parents sending kids to the school, so the parents can forward the money to the school?  This gets even more complicated with modern family structures.  You really want to waste money on this for some principle of what you choose to call the school?  You must be kidding!Yes.  If there is a free option available, the effort invested is proportionally higher.  If you want private schools to come out really badly, try giving people money to send their kids there.  You got the reward, and don't have to justify it by convincing yourself it is a better school.  As for taxes, please google that yourself.One or two dollars a year, huh?  No wonder the average life expectancy in Britain at the time was 31 years. Do I?  If schools which are run for profit and don't get any public funding aren't actual private schools, which schools are?I believe it is a case of Cognitive Dissonance and more specifically Effort Justification.I don't have comparable numbers from different countries from decades ago, and I have no idea what the health systems in different countries looked like back then.  I don't know how relevant the numbers would be either.  Medicine has made a lot of progress the last few decades.  The odds of surviving many diseases has become much better due to better treatments.  Some of the new treatments are very expensive, and it is hard for one normal person or family to afford it alone.  A few decades ago most cancer diagnoses came with a very short life expectancy.  Nowadays most people get well from cancer, but the treatment is far from free.  Your alternatives are a) have a free public health system or b) a good private insurance or c) be very rich or d) die. Yes, there are some schools which are run for profit, and don't want to keep their fees below the limits for public funding, or wants to have very different standards (not fulfilling all of the minimums, e.g. so their pupils will have to go an extra year to qualify for higher education).  A couple of those are popular among dropouts who want to pull themselves together and study intensively to qualify for higher education.No, it is an argument for sending your kids to an expensive private school.  Most of the effect vanishes when there is no free or much cheaper alternative.  Like taxes.In terms of USD corrected for purchasing power, Canada is on level with Europe.  Canada spends 55% of what the USA spends per capita.  Average life expectancy at birth is 81.38 years in Canada, 78.37 years in the USA. Fascinating.  In my country private schools will get almost the same amount from the government per pupil as public schools, provided they keep their fees at a reasonable level and comply with certain quality standards.  Same with private hospitals, btw.  They will get the same amount per patient as it would cost to heal them in a public hospital.  There is real competition between the private and public sectors in areas where the population is dense enough, for specialized services like heart surgery, and for boarding schools.  If the private sector can provide a better service at a lower cost, the private sector will win.  For some reason the private alternatives almost always cost more.  I.e. the sum of user payment and public refund is higher than the cost of the same in the public sector.Show me one country which is satisfied with their public school system.  This is a matter of basic psychology as well.  When you spend resources on something, you expect a reward.  People who pay for something are therefore more likely to feel rewarded afterwards than someone who get it for free.  If you got a tax break for sending your kids to a private school, it is in fact less likely you will think it is good, because you already got the reward.  It is also less likely that you will make the most of it, because your net investment is lower.Many factors determine the cost of the health system, but public spending per capita is approximately the same all over Europe measured in % of GDP.  In the USA it is almost twice as much.  All are different countries with different demographics and population densities. Reality check: Do you have a free public school system?  Are there private schools as well, or do the public school system have a monopoly on running schools?  If there is demand for better or different services than the public provides, there is a market.Countries with a free public healthcare system spends half as much taxpayer money per capita for a much more effective system than there is in the USA.  Your "nearly crushing tax burden required" is half of what you pay for the system now. There must be some subtle language detail there I don't understand.  English is not my first language.  My meaning was the opposite.  I'll try to write it differently: It will be a disadvantage for the free public health care to have a monopoly on health services.I probably meant "would not" then.  It should be clear from the context that I don't see any reason for the free public health service to be the only choice for patients (those who are in a position to choose).  I.e. not a monopoly.  I wrote this very clearly until you started diverting the discussion with some irrelevant oil company.Huh?  I didn't get that one either.  My intention was to express even stronger that there is no reason for the free public health care to be a monopoly. I think you must have misread something.  I'm reading my quotes over and over again, and can't understand where you think I wrote that free public health care is a monopoly or has anything in common with a monopoly.  And I still don't understand what you think healthcare has to do with oil or an oil company.In Cuba there is a public monopoly on healthcare.  It is better and much cheaper than healthcare in the USA, but public monopoly on healthcare is still very different from what I describe. I don't know anything about Standard Oil.  I think it was run by some John D. Rockefeller, and that's just about all I know.  You really need to explain what you mean here.Standard Oil produce oil, I guess?  I don't know if they drill for it or refine it or what the heck they do, but the net result is making a product to sell from some natural resource.Healthcare is completely different from oil.  You can't buy a gallon of healthcare at any gas station.  I already explained why healthcare is a natural monopoly in many cases, and therefore it must be regulated (not necessarily public for that reason).  Oil is not.  You need to explain what you mean by comparing healthcare with oil.What did I say wasn't a monopoly or is?  I don't get it. Standard Oil?  What do you think Standard Oil and free public health care have in common?  Did Standard Oil give away free oil?  Free public health care will not benefit at all from being a monopoly.  Quite the opposite. No, it isn't!  You are free to provide healthcare for free or any price as a supplement or alternative to the public service.  Most countries with a public health service have private alternatives for those who want to pay for it. Limited and very expensive then.The investment in getting to the moon in the first place is way higher than what any company on earth would be able to muster for nothing in financial returns.  And getting there is only the first step.  Do you really think space exploration had come further without the competition between two superpowers with the money to do it for the honour alone?We have been sending rockets into space for more than 50 years from Andøya Rocket Range.  More than 1000 launches.  And a Norwegian company built the platform and command ship for Sea Launch, and owned 20% in the company.  Sea Launch ended in bankruptcy.  It is a complicated and expensive business.How are you going to produce enough fuel for a minimum sized reactor, and keep it safe and contained within, at anything close to the price of drilling a dozen holes a few km down?Most governments can control their spending just fine.  Japan has more net credit than the USA has net debt.  Your country has many problems, and right now it seems the politicians are stuck in some pissing contest instead of doing anything.  The natural consequence should be a total replacement of Congress, but it seems the piss has created so much fog in the cold political environment that people can't see what is going on. I didn't pay this guy, I promise.I wrote fixing monopolies, not creating them.  You need to apply force in terms of laws to make sure natural monopolies don't hinder free market competition more than necessary by the condition which create the natural monopolies.   The force is a mild one, and the net result is less monopoly.  If you don't like laws, you may move to a country without laws.  It's up to you.  Most people think laws are beneficial, and support them.
Free?  Are you a commie as well?  Do you have any idea that those would cost to launch those to orbit compared with installing solar arrays on the ground?  And if you want it to your house, you must say good bye to all other satellite communications, because the spectrum passing through to earth is very small, and multiple kW of power will mask all the low powered signals from communication and navigation satellites.What!?  Are private companies forbidden access to space in your fscked up country?  Your nuclear pile is straight below you.  Drill far enough down, and the power is there.  It doesn't provide electricity directly (nuclear piles don't), but heat you can use to generate electricity.  It isn't regulated, just expensive.  Probably much less expensive than a safe nuclear reactor for home use.This is because your government doesn't do enough for fixing the monopolies.  If e.g. the government provided free healthcare for all, you could do with half of your healthcare spendings.  That's almost 9% of your GDP in savings.  If you did it ten years ago, the USA wouldn't have any national debt now, and people and companies wouldn't have to pay insurance money for health either.  If you do it right now, the number will start decreasing. Yep, in many countries with stronger regulation those old technologies has been deprecated and frequencies reallocated to e.g. wireless networking and mobile communications.  In my country the FM radio band will be freed for other uses in 2017, as we complete the switch to DAB and DVB.  I understand it is more difficult in the USA because the stations insists on having their own frequencies and transmitters.  DVB and DAB are very efficient because they are able to multiplex a lot of channels into the same stream, and allocate bandwidth as necessary.  For DAB all transmitters send on the same frequency, and due to the clever way redundancy is implemented the interference between two transmitters sending the same signal is actually beneficial.  It saves a lot of bandwidth and makes space for many more radio channels at the same time.A natural monopoly does not need to cover the entire universe to be defined as a monopoly.  The FCC, which you call a monopoly, has no powers outside the USA.  It is sufficient to monopolize an area which covers more than your own property.Using all high frequencies suitable for medium range communications at a decent bandwidth this way is fairly easy.  Let's say ~80 MHz to ~280 MHz.  Even a normal 802.11n network uses up to four channels with a bandwidth of up to 40 MHz each, but at higher frequencies with much lower range.  This is only five times more.  No, it won't have to mask directional transmission, unless you want FM radio transmitters to target every individual FM radio, of course.  It doesn't have to drown out everything else to make the frequency band useless for a large area.  You aren't going to listen to that FM station if there is a lot of static on the channel.  For DVB, DAB and other digital modes the interference will be even worse.  For current air navigation systems it would be a killer.  (VOR/ADF in the HF band will survive, but those are very inaccurate.)No.  If another light source interferes with yours, it can easily be blocked out.  Two people can, but don't have to, share the same light source.  Light can be created by many means (no monopoly on the source) and by anybody. Lack of possibility certainly does!  Cooperation on crossings is a theoretical possibility, but only theoretical because it would be much much cheaper for both to just use the same lines.  And this ain't going to happen, because the one who built first have every interest in protecting their monopoly.Wordplay.  The frequency spectrum is a natural limited resource.  It is limited by the laws of physics, not by FCC or anyone else.  For it to be possible to use the frequency spectrum efficiently, one need exclusive use at the time it is used in the covered area.  Non-exclusive use will reduce the quality of the transmission, and no known technology will help that.  You can only work around the problem to a degree by sending more information (adding redundancy) by using more of the frequency spectrum.  The user of the spectrum monopolizes it, no matter how much or little the regulating body regulates.We got spread spectrum technology for several reasons.  It was invented to make eavesdropping on communications difficult, and is much used today to comply with the regulators demands to reduce peak electromagnetic interference at certain frequencies.  It can help against some kinds of interference, but the Nyquist rate still limits the amount of information it is possible to send on a given bandwidth.John Stuart Mill uses the same definition, more or less.  Natural monopolies are "those which are created by circumstances, and not by law".  Both are commonly accepted, but be welcome and pick yours, and I'll find examples for it as well. The government isn't granting power utility companies a monopoly today.  Why should they when it is a natural monopoly?  It is the other way around.  The government's task is to ensure competition despite the natural monopoly.  I.e. make competition possible within a natural monopoly, and thereby making the negative consequences of the natural monopoly as few as possible.  This happens in the Nordic countries, where all power companies are allowed to sell power to all customers, regardless of their utility company.  The U.S. has chosen to regulate the price of power instead, which limits the worst consequences of the monopoly without generating a healthy marketplace for power.I was very surprised when someone told me on IRC they have blackouts in his part of Texas on warm days due to power shortage.  The utility actually shuts off power to some areas due to shortage!  This would never happen in the Nordic countries.  Here high power consumption only makes the price rise, and more expensive production comes online.  E.g. coal and gas powered plants in Denmark, which then exports to the other countries.As for radio frequencies -- don't forget that one kid among a million people is enough.  One who won't cooperate.  Like the one in a million who don't want to pay his taxes due to some misguided morals.  I would love it if my wifi reached across the city, and a hundred miles when I crank up the power and widen the frequency band.  And I'll get rid of those noisy aircraft that take off and land a few hundred meters from my house.  Win!  I'll lose TV and radio, but I don't care much about that anyway."People will figure out how to share based on their own needs and desires" -- is that Karl Marx, or Friedrich Engels?  Free market competition is all about market competition, and sharing only when it benefits yourself at least as much as the competitor.  In this case there is no way for sharing to benefit yourself.  If you race on a one lane road, you won't come first if you let the car behind you pass.  Cranking up the power and using more of the frequency band benefits yourself.  Yielding to something else only benefits something else.  You haven't lowered the tx power of your own wlan to make a little less radio noise and interference for your neighbour's wlans, have you?  So you are the kid, huh? Yes, they are due to the laws of physics.  There can be only one electric power supplier to every house.  High power cables/wires can't cross each other without interference.  For allowing more than one utility company access to every house, the companies must cooperate to allow for crossings without interfering with the service of the other company.  Why would a company which enjoy a monopoly allow this?  It is not likely, and would be terribly inefficient compared to one cable/line.Similar for radio frequencies.  If I use the navaid frequencies for the closest airport for my own wlan, the airport would have to close for all IFR operations.  The airport needs to have a monopoly on using those frequencies for the navaids to work.Both monopolies are necessary by laws of physics, not artificial causes like government regulations.  (Thomas Robert Malthus' definition of a natural monopoly, I know there are many.) How about natural monopolies?  Will they be regulated, or do you just deny their existence for simplicity.E.g. in my country free competition is secured in the power market because electricity utility companies can't discriminate against producers.  I, as a consumer, can buy my electricity from whatever company I want to, and the utility company has to transport the power to me.  This ensures competition in the power market.  Before I had to buy electricity for the company which deliver the power, which was very much more expensive due to their natural monopoly.Another example: Radio frequencies is a very limited resource.  I can easily make a new powerful long range high bandwidth wifi network for myself and my family, and at the same time make FM radio and VHF and UHF TV, all air navigation systems and all other medium to long range radio communication unusable in the area.  Should there be any regulation of the usage of this very limited common resource, or would that be immoral in your opinion? Unlikely.  This may have been the case back in 2010 when one could still find blocks when CPU mining on common equipment.  (Those blocks weren't worth much, of course.)  Nowadays one need either very fast and expensive GPUs to get BTC at any reasonable speed and marginal profit, and investing in GPUs for mining now is guaranteed to be a loss.  Or one needs highly specialized equipment, which I doubt anyone will buy unless they have experience with Bitcoin already.  And Bitcoin has become very easy to buy.  It just doesn't make sense to invest in expensive specialized equipment with uncertain profit margin and mining for weeks for a few coins, when you can buy as many coins as you want today or tomorrow.  If you want to invest in BTC, you invest in BTC.  If you want to invest in mining, you invest in mining. This does not deter people from driving or flying drunk, often ending up killing a lot of completely innocent people.  The risk of losing ones pilot or drivers licence for life + prison does.  Now all resemblance to John Locke's social contract is gone.  A working social contract must provide some security for the rest of the society.  Better security for one self and ones property is the reason why people will form governments, according to John Locke.  Your vision will be a large leap backwards towards anarchy, and even less security than the customary laws from before governments.  It ends up not working, because people will want more security for themselves and their property.This theory may sound like paradise in some disgruntled peoples ears.  Most thinking people can easily see that it won't work.  Much like communism.Unfaithful husbands and stuff, yes.  For a serious investigation they would need access to the garage where I keep my stolen cars and the bodies of the people who were in them (a simple way to make the self-defence part void, because there would no longer be a self to defend, and nobody to claim their property), and by your agreement they can't.If you get into a fight you weren't a part of to start with, you are initiating force.  No force was used against you before you initiated force against the other participants, and they probably never intended to involve you.  If this can be used as an excuse for initiating force, the rule has no meaning.And the judge will use what law?  A dozen different social contracts may be involved, in addition to free people and perhaps minors.  Perhaps a conservative Jew who only accept the Torah as law, and put one radical Islamist, a fanatical Christian and an atheist in the mix.  Sweet dreams.  This is going to work as smoothly as the Middle East, right?  Both, but the group would be targets if they work in the open.Sorry to hear about that story about security companies "supplementing" the police.  That's terrible!Go back and read it again.  You still don't understand the simplest logical primitives, and without them you are useless at discussions.  You should start with those before you start reading the philosophers.  I can't explain your logical fallacy better than I already did.Yep.  The courts in my country frequently judge against the other parts of the government.  If it doesn't work in your country, I suggest a revolution.Incentive to find an indifferent judge?   No way!  No party will ever want an indifferent judge.  If I can't pay a judge to judge in my favor, and there is a real risk that I will lose the case, I have an incentive for not agreeing to a judge at all.  There won't be a case with an indifferent judge.  You will have an incentive for accepting my suggestion, hoping you will be able to get my cheap judge over to your side with enough money on the table.  Indifferent judges will never get any work.  You will either end up with a judge from one of the sides, potentially getting paid enough during the case to switch sides (you have no rules against corruption, btw) or no case at all.Restitution must be.  Otherwise you will not be allowed to take my property, which means you will only be able to get compensation.  No restitution.  (This is by the way common practice in most countries.  The USA is the only one I know of where restitution is commonplace.) At least there won't be any illegal copying by this law.  If I copy some copyrighted work, the only punishment would be copying the work back from me!  And if you don't know for sure who did it, you are lost.  Nobody has the authority to take a suspect in for questioning or to investigate anything on other people's property.I can see you want to legalize drunk driving.Self-defence is defined as defending one self, not defending other people, but the definition of this will probably vary.  It certainly needs some clarification.  Clarification could be done by courts, but you don't want it.  At least not one authoritative court.Defending someone else is by definition not self-defence.No.  The situation I want to avoid is a lot of "defence" and "security" agencies, or criminals with weapons, and street gangs (it's pretty much the same), walking around and making the society unsafe for all other people than their customers.  My society will have a definitive prohibition against such agencies, with long prison terms for affiliation.When executing government authority they have the obligation according to the law, which a majority of the society agrees on, to act in this way.  This makes the actions moral when they do it, and immoral if you do it.  I think it is very sensible to limit those powers to a small well controlled group.This is basically what is done now, yes?  Democracy and all.  John Locke never intended everyone to sign every law.  There were customary laws long before governments.  The laws where usually not written down, yet one would get punished for breaking them.  After describing the law of nature, he described why governments will come into being as a natural next step.This does not make sense.  The market has no incentives for using an indifferent judge.  I would pay for the cheapest judge to judge in my favor.  The market will not guarantee a division of power either, which was important to Locke.Your society does not mention restitution!  And the point of punishing people for crimes is (in most countries, probably not yours with it's insane amount of prisoners per capita) not the punishment itself, but to give them education and guiding back to society as a normal law-abiding citizens.  Focus on punishment only brings us back to medieval times.  Hurting people physically will not accomplish anything but revenge.  We also have the case of mentally ill people who need treatment.  Punishment will only make them worse.Another day. Where do I start?First of all there is no defence against abuse, except other members are prohibited to use force against me.  If they get away with it (I can only defend myself, nobody else, and nobody else can defend me without breaching the second).  The most worrying part is that there is no mention of relations to other societies.  There are also no mention of limits to defence.  It may end up like some sick cult where the members think they are allowed to kill people in "self defence" for the simplest offences.Small children and people without the mental capability of signing a contract have no way to defend themselves.  If someone attacks my two year old son without attacking me, I have no right of initiating any kind of force against the offending individual to save my own son.  If I do, the attacker has the right of self defence by unspecified means.  No, I wouldn't dream of signing this contract.Se the quote at the bottom for more reasons.You have no right by your contract to delegate the ability to defend yourself.  It belongs to the individual.  Your defenders can't initiate force against my police.  Only defend themselves.  Assuming they belong to the same society as you, but they will likely not.  They can make up their own contracts.  My police will certainly go directly for you and throw you before court and then in prison.My society will be explicitly against dealing with so-called defence agencies.  We will have a secret group responsible for poisoning their water supplies with psychedelic drugs, hopefully keeping them out of business.  We don't want South African conditions.I don't get it.  What other contract than the law do the government have with this woman?  In what way would she have better protection if she was in your society, where there are no courts of laws or police or right to defend anyone but one self?I told you already as well.  Contract as of Locke's social contract.  Not your kind of contract.  You don't need to sign Locke's social contract.They are not above the law.  The law, and the fact that the majority of the society backs the law, makes the actions moral.  Why do you think you are above the law?I think you can rewrite "based on Locke" to "may have a distant relationship to some of John Locke's ideas".  For Locke government was inevitable. Of course.  Many later philosophers have based their works on works of Locke.I, for one, wouldn't dream of signing the Shire society declaration.  I don't think many thinking people would.  It has to many holes and no security.  I don't think you would get everyone to agree on the same contract.  We are all individuals.Different social contracts will have contradictions.  My social contract will have a police force to handle cases where the contract is broken.  E.g. if you steal my car.  If you belong to another contract, e.g. this Shire society, you wouldn't accept any of my police, and use "self defence" (whatever self defence is -- the contract doesn't specify e.g. proportional force like the Geneva conventions).  In the resulting fight, which is easily won by "my" police force, you hurt an innocent bystander by accident.  The bystander is member of a third society, which is basically a street gang which by their contract now have the obligation to take out revenge on all members of your society.  And we have it going.No, this isn't going to work.  I prefer Locke's society to your plethora of intermingling societies.I have.  It had references to laws.  Which one was broken in this case?Whatever.  It's all in the contract.  Laws.  A majority of the people around you, the civil society, think they are a good idea. John Locke's philosophy is what it is.  If you change it or add to it, it is no longer Locke's philosophy.  Locke himself built the work of many other philosophers.  If you choose to build on elements from Locke, it doesn't make it his philosophy.I don't think Locke's social contract establishing civil society would work if every person in the society would have their own contract with everyone else, and some will end up without a contract, or a contract signed only by a few other people.  Not to mention the humongous bureaucracy we would get when everyone were to sign each others contracts, and to stay up to date those contracts would need renegotiation from time to time.  In some areas people would become entirely unprotected.  Your rape story suddenly get relevant again.  Perhaps you don't want any mention in your contract that you are not allowed to rape minors.  No, Locke wouldn't agree.  It contradicts his philosophy in so many ways.Locke's is very clear that the citizens have a right to revolution to replace the government when it acts against the interests of citizens.  His social contract must be generally agreed to, not something which everyone are forced into against their common interests.  How is this revolution going to work when some have social contracts acting against the interests of a clear majority of the citizens?It concluded that the contract (the law) didn't cover this particular case.  Which law is your definition from?  Courts judge according to the law, not the dictionary!I never claimed John Locke said that.  And by the way, I want in my contract that grinding the owner of some land under my foot makes the land mine!  I'm going to this among a lot of legalese mumbo-jumbo on page 6502 in my contract, of course. The population of Norway may not be high, but it is spread over a large area.  The distance from the southern tip of Norway to the northern tip is about the same as Vancouver to San Diego, and UK is more densely populated with roughly 2/3 of the area of Norway (mainland only).  Lower population density leads to higher costs.  And, yes, Norway is fortunate to be an energy exporter.  In percent of GDP Norway spends 9.6% and UK spends 9.8%, which is about average for Europe.  US spends 17.4%!I can buy a private insurance as well, but I don't think I will find specialists around here much faster no matter what insurance I have.  There are a few obvious differences between rural Norway and NYC, making comparing difficult.Bad headaches which the doctors can't find the cause for are quite common.  As long as the headache isn't caused by a tumour (and I suppose they checked that early), the odds of finding the cause for it is rather low.  It can be trigged by food or beverages, lack of sleep or to much sleep, etc.  Doctors can usually only give advice and painkillers.Offered, of course.  There is no pressure. In my opinion a free market health system is impossible, because a large part of it is a natural monopoly.  It can't be a free market because the customer often don't have a real choice.Some parts of the health system can work as a free market.  E.g. dental services and cosmetic surgery. For a moment I thought you had read Locke.  You obviously haven't.    I used Locke's terms there, and even specified it in parenthesis to make it clear.Huh?  This court concluded that the contract wasn't broken.  If you think it should be in the contract (your nation's laws), you have to tell your lawmakers that.I must admit my philosophy education, of which John Locke was only a small part of the curriculum, is limited to one semester at university.  Care to give any examples of what you think I misunderstood? I'll get a doctor the same day if I'm ill.  If it isn't necessary, perhaps I want to fix an ingrown toenail or something which isn't critical, I may have to wait a few days, or more if I need a specialist.  If the public heath system in the USA will find me a specialist and fix my problem the next day it would be great, but I doubt it.  I think you are comparing apples and oranges.  It is by no means forbidden for me to find a private specialist and pay for it myself, or get a health insurance which will pay for it, but most people don't care that much.And much more effective than the U.S. system measured in what they get per dollar.  They just spend a lot less dollars on it.It can probably explain some of the problem, yes.  If you are to fat in Norway, and no diet helps, you will be offered free surgery to fix it permanently.  E.g. removing 90% of your stomach and some of your intestines to make it impossible to eat to much, and make your body take up less fat.  It is a drastic measure, but very effective.  The patient will likely be able to work more and need less health services in the future.  One will typically have to wait for more than a day for this procedure as well, but I don't think that is much of a problem.  Faced with not being able to eat more than half a small yoghurt beaker and some vitamins in one meal for the rest of her life, the patient may want to try that diet again, and perhaps another diet and some exercise before the surgery. Funny you call the least effective system in the world "pretty efficient".  I think you need to do some more research.Why would there be less abuse of the public health system if it was almost entirely public, like in the countries with the most effective health care systems?  Are people living in the USA more prone to abusing public services than other people?  Why don't people abuse their private health insurances instead? Yep, and under your contract with the government (as Locke would put it), you are obliged to pay tax from the fruits of your labour as well.  Both you and the government are bound by that contract.  You are however, according to John Locke, free to join the rest of the citizens in a revolution to replace the government if the government is working against the interests of citizens.No, John Locke isn't a commie, but you obviously only agree to small pieces of his philosophy taken completely out of context.Scary, huh? No, and now I really don't understand you.  Adam Smith, if we are both talking about the Adam Smith who wrote "The Wealth of Nations", examined a lot of different taxes and how to maximize the income of a nation without a negative impact on the efficiency of the market.  His work has become a model for modern welfare states.  He especially advocated progressive tax rates and luxury taxes.  What would the wealth of nations be without taxes?"Every tax, however, is, to the person who pays it, a badge, not of slavery, but of liberty." -- Adam Smith True, I didn't notice that.You are a commie!Face the reality.  Some of the fruits of your labour belong to the government.  By law and right.  You are just a peasant.
These ridiculous hypotheticals happen every minute.  Only regulations stop the further consequences.This is simply not true.  You are making this up.  Give one example of a country with a free market health system that is better and more efficient than a public health system.  One single case.  Just one!  Your mistake here is to assume health services is a free market.  It isn't.  You can't go shopping for a surgery when you are half dead, like you shop for a computer.  I live in a public health system, and I can still choose which hospital to get treatment at (even private hospitals).  Try to make me choose another hospital than the closest adequate one if I fall seriously ill.  It isn't going to happen.  If I wasn't dead or in a much worse condition when I got to a hospital far away, I would certainly not enjoy the transport.  The right to choose hospital makes almost no difference to where people get treated.  Luckily there are regulations to assure a minimum quality, so I'm not putting myself at risk by going to the closest hospital, and there is not really a need to google for alternatives in the ambulance.If your heart stops, you assume that you can just go to the shop and get a new one, right?  I value myself more than I value my computer.  I also value my house more than I value my computer, and have an insurance for my house.  I do not have insurance for my health.  My health is insured by the public health system, since I am valuable for the government as a tax payer.  The government profits by making sure I get well and get back to work as soon as possible.Ah, so you want some kind of regulation after all!  Like certifications, which you argued against earlier. It isn't yours, it belongs to the government.  What make you think it is yours?Your rights over property you call your own are limited by the same laws that allow you to own property in the first place.  If you don't want the laws to apply, you need to start your own country.  Either by fighting for it, which I understand you want to do by threatening the police, or by settling in some part of the earth not yet claimed by any nation and declare your own nation there.  If you decide to take the land from your country by force, you must be prepared to fight the army.  The country has a right to fight back. I have written many posts explaining that.  Go back and ask about the specifics you don't understand, and I may be able to explain them to you again.  I understand it can be difficult when you lack basic logic knowledge and don't believe in the right to property.  (Because it is evident to anyone with a basic understanding og property and logic.) The police wouldn't be there in the first place if you paid your tax.  Stop whining like a baby and pay your tax like a grownup.I doubt the police would make arrests in anything but property, unless you threaten them.  Your property is more valuable than you when the tax is to be paid.  Kidnap you!?  To demand ransom?  You sure have a child's fantasy.  The government has the right to take back their property, and throw you out of it if necessary.  Just like you have if someone live at your place without paying the the rent.  If they don't like your rent, they are free to move to another place with a lower rent.  And so are you when it comes to taxes. No.  From threatening the police. Correct. What country is this?  In my country it is very common to own a gun, but the police do not carry guns.  The police are allowed to arm themselves if the situation requires it, but the rules are very strict and it rarely happens.  Violence involving firearms is very rare. No law in my country will threaten to kill anyone.  In fact the most common reason for people getting political asylum in most of Europe is a death penalty, or a real threat of a death penalty, in their home countries.  Only a handful countries still practice death penalty, and I have no plans to go there.And I'm still not answering your silly hypothetical questions with no base in modern reality.  Go back in time and ask me then, or whatever. I still don't get the point of this discussion.  The tax discussion has diverged into some pointless question asking about morality, like it had anything to do with it.  Countries have the right to tax their land and inhabitants.  It is the foundation of human civilization.  No less.  For good and evil.  Without there would either be no nations or no freedom (North Korea is the only completely tax free nation I know of). No, threatening to kill someone is immoral.  And illegal.  Threatening to kill someone can get you in prison for up to three years in my country. Haha, no.Of course it can.  It depends entirely on the situation.  If I kill you and steal your wallet, it would be immoral.  If you live in my house and refuse to pay the rent for one year, threatening to throw you out unless you pay the rent is moral.  Do you think both have the same moral value?Could you please just tell me what you try to achieve by repeating questions?  You keep asking the same over and over, until you get an answer you can quote out of context and change the meaning of to prove something for yourself. When required by law, and the force or intimidation used is within limits described by law?  No, of course not!  It would be immoral not to pay in the first place. Those are trick questions.  You are using them to force me to give answers to support your wicked religion, even if the questions themselves bear no relevance to reality.  The answer would be just as irrelevant as the questions.  The situation you describe is impossible, and you know this very well.  Would it be immoral to divide by zero?I know of no real world example of an immoral action which is legally required of me.  Feel free to find real world examples.  Please keep to yourself your obscene fantasies and obscure laws from countries which I have chosen not to live in or even travel to. Huh?  The law books are full of laws depriving the government from power.  It is basically what laws do.  Without them you wouldn't have any rights, including human rights, as the government owns everything on it's land by definition.  The laws hand a lot of rights over from the government to the citicens, including limited private property rights, but keep others.  Like the right to deprive thieves from some liberties granted by law.  The right for a government to tax it's land and people is older than any human rights, and is mainly the reason why countries exist in the first place.  If kings/emperors/pharaos/tsars/presidents couldn't demand anything from their people, they wouldn't have a reason to gather all this land and defend it.Due to free market competition, countries with good laws and low level of exploitation of their people tend to be more successful than other countries.  They will attract smart people.  If they give up their right to be a country, they will be conquered by someone who won't. You intentionally replaced the words legal and moral with legality and morality.  For the first pair the state is given.  For the second pair the state can be both.Congratulations, you finally got it!Theft is legally defined.  If it isn't legally theft, it isn't theft.  In my country everyone are free to move on and harvest wild berries from uninhabited non-cultivated land, no matter who owns the land.  It falls under the freedom to roam, which is an ancient right held in high regard.  In many other countries picking blueberries and mushrooms in someone else's forest would be theft.I already told you a milder version of your first question is so hypothetical it hurts, and your second question doesn't describe anything sensible.  Your questions don't deserve an answer.  If the moon was made of cheese and it kept bouncing on the Earth, would a yellow striped heffalump eat it? You missed again!  Legailty = the state or quality of being in conformity with the law; lawfulness.  Morailty = conformity to the rules of right conduct; moral or virtuous conduct.  I specifically stated that the negative state of legality confers the negative state of morality.  You imply the opposite.Is basic logic so hard for you?  No wonder you can't understand property or law.Why do you keep asking questions I already answered multiple times in bold? No, you are very selective about the quotes you want to discuss.  You quickly deleted this part: You took it out of context and invented your own meaning.I am correct and you don't make logical sense.  Please look up modus ponens and modus tollens.  By failing the simplest logic, you are making a complete fool of yourself.  No wonder you need the same answers over and over again, and still don't understand them.Yes, breaking the law is wrong.  I have never written or implied anything else, and if you think so it is because you fail the simplest logic.  Why did you bother to ask the question when I already answered multiple times in bold?As tax goes, it's payment to the real government (i.e. not you, whatever you call yourself) is required by law. Therefore it is immoral and wrong to not pay tax to the country who's land you live on.  This follows by the same logic.You completely fail to understand the concept of property.  I think that is sad.  How can stealing have meaning to you when property don't? You still fail Logic.  Look up modus ponens and modus tollens and read again.Short summary:  not legal -> not moralThis does not imply anything else.  You can not turn the arrow or remove one or both "not"s without changing the meaning.  By changing the words to legality and morality, you get at least one possible meaning which is different from what I wrote.No, you are not the government, and it doesn't matter what you call yourself or what you do when you steal my property.  Why do you keep asking this silly question?  By stealing you are breaking the law, which is immoral.  I don't know why I keep typing this, because you obviously don't know how to read. Because you aren't walking or talking or thinking, you are about to die.  The doctor has to decide for you, and only has seconds to do so.Yep, it is the hopeless mix of private and public health system with insurance companies and lawyers taking cuts.  It's an industry.  A public health system proves to be much more efficient, as far as you can prove something using statistics from other countries.They will have to help out as well when the bill for keeping that heart and lung machine running for tree days come on the table.  You chose the extra expensive model by moving your left eyelid, or so the doctor tells you.Because with no regulations he can.Yeah.  With no regulations and licences and "general market distortions", you have no idea if he is actually educated as a doctor.  He may have been a homeless who just mugged a doctor for his bag and coat, and got lucky because he happened to be around the office doing pro-bono work as a gynecologist. Even Jesus told people to pay their taxes to the emperor in Rome.  This was very controversial at the time.  The Romans did not hesitate to use force to make people pay their taxes.  Render unto Caesar the things which are Caesar's, and unto God the things that are God's.  He had a clear understanding of property rights.
No, I did not state that.  You took it out of context and invented your own meaning.  You fail logic as well.No, it would be illegal.  Please read out loud: Breaking the law is immoral.   I have clearly stated that many times now.Property is not immoral and not illegal.  When you live on a country's land, you have to obey the laws of that country.  Is my opinion so hard to understand for you?  If those laws includes one that says you have to pay tax, then you have to pay tax.  It is not theft, it is not immoral, it is a matter of property rights.  You may think you own a property, but owning a property in the context of the laws in a country will only give you certain rights over that property.  The property is still a part of the country, and it's laws still apply.  New countries show up all the time, and there are still unclaimed areas on Earth.  You are free to start your own country and exercise your exclusive property rights there if you wish.If you own my house, you may demand rent.  And because you are a commie, you will probably call that theft.  In my opinion it is not.  It is moral and legal. In an unregulated health market, if you were about to die and needed immediate treatment, and a doctor saved you, the closest doctor and hospital would own you for the rest of your life.  The power of a natural monopoly.  You are not in a position to haggle over the price. This is so hypothetical it hurts.  Slavery is forbidden by so many international treaties, it would be impossible to make it legal in a legal way.A lot of things are legal and still not moral.  Being unfaithful isn't illegal (i.e. legal), but IMHO it is immoral.  If it was legal to hold slaves, I could still choose not to hold slaves.  I would obey the law and stay on safe moral ground.Are you the kind of commie who equal tax with oppression and slavery? No, it is still illegal.  Breaking the law is not OK and not moral. It wasn't rhetoric?  Of course it isn't moral.  It is against the law, and just as immoral as e.g. not paying tax.  If you think it is moral, and it is important to you, you should move to a property (country) where mugging is allowed. The list would be far to long, and some areas need less regulation than other areas.  E.g. power lines.  Every house need power, but it would be very inefficient and even dangerous if every house had lines from six different companies.In my country it is solved by having a free market for electric power, an exchange where the power companies buy and sell power.  As a private person, I can buy from any power company I want to, and change any time I want to.  Currently I pay spot price for power (available any time from the exchange I linked to) + a fixed monthly fee of 35 cents.  The company that owns the lines to my house have to deliver that power to me.  And the fee they can take to deliver the power I bought is strictly regulated.  This is a very effective system, combining free market for what it is possible to make a free market for, and a strictly regulated market where a natural monopoly exists and is the most effective organization. This may explain why health insurance is more expensive for average people (because the companies can't deny insurance to e.g. obese people or smokers), but it does not explain why the U.S. government pays more per capita than any other government for a health system which is less effective than in most other countries.  The insurance comes in addition to what the government spends, just to underline the problems.  Private health insurance wouldn't be necessary if the USA copied the standard European like health system, and you would get a more effective system for less tax money. Why do you care?  You are an anarchist, so I guess you think it is anyone's right to mug you?  You don't want any laws against it. The Economic calculation problem only applies where there is a market which can be free.Can you explain then why The USA, which has the most privatised health system of all developed nations of world, pays more per capita for it's health services than any other country?  That is only counting public spending, not private insurances.  The USA are far from the top quality wise.  Number 38 in the world on life expectancy, which is lower than even Cuba.The private sector will organize itself to maximise profit.  This is not automatically the most cost effective way.Sometimes taking your money elsewhere is not a possibility.  If you fall ill in Nowhere, and need immediate treatment there, you don't have the option to take your money to another hospital.  Not if you want to live.  The closest hospital has a de facto monopoly, and in a truly free market it can take whatever it wants for your treatment.  If you are travelling between two small cities, and a highway runs between them, you can't take your money to drive on another highway.  It wouldn't make economic sense to build another one.  The highway has a monopoly.  If you built another highway anyway, the first would quickly put you out of business by offering free rides for the next five years while you struggle to pay back your loans.  If your country is attacked, it wouldn't make sense if everyone should pay their own army to defend it in their own way.  Using their own nukes.  With no coordination.  Not every market can be an effective free market. From which country?  When did you give up your citicenship of your old country?  Do you bring passports and pass border control when you leave your land? What country did you steal your land from? Did you copy this from Karl Marx? I am neither.  I believe in the right to own property and in the rule of law.  If you choose to live on a country's property, you have to pay the rent.  Just as you can decide that other people living on your property should pay rent.  If you want to buy the rights for making laws and taxing your property from the country it is in, you are free to try, but most countries' constitutions forbid selling that.  It is their property and their choice.Why is this forum suddenly full of commies who argue against the right to property? This is not about a bunch of neighbours or mob.  This is about private property rights.A long time ago some king either fought for or more likely traded the land you live on.  The deal was simple.  He secured the land against threats from the outside, and often organized some form of security and justice on the inside, and your forefathers paid tax and had to serve in his army to protect all of the kings land.  The king sold the rights to exclusive exploitation of parts of the land to inhabitants, including the right to tax people using it on top of the kings tax.  But the king is still king, and everyone living on the king's land have to pay tax.Fast forward through revolutions and reform until today.  You still live on the king's land.  The laws are more formalized, and the king may be replaced with presidents and democracies and whatnot, but the principle stays the same.  You have to respect the king's laws as long as you live on his land.Some commies, like you and Kim Il Jung, don't believe in property.  I believe in property.  And I can't understand how you can talk about theft if you don't respect property.  Living on the king's land without paying the rent (tax) is theft. No, it isn't.  If you don't like the laws of your country or state, you are free to move somewhere else.  E.g. to North Korea, where taxes were abandoned in 1974. Are you this stupid, or just retarded?If you don't want to pay taxes, you can move out in international waters.  Problem solved.  If you choose to live in a country, you have to obey the laws there.  No one will force you to live in your country, unless it is North Korea.  (On the other hand, there are probably no taxes in North Korea because everything already is owned by the state, so you may be happy there.) Thank you!  Finally an informed answer!As far as I understand some of the popular mining FPGA boards is basically re-branded general FPGA development boards.  E.g. Icarus.  This looks like it can be used for fairly high bandwidth purposes.  (HDMI is extreme, I don't expect any mining board to be able to handle full speed HDMI.)  Other boards are more custom mining specific designs, and may be designed by six year olds with crayons.  There must be a huge difference in what applications different popular FPGA mining boards can handle.I guess t would be better to ask my question when the ASIC miners have been shipped and people have idled their FPGAs. :-) Yes.  Thieves don't steal a fair share of my income and use it to build roads for me to drive on, provide me with free healthcare, give me a free university education, etc.  And they don't stand up for an election every four years and ask me to give them verdict on how they did and how I want them to proceed.Comparing taxes to theft is just stupid.  You know the difference. True, but I was defending taxes, not theft. I'm not worried about the FPGAs.  Those are quality components.  I am worried about how it is wired on the board.  If they chose to do it in the cheapest possible way, as you suggest, the boards will be unfit for almost anything but mining.With HDMI decryption you are decrypting live video at higher bitrate than the fastest Ethernet.  I haven't mentioned WPA as anything but one of many examples.  (And you obviously don't know anything about WPA either.)  I want to know the limits of the different mining boards.
A post which was quoted and answered by someone? The FPGA is one thing, how it is wired on the board is important as well.  E.g. HDMI decryption would need high speed I/O in both directions.  Up to 10.2 Gbit/s video + 36.86 Mbit/s audio.  Which of the mining boards can do that?  The application is very different from Bitcoin mining, where you don't need high speed I/O at all.  300 bit/s would be plenty.WPA2 needs a little more I/O than Bitcoin mining.  Enough that I wonder if some boards may hit a bottleneck without adding some extra logic to the FPGA, but what do I know.  There are many applications with I/O needs in between.  E.g. filtering in a SDR. Posts with content.  The object shouldn't be spamming the forum daily with pointless posts like those from Fcx35x10.  He is on my ignore list due to postings with pages of quotes with nothing of interest added.  I spend some time trying to post something which I think people will read every day, and I feel cheated if quoting a lot of images and adding "me too" in a random thread every day qualifies. Income from oil and gas exports goes straight to a fund for future pensions, and only 4% of it is spent every year by average.  Depends if the economy needs it or not.  Next year it will be 3%, I think.  The economy can't take more due to almost 0 unemployment rate and more than 4% increase in wages every year for the last ten years at least.  More money into this economy will only induce inflation while companies bid higher and higher wages for skilled workers.Other than that Norway exports finished goods of various kinds (e.g. weapons and furniture), fish, metals, electricity, machinery, and chemical products.  And services, mainly shipping.EU membership is not compulsory. Any FPGA.  I hope there are reasonably priced FPGAs on the market by January. :-) The scanners do a much better job in the warehouses than they would do at airports.  By keeping them out of the way of travellers and paying for storage, it stimulates the economy rather than hindering it's development.  Of course there are better ways to spend the money, but buying the scanners and keeping them in warehouses is not half as bad as installing them at airports. Because the fuel tax isn't enough.  Bridges and highways are very expensive.A good example of what happens when the tax money are spent unwisely, and for most of them corruption and tax evasion is a major part of the problem.Wow!  I live in a country with a public health system, and I have no problems getting a doctor when I need it.  If I don't need it, I may have to either wait or pay a private practicing doctor.  Renewing my pilot medical certificate is an example of a service not covered by the public health system.  I've never heard of people waiting months for something like that.The monkeys employed at TSA get money to spend on bananas, and lice picking.  Companies get money for making devices to produce porn to entertain the monkeys at "work".  The money still flows back to the economy, even if the activity itself hinders efficient travel and economic growth.  Yes, 100%. Much of those taxes are spent on solving real problems to make commerce more efficient.  E.g. taxes on fuel which are spent on building roads and taking care of them.  How much production and trade would be left if they just closed the roads and cut the taxes on petrol?  Taxes on fuel is an effective and just way of making the users of the roads pay for them.Taxes on air traffic are mostly spent on the terrorist organization TSA.  This *is* wasteful and very harmful, and a good example of not to do it.  Governments exists to make production and trade efficient, and countries that do this most effectively will prosper.This is obviously from the USA.  An area where the the USA do extremely badly is healthcare.  In most of Europe people enjoy free healthcare paid by the government, run by the government.  In the USA healthcare is not free.  It is a complicated system of insurances, government programs and private hospitals.  Yet the U.S. government pays more per capita for healthcare than any other country in the world!  This shows that taxes can be the most effective way of paying and getting done.  Get rid of red tape and intermediates who take their cut, and it will turn out much cheaper for everyone.  Reduced taxes _and_ no costly health insurance.And don't forget, even if 52% is eaten by taxes, 100% of the money will come out again.  The government isn't collecting the money in a large treasure chest and keeping it.  This was done by some kings in Europe back in the middle ages, to save up for the next war, but the practice got abolished.  Nowadays wars are paid for using credit cards.  To build a road they need building materials, machines and workers, who will again spend their money and contribute to economic growth. In! You can sell those stocks at any time, and your calculations make the assumption that you will be able to sell the miner again at the same price as you bought it for at any time.  I don't think that is a realistic assumption.  If you must write it off over e.g. three years, linearly for simplicity, you can add 27.78 USD to the monthly operating costs for a $1000 miner.  I have re-done your calculations below assuming three years useful life:For the BFL: $1300 costs you $8.36/month in forgone investment income and $36.11/month in lost resale value. At 60 watts it takes 43.83 KWH/month, or $5.26 at .12/KWH to power.  Only 11% of the monthly cost ($49.73) is power.For the BTCFPGA: $1070 costs you $6.88/month in forgone investment income and $29.72/month in lost resale value.  For the BTCFPGA device to match the BFL operating cost ($ * 9/10 =36.60) under this model it must use less than 49.73 - 36.60 = $13.13 in power or 149.77 watts.Due to lower initial investment per Ghash, the BTCFPGA is still the most profitable at more than twice the power consumption, assuming a three year useful life for both devices.  (Power consumption becomes more important with increasing expected lifetime, but one should not forget Moore's Law.) Wrong.If you buy one, two or a hundred ASIC miners, the initial costs vs power consumption equation comes out exactly the same.  Small or large scale makes no difference at all. I didn't make any assumptions on difficulty.  I fully agree with you there.  Plugging it in first of all matters, but the gold rush will be over in a few days.  Almost everyone buying ASIC miners will get them after the few first difficulty jumps, and probably after the block reward halving as well.I do not agree that power costs matters as a competition factor between different current ASIC designs.  All are going to be within the same order of magnitude.  If it takes 25 years to spend as much on power for the product as you spent for the product itself, the price of the product is all that matters.  In 25 years the next generation graphene ASICs will make the current ones compare to CPU mining in 2013.Power costs is only a concern for miners using old technology.  ASIC miners only have to worry about price per Ghash/s, because power costs will be negligible compared to their initial investment. Why this obsession with wattage per Ghash/s?  It is of no importance whatsoever, as long as they play roughly in the same league.  This whole discussion is pointless.  There are two important factors that determine profitability, assuming both are reasonably stable.  Price per Ghash/s and delivery date. Doubling, tripling or a a thousandfold increase in difficulty will have no effect on price.  Technology improvement or not.  Halving of difficulty will have no effect on the price.  There is simply no reason for mining difficulty to have any effect on the price. Please explain your economics of mining.  By my calculations power usage at this order of magnitude is pretty much irrelevant compared to price.Take a BFL Single, 60 Ghash/s, 60 W.  The miner costs 1299 USD and will use 1.44 kW/day.  14.4 cents a day at 0.10 USD/kWh.  You can run this miner 24/7 for almost 25 years before you have spent the same amount for power to run the device that you paid for the device itself!  There may even be better miners to buy at a lower price in 2037, making it obsolete before the owner has spent more on power to run it than on the device itself.  If the device is still working.  (How long is your warranty and what is the expected lifetime of a BFL Single, btw?)  Hardly anyone will ever pay more for the power to run the miner through it's lifetime than they did for the miner itself.My simple math shows that power usage is almost irrelevant for an ASIC miner.  Price per Ghash produced throughout the miners lifetime will almost certainly always be dominated by the initial investment, not power consumption.  Price per Ghash/s is the important factor.Is my math wrong? Check out this thread.  The router he uses is physically very different, and his setup looks quite messy, but the software setup would be pretty much the same. Yes, partly.  It will start downloading from the first connected node, not one of the first.  From main.cpp:Code:        // Ask the first connected node for block updates        static int nAskedForBlocks = 0;        if (!pfrom->fClient && !pfrom->fOneShot &&            (pfrom->nVersion < NOBLKS_VERSION_START ||             pfrom->nVersion >= NOBLKS_VERSION_END) &&             (nAskedForBlocks < 1 || vNodes.size() <= 1))        {            nAskedForBlocks++;            pfrom->PushGetBlocks(pindexBest, uint256(0));        }If you want it faster, just use the torrent.Eh?  I don't think you know what a proof is.  A video on YouTube can not prove anything, and there are a lot more amusing videos to watch.  Code is the only possible way to prove this.  And if it is the first 25%, it would surprise me if it took any longer than 5 minutes.  Try showing the 25% last blocks.Tip: Keep netstat -tc or tcpdump port 8333 running while downloading, and see how many peers you get a lot of data from.  I use maxconnections=16 and 8 addnode lines adding the largest pools and blockchain.info.  This reduces the risk of uploading a new block to ten slow nodes before finding a well connected one. You quoted more than 1000 lines to say this?  Are you the AOL guy who destroyed Usenet in the last part of the 1990ies?More nodes will not make block chain downloading faster, btw.  It will start downloading from a random node (one of the first), and download each block sequentially from that node. This little gem should have more than enough CPU power to run typical mining software at less than 0.5 W.  It includes both wired and wireless network in addition to an USB port.  I just got one off eBay at less than 25 USD.  The board itself is so small, it is probably enough space for it inside the ASIC miner box.  Wifi makes the miner a nice portable space heater.  (If the miner is in a metal box, you need to add an external antenna to get reliable wifi.)Edit: Fixed link
No, miners still make the same in total.  And because the combined daily volume at the exchanges is several orders of magnitude higher than the daily volume of mined coins, I doubt mining has any noticeable effect on the price right now.  Half of the coins which will ever exist have been mined already, and many miners choose to keep their coins. Writing analysis is remarkably easy to cheat.  The easiest way is to impersonate someone else's writing style.  E.g. some author or journalist. May?  Don't forget that most people who are interested in Bitcoin at this time probably knows a little bit about economics as well.  When you get real hard irreversible cash like Bitcoin, you should take a lower price. I hope you are a bit flexible on this point.  I don't have time to post something people would want to read on the forum every day by the clock.  Other days I'm quite active.  I would start getting ignores if I posted crap every day just to participate.  Last round I missed one day.  Most other days I had 3-5 postings.Does posting in thsi thread count, btw?   You can stop joining now everyone!  I'm going to win this week.   When price is high compared to difficulty, miners invest in more equipment and difficulty goes up.  When price is low and difficulty high, mining becomes unprofitable for many miners.  They stop mining to save electricity, and difficulty goes down. Water block!  That's great!  Perhaps I should buy one after all for my central heating system!Anyone know what water temperature it will tolerate while still working full speed?  Or chip temperature? It's a pointless point to make.  A few blocks more or less in one day doesn't matter.  The protocol still adjusts difficulty automatically to make sure one block is generated every 10 minutes by average.  Can you explain why you make that point? No, but I certainly don't expect to wait for a whole week.  IMHO a long series of made up 9s expresses the same as the same number of exclamation marks.  Your argument doesn't get better by yelling it, but people would take it more seriously if you wrote it like this instead:Or you could make it look even better, and make people notice your point, like this:If you read this thread closely, I answered that.  It's a feature.  People who don't have money can't pretend to pay.  That is very important if you sell things, and the main reason why many stores are reluctant to take credit cards.I tried to buy stuff in the U.S. and have it mailed to a friend there to avoid VAT.  (Sending it via my home address would mean 25% VAT and much higher shipping costs.)  It turned out to be impossible, because no store would send to another address than the one registered with my cards.  I wish I could pay with bitcoins then.  It takes maximum one business day to buy coins if you don't have any, unless you live in some third world country. Ja, eg kjøper gjerne!  Kan du kontakte meg på IRC for å avtale detaljar?  sturles på Freenode.  Om du ikkje har ein IRC-klient (Opera har ein innebygd), kan du prøve web-klienten til freenode.net og taste /query sturles for å opne ei samtale med meg. False.  I hold bitcoins, and I am more than 0.00000001% of the world population.Edit: I just realized I have sold or given away bitcoins to 0.005% of the population of my own country, and that is probably just a small part of the coin holding population of my country. While paying with a credit card is easy, even if you don't own money or the credit card.  And that sums up the main problems with credit cards.  Paying with Bitcoin is impossible if you don't own any bitcoins, or can buy them from someone willing to take the risk off the merchant, and that is exactly how it should be.  It is a feature.  If you don't understand that, you have missed something very important. In Germany you are not allowed to have software for cracking WPA keys.  I don't know of any other countries where it is forbidden, but IANAL.  Pyrit (WPA gracking software for GPUs) is hosted on Google code. På OTC er det tillit som gjeld, ja.  Det er mogeleg å bruke eskorte dersom ein ikkje lit på motparten, eller dele risiko ved at ein gjer overføringane i fleire omgangar. Nei, dei har ikkje svart.  Det går ikkje spesielt fort i det norske byråkratiet.  Dei treng tid til å absorbere alle dei nye spesialrådgjevarne som har komme til dei siste åra, utvide lokala sine, osv.  Kan ikkje vente at dei skal arbeide i tillegg! For you, not for the merchant who don't get his money because you took the product and filed a dispute with VISA.  Actually it is not good for you either, because VISA's merchant fees of 3% or more is added to the price tag, and the losses due to fraud.  PayPal is even worse.If the item is offered for sale in bitcoins, and you own bitcoins, it is the simplest way to pay.  It is like paying with cash on the net.  The police and other agencies are already investigating a number of Bitcoin related crimes.  I agree we need to work out a legal status for Bitcoin, so they can aid more and the tax status is clarified.There are plenty of legal things you may not want on your credit card bill, btw.  I'm sure you can think of a few for yourself.Say 1992 then.  Before the WWW.  The number of internet users then is probably comparable to the number of Bitcoin users now.  Basic services like E-mail, Usenet, IRC, games (MUD), gopher and FTP were in place.  Typical transfer rates were rather low.  Or internet banking in 1995. The average joe don't buy drugs on SR either.  The number of computer geeks in the world outnumber the number of SR users many times, and how many computer illiterates know about SR at all? No, they have to pay for that themselves.  (Alcohol is a good candidate for extra taxation, and drugs which are bad for them should be illegal, but that is another story.)  And that is the point.  If they are able to pay for that stuff, the whole economy benefits.  If only the rich are able to buy chocolate, you don't need many chocolate factories.  The rich people aren't going to eat more chocolate when they become richer.  The solution is to enable the poor to consume more.  This makes the economy grow and everyone's wealth increases. Taxes are useful instruments to foster economic growth.If the poor have no security net they will save as much as possible of their income for a rainy day.  By taxing the rich and establishing a security for the poor, the poor will spend more of their money on luxuries like chocolate, TVs and cars.  This is positive for the producers of chocolate, TVs cars.  Those are usually rich, but who cares.  Their market grows, and they can expand, employ more people, etc.  Everyone benefits.If you take away the taxes, and the security net for the lowest workers and unemployed, they will spend less money on everything.  They may need to pay for insurances and similar instead, can not afford to develop their talents, and the economy as a whole will suffer.Taxes can be overdone, of course, but some taxation is necessary for a sound economy. Woha!  Lucky I saw this, I didn't know I had to register every week.
No, you are redefining supply to mean something completely different, as it suits you.  The coins are still there, and people will work hard to get any money from them at all, because noone are going to want them.  Do you think Bitcoin would be more valuable if it were much harder to buy them?  Because that's what you are writing.  So far every new exchange and service has made the price go up.  Demand increases as the coins get more liquid and easier to buy and sell.  You seem to think the value will increase if all exchanges close, and you have to find a miner on the street to buy a coin.  And when you get it, you can only use it to buy something illegal.  This does not make sense anywhere but in your own head.  Back in the time when this forum was the only exchange for Bitcoin, a pizza would cost 10,000 BTC.You finally hit the nail.  People aren't going to use bitcoins if bitcoins are outlawed.  There is no reason to do so.  There are plenty legal payment methods, so why risk using an illegal one?  Or go through any kind of hassle to buy it?  There will be no demand for it, and plenty supply.  You could just as well switch to NMC, in case they forgot to outlaw NMC at the same time.You speculate a lot and don't concern yourself much with reality.  First of all you are now concerned about legality after all, but you think it will be OK as long as it is legal somewhere.  Laws spread fast.  If the USA or EU outlaw Bitcoin, the rest will come fairly quickly.  The result?  Bitcoins become worthless very fast, and the demand is gone as well.  People will use LR or something instead.  Easier to buy, quite anonymous and irreversible.  More expensive and higher transaction costs, but legal.But cash is legal, and owning or using cash will not get you arrested.  The same applies to Bitcoin, and Bitcoin is doomed as a currency unless it stays this way.  If the future of Bitcoin is illegal, Bitcoin will become worthless in the future. Yes, you can.  And it is done.  Many kinds of knives are outlawed in a lot of countries.  You can outlaw a tool which has certain properties.  E.g. certain kinds of knives, weapons or tools.  Exchanging western currencies used to be forbidden east of the Iron Curtain.  In my country balisong knives, switchblade knives and stilettos are forbidden.  Usefulness as a tool is not enough.I agree it will be hard to forbid Bitcoin, and I can't understand why most of the people posting in this thread wants it to be forbidden.No.  Reserve banking means that some real money has to be kept in reserve.  This is normally money in a central bank or similar, not cash in a vault.  Not in 2012. The supply of Bitcoin is fixed.  Illegal coins are going to be harder to get and to sell, because you won't find any traders, but also less interesting to most people, and not used due to legal alternatives.  People don't walk around with illegal substances to pay for illegal substances.  They pay with something legal.  Supply is not only fixed, bitcoins will also not be used.  Because bitcoins will be hard to buy, and you don't want to get caught with something illegal if you can avoid it.  The value of the coins will go down, because you don't want to sit on a fortune in illegal money.  You will want to exchange the coins for legal tender as soon as possible.  The coins will no longer be useful as a store of value.For illegal activity today, I think Bitcoin is comparable to cash.  A substantial amount of cash transactions involve illegal activity of some sort.  Most do not.  If cash is outlawed, cash will become worthless. This is pure fantasy.  Laws aren't passed in a day.  If it looks like Bitcoin will become illegal in an important country, the large holders will sell at once.  Get their money out while it is possible without criminalizing themselves.  I will.  No doubt about that.  And I'll try to be the first to sell, because the value will soon fall lower than most people here can remember.Eh?  Yes, it does.  Not a little, it does a lot to deter users.  It has a large impact.  Drunk drivers was a problem as well before driving while drunk was criminalized.So you think the future of bitcoin is in taking risk premium for selling them?  Why not just use a legal payment method, and drop the risk premium? Yes, simpler.  I can get loaded up with coins with one simple IBAN transfer, and use the coins for many smaller purchases.   Getting money in to Bitcoin is not any more difficult than one IBAN transfer.  And I make it even simpler for people in my country by offering coins at a low rate for domestic bank transfer.  This enables people who don't know how to do international money transfers to get their coins in a very simple way and very quickly.  Buying coins from me, asking me to pay directly to the address they want to pay to, is always faster than any kind of international money transfer through a bank.  Credit card may be faster, but not as secure.  And not everyone want to pay everything with a credit card for various valid reasons.Slow?  Compared to banks?  Have you ever done an international money transfer?  It takes 4 to 5 days to transfer money to Japan from here.  A Bitcoin transaction has 6 confirmations in an hour by average.  And there is no risk of fraud.  Nobody can take the coins back when they are sent.A lot of people do.  I've sold bitcoins to more than 400 people.  IRC and e-mail.  I proved the opposite in simple economic terms in another posting.  Demand will go down.  Supply stays exactly the same.Other factors which will also contribute to the fall if Bitcoin is made illegal.  Development will stop.  A lot of good services will stop.  Exchanges will shut down.  People with a lot of coins will obviously try to sell before the exchanges close their doors. Prohibition has made illicit drugs more scarce.  Supply goes down.  The addicts aren't affected much, so demand stays up.  When supply goes down and demand stays up, the price goes up.  This is very basic economics.Bitcoins however are produced in the same amounts no matter the legality.  Making them illegal just means fewer people will want them, which makes demand go down when the supply stays exactly the same.  If Bitcoin were made illegal tomorrow, all legal bitcoins will go on the market today.  And you can see how this thread alone makes the market nervous.   I've been using Bitcoin as a currency since the autumn of 2010.  So far I haven't done anything illegal.  I report my coins and my earnings to th tax authorities, who have no idea what it is.  So far it is untaxed, but I have done everything right.  Nothing I have bought or sold has been illegal.  I use Bitcoin because it is usually simpler and faster and cheaper and more secure than all other ways of international money transfer.  That is a lot of pros and no cons.In my opinion the future is legal.  I sell coins every day to people who use the coins to pay for services or as a store of value / investment.  Nothing of this is illegal.  And the value will of course drop to the bottom if Bitcoin is deemed illegal.  Both I and most other people will get rid of all we have as soon as possible, and it is going to be hard to do it in a legal way. I tried to ask this as a general question about FPGA mining devices in a separate post on the forum, but the post is somehow gone.  Has anyone tried to use the ModMiner Quad for other purposes than Bitcoin mining?  Are the I/O capabilities good enough for e.g. crypto purposes (WPA cracking, HDMI decryption, etc) or to work as a DSP in a SDR based OpenBTS femtocell, etc?  Anything else you can think of? That would be two very different kinds of foundations.Member and donation based organizations, like the Bitcoin Foundation and related foundations, built to support whatever they are constructed for. Because free software failed due to the Free Software Foundation?  No, wait..Because Linux failed due to the Linux Foundation?  No, wait..What project has ever failed due to having a foundation with a lot of support behind it? Do you actually believe in any of this?  I just read contradictions, mispredictions and completely irrelevant text everywhere.  It says "full on" in the Subject, and I wonder what that means, because from what I've seen this is something from a different planet.  Perhaps this proves Satoshi is from one of the moons of Jupiter, and Bitcoin must have been born there? :-) Bitcoin mining and other typical uses of FPGA differ in an important aspect.  While mining has very low demand for I/O, it is crucial for many other typical FPGA tasks.  E.g. HDMI dectyption, wide-band GSM demodulation and various crypto purposes.Do anyone have experience in using mining FPGA boards for other purposes?  E.g. WPA cracking?  Fast DES decryption with unknown key?  Are some boards more fit for this than other boards? Recently a lot of very interesting ideas have come up which, if implemented fully, would either require a new currency or a hardfork of Bitcoin.  There is no way to stop the old blockchain from continuing, so we willl end up with at least two currencies if those ideas are implemented.  Do you think the ideas should be forbidden and buried?Currently I see no reason to choose anything else than Bitcoin, but I'm not sure I can resist when something much better comes up.  E.g. something where the blockchain isn't needed.  Control is an issue here as well, of course. I can't believe I just sold my signature for a lottery ticket! You can do exactly the same under the new model.  Call your fork "Litecoin" or "Solidcoin" or whatver.I don't think Bitcoin Foundation will corrupt Bitcoin more than Free Software Foundation corrupted free software.  The foundation is it's members, who are the community.Yes, I joined.  No I wouldn't dream of voting Gavin out as long as he is the most qualified person for the job.Do you consider yourself as part of the community?  If you do, this is obviously false.  If not, why do you waste your time trolling around here? If J.P. Morgan, CIA and governments around the world would like to support Bitcoin's open development, I would welcome it.  They could do it under the old model as well, but under the old model we wouldn't necessarily know about it.  Perhaps this is your problem?  You just don't want to know about it? And all of them secretly funding the developers under the old model would not? This is getting interesting.  How would you go about to remove Gavin from his lead position in the old model?  You claim it was easy.  To me it seems easier now when I am a member of the foundation employing him.  I wonder how you would go about to revoke his Satioshi powers in the old model.I don't think the community will stop watching.  A large part of the community has joined the foundation, and will watch it as well. You are pulling your conspiracy theories a few miles to far now, don't you think?  Why was the old model better, where a handful of unpaid, and to some degree unknown, developers had full control?  Better than a member organization? I would know you were lying, and it is easy to verify by any client validating the blockchain.  Old rules can't be changed.  New rules may be added as long as they are allowed by existing rules.
QED.  There is no way to change the established rules of the blockchain without making a hard fork.  Absolutely no way.  You may, with the cooperation of the miners, introduce extra rules.  The new rules must be allowed by the existing rules. You obviously lack basic undrstanding of how Bitcoin works.  The rules of bitcoin and the blockchain are set forever.  You can do minor restrictions, but that requires the support by a majority of all the miners out there voting by their hashrate.  The only supreme ruler of bitcoin is the blockchain, and the miners can support extra restrictions to the original set of rules if they want to. Everyone who was a part of that operation should have known better.  It can't come as a surprise to *anyone* that the legality of BS&T was dubious at best.  Since the beginning.  If you are a part of an illegal operation, you should be prepared for the consequences, and don't expect to keep any "profit". Contradicts itself, don't you think? I assume this is some kind of joke. To me it looks like a vague generic text about people, not Bitcoin. Didn't the subprime mortgage crisis teach people anything? Quite a few..  Any further estimate? First of all: wallet.dat is a file, not a directory.  You would want -wallfile not -walldir.  Just do it yourself if you think it is so easy.  The rest of us just move wallet.dat to where we want it and symlink.  Because it is even easier, works for any file, and is probably the reason why nobody can be bothered to write any code for it in the client. 7200 brand new coins are generated every day by mining.  A little more, since difficulty is increasing.  1600 is only 20% of that. He sold long ago and over time.  Not difficult at all in this market.  It was never 500k BTC, which would include interest, it was much less.  His personal spending habits were commented on back in May when the amount of new coins coming in still exceeded the amount of interest paid out: PS&T has less than 400,000 (based on interest payments).  And no, the coins will not be freed.  The coins, or what he had left, were sold seconds after the announcement, and will have to be bought back before he can release them.This, along with the announcement, triggered a landslide.  Or you may call it a bubble burst.  Which is fortunate for Pirate, bacause he can now buy back the coins at half price, and have a chance to pay back what he owes.  If he makes it, he will profit thousands of BTC in bets against his own default.Very clever, and not what anyone expected.Some of the coins may be sold again when released by Pirate, but not that much I think.  Pirate may hope for it, and pay out at a slow pace to get cheap coins from old customers selling in panic. This is very simple.1. A bubble was forming.  This should be evident to everyone.2. Pirate is already low on coins, and got problems with his liquidity.  He decides to pull a last stunt to be able to pay back what he owns.3. Pirate announces the end of his famous fund, and sells all he's still got.  He knows this will make the bubble burst.  And it does.4. Pirate buys the coins he needs to pay back everyone.5. The price stabilize on a higher level than before the bubble started rising.  Some of the coins from Pirate will be sold on the market.  On the other hand Pirate has stopped playing with them.Pirate is heavy in on bets against his own default.  Thousands of BTC.  Not defaulting and cashing in those bets may be his best option. This is 100% pure ox manure.  The Bitcoin network is exactly 0 FLOPS.  Zero floating point operations are involved.Do not compare integer operations with floating point operations.  It is two different worlds. I think it is unfortunate to implement this without implementing a way to ignore asocial blocks as well.  If a new block arrive and only include a very small percentage of the waiting priority transactions, this is in effect a DOS attack against Bitcoin.  We all remember the 0-tx miner from earlier this year.  I don't want to build on those blocks until I have to.I think this should have come as the first patch.  There are several policies around already, and no way for the clients to know.  This patch could make the situation worse.Another option I would hope to see was tiers of different cost, a combination of -blockprioritysize and -mintxfee.  E.g. first 25k for high priority 0-fee tx, next 25k for at least 0.0001 fee, next 25k for 0.0005 fee, next for 0.001 fee, etc.  Large fee transactions will get included by making the block larger, not by squeezing out the smaller fee transactions which have waited for a long time already. Please shut up, if you don't have anything new to add.  This verbatim quoting without even trimming down to the parts you think are important and  telling us why, is just 100% annoying to everyone trying to follow this thread.  Delete or get ignored.  (I see you have quite a lot of ignores already.) I see three possibilities here:Zhou Thong created the second MtGox account himself, and were in breach of MtGox ToS by owning two accounts without prior permission.The attacker also had access to Zhou Tong's MtGox account and got the funds from there himself.  Zhou Thong didn't notice.The attacker bought a Redeemable code or BTC directly from Zhou Thong, and transferred it directly to this account.To me the first option is most likely.From MtGox ToS:If Zhou Tong indeed did own this account without express permission, MtGox shall have to suspend all Zhou Thong's accounts.  If it wasn't his account, he need to explain how the funds got transferred there from his account. If this isn't criminal negligence, then nothing is.  Seriously!  At least disallow withdrawal and API key creation without a Yubikey. This has bugged me as well.  Until this episode I had the impression that Rackspace was a serious hosting provider.  Not some garage with a couple of racks on UPS and a fat ADSL line.  A serious hosting provider keep multiple backups of customer data off-site, because losing a lot of customer data due to some catastrophic event means losing their business.  Unlinking it from a web page just makes the data a bit more inconvenient to get to.  Impossible for the customer, but in no way impossible for Rackspace.  The data may be older than current, but I find it hard to believe that off-site backups were instantly deleted along with the servers.  Backup systems just aren't built for easy deletion.Perhaps someone from Bitoinica can comment on how they have worked with Rackspace to rescue data? Except this one.  How do you make 7% a week legally?  You don't even have to answer, since he even claimed himself the operation "may be illegal in his country" or something similar.  (For the illiterate: This is illegal everywhere, no doubt about that, so I'm not going to reveal any specifics.) There can't be any doubt about the [il]legality.  The only remaining question is exactly how it is done.  And you don't need to know all the details, not even to get someone convicted. There were at least a hundred different threads "the other day", and no, I didn't see it.  The only hint I have is "Trendon Shavers", and the only "Trendon Shavers" I could find related to pirateat40 has a warrant listed on him here:http://www.co.midland.tx.us/da/hotcheckwarrants/list/I have no idea if this is the same person or not.What is "the OP"?  Not announcing your identity is not necessarily bad.  It depends on the conditions.  You may be anonymous at your AA meetings.  If you hand your money over to some person on the Internet without even knowing who she is or what she is doing with them, you should have your brain checked for signs of life. On the first version of the web page for his laundering^Wtrading system where he promised a high weekly interest to people who deposited there.  It was under "Why don't you reveal your real identity" or similar.  He has smartened up a tiny bit since then, and left it out in later versions.  I don't know what excuse he has got this week for not revealing his identity.
So you are implying that pirate is lying when he claims that his operation is illegal, and uses that as an excuse to not reveal his identity, or do you have knowledge or evidence of other illegal activities?  Since you seems to know that much about pirate, can you please reveal some real information about pirates illegal business?It is well known that pirate is a crook.  He even claims to be a crook himself.  I'm glad someone finally reveal some details about exactly what he does.  The claims have not been debunked.  Not in this thread. Isn't this exactly what P2SH was invented to prevent?Have a separate safety computer located somewhere else to automatically countersign all transactions which can be verified to be legitimate.  Normal transactions using bitcoind will not work without access to both wallets. #bitcoin-otc on Freenode is a possibility.  In general noone there will accept PayPal from anyone without a good rating on the web of trust, but some users of the exchange offer very small amounts to beginners who want to establish a rating.  Not a good solution if you need 50 BTC now, but may be worthwile if you are in it for a longer term.  When you have an established rating (a few weeks old, some positive, no negative), you will start finding more people who are willing to trade with you using PayPal, and at better rates as well.Remember to read the guide first.  Especially the part about GPG authentication.  Nobody will accept PayPal from unauthenticated users.  Expect some healthy scepticism for the first few trades.  It isn't about you, it is all the scammers who come there every day trying to convert the balance on their stolen PayPal accounts to BTC.  Often wasting a lot of our time trying to convince us to trade anyway.  An advice: Use the e-mail on your PayPal account when registering with GPG.  We are much less sceptical of payments coming from the same e-mail as you registered with.  Don't use PayPal if you want to trade anonymously. For this argument you conveniently don't assume difficulty to remain constant any more.  You assume your added hashpower to add to the current 10 Thash/s, and not replace it as you argued earlier (otherwise the difficulty would increase, and all your profit calculations are wrong).If you believe your hashpower will add to the current total hashpower, you must also assume the difficulty to change accordingly.  If you think your haspower will replace existing haspower, making difficulty and total hashpower constant, then 5 Thash/s is enough.You are constantly changing your basic assumptions to make your numbers look better than they are.  Now I don't think you should start this business because you won't do realistic calculations.If you assume difficulty to change that much, and still believe in increasing Bitcoin price, buying coins is clearly the best investment.Speak for yourself.  I need heating all year.  I don't think anyone around here even have A/C.  Mean temperature in mid August is 14 °C.  Maximum temperature last year was 23.1 °C.  Mean temperature in mid February is about 0 °C, so the temperature variation from winter to summer is low for a northern climate.  There isn't much temperature variation during the day either. And we are straight into another problem with your calculations.  You keep mixing USD and BTC at rates picked out of thin air.  Everything kan be made looking profitable with enough invented numbers.To compare buying 1 share at 1 BTC to just keeping the BTC, you need to do all those calculations in BTC.  The price development of BTC will decide if both are profitable.  If you can deliver more BTC back than I pay for the share, your model will be more profitable than just keeping the money.Continuing investment in new mining technology is a valid point, but it makes the constant difficulty assumption even less valid.  Even the valuation of BTC if you grow to much, because you could pull off a 51% attack.  Even if growth beyond your initial 1/3 of the hashrate would only be stupid unless difficulty increases, because at that point you mainly compete with yourself.  Your share of the blocks will increase slower and slower the higher percentage of the total hashrate you get, and you will push difficulty higher.  Many GPU miners, like me, don't need to mine for profit.  It is enough to get about 2/3 of my power costs back, and it is still the cheapest heating system around.  If price per block and difficulty remains constant, as you assume, GPU mining will never become unprofitable.Green power isn't always profitable.  Especially in the US where coal is heavily subsidised. After the block reward decrease in early December, you will produce 413910 coins a year assuming 1/3 of all GPU miners quit and no other new production than yours come online.  This is 0.4139 BTC per share, assuming 1M shares and full set of 4200 FPGAs.  Half of it will cover operating costs, leaving 0.2 coins for dividend.  At best, if you get this up really quick before block reward decreases, investors will have back what they paid for their shares after five years.  Then block reward halves again and profit, if any, will come really slowly.And all this changes for the worse if less than 1/3 of current miners quit or other new production comes online.I can't see how this could possibly be profitable.  The only factor which make your calculations work out to the positive is your assumption of doubling exchange rate.  To take advantage of that it would be safer to just buy coins.I didn't vote.  It is up to you to decide what you want to do.  I'm just not going to invest in it unless I did the math wrong. You don't want to predict any difficulty increase, but price doubling is assumed?  In that case try another calculation.  Spend all the USD to buy BTC before the block reward halves, and sell afterwards when the price has doubled.  Much more profitable than this mining operation, and less risky because you don't depend on constant difficulty.  :-) There are more errors.  Your calculations assume 50 BTC per block, and this is going to halve during the first year of operation.  If you get started after December 9th or thereabout, your block reward will start at 25 BTC. The addition of 13 Thash/s will by itself more than double the difficulty.  Mining is a game of diminishing returns.  When your share of the total network get to large, you mostly compete with yourself.  You at least need to take your own hashrate into account when calculating the resulting difficulty, and don't assume all other innovation in mining will stop. Yes, often.  I have a bank account in Germany with regular expenses, and it has been more than a year since the last time I transferred money to it from the bank.  I don't only save money, I usually sell the coins at 5% profit. So it is not a problem to you then if people like me, who actually want Bitcoin to succeed, stop relaying blocks with no free transactions?  And when we become a majority, you are basically shut out of the network until you start behaving.  Interesting idea.  Because I don't want to support greedy miners who stop perfectly legitimate transactions just because they can run a denial of service attack against transaction processing and demand a ransom from users.  Initially I thought you opposed Revalin's idea, but I can see you actually support it wholeheartedly.  You just don't want to take part, but that's up to you.Haha, now you take the value in USD into account.  Earlier your arguments have been about percentages of block reward.  Now you are basically admitting intellectual bankruptcy.  Well done.If you want to adjust it for the price of Bitcoin, be prepared to increase it every week.  Transaction processing does not cost you a single cent.  You will notice the downward spiral in both price and the number of transactions as people stop trusting Bitcoin, because Bitcoin transactions are slow or expensive.  Users dependence on miners seems to be clear to you, but you don't grasp the fact that miners are dependant on users as well.  Short term profit sounds good to you, but you don't understand how bad your idea of unpredictable service is in the long term.If you think this is a problem, please find a better algorithm.  Adjust it dynamically according to total network hashrate perhaps?By artificially decreasing service to everyone, making transactions unpredictable and Bitcoin less useful and less valuable.  It's just a malicious activity, and I will support every means to stop it.  Transaction processing is essentially free, and the price should reflect that.  If block size becomes a bottleneck, or when the block reward approaches 0, fees may be necessary.  In a hundred years or so. Cross border personal transfers cost 1%, which will make Bitcoin more expensive for any amount < current price at a fee of 0.01 BTC per transaction.  Double that for the transfer to your spending wallet (free in PayPal).  A quick check of my main spending wallet shows that 88 of 320 transactions are 2 BTC or less.  With your fee policy, PayPal would be cheaper for more than 1/4 of the transactions from my personal spending wallet!  Take away one of Bitcoin's most important advantages, and see what happens to the value of your mined coins.  Please try this experiment on one of the alternative chains first, and see how successful it is.Currently all normal transactions (with the exception of spam and fast laundering) are free.  For transactions resembling spam there is a fee of 0.0005 BTC.  In very rare cases, like when a block is mined by a malicious miner, a free transaction have to wait a block.This is an increase of 0.01 BTC for almost all normal transactions.  Currently 0.05 USD.  Less than a year ago it would be 0.31 USD per transaction, which is higher than even the normal payment PayPal fees.  And it comes in addition to the collective fee implied by inflation.If MtGox had to pay fees, guess who would pay the fees.  Their customers.  This goes for all commerce.  Nothing comes for free.  If you want to pay 5 BTC for some service, you will have to buy 5.01 BTC.  Or 5.02 if you pass through your own wallet.  Only 10 US cents by the current value, but you know as well as everyone else that the current value is quite low compared to what it was.Substitute "subsidy" with "inflation", and you have something there.  A tax on everyone who own bitcoins.  And "someday" is not in our lifetime.Yes, and 25 BTC is still a very high block reward.  4% fees in addition to that is irrelevant.  Free transactions is a major advantage, and it will solve itself if it becomes a problem because free transactions will no longer run smoothly if transaction volume increase enough.  If you want those 25 BTC to be worth something, you need to mine a fair share of free transactions.  And follow the standard rules to make fee polices predictable for users.  Most of us don't do any adjustments to the fees.Out of curiosity: Do you pay 0.01 BTC fee for your transactions? Perhaps the mystery miner includes transactions which meets his fee requirements as well?  He's just set a high fee requirement.  Try a transaction with 50 BTC fee, and check if he includes it.The point of the proposed change is to reward responsible miners who actually contribute to the network with more blocks.  Satoshi suggested a part of each block to be free, and miners who believe in Bitcoin as a currency include those free transactions.  If Bitcoin transactions get more expensive than PayPal transaction (which you actually suggest for small transactions later in this thread), then people will use PayPal instead, making Bitcoin less valuable for everyone.  It is not in the interest of most miners. Forever is unlikely, but for the next 100 years it is very rational.  If we want Bitcoin usage to grow, we need to facilitate free or very cheap transactions.  Otherwise people will just use PayPal or whatever, which is bad for everyone who mine coins.  As long as the block reward is more than one can reasonably expect from fees, it is completely rational to keep fees as low as possible without encouraging spam.  Discouraging spam and laundering is the only reason to have fees now, and for a long time into the future.The mystery miner's goal is clearly out to devaluate Bitcoin by making it less useful due to slower transactions.  I doubt fees would change anything.  Has any of the mystery miner's block rewards been spent yet, btw? My waterblocks have paid for themselves by making the GPUs run colder and use less power.  Warm silicon leaks more.  Other than the water blocks, liquid cooling is almost free.  A pump don't have to cost more than 20 USD.  Tubes and stuff cost less than a replacement fan.  As a bonus you can place your miner anywhere and dump the heat anywhere.Mining heats my house without making noise.  Here is an old post with outdated pictures of my setup.  The WAF of this setup is very high, and you get a nice excuse for buying more mining gear! :-) There are some bots on mtgox continously executing microtrades (often less than 0.01 BTC).  Either buying or selling to make sure last price is either to the upside or to the downside of spread.  Those may manipulate the charts, depending on how you make them.  Will your charts be influenced by such bots, or do you take care to remove those microtrades before generating the charts?Using a bot to manipulate technical analysis, and play mind games on people making trading decisions just from watching the charts, is a neat trick if it works. :-) What's the chance of three > 95% CDF blocks in a row? :-(I don't believe there is a bug.  I've mined solo for long enough to be calm in cases like this.  Between Christmas and New year 2010 my 5970 found 0 blocks at 700 Mhash/s, while a friend mining 1.8 Mhash/s on the CPU of a laptop found 2 blocks in 2 days.  A short time after I found four blocks in less than 24 hours.  Sometime around then I found two blocks with only one block between.  Randomness is terribly unpredictable. My fanless HD 5450 does 15 Mhash/s..  Don't make fun of it -- when it found a block in May, it paid for itself many times!  Perhaps I should go back to mining solo on that one.  Luck may strike again! Or offer your Ghashes to a suitable pool in exchange for BIP 16 support.  Most pools don't care to much about BIP 16 or not, or don't want to change anything that works, but they may care for a few percent increased hashing power. Great!  My 2 Ghash/s which used to be lonesome cowboys looking for entire blocks, are now mining at BitMinter.  
Gavin Andresen, the author of BIP 16, supports my interpretation here:EclipseMC makes the same error the other way around.  Support the feature without announcing it in the coinbase like the BIP says. There is a problem with this approach.  Due to FUD spread by some people (well, mostly one), many see this as a kind of "vote" unrelated to the actual implementation of BIP 16.  Just put /P2SH/ in the coinbase to "vote".  If miners "vote" without actually validating the pay-to-script-hash transactions, there will be a miscount and chain splits may occur.  This is even more dangerous to BIP 17.  If I understand this correctly, until more than 50% of the hashing power validate BIP 17 transactions correctly, anyone can steal a BIP 17 transaction before it enters a block.  If a large pool "votes" BIP 17 in the coinbase without actually supporting the specification, this may well happen. I think calling this a "vote" is misleading.  To cite BIP 16:Never ever put "/P2SH/" in the coinbase to state an opinion unless you actually have upgraded bitcoind to validate P2SH transactions as specified in the BIP, or there will be a miscount with consequences as described.  For BIP 17 this is even more important, because BIP 17 type transactions can be stolen by anyone until more than 50% of the hashing power correctly validates the transactions.  If e.g. Deepbit choose to "vote" for BIP 17 without actually validating the transactions, any BIP 17 type transactions can be stolen before they reach the block chain.  (This has been demonstrated on the testnet, where people have fun stealing luke-jr's test transactions.)IMHO BIP 16 is the way to go.  BIP 17 has support from one developer while the rest support BIP 16.  BIP 17 will probably never gain the support it needs, and only delay the process of getting multisignature transactions into Bitcoin.  Multisignature transactions are important for security reasons.  Especially for larger companies where large transactions needs to be signed by at least two persons. Now you are nit-picking.  A BIP is design document containing a concise technical specification.  The technical specification of the new transaction type (named pay-to-script-hash in chapter 2) is in chapter 3 and often referred to in the rest of the BIP.  E.g. in more than 50% of miners must support full validation of the new transaction type and later when it is described how miners should announce their support for the new transaction type, and how support can be counted to verify that more than 50% of the hashing power support the new validation rules.  The reason why it is important to correctly count blocks mined by miners validating by the new rules is explained in the BIP as well: To gracefully upgrade and ensure no long-lasting block-chain split occurs [...] I have presented all my arguments.  Just read my posts again to make sure nothing slipped.  I have nothing to add beyond that.  I agree that support applies to BIP 16, which is a technical specification of how P2SH transactions may work.  See BIP 1: A BIP is a design document providing information to the Bitcoin community, or describing a new feature for Bitcoin or its processes or environment. The BIP should provide a concise technical specification of the feature and a rationale for the feature.  Mining software (transaction validation is usually implemented in software) can support the technical specification in this BIP.  There is no special mention of bitcoind or other software.  Just the simple fact that the software must be upgraded to support this BIP.  We obviously don't agree to what software support of a technical specification (e.g. a BIP) means.I think the BIP become pointless with your definition of to "support" a technical specification.  Testing conditions like "To gracefully upgrade and ensure no long-lasting block-chain split occurs, more than 50% of miners must support full validation of the new transaction type and must switch from the old validation rules to the new rules at the same time." becomes impossible in the way described in the BIP if "/P2SH/" is reduced to a statement of opinion.  We can just agree to disagree on this, and perhaps have a popular vote here in this thread. :-) The word support can have a lot of different meanings depending on context.  When an army patrol under attack calls for air support, they clearly don't mean the air around them should support their views, share their opinions or vote for them.  A beam can support a roof.  The beam does not have an opinion of it's own.  The roof is supported by the beam from falling down, not voted by the beam to stay up.  A man leaning on a wall for support does not depend on the opinion of the wall.  He depends on the wall to stay put and keep him from falling down.  There is also economic support, supporting actors or instruments, etc.  My version of LibreOffice supports ODF version 1.2.  It does not support the database format used in the standard Bitcoin client.  Support can mean sharing a political opinion, but I already explained why that interpretation contradicts the purpose of /P2SH/ as described in BIP 16.Hashing power is not a person, and do not have an opinion of it's own.  It can however support the technical specification much in the same way as a beam support a roof or LibreOffice support ODF 1.2.I think your interpretation contradicts the context, and I can only conclude that our understanding of the word support in this context differs.  (This is an opinion which can be supported and voted over, not a technical specification which can be supported by software or hardware. :-) I'll move my 2 Ghash/s from solo mining to BitMinter if you start supporting BIP 16! The keyword here is support.  This clearly means technical support of the specification above, and has nothing to do with anyones opinion of the specification.  The purpose is to count miners which has implemented support for the specification, not miners who think that the specification should be supported (political support).It would be very bad if miners put /P2SH/ in their coinbase to state their opinion without actually supporting the specification!  This may actually be a problem with the specification.  If more people understand support as political support, the change can be based on false assumption of technical support for this BIP.  Perhaps this method of probing for technical support is the main problem with BIP 16, and should be abolished in favour of testing with actual transactions.This is a protocol specification not a description of one particular implementation.  There are at least two independent implementations of bitcoin, and many more speaks or interpret the protocol or parts of it.  Many pools create their own coinbase.  You must know that by looking at the coinbase transactions in the blocks created by other pools.  Standard bitcoind don't put the name of the pool in the coinbase, to take one example.For normal solo miners like me it is enough to upgrade the vanilla client.  I have no intention of creating my own coinbase, and my limited knowledge of C++ says I shouldn't do to many changes to the code.  If normal solo miners like me should be required to make this change by our own, the threshold for supporting BIP 16 (and I still mean technical support) and show it would be unreasonably high.And if you read it another time with my interpretation of the word support, I'm sure you will take my point.  BIP 16 is a technical specification, not a political resolution. Please calm down.  I may be Norwegian, but I'm not that big and scary. ;-)I have read it many times now, and I can't see any mention of a vote.  It says:If a miner has upgraded the software (yes, it says right there that an upgrade will support BIP 16 transactions) the string "/P2SH/" should be put in the coinbase to indicate that support.  It makes counting very easy.  The purpose is even more clearly stated below:See?  No vote is ever mentioned.  It is just a practical way of counting the combined hashing power of miners who have upgraded their clients to support this type of transaction.  The alternative would be to keep feeding BIP 16 transactions to the network and see how many blocks include them.  If you support BIP 16 transactions, you should put /P2SH/ in the coinbase to make counting easier and not postpone it for to long.Now go back and read again, and please tell me where it says that /P2SH/ is a [political] vote and not merely an indication of the number of blocks supporting pay-to-script-hash.I remember sometime back in 2010 (september?) when no blocks were generated any more due to a bug triggered by a non-standard transaction.  All miners had to upgrade their clients, and the new version discarded non-standard transactions.  This is an important reason why the simpler BIP 16 is preferred by most over BIP 17 and other suggestions, and it shows that a network-wide miner upgrade has been done successfully before.  If each pool counts as one miner, the number of miners must be lower now than it was back then when no pools existed and people mined on their CPUs. One developer support BIP 17, and it is already very clear that BIP 17 will never gain popular support.  For technical and other reasons (transaction size and fees imposed on sender, security, etc).You already did the changes required for your pool.  You didn't even answer if you undid all of them, or if you are just dishonest about it (miners support BIP 16 but don't put /P2SH/ in the coinbase).Please!  I don't believe you are that incompetent.  You do not seriously think the six chartacters /P2SH/ in the coinbase makes your pool unstable, and you didn't answer if you removed support for BIP 16 from bitcoind or not.  From what you write I suspect you of mining BIP 16 transactions without announcing it, which is dishonest and inconsistent with BIP 16 itself.  Did you or did you not remove support for BIP 16?  Did you do that by reversing the patch (and re-introduce OP_EVAL, which is bad), revert to an older version or patch it yourself (so much for stability)?Support for BIP 16 is introduced when you update, and so is the announcement in the coinbase.  This is to comply with BIP 16, which states that miner supporting BIP 16 transactions should include /P2SH/ in the coinbase to indicate the fact.  There is no forced vote.  You can decline to upgrade, and stay with a version not supporting BIP 16.I thought that was obvious.  /P2SH/ is there to indicate the fact that the miner accept BIP 16 transactions.  Is it possible to write it more clearly?  Otherwise the vote would be meaningless the way it is described.  The new bitcoind does this automatically.  Many pools generate their own coinbase, and need to patch their software to do the same when they choose to support P2SH.  If you think changes to bitcoind needs your consent (really? :-D), you should write your own version.  I doubt the developers will ask for your consent for every change they make or new feature they introduce to bitcoind.So you have removed support for BIP 16 transactions from your bitcoind? Different options have been discussed and implemented for a great deal more than 4 weeks.  No point in just sitting on the code and wait.  Wait for what?Force vote and child porn!?  Congress?  Seriously.  Do you support P2SH, or did you remove that part of the code as well?  Because now you are confusing.  I thought the entire point of the vote was to show if the miner supports P2SH, to make it possible to switch P2SH on when the network is ready.  If you support P2SH without announcing support, you are simply dishonest and sabotaging the vote.P2SH was implemented by a strong majority among the developers.  Pulling the support into git and enabling it was only the next natural step.  How can you make a majority of miners support P2SH in any other way? Why did you decide to use EMC's users hashpower to vote against P2SH? Yep.  I have deleted my post.  My source was the topic in #bitcoin-mining, and it was set by luke-jr.  Never believe a word typed by luke-jr!  When checking the facts, nothing checks out except for Eligius (his own pool) using his own special version which all the main developers think is bad for many good reasons.  Examining blocks from EclipseMC shows that the pool supports P2SH.  And for casual solo miners and p2pool miners to support P2SH, you need to pull bitcoin from git and compile it yourself.  I think that is making the threshold for voting for a better future for Bitcoin far to high. I can't see any better implementation yet.  This has already been discussed for a long time.  BIP 16 is a good solution, and the only way to get there in the near future.  Neither longer addresses and blockchain bloat, nor turing completeness in the scripting language seems like better solutions to me.  BIP 16 has the greatest support by a large margin, so please let us just get BIP 16 out there. After reading all of this discussion, I have now upgraded bitcoind to 0.5.2 on my miners (I mine solo), and encourage all other miners to do the same.  I will also encourage pool operators to upgrade and announce support for their pools.  Bitcoin needs this functionality now, not later. Seven pages(!) in today's Dagens Næringsliv, the largest financial newspaper in Norway.  The journalist has done good research and even visited the European Bitcoin conference in Prague.  Very good article.  Paper only, unfortunately.  One of five headlines on the front page. Berlin!  Berlin!  Berlin!You won't regret it.  Berlin is a wonderful city!  It is young and full of life and culture, and also history.  And it is cheap.  And it is not going to be on it's head and full of security theatre due to some sports event, which probably many Londoners would like to get away from as well. Remember allofmp3.com?  A Russian online store selling all kinds of music from all artists and all labels in various unprotected formats.  The company never transferred any money to western copyright holders. I have found owners to three of those addresses.  All of them are people I have sold coins to on #bitcoin-otc, and I guess they have bought coins from other people as well.  I have checked the rating system, and the users have not been rated by anyone at the date of the transactions involving stolen funds.  None of them are around on #bitcoin-otc any more, so further investigation will be difficult.  The largest transaction involved was 10 BTC, the smallest only 0.001 worth of stolen funds, so I'm not sure if it is worth the trouble. A Yubikey may be worth all your bitcoins.  Get one and use it.  At least for withdrawals.
No it isn't.  The heat coming from the computer is exactly the same per kWh as from a electric furnace.You may argue that some of the power is wasted as sound waves, but even the sound waves will get absorbed by the walls and get converted to thermal energy.  Moving air will collide with stationary air and generate heat as the flow calms down.  Even the light from LEDs will get absorbed by the surface it hits and converted to heat.  Every single milliwatt used by the computer is converted to heat.The calculation is different for a heat pump (inverted AC), but a heat pump is not an electric furnace. Finding Bitcoin blocks is a lottery.  You get a certain number of tickets every second, depending on your hardware speed.  Chances of winning this lottery is slim, but the winner gets 50 coins + fees of transactions in the block.A pool is where many miners join forces and put all tickets they buy into a common pool.  When someone wins, the 50 coins and possibly the fees (some pool owners keep the fees) are shared among all participants based on how much each participant contributed.A pool will typically find blocks more often than a solo miner, because the combined hardware power of the pool is so much larger than a single miner.  For each miner the result is the same in the long run, given that the pool owner takes no fees.  In practice solo mining is more profitable in the long run because a solo miner is only dependant on his own miner and network, and can even tolerate short network outages.  Fewer dependencies means fewer interruptions in mining.  Pools are down now and then, and even DDOSed quite often.The Bitcoin network would be more robust if more people mined solo.  When pools are DDOSed, block rate slows down and transactions confirms slower as a result. I don't think Bitcoin Central has been compromised either, or has it?  Free software as well. :-) Now you are silly.  He lost 2% of his annual BTC revenue.  That's 1% of his total revenue, only that MtGox can not exchange BTC into fiat currency (i.e. trade) themselves.  That would be against regulations in Japan.  Since the stuff which can be bought for BTC is still quite limited, MtGox lost very little of practical value to them.  The users lost nothing.Who would you rather trust for exchanging bitcoins?  Bitomat (all lost, saved by MtGox)?  Bitcoin7 (most lost, can get some back by revealing all possible details about your self and submitting naked photo)?  Tradehill (endorses spam, reveals your trades to the one who referred you)?Most of MtGox' coins are in an offline securely stored wallet, as was demonstrated after the crack.  It can't be lost by a simple programming error. I'm able to send funds to MtGox quite easily, and cheap as long as I transfer a decent sum.  To help people who don't need much or don't want to transfer money internationally, I offer BTC for sale cheap and simple for my local currency using a payment method which is simple, free, safe and quite fast (usually overnight) in my country.  If other Bitcoin users would do the same, bitcoins would be easily available in any amount all over the world. MtGox supported SEPA for a long time, and I'm sure it will be back.  It has been my favourite way to get fiat money into an exchange for a long time.  Bitcoin Central still support SEPA, and here are a few others as well.  And it is quite easy to get hold of BTC via SEPA on #bitcoin-otc.  All exchanges accept BTC. :-) Not true.  I may not have any coins, or I may have 101 coins, or 1000.  The power of variance.  By average solo mining will pay better, independent of hashrate and difficulty.  Blocks are found randomly.  No single result is certain or impossible.  Correctly applied statistics can help you predict averages and other properties over time for large samples.Btw, the difficulty has been declining for months now.  By some people's (flawed) logic, solo mining pays less due to difficulty increase.  Should be very profitable when difficulty goes down then, or what? :-) This should not come as a surprise.  Some of us warned here on this forum of errors and insecure design of Bitcoin7 from the beginning, some suspecting a scam.  People will hopefully learn, again, to not trust their money, Bitcoin or fiat, to strangers.  It should be obvious. The card uses 19W.  About 0.7 Mhash/s per watt isn't very good, but not terrible either.  166 kWh/year for a 1:17 chance to win 50.fees bitcoins at current difficulty is not bad.  The power isn't free (I don't pay for it, but I care about it), but the alternative to mining is an electrical oven.  I don't care that much about 2.82 BTC a year either, providing no pool downtime or difficulty changes, but I would care about a anonymous virgin block of 50 + fees. So what?  It will take even longer to get 50 + fees BTC when mining in a pool.  I may actually get the 50.something in the lifetime of the card.  With pooled mining I am certain not to.  My average income from this card will be higher than in a pool.  In reality it will probably be 0 from now, if the difficulty stays up, but it can also be any multiple of 50 (or 25, 12.5, etc) + fees.  If I used this in a pool, I'd get something like 2.82 BTC a year.  I'll rather invest my 2.82 coins in a 1 to 17 chance to win 50 + some.  A nice, anonymous virgin block just for myself.  :-) Yes, it does.  Do the math.  Difficulty is irrelevant.  Difficulty only changes the average time between blocks in solo mining or price per share in pooled mining.  The effect is the same.  The chance of finding a block is just a bit higher with lower difficulty.Statistics is often non-intuitive, but this shouldn't be.  When solo mining your average income for a given hashrate is proportional to the difficulty.  When pool mining your average income for a given hashrate is also proportional to the difficulty.  For the exact same reason.  This is true for any period, and when the change happens or the direction (higher or lower) doesn't matter.  It happens at the same time for everyone. Solo mining is more profitable than pooled mining, and hashrate has absolutely nothing to do with it.  Solo mining only means higher variance, and low hashrate means variance may be a bit high for some.  My 13 Mhash/s 5450 fanless PCI card has paid for itself and the computer many times by mining solo since december last year.  Often takes a while between blocks now, but I can wait.  (Last block in May.) Problema i Frankrike er  over, og på mtgox kan du no handle direkte med, og ta ut og setje inn, DKK og SEK.  Det går via ein bank i Sveits.  For NOK er mitt tilbod det beste.  Beste ask + 0,05 USD (under 1% ekstra) konvertert til NOK.  Akkurat no er det 32,05 NOK.  Ingen gebyr om du har ein norsk bankkonto. Eg har ein bankkonto i Tyskland som eg har brukt til overføring til mtgox.  Då er sjølve bankoverføringa gebyrfri.  Eit vekslingsgebyr og eit lite uttaksgebyr på mtgox kjem uansett i tillegg.  Det er ikkje tvilsamt skattemessig so lenge du oppgjev den utanlandske kontoen i sjølvmeldinga.  (Eg oppga mine bitcoins i fjor.  Saka har gått vidare til Skattedirektoratet, som framleis prøvar å finne ut kva Bitcoin er..)Ja. The Swiftech MCP655 is a great pump.  It can be PWM controlled, and even controlled by the fan controller on the 5970 to keep a constant temperature on the card, or connected to a fan connector on the mainboard and controlled with a script.  It has a large controllable range from 1400 RPM to about 5000, and the actual RPM can also be read from sensors when it is connected to the mainboard.  I use a MCP655, and regulate it to keep my GPU temperature constant in changing flow and temperature conditions as the heat is distributed to various places or saved in a buffer tank.  (I heat my floors and pre-heat my hot water with my miner.)  It is relatively silent as well.  (Inaudible compared to typical fan noise from a 5970, not to mention two!)I may need another MCP655 soon, btw.  I'm preparing another miner for heating my living room floor during winter. Eg sel bitcoins for norske kroner på #bitcoins-otc.  Betaling med vanleg bankoverføring.  Fint om det kjem fleire norske seljarar der, for etterspurnaden er høg.  Eg kan òg kjøpe direkte av deg, sidan det av og til kan vere vanskeleg å skaffe nok i tide til alle kjøparane.  Pga uttaksgrensa på 100 BTC om dagen frå mtgox må eg ofte finne fleire kjelder for å skaffe nok i tide når det kjem mange store ordrar på ein gong.Det går forresten fint å ta ut EUR frå mtgox til ein norsk bankkonto.  Det kostar deg 2% per veksling i ein eller to valutavekslingar (avhengig av om du har USD eller EUR på mtgox) og eit gebyr, og transaksjonen tek nokre dagar. I trade a lot on #bitcoin-otc.  Works fine, but always check ident and ratings.  Long time users rated by many (beware of short time users with few and very high ratings by other short time users), can be considered safe.  Be very careful with anyone else. Why would anyone who use A/C place the radiator indoors?  That would be incredibly stupid.  You can get a lot of tubing for a few dollars.  A crane to switch between an indoor and outdoor radiator doesn't cost much either, in case you need heating on cold days.Electronics use less power when it runs colder, btw.  My computer use about 5% less power on water cooling than it did on fans due to lower chip temperatures.  That's 5% less heat. No, it isn't.  A water cooled system with a decent radiator can be almost inaudible. Not really.  Space is extremely good at being hot and cold at the same time.  Heat can only leave as radiation, and if you are in the path of the sun's rays, your thing in space will become very hot because there is no air or fluids to lead the heat away.Even in total darkness in space, radiation is limited at our temperatures.  A perfect 10cm x 10cm black-body surface will only radiate about 8W at 80°C.  Enough to cool one of Art's ASICs, if it can stay out of sunlight (may have a slight power supply problem there) but not any modern GPU.  A GPU will not last long in the radiation in space anyway..
Ooops.  Fixed the link, and here it is again: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=3707.msg53879#msg53879It's not much water in a normal water cooling system.  My system, as pictured there, has only 3l in total.  Floor included.  More now, but the computer is placed above the water line.  No water will leak out inside the computer.  In case of a leak, only air will leak in.No.  Water has 1400 times the heat capacity than air, and is a much better heat conductor.  You need to pump a lot of air through your system and the heat pump, and this costs energy.  And the heat pump uses energy as well, of course.The water pump use less energy than the fans which used to cool my system, and the system itself uses less energy because it runs cooler.  A heat pump is much less efficient, as you have discovered.  It will take 2 kW from the air and 1 kW of power to supply 3 kW to the water, and when the water is hot enough, your air temperature will rise quickly unless you have a temporary heat storage to put it in. Here is one.I have connected my boiler as well.  An old boiler is used for temporary heat storage, and water is circulated through a heat exchanger mounted on the input to the boiler in my house.  When there is a temperature difference between cooling water going in to the heat exchanger and coming out of it, indicating that heat is consumed (hot water used), a pump switches on to force more water through the heat exchanger.  The water is pre heated by my miner before it enters the boiler.  I'm installing floor heating in my living room as well now.  The old floor is almost out, and I expect to build the new floor next week. The dip happened during normal trading.  No problems at mtgox there.  There was a problem for a few minutes yesterday, but it was resolved very quickly.  MtGox explains it here.Before everyone jump to other exchanges, keep the fates of bitomat and mybitcoin in mind.  I think MtGox has proven to keep both bitcoins and money safe in spite of troubles.  This time a small bug was immediately visible to all and solved within minutes. Buying coins?  About 4000 sold to the bid by now.  Less than 2000 left.  The wall is picked down brick by brick. They do?  It does not reflect in their journalism.You need to give references on that.  I've never seen any signs of support for terrorism on Al Jazeera.  In fact Al Jazeera were the only news channel giving an independent view of the invasion of Iraq.  The rest were either following US troops or controlled by Iraq.  I'm sure this annoyed The USA, which answered by bombing their office in Baghdad, killing a journalist.  In the spirit of "Either you are with us, or you are with the terrorists.", I guess. :-( For your information 10 EUR is 14.27 USD, which is where the Bitcoin price has been all day by a margin of only 3%.  It may be a psychological level.  Miners may not want to sell below 10 EUR, and buyers don't want to buy above. Isn' that the URL for Pascazi Law Offices?Shouldn't hurt to register Michael S. Pascazi as a trademark for swindle everywhere either.  Or human feces and other things which one naturally associate the name with.  Perhaps only Pascazi, in case it can be disputed if we use the full name.  "Pascazi the retarded lawyer" action figures could be a hit. You must be kidding?  Why can't Americans access the only viewable English language 24 hour news channel?  I find it hard to believe that Al Jazeera leaves America out?CNN and the like is just commercials interrupted by weather reports and short, shallow and totally uninteresting news headlines.  Al Jazeera has real content most of the time, gets the news out faster and goes more in depth.  Al Jazeera has an amazing ability to be where the news happens when it happens (I often wonder if they are psychic), and the story is over before the other channels gets there and pretend it's news.  During the Israeli attack on Gaza, Al Jazeera were the only media in the war zone, etc.  And they are less biased than most other media.  Not speculating or having biased people analyse things to much, and instead telling and showing what is really happening.  Al Jazeera is the best 24 hour news channel ever.  Far better than all competition.  Americans should demand that Al Jazeera start transmitting to North America. So..  How about the one at $14, which is holding the price back now? I feel very sorry for you and your family, Foodst4mp.  I really do. :-(  Just return the stolen coins. You could start by revealing the error message.  On Linux error messages are actually useful, and often it says exactly what the error is.  At least to a trained eye. It is not obvious that this will gain anything.  On the contrary, unless the compiler optimize it away, it makes the second and third instruction dependant on the first.  This is bad on a GPU which issues 4 or 5 instructions in parallel every clock cycle. You knew about this, and didn't move your coins to a new wallet!?  If your zip file was password protected using the old standard zip password protection, it is vulnerable to a known plaintext attack.  Your wallet.dat contains many known strings of sufficient length.  Cracking it takes a few minutes at most on a normal desktop computer, no matter how long your password is. Sure it was sent by your client, or did you store your wallet.dat somewhere else as well?  Look up the transaction ID in blockexplorer, and search for the first 20 bytes of it in debug.log.  (It is in ~/.bitcoin/ under Linux.  Have no idea where Wintendo stores it.)  If you see an "askfor tx transactionid" somewhere, the transaction was initiated by someone with a copy of your wallet.dat.  It looks like your own, because you have the same wallet. Huh?I don't think you got it.Hashing a billion password candidates once with MD5 is no problem for today's computers.  To brute force 60000 unsalted passwords, you would just need one run through the candidates, making one hash for each candidate.  After one billion runs, you have cracked all passwords in your list of candidates.To brute force 60000 salted passwords with unique salts, you need to run a more complex MD5 algorithm on all the salt + candidate combinations.  Even if you assume the same time for each test, it will take 60000 times longer to check all candidates against all hashes.  If the password is found for a candidate hash, you don't have to try the rest of the candidates for it, but you will probably not find as many passwords as you think.Yes, a few people use their username or mail address as password.  Those would be cracked in seconds on anything with the computing power of a digital watch, no matter how they were hashed.  Don't worry about those.  Most of the passwords will likely not be among your candidates at all. You do not understand it at all.  Read kjj's post for a more detailed explanation of how the salting works. It is far more complicated than that.  A company incorporated in  The Netherlands can't come to my country, open a brothel and sell cannabis, because it is illegal here.  But a company incorporated in my country can open a coffee shop and sell cannabis and prostitutes in Amsterdam, because it is legal there.  It is not only about where the company is incorporated.  Where the business is being done is more important.  For tax reasons as well.  It is not obvious to me that MtGox should register with the Japan Financial Services Agency as long as they don't offer any financial services in Japan, but I assume a foreign bank which offer such services in Japan would have to register.I don't know the history behind E-gold.  According to Wikipedia they operated and offered their services from Florida, USA. Yes, it matters.  A lot.  Salted means you have to crack each password individually.  You have to run through the entire list of candidates (until a match) for each and every salted password (given unique salts).  With unsalted passwords you can run through the wordlist once, and get all matching passwords with a single MD5 run for each word in your wordlist.  It doesn't matter for one single password, but for 60000 salting means 60000 times more work.  And salting renders rainbow tables useless, because you'd have to build one rainbow table for each possible salt. Yep.  This is definetly a wordlist crack from both mangled words and leaked or phished passwords from other sites.  I can say that with 100% certainty because my own password isn't on the list.  My old Mt.Gox password was set for testing the new exchange at a time when a bitcoin was worth a few cents.  I used it on BBSes in the eighties, and it is very far from secure to modern standards.  Not even the nineties standard, I'd say. Promotion of one specific exchange (among many possible), and claims of official money theft at the largest competitor in the same post.  Looks very suspect to me.  Are you Baron in disguise, now affiliated with TradeHill?BTW, this is the first time I see mtgox split an amount after only four confirmations, but I don't have that many examples.
Their servers are located in the US.  Their bank accounts are located in France and The USA.  I don't know where their bitcoins are located, but I suppose the wallets are backed up in several locations.  Why would they have to register as a financial institution in Japan when none of the trading goes on there?  Why not France (for a having bank account?) or The USA? Fortunately I can't see them, because they are Flash.  Ugh.  Why? LOL!  Flash all over the page.  That's what "open" means to them.  :-)I think yubikey along with a strong password is more than enough security for me.  I don't plan to keep half a million bitcoins at Mt.Gox.  On other exchanges I have no other choice than password. You don't have to use two factor authentication if you don't want to.  I don't think there will be any more secure place to trade Bitcoin than Mt.Gox, even without two factor authentication.  AFAIK none of the other exchanges offer two factor authentication at all.Bitcoin7 has already shown total lack of interest in security and knowledge about Bitcoin and bookkeeping in general, and ThradeHill users spam my mailbox and this forum so much it is sickening.  TradeHill don't seem to do much about their spam problem either, and spammers are still allowed to trade there.  Fortunately there are other exchanges as well, which seem more secure and don't encourage anti-social practices.Mt. Gox is very liquid and cheap to get money in to and out of for us Europeans, and a good place to trade in spite of a comparatively high fee.  They also have a simple API for fast and easy trading without using the web interface.  And I don't think any of the other exchanges could have handled a security breach like this better than Mt. Gox has done.  Most likely those that keep funds an do automatic transactions would have gone bankrupt. Just the fact that you can't see it doesn't make it unknown.  It can even be visible and in plain sight, you just don't know what to look for or where to look.  Treat as much as possible as if it is visible to everyone, and it won't hurt you if it is.  Make sure to protect what you need to protect.  A password is simple to protect.  If you need to protect the password hash to protect your password, you have lost because the hash isn't under your control. Bitcoin-central wasn't effected, as far as I can see.  But this is not the point.  Any exchange would have done the same if a criminal got illegal access to a brokers funds, and sold them all to manipulate prices and create havoc in the market. The only difference is that most normal stock exchanges would halt trading automatically and investigate the situation as a soon as there was unusual activity with no known reason.  MtGox should behave like any other responsible exchange, and nullify the affected trades.  Other exchanges roll back trades more often than you think.  Even Bitcoin exchanges.  It has happened on Bitcoin-Market and Bitcoin7, at least.  Hopefully MtGox will implement a few safeguards for later as well, and pause trading for a while to investigate when it gets to hot.Of course there are complications, which would have to be handled on a case to case basis.Did anyone lose anything?  People who traded at a loss on other exchanges based on a sudden change from 17.5 to 0 on mtgox should know better, IMHO.  I don't think you will many, with the exception of mtgox, who actually lost money on the rollback.  More likely a lot of people suffered a loss due to the unusual buying and withdrawals from stolen accounts during the previous days, but this would be impossible to prove. Just ten years ago password files, YP, etc with password hashes in the open was the norm.  A crackable password was  as good as a plaintext password.  Passwords had to be good, and the openness ensured that people made good passwords.Unfortunately after September 1994 a lot of clueless newbies entered the Internet.  Users who had no idea about passwords, security or computers or networks in general.  Also passwords had to be made more and more complex due to increasing computing power available to malicious users.  During the last few years systems have tried to remedy the problem a bit by hiding the hashes from public view.  I'm not sure if this is a good idea or not.This kind of security by obscurity is false.  First and most important: it is impossible to know if your password is stored in a properly salted and secure hash, or if it is kept in an open database or hashed in an insecure way (NTLM springs to mind).   Secondly: users tend to make bad assumptions about cracking being difficult, and make bad passwords.  Treat all password databases as open.  Make good and unique passwords, and you are secure if the password database use properly salted and hashed passwords.  (If not the site isn't secure anyway.)Don't trust "security experts", btw.  People calling themselves experts on computer security typically have little or no real knowledge about security.  Just have a look around this forum for proof.  Real security experts can be recognised by i.e. the lack of firewalls and open WiFi at their home, but would never claim to be an expert on such a complex field. Yes, and IMHO the situation has been handled very well.  A lot of FUD is spread here, unfortunately, and I get spam promoting TradeHill and Bitcoin7.  Spammers can not be taken seriously, and neither can the exchanges if the spammers are still allowed to trade there.  This alone strenghtens my confidence in Mt. Gox, which has never spammed me or spread FUD about other exchanges.  So far the official information has been perfectly aligned with the facts which have been shown both before and after the public explanations.My trust is with Mt. Gox and bitcoin-central.  I do not trust TradeHill, and have complete distrust in Bitcoin7 (mostly due to cluelessness). You are still claiming you were scammed by Mt.Gox, and this picture shows an entirely different scenario.  So you are either lying or trying to prove something else.Btw, if your password was cracked from a salted MD5 hash, it wasn't secure.  By definition.  Secure passords can't be cracked in finite time with todays technology, even when given the hash. Rainbow tables will not help in this case, because the passwords are properly salted.  But I'm sure you'll find a lot wit a decent wordlist or a character frequency search.  (Brute force taking most common characters in passwords into account.) I checked my own password there.  It is real, and it is an old one.  I changed it a few days ago, and this is the previous one.  Which means the data has been out for a while.You can check your own password by giving this line to perl: Code:print('password', '$1$salt');where password is your password and salt is the characters between $1$ and the next $ in your encrypted passord.  If the result matches the entire encrypted password, your password is there and it's real.  If only the part between $1$ and $ matches, the password is wrong.  If everything is far off and not even the salt matches, you did something wrong. It is not just feasible, it is very likely.  I checked a random generation block from the transaction in block explorer.  It was generated at 2010-03-12.  Those days a few khash/s was enough to generate multiple blocks every day. Another point -- it can be hard to remember long random passwords, but very long passwords can be simple.  If you have problems remembering long strings of random characters, try using random words.  At least three or four chosen randomly from a long wordlist.  Think of the wordlist as your alphabet.  /usr/share/dict/words on Ubuntu has 98569 words.This happens if you choose three words from the list:98569^3 = 957681397954009This happens if you choose four words from the list:98569^4 = 94397697714928713121But please choose words which do not form a meaningful sentence or are logically connected in other ways, and make sure it is at least 12 characters long in total.  "one two three" is a terrible password.  "lion Malaysia snow cutlery" is a very good one. An alphanumeric sequence like abcd1234?  That would be one of the first ten passwords a brute force attacker will try.  There are many such sequences in top 100 lists of common passwords.  It would generally take much shorter time to bruteforce a sequence than a rarely used dictionary word.My four rules of passwords are:Never base your password on dictionary words or sequences of any kind, including keyboard sequences, periodic table, etc.Use at least three of the categories capital letters, normal letters, numbers and special characters.If your password contain one capital letter, don't place it first.If your password contains only one number (one or more digits) or special character, don't place it last.And remember that trivial transcribations like $ for s, 3 for e, etc, or using the characters above, below or next to a word on the keyboard, are not novel ideas.  Those ideas, and many more stupid tricks to transcribe dictionary words, are known among crackers as well.  Don't even think about words or sequences when you make a password. Du har nok teke ut BTC tidlgare på dagen.  Du kan maksimalt ta ut BTC til ein verdi av USD 1000 kvar dag.  Dersom du prøvar å få ut meir, vert summen du får ut redusert slik at du totalt har teke ut USD 1000 den dagen.  Veldig nøyaktig, som du ser.  Det kjem opp ei stor raud melding som fortel kva som har skjedd og kvifor.  MtGox tek ikkje gebyr for uttak av BTC.  For å kunne ta ut meir enn USD 1000 kvar dag eller USD 10000 kvar månad, må du sende kopi av identifikasjonspapir til mtgox.  Dette skuldast lover mot kvitvasking av pengar. I have the same problem on Linux, but only when using -v (vectors) and a low value for -f.  I never see it if I don't use -v, and I never see it with default -f.  Haven't tested for very long with higher -f, but at 10 the messages are mostly gone.  I mine solo, of course, and getwork calls takes neglible time.  I made each call to getwork log a line, and the error shows up when it takes > 12 seconds between two getwork calls.  My askrate is 5 seconds, but there is usually at least six seconds between each call to getwork.  Sometimes much more.  A lower value for -a does not remove the long gaps between getwork calls which are followed by "miner is idle" messages. Isn't it incredible how much a simple sentence can reveal?It is impossible to represent integers accurately in floating point, no matter what precision one use.  Any mediocre programmer will know that.  And if one doesn't know that Bitcoins are integers, one should probably not operate an exchange in the first place.  This simple sentence tells us that the exchange is written by an incompetent programmer who hasn't got much clue about Bitcoin either.Even if it looks like it works on first sight, it is probably insecure.  I wouldn't trust it with a bitcent, or 0.009999999776482582092285156250 BTC at Bitcoin7, probably rounded in the user interface.  Would I be able to withdraw the bitcent again, or would I have insufficient funds?  I'll let someone else find out, and have fun profiting from rounding errors. After investing in 600 Mhash/s, water cooling would be a comparatively small extra investment which enable you to silence the miner and run it 24/7.  A cooler miner also means better stability, longer life and lower power cost (colder silicon leaks less power).You don't have to by an expensive water cooling kit.  The expensive part is the GPU water block.  Everything else is cheap.  A cheap low powered aquarium pump, a radiator from an old car, cheap plastic hose, etc. Remember to take many of pictures and share them with us! Note that the spike goes in the wrong direction when the FPGA clusters "just went online", and also compare with this historical chart which shows the variance on a longer time scale.
Are you sure they are on?  I can't see a noticeable bump in total network power.  The increase is steady within normal variance.  Perhaps a lot of GPU miners shut down their systems at the exact same time?  Sure you didn't mix hash/s and Mhash/s? I know more than one who has stopped completely or reduced their activity due to heat.  Summer is coming. And I think the high difficulty make many CPU miners give up.  Too hot and enough fan noise for almost no coins. 50!Perhaps you should try listing it on biddingpond or similar? It's OK with me if they don't want to pay fo their own line and use mine, but I doubt it would be very practical for them.  The signal doesn't go that many houses away.  I guess two neighbours get an acceptable signal.  The others will struggle with weak signal, low bandwdth and many shadows.  (Partly based on the signal levels I see from them.)  The latter is OK as emergency comunications when your own line is down.  Not as a primary internet line.So far I haven't seen my internet degraded due to other people using my line, but I can easily throw them off if they do.  And I don't think any broadbrand provider around here offer download limits.  I would certainly not buy it. :-) My network is open, and I use one of the neighbours open networks when my own network is down.  I expect my neighbours to do the same.  Why not?  We couldn't do that if everyone encrypted their networks.  In practice I can in most cases, because people use stupid passwords or even WEP, but it would be more hassle to do so.If some random passer by wants to use my network, that's OK as well.  Why not?  I'm not going to demand anything back.  Unused bandwidth isn't worth anything to me.Your network isn't degraded with normal use, unless you still use a modem or something.  If someone abuses my wireless network, I can easily block that client out, but I never had to.  The sinner has always turned out to be in my own house, or someone attacking my network from the internet.  Since wireless bandwidth degrades with obstacles and distance from the router, it is unlikely that a neighbour would be able to saturate my internet line. A dark ask at 1.6 (very low compared to the smallest visible ask when it showed up) kept the bulls back until the bears woke up.  The bears are not in control either.  My guess is there will still be cheap coins to buy at or below 1.6 until tomorrow when the Europeans are back from their Easter holidays and banks start processing transactions again. Thus is a good idea.  You may get some inspiration from my miner.I think ArtForz should follow up this idea.  His ASIC does 200 Mhash/s at only 8 watts, and can probably be variably clocked to follow the MPP of a small 10W solar panel.  It would take considerable time for an investment in his miner to pay for itself, if ever, but what the heck.  I run all my gadgets on solar power myself (anything which can be charged via USB), just for the fun of it.  I get about 1 kWh per year from my smallish flexible panel, and it will of course never pay back the cost of the equipment.  Sunlight is scarce and power is cheap where I live. If you get a lapse of nostalgia, you may still buy a 1 GBP gift certificate at 30 BTC from Bitcoin Pay Shop. :-) I know there is an issue with the USPS.  Apparently rules have changed.  Shipping two pounds of coffee now costs USD 45 to many countries.  Same as for five pounds.  He is investigating other options.I miss my coffee as well.   :-( I think it will climb again.  Slowly at first, then accelerating.  I don't know exactly when this begins, of course.  I base my expectation on two observations:1. Interest is growing.  I have been selling BTC for NOK and EUR on #bitcoin-otc for a long time.  Primarily for selling bitcoins I mined myself for currencies useful to me.  My offer is by far the longest standing on the channel.  During the last weeks I have been selling more and more, and I get a new customer almost every day now.  Old customers come back to buy more.  I sell much more than I mine, and have to  buy BTC at mtgox to satisfy demand.  I do this at almost no profit (for NOK at least) to help spread Bitcoin by better availability, and it works!2. A lot of people are waiting for an opportunity to buy at mtgox.  The sum of money in the visible bids on mtgox is as high now as before the jump above parity with USD.  You don't keep money at mtgox and active bids unless you have an intention to buy bitcoins. Bitcoin Central has 1 BTC order limit. If this happened to any other nation in the world, death tolls would have been measured in per cent of the population, and the country would be completely in ruins.  Completely and utterly destroyed for the foreseeable future.  Not only because of the quake and the tsunami, but because of all the effects.  Buildings, homes, schools and hospitals falling down on people or getting washed away with people inside, chemical plants blowing up, large spills of everything poisonous, infrastructure destroyed, meltdowns in every nuclear plant, etc.  Uninhabitable.Japan is another story.  Japan is prepared.  If Japan asks for something, give them that.  The Japanese Red Cross would probably also be a good idea.  Otherwise, just sit and watch in awe how the Japanese handle this. Without a few more rules, like maximum trades per day, it will be easy to cheat by trading with yourself.  Even automated trading between bots. If you went into a bank and transferred USD 100 from an account to yours, signed with a false signature, and this was noticed by the bank after you left, your account would be locked at once.  No waiting for law enforcement to catch up.  Believe me.Swiss banks locks accounts on suspicion.  High profile cases lately is Mubarak in Egypt and Gadaffi in Libya.If I suspected MtGox of being illegal or endorsing illegal activities, I would keep far away from it! Keep a history of your transactions, and you'll be safe.  If you sold an item, you probably have a name and/or address of the buyer.  If you don't know who you got the coins from, or even how the coins came into your possession, and you are caught with stolen coins, then you are in trouble.  Just as with stolen goods in real life.  The larger the sum, the more important to keep account.There should be a service to quickly check for stolen coins given an address. Yes he did.  He wrote that he was trying to get in touch with Baron, and while the investigation goes on the less details Baron knows the better.  Yet some people here keep nagging.  Please shut up and read his very concise posts which explain everything you and Baron need to know.  It is better that Baron doesn't know everything mtgox knows at this point, since Baron keeps changing his story.  Hold some facts until Baron's story has stabilized somewhat. Really?  This is exactly what Baron is doing. Mtgox behaves exactly as I would have done in the same situation, and I am no scammer. AFAIK mtgox hasn't taken anything.  He has locked an account and is waiting for the owner to identify himself. Too bad, because in my country mtgox would have to go to prison for up to three years if he didn't lock the funds.  Aiding trade of stolen goods is illegal in most places.  In my country the law will not normally be included in the terms of service either.  It is obvious.Good luck with that.  If the exchange declines to follow the law in the country where it is located, your money and coins may disappear very quickly when the owner goes to jail.
P R O O F There is not trace of you buying ~3000 BTC x 3 from some random guy.You are lying to us! I do not believe you have even spoken to a lawyer about this.  Their "special power" is called "law", and it applies to everyone.  No special powers involved.It doesn't need to be in an agreement when it is regulated by law.  Aiding in the trade of stolen money or other goods in my country will get you three years in prison.  The bank mangers don't want to spend their life in prison, so any stolen money are immediately locked.I obviously know more than you pretend to remember. You can read the proof in this thread.  It is damning evidence, and mtgox doesn't need more than that to block your account.  In most jurisdictions a bank or exchange has to block the account when stolen money get transferred to it.  VISA, MasterCard, PayPal and your bank would do the exact same thing without waiting for the police.  They are not allowed to let the thief run away with the stolen money.  You claim to have lawyers, but I doubt it.You may go on forgetting your own name, it doesn't matter.  The story doesn't check out anyway.  You made it up, and even changed the story when you got more details about your fictional trade, but it doesn't work.  The block chain contains the facts. In what way has mtgox acted as judge, jury or executioner?  He came over a heap of stolen money, and blocked the account while the investigation goes on.  Would there be any other sensible thing to do?  Any other legal options?  If mtgox do something illegal here, like releasing the account with stolen funds before the matter is completely resolved, we are all at risk of loosing everything we have on mtgox. Because if I am e.g. an exchange, and I don't follow my national law, YOU risk loosing everything you've trusted me with if I get caught.  I may have the best intentions, but it doesn't help at all if what I do is illegal in my jurisdiction.  "Bitcoin common law" isn't worth anything when real life police knocks on the door. There is some truth to this.  Since some have very cheap or free electricity, the price of coins will eventually fall below the cost of producing them for most people.To compete with this you need to use the electricity twice.  I threw out the big resistor in my bathroom floor, only producing heat from electricity, and instead use my miner to heat the floor.  I get back double for my electricity.  Bitcoins and heat where it is needed.  This is a low scale operation, of course.  I am planning to add another card to get more heat in very cold periods, and capacity to pre-heat my hot water as well.  Hot water and bitcoins for the same amount of electricity as only hot water.  Eventually the cards will pay themselves back (may take a long time), but the electricity is basically free.  I would have used the same amount of electricity for heating my bathroom or hot water if it was heated by a standard electric heater instead of my miner. ++We have to abide to our respective national laws.  Believing that we can make a Bitcoin law and somehow enforce it is nonsense.  I.e. an exchange operated in one country would have to follow different laws and regulations than an exchange operated in another country. You are wrong.  Read the thread.  A large sum of coins were stolen from a customers account, and were transferred via Baron's Bitcoin client to Baron's account on Mt Gox.  When Mt. Gox finds a heap of stolen goods, mixed with goods of unknown origin, he is required by law to lock access to it until the matters are resolved.  Would it be better if Mt. Gox was a criminal and went to jail, risking the assets of everyone at Mt. Gox?  It is extremely important to us, his customers, that Mt. Gox abides by the law.  If you don't like that, you should put your money on some black market where you risk to loose everything to a scam or police raid.PayPal's locking of accounts often has nothing at all to do with reversed credit card transactions.  Often a reversed PayPal transfer is enough, and often not even that.  E.g. the Wikileaks donation account, and the donation account for Brian Manning's defence fund.  Those were purely political. What do you base this on?  Mt. Gox is only an exchange.  He may demand identification from his customers, and it would be a requirement in many countries for tax purposes, but there are lots of exchanges for Bitcoin. No.  You are confused.  The fact that my government put sales tax on everything, doesn't mean everything is legal tender.  I've listed my bitcoins and their value on my tax return, and expect to pay tax for profits and to write off losses, like for everything else.  It still doesn't make it legal tender.  My shares are not legal tender.  Gold isn't legal tender.  Milk isn't legal tender. ITYM "legal tender", which means you are required by law to accept it.  You are not required by law to accept other barters, like bitcoins, but there is nothing illegal about it. You can buy milk for butter if both parts agree.  You can also exchange milk or butter for money.  Or bitcoins.  There is really no difference.  There is nothing illegal about bitcoins (or milk), and we should do our best to keep it this way, My trust in Mt. Gox increases for every post I read in this thread.  He has my full support, and is proving right now that this is no kind of black or grey market where whitewashing or trading of stolen goods is allowed.  My confidence in Mt. Gox has gone from medium (after it for a long time was impossible to get money out of the site) to very high.  He has proven to be on the right side of the law, and acts like I would have done myself when coming over a pile of cash where some are proven to be stolen.  The fact that the coins were stolen has been proven beyond any reasonable doubt a long time ago.  To prove something in real life with mathematical certainty is impossible, but the attempts I have seen here are uninformed speculations in the line of "an alien stole my DNA and did it in my name".  By the evidence and explanations we have seen here alone, and Mt. Gox has even more, there is no reasonable doubt about the theft or who was behind it. A much better proof would be a complete transaction history to and from the account.  I am sure mtgox would provide Baron with that, if he takes contact.  (Both options implies full trust in mtgox, of course, since the site can modify pages and logs at wish.)Compare the logs with Baron's transaction logs...  Oh, I forgot.  Baron doesn't keep any history whatsoever of transactions of just a few thousand dollars. Your lawyers told you to take screenshots as proof?    Here is my advice: Get new lawyers. Who are you talking about?  Mtgox has just locked the account while he (or someone else, I suspect the police is already involved) is investigating to identify the rightful owner and/or the thief of the funds in there.  The investigation is currently stalled because the claimed owner refuses to identify himself.  No one have been judged or executed so far.  Unless the claimed owner identifies himself, the funds will remain locked by the one neutral part who can (mtgox).  Possibly by order from the police or a judge.  Mtgox has been wise enough to say as little as possible about those matters. I am glad the traceability of bitcoins make it possible to take thieves like Baron.  Since he will almost certainly not reveal himself, the 45000 LRUSD stays locked.  It would be irresponsible, and probably illegal, to return the money before the case is completely resolved.  The LRUSD are probably stolen as well, but we don't know from where.  Otherwise Baron should report the locking of the account to the police, which is free.  But he would have to file the report in his own name, and may end up in jail for theft.  I guess the 45000 will stay locked until one can find the rightful owner, or the case is to old to be tried.What happens to the 9000 BTC?  Can those be returned to their owner before the case is completely resolved?What was the case about bitcointrade.biz, btw?  I read in this thread there was 45000 LRUSD involved, but the thread about the case itself is in Russian.  Anyone care to write a summary?  Are there any possible links which should be investigated?  Hard facts, like account numbers or Bitcoin addresses? Weak password cracked by a simple brute force attack. mtgox hasn't publicly accused anyone.  He barely made a comment in this thread.  Baron is more or less showing himself as the bad guy who can't remember a thing and is constantly changing his story to fit shown facts.  I.e:After beeing shown three transactions, he changes this to:And not remembering anything about this good source of bitcoins after only a month just isn't credible.  Not if he is, as he claims, serious about investing or whatever. Did you just visit IRC channels at random this one time, and then some random person came from nowhere and asked if you were interested in trading LRUSD for bitcoins?  I find this very hard to believe.  Most people at least have an idea what IRC channels they are visiting.  Are you afraid there may be logs?  Do you remember which nick you may have used on IRC?  This story needs a lot more flesh to be even remotely plausible.  You may not be the scammer yourself, but you are certainly not helping to find the person.  Trying to protect the identity of the scammer, assuming it isn't you, will not get you anywhere. You bought coins for USD 3000, and don't remember anything about this guy (e.g. IRC channel or nick or LR account number) or have any record of the transaction?  Doesn't sound very likely to me.  Are there more suspicious transactions involved?
Thanks for the compliments, folks!  Water temperature is currently ~31°C when entering and 26°C when leaving the floor.  This morning the floor held ~23°C.  Outside temp is 0°C and the hall outside the door was ~15°C after a cold and snowy night.We don't have AC.  The sun heats the house in summer, and we open a window or door if it gets too warm inside.  The bathroom floor will be heated all year, but we don't need as much heat in the summer.  I live on the western edge of the country, where we have mild winters (lowest I have measured is -10°C) and cold summers (seldom above 25°C, mostly 10-20°C).  Statistics here.  The plan is to measure temperature and humidity with my sensors, and regulate clock speed and fan according to that and weather on the outside.  I also have another plan..Step two in my plan is to let the water in the computer circulate through a heat exchanger which pre-heats water before entering our hot water tank.  In the loop I will also have a small used hot water tank, perhaps around 50l, to buffer the heat between showers and baths where a lot of hot water is used at once.  Is this drawing understandable?                      ____________     ____ pre-heated water to tank                   /  _|_   buffer  ><Computer /   |    | tank      <> -heat exchanger                 \   |_ _|              ><                   \__|__________<>_____ cold water inThis will not heat water all they way to hot tap water temperature, but it will do much of the work.I will not have tap water circulating through my computer because of pressure conditions and the devastating results in case of a leak.  Total amount of water in my system is about 3l, and a leak will not do much damage.  Tap water in unlimited supply will.  I will have a plumber install the heat exchanger connected to my hot water tank. I have.  LocalHost.  All the racks are water cooled with cold sea water from the North Sea.  Saves a lot of power. Another thing: WAF!I have a liquid cooled miner.  It is dead silent,  but the main point is that it heats our bathroom floor.  Pictures says more than words, so I attached a few. My computer. An oldish Athlon64 X2 in a cabinet from a previous century.  Sorry about the mess.  The cabinet is usually closed for optimal airflow.  You see the water tube entering at the bottom, water passing through the 5970 water block (the shop were sold out of nipples fitting my tubing, and put in some 1/2" tubing and adapters, so it is a bit messy in there), then through my CPU block before heated water leaves at the top.  The direction has a purpose.  If I start the computer with no pump, the water will flow by itself due to convection.  Convection isn't enough for cooling the 5970 as well, so the pump must be running when mining.  And compare the size of the stock cooler in the lower right corner with the water block.  The card is now half as thick, and the PCI socket next to it is usable again!Tubes going up through the roof above.  This is not finished.  I'll make better connectors closer to the ceiling and box them in later.  The thing on the tube to the right is a flow indicator.  The cable coming out of the same hole and going to a RJ45 socket (not connected yet), connects a series of temperature sensors embedded in the floor and walls, and a temperature and humidity sensor next to the fan in the bathroom.Tubes under my bathroom floor and one of the temperature sensors (inside a blue shrink hose).  This is now buried in cement and covered with nice tiles.Reservoir where the water returns.  Inside there is a small pump (300 l/min, 0.5m head), which keeps the water flow going and bubbles out of the tubes.  Water level inside here is 0-level.  In the tubes above the water level in the reservoir, there is actually a vacuum, and the water pressure inside my computer is low.The best thing about my water cooling and floor heating is that my wife keeps nagging me to buy a second 5970 to make the floor warmer.  Beat this with a air cooled system. :-) I need to pay 14 GBP to an account in Barclays bank.  Payment for computer equipment (I don't use VISA, Mastercard or PayPal more than I have to after the Wikileaks scandal.)  It would cost me a silly amount in fees to pay from my Norwegian account, and I wonder if someone in UK would be willing to make the payment for me for 28 BTC?  (That is 28 BTC at 0.5 GBP each.)  The offer is valid for 24 hours.  PM if interested. I need to make a small payment in GBP.  Please have a look at the offer I sent you in PM.  Paying from my bank takes several days and costs money as well.  How long has various governments and a lot of companies tried to stop The Pirate Bay?  They can't.  It's on the Internet.  AFAIK no one has been able to stop any information on the Internet yet.  The protocol is robust, and can easily be made more robust.  No, Bitcoin can not be stopped by any realistic means.  In principle it is possible to make ownership or usage of bitcoins illegal, but that is completely unrealistic in most legislations.  Bitcoins are not harmful in any way. I think we should allow three decimals now, to make very small payments possible, and have a default fee of one millibitcoin for transactions smaller than 0.01 to discourage overuse.  Note the use of millibitcoin to make people used to the word.  It should be configurable in the client to use bitcoins or millibitcoins as the default unit in the client, but for the time being it should default to using whole bitcoins.Use familiar SI prefixes.  I do not think bitcoins should be used as a means to introduce an entirely new notation like BTC4 or B4C or whatever.  The concept of Bitcoin is hard enough to grasp itself for beginners.  While it s intuitive to most people that a microbitcon is the same as 0.001 bitcoin, just as one millimetre is 0.001 metre and 1 millilitre is 0.001 litre, it is not at all obvious what those alternative notations mean. Come on!  Everyone knows at least milli.  Perhaps with the exception of countries using some archaic units of measurement.  Millimetre and millilitre is common examples.  The exact meaning of micro and nano may be forgotten by people who are far past their primary education, but are by no means uncommon words.  Even my mother will know which is smaller, and I'll not be surprised if she knows their exact meaning either. Not according to Art (from IRC):23:48 < ArtForz> my kernel usually likes -w 64 or 128 and really low -f23:48 < ArtForz> I'm running the equivalent of -f 2 herI use 10.12  It works for me.  And -f 30 was good enough for me with the previous kernel, and gave a decent hashrate while keeping interactivity.  Art's kernel is not good at this setting, according to ArtForz. Art's miner is great, but not without disadvantages.  At -f 30 it is significantly slower than the original miner.  At -f 2 it is faster, but the desktop is useless for interactive work.  Could we have an option to use the old miner?  Perhaps even an option where DiabloMiner switches miner when it has to slow down due to desktop activity, and changes back to Art's miner with -f 1 when the screensaver is on? Support for the current level is very thin.  All bids combined above 0.66 amount to less than USD 1000, and the order book is thin and full of holes all the way down to 0.56.  At the same time sellers have been very busy fillng in ask orders.  The picture looks very much like it did before the correction from 0.5 to 0.30, just at a higher level. Maximum stable with stock voltage and lowish temperature (at least below 80°C, lower is better down to about 60) is about 640 MHz with my card, but this will vary a bit from card to card.  The problem with overvolting, aside from higher temperature, is the fact that your performance per watt will fall significantly.  It would be more profitable in the long run to get another card than to invest in advanced cooling solutions, assuming you pay for the electricity.  A 5770 and a waterblock for a 5970 cost about the same, and the 5770 gives much better Mhash/$.  A stock 5770 gives better performance per watt than an overvolted 5970.  Power consumption is proportional to the frequency (linear) and square of the voltage.I get 620 with mine overclocked to 840 MHz.  I think this is common.  mrb's miner will probably perform a few percent better. The cheap card is about 50°C.  The HD5970 runs with forced fan to about 70°C.  I've tried underclocking and running at even lower temperatures, and it hangs just as often.  -w 64 does not hang any of the cards. IMHO you should change the default to 64 on ATI.I have two computers mining.  One with one 5450 for mining only, and another ATI card for video.  The other computer has one 5970.  Both machines run Ubuntu (different versions) with the latest ATI driver.  This is the only thing they have in common.Both experience ASIC hangs every now and then, and require a reboot to start working again when using DiabloMiner with default worksize.  On the machine with two cards, I get white stripes across the screen when mining on the other card.  This only happens when mining and using the computer for normal desktop work at the same time.  Nothing fancy.  When I set worksize to 64, the ASIC hang bug (probably a driver bug) goes away completely, and the problem with white stripes on the second card only show occasionally. What is the difference between actual value and price based on speculation?  Price is what people want to pay for bitcoins.  No more, no less.  Define your "true price" or "actual value". If you own bitcoins, promoting bitcoins is a good way to make money.  When more people use and need bitcoins, your coins increase in value. This will pull at least 50% more electricity.  For cooling.I have a better solution.  I am half done rebuilding my bathroom.  In the floor I've put water tubes where the cooling water from my miner will circulate and warm the floor and the room.  A big improvement from the current all electrical floor heating.  I will actually make money form the electricity I use to heat the bathroom.  In the worst case, if my miner don't find another block ever, I still don't use more electricity to heat my bathroom floor than I used earlier.  I can't lose!Story and pictures will come when I'm done. :-) That was speculation.  We're back to ~0.4.Seriously.  The market can move far in any direction at the moment without beeing an indicator for anything but a small buy or sale.  There is no resistance between 0.27 and 0.51. Not very probable, if you ask me.  Iraq is a very unstable country.  Millions of their brightest heads (40% of the middle class) have fled since the beginning of the war, and the constant stream of refugees from Iraq is still continuing.  A lot of essential infrastructure is still down and can't be rebuilt safely due to the risk of attacks.  The country just managed to pull toghether a weak government eight months after the general election!  Production numbers for the first week in January 2011 are far below what this growth plan predicted for the end of 2010.  The plan must be revised already, but I guess everything is on track according to the Information Minister.  :-D It is true, but only half the truth is presented.Oil supply is getting lower, but gas supplies are increasing.  A lot.  Natural gas is CH4.  Oil is just chains of CH2 of various length with a extra H in both ends. CH4 (methane) is the simplest form.  C2H6, C3H8, C4H10, etc.  You get the picture.  Octane is C8H18.  Very long lengths makes cheap heavy oils and asphalt.  It is common practice by refineries to "crack" heavy oils by treating with natural gas or hydrogen (made from natural gas) to crack the long chains and make shorter chains.A similar process called hydrogenization is possible with coal.  Germany produced most of their fuel and oils from coal and water during WWII, and as a result got much better fuel and oils than the allies.  Only in short supply, since it was hard to keep production up while the allies were bombing.  South Africa also produced synthetic fuel on a large scale during the long boycott in the 1980's.  The same processes can be modified to work with coal and natural gas.  Coal and natural gas is plentiful.  Peak oil only means that refineries needs modifications to make fuel from other stockpiles.  This is already being done as a part of normal maintenance and renewing all refineries do.  Refineries with high cracking capacity already have a great advantage because heavy raw oil is much cheaper than light qualities of raw oil.You probably already use a synthetic motor oil in your car, because it is better.  In the future only cheap gas and diesel will be made from raw oil.  Wikipedia has a interesting article on synthetic fuels in general.
"Bidder 1" has placed a bid higher than yours, but only the minimum bid needed to win the auction is shown.  As long as your bid is smaller than Bidder 1's bid, he will win, but not pay more than necessary to win the auction.  When you bid above Bidder 1's maximum bid, your bid will stand one minimum increment above Bidder 1's maximum bid, and when someone bids above your visible bid, it will be incremented in the same way as Bidder 1's bid is now.  Bidder 1's real name is not Bidder 1, btw. "Still"?  LOL, you are young!  Only two years earlier IE's market share was still below 30%.  Microsoft couldn't license Netscape, so they went for their loser, Mosaic.  IE's only success factor was being bundled with Microsoft Windows when a flood of Windows users got access to the Internet.  There were Unix and Mac versions as well until IE 5 (Mosaic had Unix roots), but I don't think IE ever got any share of the market on those platforms.  Netscape was far better than Mosaic, and the first versions of IE was just Mosaic with a Windows logo where the spinning globe would be. It happened again..Second or third.  $ is a common symbol for several currencies. A good exchange rate!  Not ripping people off with bad rates like most exchangers.  I'm looking forward to this!  Will it be possible to withdraw EUR as well? Apparently not.  I have an order (funded) which is displayed in Your orders, not in the main Order book.  A part of it was traded.Different currencies should be separated in a more visible way, IMHO. Why are there orders for 0.0000 BTC/LRUSD in the order book? This is a misunderstanding.  The current market price for one bitcoin is around 0.29 USD.  If you want more than about 100 000, you are already paying 0.5 per bitcoin.  If Bill Gates and the Pope want my last bitcoin, they will have to part with their last dollar, and I will have my own state in the middle of Rome.  What you suggest is impossible.But, of course, anyone could back Bitcoin with gold by offering a gram of gold per bitcoin, or something.  Guaranteed.  In that case one Bitcoin will be backed by one gram of gold, but not tied to it.  The value of one bitcoin will be higher, since bitcoins are easier to use. I don't get it.  There are matched entries under Selling and Buying, but no trade happens.  I also got an error message when trying to buy, but the bid goes in. This is a very good deal, folks.  I am very satisfied with the analsysis I ordered, and so far it looks like I will earn money from the decision I made based on the analysis.  Thank you, S3052! You have a something that works now?This is not what you wrote here:I assumed you signed it by your transaction (a key in your wallet) and timestamped it by the timestamp in the block it made it into.  This is the simplest explanation.  If you have a clear understanding of how this works which is more complex than what you wrote, I suggest you write it here instead of harassing people who read your posts.  Am I correct in that you want to use the timestamp in the block, or do you want to timestamp the hash in some other way?I still don't understand why you want to discourage bitcoin users and make Bitcoins less efficient by putting junk in the block chain. Then don't use publications, blogs, etc.  Use e-mail, wikis, facebook, IRC (logged channel), snailmail, public syslog servers, fax via internet fax services, Twitter, etc.  There are limitless possibilities, and many are well suited to post the work in full.No, it isn't.  The timestamps in the blockchain are not ment for timestamping Bitcoin transactions, just the blocks.Btw, there is a race condition in your plan to post a hash of something in a transaction.  Someone who picks up the hash from your transaction can send a new transaction with the same hash embedded.  If both make it in the same block, you have no way of knowing who was first.  If the other one makes it into a hash before you, possibly by paying a higher fee, then you lost the race completely.  You have to encrypt your message to make it unreadable for others.Timestamping transactions?Collision attacks on MD5 are well known.  Find bits which can be flipped without changing the hash, flip, repeat.  The first collision attack on SHA-1 was published in 2005, and found a collision in only 2^63 operations.  Those attacks do not change everything, and the blockchain is immune to simple collision attacks due to it's length and the merkle hash on top.  The single hash you put in there as "proof" of something is not, since you don't need to change that hash.You could pay the nodes mining the other chain with bitcoins for transactions.  Thereby using bitcoins as a currency, as it was always ment to be. In this case you don't rely on the timestamp, but the sequence number, and you pay a high price by discouraging other people from using bitcoins.  Just read the other comments here.  There are so many other ways of doing what you describe in standard ways, free, accepted by courts, etc, and with precision allowing you to release the file a second later, that you should pause and ask yourself if this is a brilliant way to waste a good currency.Btw, your hash isn't worth much if the hashing algorithm is broken.  You better sign and post the entire file, not the hash of it.  At least post more than one kind of hash of the file, if it is important to you.  The blockchain in Bitcoins make it impossible to change your hash, but your hash itself may be worthless because someone can claim that you have changed their work in subtle ways to make it match your hash.All of this can be done out of the blockchain or in a separate blockchain if you insist on connecting it to Bitcoins.  Perhaps another blockchain demanding accurate timestamps, if what you want is timestamps. Are you all mad?What you call timestamps are so inaccurate and easy to skew that the best you could do is a datestamp.  If you want to make a reliable system for timestamping, you should at least make the clients to agree on the time within a second or less.  Satoshi could have done that if he wanted to make the system useful for timestamping, but he didn't.  There are many systems out there which are made for timestamping, which are free with microsecond resolution.  If you insist on paying for a datestamp with horrible resolution, you could just use snailmail!  Their datestamps are even accepted by courts of law. It would be enough, and much easier to mail it to someone.  Use a gmail address or something, and you will have your timestamps accurate to the second, at least, on many external locations.  This method is free, and not an annoyance to thousands of Bitcoin users all over the world, who are paying for their internet connections. You could have saved the trouble of writing all this by quoting one more word from me: Almost.Name one.  It's good enough for their use in the Bitcoin blockchain.  For other purposes the timestamps are still worthless.  Accurate timestamps are free. The producer of bitcoin blocks can do whatever he wants, and that is one reason why bitcoin blocks are useless for the purpose of timestamping anything.  The original claim was: Bitcoins are worthless as a source for timestamps.  The block creator can put whatever he or she wants in there.  Almost.  Look at the timestamps in the current block chain.  Try to imagine anything relying on timestamps where timestamps invented by the block creator is a useful property, when accurate timestamps with microsecond resolution are free.Another claim is:But it isn't.  The block number is a sequence number, and the timestamps aren't even in the correct sequence.  They don't need to be for their current purpose.If you are looking for gold, you should try other properties of Bitcoins.  Your wallet contains some cryptographic keypairs which may be useful in connection with bitcoins for messaging or verification purposes outside the blockchain. As I wrote earlier: You can find many examples of blocks with timestamps older than the block before, or even several blocks before.  I can't imagine why anyone would want to use such an unreliable timestamp when accurate timestamps to the microsecond are easy and free.When all you have is a hammer, everything looks like a nail.  "I can probably make the window fit in the frame using my hammer."  Maybe, but it is a horrible choice of tool for the job. No.  The block number is a sequence number.  You can not derive time from the block number with any useful accuracy. Bitcoin timestamps are worthless.  If you examine the timestamps in the blocks, you'll notice that many blocks are timestamped to be older than the block before it.  This is impossible, of course.  The best you have got is a sequence property.  Blocks are generated at random times centered around 10 minutes (actually less, which is why the  difficulty keeps increasing), which is another property, but I don't think Bitcoin blocks would be very useful as a source for random numbers either.  Bitcoins are however very useful as a secure currency or commodity. Perhaps the airflow passes over the harddisk before it reaches the CPU, and the disk is getting hot due to lots of activity?  Hotter air for CPU cooling makes CPU cooling less effective, and it may overheat.  A lot of I/O may also make your chipset hotter than usual.  Do you have the latest BIOS firmware installed, btw?
The local-part of mail addresses is indeed case sensitive.  It may not be treated as case sensitive by all MTAs (i.e. mail to Sturle may get delivered to sturle, if this is the local policy), but they are case sensitive by definition in the standard and must never be changed in transit.  The only exception is postmaster.  Let me quote in full from RFC 822:Code:3.4.7.  CASE INDEPENDENCE        Except as noted, alphabetic strings may be represented in  any        combination of upper and lower case.  The only syntactic units        which requires preservation of case information are:                    -  text                    -  qtext                    -  dtext                    -  ctext                    -  quoted-pair                    -  local-part, except "Postmaster"        When matching any other syntactic unit, case is to be ignored.        For  example, the field-names "From", "FROM", "from", and even        "FroM" are semantically equal and should all be treated ident-        ically.        When generating these units, any mix of upper and  lower  case        alphabetic  characters  may  be  used.  The case shown in this        specification is suggested for message-creating processes.        Note:  The reserved local-part address unit, "Postmaster",  is               an  exception.   When  the  value "Postmaster" is being               interpreted, it must be  accepted  in  any  mixture  of               case, including "POSTMASTER", and "postmaster".I'm not at all surprised if Hotmail, which has gone from sucking like a vacuum cleaner in 1997 to a universe threatening black hole today, ignores this standard as well as most other standards.  It has become an isolated island on the Internet, unable to deliver mail to anywhere.  I am surprised every time a mail from Hotmail actually reaches my mailbox. FLOPS are irrelevant for Bitcoins.  A Phenom II X4 is much faster than a 5970 measured in FLOPS, but a 5970 is 50 times faster than a Phenom II X4 at generating bitcoins.  Fifty!  You could count MIPS (Meaningless Indicator of Processor Speed), which is a little bit more relevant, but in reality it is all about how many SHA256 hashes the hardware can do per time unit.  The 5970 is exceptionally fast at just that.  The 2.5 Petaflop comuter may not be faster than one or two 5970s at generating Bitcoins.  It is probably optimized for double precision floating point with fast CPU interconnects, and simply not useful for simple integer calculations. ++Those who want other services integrated with Bitcoins, just make an ad hoc protocol with it's own chain.  Let the people who store information there pay with bitcoins rewarded to those who create new blocks, or something.  Just don't push it everyone who just want to pay for stuff on the net.  It should be possible to run a Bitcoin client on a smartphone or tablet without downloading Wikileaks, porn, Gaga videos, spam, ads, warez, all of usenet, and whatnot at the same time.  Please! Great.  Let's wait for that to happen.  And let's ignore limited devices like smartphones, tablets, etc.  But please keep spam away from the blockchain until unlimited broadband is commonplace everywhere.And there goes your storage.  *poff*  I wonder where you want to go with this.  First introduce junk in blocks to make Bitcoins to heavy to use for other than large serverfarms, and then get rid of it. This argument contradicts itself.  If you want storage on large server farms, then buy centralized storage on large server farms.  Don't try to push it upon Bitcoin, which strength is it's distributed nature.  Let it be distributed.  Bitcoin transactions will be very expensive in the future if your centralized large server farm idea wins.  Spare capacity on home computers is free.  Large server farms are not.  It is in our interest that it would still be possible to run Bitcoin on normal home computers in the future as well. DNS doesn't push data on everybody.  You have to ask specifically for the TXT record from the server serving the domain.  Most requests are for A records, which are as as small as possible.DNS can also be abused to send arbitrary data.  I'm a happy user of iodine myself to tunnel IP over DNS (encrypted) when I want to use some wifi hotspot for free.  But the traffic only go between me, the hotspot DNS server and my own DNS server.  I don't push all my encrypted internet traffic to every DNS user in the world.  I'm sure DNS would have been redesigned long ago if this was even possible. This could work combined with:"Everyone can choose to accept a block or discard it"I don't want everyone to be spammed by blocks full of junk, and prefer to try to nullify it by generating a competing block without including the junk.  The junk will of course make it eventually, unless the majority of miners switch on their spam filters. I introduced six persons to bitcoins yesterday, and one so far today, by giving them 20 BTC each for a promise to put the coins into circulation.  They all had the same complaint:  It took ages, for one of them almost two hours, to download the initial blocks!It doesn't get any faster by adding junk to the blocks.  I don't get it?  Why is it so important for people here to make Bitcoins slow and inefficient?Fees?  Come on, miners!  How much do you make from fees? How many?People are usually very helpful at #bitcoin-otc on freenode.  There is a webpage, and web IRC client which connect directly to the channel.  There is a trust system as well where people trust each other based on previous trades. I want to buy 50 if they are made of chocolate!A chest with chocolate bitcoins, and a paper with an address to claim the real bitcoins on the bottom of the chest.  That would be a nice gift! True, but according to the PayPal blog, it wasn't closed.  It was restricted.  It cannot receive donations, but it doesn't say anywhere it was closed, shut down or confiscated.Wikileaks have not stolen any secrets or signed any confidentiality agreements.  They are just printing documents given to them by other people.  The people who gave the secret documents to Wikileaks were probably doing something illegal.  Not Wikileaks, or the newspapers which printed the leaked documents before they were available from Wikileaks.  So, why aren't the editors of the newspapers arrested, threatened to be murdered, getting their servers and DNS shut down., accounts closed, etc?  Because what they are doing is perfectly legal, and so is Wikileaks.  Just unpopular among some who believes the press should write what the government tells them to write. It wasn't exactly frozen.  It was restricted, and Wikileaks can't take donations directly via PayPal anymore.  Hardly a problem, since several other organizations take donations to Wikileaks.  No funds are confiscated in any country or bank, as far as public information goes anyway.  None of the newspapers publishing the leaks in full have gotten their bank accounts frozen either.  Their operation is perfectly legal in every country with free speech.  This is nothing but a publicity stunt for PayPal, and it would be a better publicity stunt for the Bitcoin community to to the opposite.-1.  I think you are overreacting. That's just stupid.  I don't want to have any drug money in my wallet, but that is hard.  99% of all bank notes are tainted with cocaine, according to a british study.  http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/uk_news/464200.stmDon't donate to Wikileaks if you don't want to.  Wikileaks is perfectly legal in most countries.  Only The US government, China and a few arab states takes measures to sensor Wikileaks. Add Funds, bottom of page: Add Euros  This process is done by bank transfer with minimal fees but is still manual. Send us an email. The new funding option for Mt. Gox should influence prices in a positive direction.  It is now much easier for people in the Euro-zone to get money into Mt. Gox, and buy bitcoins there.  The coins can then be transfered to BCM and sold for PPUSD there at a higher price, or sold in other markets.  The price gap between PPUSD and LRUSD will lower, since european PayPal users can withdraw their PP funds to their bank account and buy more bitcoins at Mt. Gox for a low fee.  This will ultimately push the price at Mt. Gox upwards, and access to bitcoins is getting easier for everyone. Getting money into Mt. Gox isn't very difficult, but it costs.  You could buy BTC for PayPal at BCM or #bitcoin-otc, take your BTC to Mt. Gox and exchange there.  If this increases demand at BCM, someone will surely do the PPUSD -> LRUSD conversion for you, and get the money back to Mt. Gox with a profit.  This will again lead to increasing money inflow and BTC outflow at Mt. Gox, which leads to increasing prices and a growing BTC economy.  In the end every BTC owner profits. There is a lot of demand for MtGox USD or LR in this community, and trade for PayPal.  This is does not help getting more funds to Mt. Gox, because the funds are already there.  It would help if Mt. Gox had more funding options.  E.g. Liqpay, which is preferred by some.There are other ways to trade Bitcoins.  Why don't people use Bitcoin Market or #bitcoin-otc if they want to pay with other currencies?  If the price difference is high, then use it!  Get LR the slow way, buy coins at Mt. Gox and sell them for PayPal. Norway Is your JavaScript code available?I wish the getwork RPC command could be allowed for non-authenticated users from other hosts.  It isn't revealing any secret information, is it? I'll be happy to sell you some bitcoins at market price.  So will many others.
FLOPS (Floating Point Operations Per Second) is irrelevant for Bitcoin, since SHA256 is entirely done by integer arithmetic.  A Phenom II X4 does more than 7 GFLOPS, and does only 12 Mhash/s.  You should look at MIPS (Million Instructions Per Second/Meaningless Indicator of Processor Speed) numbers.  MIPS is not a very good indicator either, since a single instruction on some CPU can do the same as four on another, and there are pipeline stalls and whatnot.  A super computer may or may not be good at this.  If it is optimized for double precision floating point operations and high bandwidth between CPUs, it is probably not comparatively fast at pure integer algorithms requiring little bandwidth.Real world performance of existing software on existing hardware is all that counts. A session at their annual congress in Berlin between Christmas and New Year would fit perfectly into their agenda, and spawn a lot of interest.  I was there last year, and it was packed with all kinds of hackers.  There is no better way to capture their interest. The server error is probably real.  I got 0.50 bitcoins from there when I tried a while ago. I think this is the best thing since bitcoins, and will jump as soon as I have drunk up most of the beans I have of other kinds of coffee.  Coffee is best when it is fresh.  Save some for me, please! There are more ways to get money out from Mt. Gox than in.  For example as bitcoins to Bitcoin Market, and from there to PayPal or whatever.  Or you can buy yourself something nice for the bitcoins, of course. Considering no fees for transfers or other currency exchange, this is not much much more than the spread between high and low on Mt.Gox on a typical day. What's wrong with https://www.bitcoinexchange.com/? How about one free transfer per address per block, and a transaction fee for more than that?  It will be much harder to spam, and still free for most users. It doesn't look much like up to me.  Someone is trying to pushing the price down again.  About 22000 coins for sale at 0.283, which is current ask price.  This is a tremendous resistance.  More than USD 6000 is needed to break it.  Perhaps someone will, but I doubt that will happen in the short term because of the narrow upside until the next two blocks of heavy resistance. This would be a natural explanation if the selling orders were put closer to the current price.  A price increase from 0.2 to 0.3 would give a very nice profit, and I don't think a large selling volume at 0.3 scares anyone from buying at the current price level.  We have seen a lot of this price manipulation in the past, when large selling orders have been put just above current price to push it down, or large buying orders have been placed just below current price to push it up.  In those cases the price difference has been too small to gamble with.  Typically 0.05 or less, which gives an uncomfortably low profit margin towards the side which the order is put on, and at the same time a safety against large losses for anyone who bets in the "right" direction.  (The safety is not very real, of course, since the manipulator can remove the order at any time.)  Similarly the price has been stabilized within a narrow window by large orders on both sides.  Perhaps by different users trying to push in different directions.  I don't know.I think the orders at 0.3 to 0.35 have been put there by one or more amateurs (someone like me) who looses if someone buy their coins at a lower price.  At least one big player pulled out with a nice profit when it was possible to recover funds from Mt. Gox again, and the other players are left with large amounts of bitcoins and no new buyers willing to pay the price they paid.Trade is very slow now.  It's very hard to guess if the price will increase to 0.3 or drop to 0.17 or lower.  Everyone are dragging their feet.  Nothing will happen until either a new large player comes in with fresh USD, which could take a long time, or one of the large hoarders of bitcoins lose their patience, sell at the current price and take a loss.  The first is more probable.  Keeping a large amount of bitcoins doesn't cost anything at current interest levels. I have been boycotting them for years.  Opted out by getting a private pilots licence and joining a flying club.  I fly wherever I want to with no silly "security" checks for me and my family.  And I wouldn't travel to the USA for a million bitcoins.  By flying directly to my destination, saving four tickets, it is mostly much cheaper as well.  I can land at small airfields closer to my destination than commercial airports.  Saves time and money, and it's fun too! Exchanging information about the whereabouts of data is not illegal anywhere, as long as the data is legally acquired and distributed.  It's very much the same with any goods. By your logic the USA should forbid money.  At least on paper and metal, a lot of currencies, and money transfers to uncontrollable countries like Bermuda and Switzerland.  Perhaps go completely communist.  On a worldwide basis porn and gambling is a lot more controversial than Wikileaks.  Only China and Thailand censor Wikileaks.  A lot more countries censor porn and gambling sites.  I don't think this will make the US government blink. Perfectly right.  After a short visit to 0.14, the large buy orders are coming in now.  The upwards resistance has become invisible, and there are almost no coins for sale below 0.23.  I think it is time for a rise again, at least on a short term.  Still without using any waves, triangles or trend lines.  Just my untrained eyes. :-) It isn't perfect, and sometimes people dumps loads of USD or BTC which moves the market more than it is possible to predict.  Large blockers of 10k or more are rarely sold out in one large movement.  When there is one just above current market price, and none below, the market can only move quickly in one direction.  Turned out I was right this time.  The price dropped all the way from 0.32 to 0.2 in minutes.  It may happen again.  Upwards resistance is strong from about 0.295.  I can't see any blockers downwards. Looking at the order book with my untrained eyes, I see a lot of resistance against a price level above about 0.325, and free fall below a small resistance at 0.3 on the downside.  I can't see the bottom.  Current price is approx 0.312/0.323.  I'll be surprised if it doesn't fall soon, and far deeper this time, and I don't need any special waves or triangles to predict this.  I could be wrong, of course..I wonder what the point is with all those orders of 1000 or 800 spread 0.00001 USD apart.  Is it supposed to hide the orders from the graph, or something?  The orders certainly lighten up the list right below the graph. Why don't you buy them on Bitcoin Market or Mt. Gox?  I can buy the coins there for you, in case you don't want to trade there yourself.  My fee for the service will be 1 coin, and you pay transaction fees. +1.  I find it weird to only receive 99.35 BTC when buying 100.  This should be clear when I enter the order. Did it grow after you stopped withdrawals?The price has certainly stayed high.  Of course you have to make a shilling to keep the site up and working, but I think a fee per trade will harm trading.  I have done a lot of trades with less than 0.65% margin.  The spread has often been less than 0.65%. This change will make a lot of those small trades, like buying the cheapest offer and making a new cheapest offer at a slightly higher price, unprofitable or too risky.What other solutions have you considered? Something else is new:
