My health is more important to me than a dubious pleasure. I do not want to become a mentally weak person after that kipsyawesome promo, thanks 'll stick with my gravity. Let the flat earth people stick with their density.   Interstellar ! User ID: 0002423Match: TPS Turku vs Lukko   Prediction: 2 - 1 User ID: 0002423Match:  Lulea vs HV 71         Prediction: 2-3 kipsyawesome promo, thanks! Wirtland would be glad to collaborate, I guess. (By the way, our next physical coin will be with Julian Assange portrait, see http://www.tiny.lu/o27px!)  But I have to agree that a smart card, such as an anonymous VISA, would be much better for practical use. In fact, Wirtland has been discussing this for a long time. Wirtland issues plastic IDs, and wants to have them serve for payments - by inserting chip, magnetic band or other technology.  That's right. See below:  (source: http://www.wirtland.org/) But Wirtland is not about abandoning your current laws and your country. It is about getting additional possibilities, which come with Wirtland citizenship. Yes, each citizens of Wirtland may be subject to his home laws, but as community Wirtland is subject to its own law only. It's not hostile to any real countries, it's actually indifferent to them. That's my understanding.  Personally I don't agree that Wirtland has anything common with a cyberpunk novel or fantasy. It's not one of virtual worlds, not a game, and not intended for entertainment. We prefer to discuss down-to-earth, pragmatic subjects. That's why I'm asking practical questions about Bitcoins -- because we want Wirtland to be useful to its members. Some people are happy with virtual country, but for those who want more there are bigger plans - read this:  http://wirtlandinstitute.blogspot.com/2010/09/how-to-sell-square-mile-of-wasteland.html Well, I enjoy my Wirtland identity, I also have a plastic ID card from Wirtland. I have made a contribution to the Wirtland project by creating a network of Russian-speaking witizens (i.e. citizens of Wirtland). I follow Wirtland news. What else? I have Wirtland gold (see pic below) and silver coins. Occasionally I wear my Wirtland sweater   By the way, every witizen can submit articles to Wirtland's newspaper.  I think those BC-enthusiasts, who join Wirtland, should suggest some material for publication in "The Times of Wirtland" - to explain Bitcoin, etc. Just an idea... My apologies for naive questions (which probably have been already answered somewhere), but they are important to explain Bitcoins to Wirtlanders.- There are web exchange services where people can turn virtual currencies into cash and vice versa. Are there any such services for Bitcoin?- Are there any banking institutions which work with Bitcoins?- Is there a list of merchants who accept Bitcoins?Thanks HiI am new in Bitcoins, but I represent Wirtland and I see a lot of synergy for promotion of bitcoins in Wirtland. Wirtland is the largest web micronation which has about 1500 citizens from all five continents and growing fastly. BTW in 2009 Wirtland became world's first micronation to produce its own physical gold and silver coins. More info on Wirtland can be found in Wikipedia at http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wirtland_(micronation) (and from our sites, see bottom)Recently a Wirtland member from Greece posted on our forum that Wirtland may be an ideal place for mass use and promotion of Bitcoins. Do you agree there may be possibilities for cooperation or at least for cross-promotion of Bitcoins in Wirtland?If yes, I suggest to use this thread to develop consolidated cooperation proposal which can be sent to Wirtland. Thanks,VicPS. If moderator considers my thread irrelevant, feel free to delete.  This article is old, but perhaps relevant: http://computertaal.info/2009/01/26/it-companies-with-no-street-address-on-their-websites-wirtlands-solution/Sorry for off-topic. Cool! I am glad to hear that. I'm a Wirtland enthusiast myself, but I see that Wirtland's weak point is its business side - they do not have right people. It would be great to match "witizens" with people who know more about web trade, payment systems etc. For instance Wirtland says that one can register a company in Wirtland. But what's the use of incorporation without opening a bank account?? If we could install a working payment system with Bitcoin, incorporation in Wirtland would become attractive for thousands of people...  Cпасибо, да, что-то там не так. Я им напишу про этот глюк. Но там на сайте есть второй переводчик - внизу страницы стоит Google Translator. Я проверил - русский работает нормально. Или заходите на мой сайт - он специально для русскоговорящих виртландцев, запущен всего несколько дней назад - http://witi.taba.ru/   I think all these ideas are very good and realistic. In Wirtland, they had talks about own payment system and stock market for a long time, but it seems they do not have really good experts to realize this. I can talk to people at Wirtland. In the meantime, if you prefer feel free to contact Wirtland directly by email (address is on the www.wirtland.com site). And of course you can always become citizen of Wirtland and start any project there - including Bitcoin or BitcoinTrading. By the way, they can help you with web design if you need. If you think the idea is worthwhile, maybe I should start a separate thread here on cooperation with Wirtland, and let  everybody come up with proposals? (I did not want to do that straightway, because I am new and did not want to annoy...   )
