AVG ANTIVIRUS And now??=(More than 3 months lose? try to understand my case, I send you all the screenshots if needed. I had BTC 8200, and transferred to another computer, but that did not. I continued to leave the program generates, and generated more than 4,200, only the site that sent the first 8200 not received. That is, I have all these bitcoins, those who currently own and was not sent and received, adding that gives BTC 8200. Theymos saw all my case it was an afternoon trying to help me. I hope it is resolved and not lose my coins. just perform the installation procedure on the machine that has the BTCS? Not getting results with this procedure. The coins remain to be sent, and I sent has not arrived yet. i will try! Thanks for the help. In what can help me, everything will be easier. I wanted a providence. A few months bitcoin'm using the same open 24 hours a day, and right now I want to sell BTC, I have this problem. I beg you to solve my problem. I thank Theymos, tried to help me for some time. But please, solve my problem, I have no intention of stealing, just want to sell my coins, which have long'm joining. I can not lose 13,000 BTC, took a long time to stop generating. My Bitcoin have this ERROR:"Warning: displayed transactions may not be correct! you may need to upgrade, or other nodes may need to upgrade"My bitcoin is in error. I had about 13,000 BTC. I tried to transfer these coins to another computer. But I find the following error. Did not transfer the blocks that are being generated are invalid. What to do? I'm send a private to you!Need ur contact for business. I'm Sold 4.600 yestarday. Now i'm have 1,200 BTCPrivate message!Thank You! Idk this price..My Bitcoin opened in the pc around 3 months..  I'm have 4200 BTC, and need register in ur site... for sellu buy?? I'm look the exchanges, more the sites no pay with paypal!It's a problem for me. How much is 4200 BTC in Dollar or Euro? Sell 4.200 BTC...Msg-me if buy!With the offers...Thank You! I'm have 4200 BTC, u buy???
