1 confirmation isn't sufficient, because of this attack.  You need at least 2 confirmations to be reasonably safe from low-power attacks (i.e. any attack from an attacker who doesn't have much hash power).  Since an attacker with a great deal of hash power might be able to get more than 1 block in a row if lucky, it's probably better to wait for a more typical number of confirmations (e.g. 6). I registered, but it won't let me log in; it claims nonexistent username and password.  But if I try to register again using the same email, it fails (I assume because there's already an account there).  What could be wrong? I am the lead developer of the x264 project.  My consulting page, with CV.I offer professional consulting services for anything related to open source multimedia technology (esp. video compression and streaming).  I also do coding work; my primary expertise, besides video specifically, being x86 SIMD assembly optimization (esp. integer SIMD).  I've written thousands of lines of SIMD optimization for x264 H.264 encoding, ffmpeg VP8 decoding, ffmpeg H.264 decoding, CoreAVC H.264 decoding, and more.In addition to my normal, dollar-based rates, I'll also now work for BTC.  Contact me at jason@x264.com for details. There are other Windows miners, such as Phoenix. How is the difficulty change extrapolated?  As the difficulty isn't changing at a constant rate, the "correct" way to do this seems non-obvious. Check that OpenCL is installed and working correctly, and that your GPU isn't throttling for some reason. An interesting note about this is that it satisfies people who want an easy way out of BTCs, making it more likely for merchants to be willing to accept BTCs.  What really matters for BTC adoption is the ability to easily convert back to dollars. Does the 500BTC limit only apply to using Paypal?  That is, if we use Paypal, are we limited to a total of 500BTC across all services, or can we have unlimited transactions on non-Paypal services regardless of what we do with Paypal?  I'm considering arbitrage opportunities here (caused by the 500BTC limit).
