Is good to see you've covered your bases legally, and it does sound like you've got quite a few ideas for the games themselves. I agree games of pure chance will likely dominate over the skill based ones for the reasons you described.  Funny you bring up the Conflict skill tree, though. I was talking about that a little bit ago with one of my guild leaders and he never understood why it was done away with, nor did I.  I quite miss several of the games from that discipline, even if I did lose more often than not.  Not a bad idea, but while you've changed the format in how many of the games of chance are played, it's still essentially the same rules as many standard gambling games. The firework game, for example, is slots with a different skin.  You thought way outside of the box with a lot of ATITD's games, Seven Blades for example, it stands to reason that if you really put your mind to it you could create some gambling games for this that would be very unique.All that being said, be sure to check and triple check the legality. Online gambling I believe is illegal in the US in general, if the servers are hosted here, or at the very least in many states.  Second Life used to have casinos and gambling allowed, but were forced to shut it down because they were coming underpretty heavy scrutiny for it. And Second Life used an in game currency that was, in plain writing, "Not worth any actual monitary value, but could be bought and sold by Linden Labs for actual money at their sole discression."  So basically it was the same concept as using bitcoins, which alone are not a currency, but are freely exchanged for currency.  The reason I mention it is you don't want to invest a great deal of time and effort into it to one day have someone knock on your door and tell you to shut your servers down.  If it's legal, great I'll be one of the first ones in to throw a few bitcoins to the gods of chance, but better it's mentioned now than after the game is finished, polished, and ready for release. 
