That is really good news, Dwolla rocks. Congrats on your move. http://www.ipaygold.com/  This is a PayPal clone but owned & operated by some friends from China. It's a PayPal alternative and worth a look. They are big exchangers there for digital currency through their other web sites including Paysgold.  In the past years, both PayPal and Moneybookers have frozen and closed all digital currency exchange accounts except those operating in secret. It's still true today, PayPalsucks.  My advice to anyone and everyone would be to integrate with Webmoney Transfer. www.wmtransfer.com is the largest in the world and they permit this type of exchange and encourage it. They also offer MasterCards and other ATMs. I feel an exchange point between Webmoney and Bitcoin would be much better than PP.Best of luck and keep up the good work. Sorry I didn't mean to be so negative. The best defense to this kind of reality, is more customers. The more people using these type of systems, the better it is over the long haul. The more likely the program will stick around that go global. I think you guys are doing an excellent job here, so keep it up.If anyone's reading this I'd like to know why there aren't more Bitcoin systems? If there were 10 more Bitcoin type systems in operation, this would be a HUGE help also for the long term success. A Twitcoin, a Bytecoin, Goldycoin  etc. Every new open source project operating online, increases the business exponentially. Two systems operating is not twice as good for the "industry" is 10 times the success and customers. "no laws governing the use of bitcoin" that is not what the Treasury says, apparently from the story about BitcoinUSA the Treasury is calling it a digital currency, which is now labeled a prepaid or stored value product. Issuers of prepaid products and buyers/sellers who exchange them for money are regulated."On June 28, 2010, FinCEN issued proposed rule addressing prepaid cards and stored-value. FinCEN is seeking to amend its regulations, which implement the BSA relating to MSBs in an effort to bring non-bank entities in the prepaid sector under regulatory treatment that is more consistent with traditional financial institutions."Look, I have a friend in Dubai, he says go see Ahmed in the NY restaurant down on Grant street he's going to give you some money. I go in, Ahmed gives me $5000. My friend in Dubai gave $5040 to his associate locally in UAE, that guy picked up the phone, called Ahmed and gave him instructions to pay me $5000. So suddenly some guy named Ahmed gives me $5000 he had in cash in his pocket and he's supposed to follow AML guidelines and reporting requirements? Yes. This is a Hawala, its the oldest type of money transmitter and currently transactions are regulated. The gov says it's illegal for Ahmed to give me money without reporting it.(LOL)The case of GoldAge, the Secret Service deposited cash and in exchange got e-gold. That's exchange services so what-- right? No, because the next day or even later that day the customer sold the e-gold and directed GoldAge where to send a wire. They sandwiched the transactions together (the quick e-gold buy and sell) and charged them with operating a money transmission service. The gov said, GoldAge received cash and soon after wired it out(minus fees) on behalf of the customer. The customer gave them cash and told them where to wire it, the rest of the e-gold exchanges and fees were simply part of the money transmission transaction.My point here is that when it comes to Bitcoin or any other new digital currency product you can call it what you like but if they don't want you operating in the U.S. they will find a way for one or two exchange agents to complete a transaction or two and they will label it whatever they want an MSB, Money Transmitter, Money Launder, Criminal Enterprise because it circumvents the intent or spirit of their law as they see it. They will say, "the laws are in place to regulate this type of activity, our agents have shown this type of activity takes place, it is required to be regulated and it's illegal when it's not".Look at e-bullion, they received funds for customers and deposited the e-bullion in exchange for the incoming funds. That is what their business was, give us money, receive e-bullion. However, since a big ponzi scam the gov was prosecuting used e-bullion bank accounts to accept incoming deposits, e-bullion was labeled by the FBI as the actual ponzi. FBI agent in charge at the press conference, no less, stood up and outright called e-bullion the ponzi, NOT a company processing funds for gold, the operator of a ponzi. But e-bullion was NOT operating any ponzi, we all know what a ponzi it and they were not, but because some transactions moved through them they were labeled the actual "ponzi". You can say what you like here on this board, and I agree with you, but sooner or later they will complete some transaction and show what they want, right or wrong in our eyes they will label it whatever they need to to close things down and attack it. They will find one guy selling stolen credit card info and label Bitcoin, or one guy selling "china white" and the DEA will call it a drug dealers method of payment. It doesn't matter, and I know this from experience, if you have 10,000 honest merchants and 3 bad ones, the 3 will make the headlines. You can't win over the long haul in the U.S. Now it may take them a week, a year or ten years but they will stop it somehow and good people will get hurt in the process. The guy writing this software is one of the sharpest minds I know.https://github.com/FellowTraveler/MoneychangerMoneychanger -- A wallet built on Open TransactionsDESCRIPTIONMoneychanger is a simple Java client GUI built on top of Open Transactions.https://github.com/FellowTraveler/Open-Transactions/wikiMoneychanger can be used to issue currencies, open accounts, withdraw cash, deposit cash, write cheques, purchase vouchers (cashier's cheques), deposit cheques, and soon, create basket currencies, exchange in and out of basket currencies, set up payment plans, and trade on markets.(Bitcoin integration is coming soon.)See wikis for audio, screenshots, diagrams, etc.Moneychanger wiki  https://github.com/FellowTraveler/Moneychanger/wikiOpen-Transactions wiki  https://github.com/FellowTraveler/Open-Transactions/wikiTHIS IS ONLY EXPERIMENTAL SOFTWARE AND IS NOT YET READY FOR PRIME TIME.(Open-Transactions Install Instructions)  https://github.com/FellowTraveler/Open-Transactions/wiki/Install You can get me IM on Skype anytime "digitalcurrency"Regarding each Bitcoin user registering :-), I don't know if that would be their solution and of course I'm with you, that will never happen. Bitcoin is a new problem for them to tackle so I'm not sure how they will attack it. Here is a new quickie article for FinCEN.Peer-2-Peer Digital Currency: The Long Road Ahead for FinCEN (Financial Crimes Enforcement Network)http://www.associatedcontent.com/article/7992905/peer2peer_digital_currency_the_long.html?cat=3 The act of exchanging a digital unit for monetary value would be considered the regulated action. The exchange agent would have to be an MSB and be licensed and report as a money transmitter. There is a WHOLE lot more to it than just getting a scan copy of a customer's ID. As an example of how complex this is, you know that for almost a decade we all heard that e-gold was not required to be registered Money Transmitter as they had no bank account and gold was not money etc.  We know how that turned out.  To really explain this point, here is the 19 page judge's opinion on that e-gold case carefully detailing why e-gold was required under law to be registered. http://www.dgcmagazine.com/JudgesOpinion.pdf Good luck understanding it.I'm up to date on most all of the Treasuries legal stuff on digital currency, the proposed FinCEN reg changes, including the new ones regarding money transmitters both domestic and foreign. I would like to provide documents and assistance to you in your move to write a report and would be happy to clarify some legal details. email me anytime editor@dgcmagazine.com or skype me IM "digitalcurrency"  I also wrote a pretty cool paper on the Digital Currency Industry late last year which includes legal matters, industry changes, updates and even Bitcoin. http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1721076 It's free and you can download it there, sorry it's 56 pages. Or if you want to read it as a flash magazine (it's much faster) get it here: http://www.dgcmagazine.com/index.php/past-issues/2011-digital-gold-currency-magazine-special-industry-issue  The New Systems (including Bitcoin) start on page 48.These discussions are excellent and I'm really happy to see stuff like this appearing for Bitcoin, we never had any info the past decade on e-gold or any others. However, it's REALLY important to note that even the most expensive law firms I know, that specialize in online payments don't understand 100% about digital currency...it's new:-) Whatever suggestions or opinions come out of this discussion don't take them to be law. 2011 Observations on the Digital Currency IndustryBy Mark Herpelfor DGCmagazineJanuary 2011http://www.scribd.com/doc/44766617/2011-Observations-on-the-Digital-Currency-Industryhttp://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1721076Bitcoin appears on pages 41-42 Bitcoin press links:http://www.irishtimes.com/newspaper/finance/2010/1126/1224284180416.htmlBitcoin is on The Morning Show Featuring Patrick Timpone, Bruce Wagner Bitcoin 1. The New Digital Money - Bitcoin with Bruce Wagner - 12-02-10 (Money/Finance - Podcasts/The Economy) http://www.oneradionetwork.com/money%10finance_-_podcasts/the_economy/the_new_digital_money_-_bitcoin_with_bruce_wagner_-_12-02-10_201012021972/   You have to dig a bit for this one but it's goodLet me explain something lady and gents. My job is to provide positive exposure for digital currency products like Bitcoin. On July 31, 2010 someone I know posted to a list I read, that Wikipedia had dropped the listing because of no third party....  Here is the link to that post.http://blog.gmane.org/gmane.comp.finance.gold-silver-crypto/day=20100731 [gsc] Wikipedia deleted the entry on Bitcoin2010-07-31 02:14:10 GMTThe paymaster of the Wiki gang must have got the order from the banksters. How corrupt can the world become?Now, my magazine publishes generally in the first 4-5 days of each month. It's free to anyone who wants to read it and on August 1, I already had a nice cover and there was no articles on Bitcoin. After I read the post above, I decided to try and provide some Bitcoin coverage so I changed the cover giving it to Bitcoin and provided some quick cut n paste promotional material from a hour or two touring of webs online. All the referenced material has links and credit was provided to anything used. That's not plagiarism. Plagiarism is stealing someone's content and calling it your own.Hey kiba,  "Somebody should notify DGMagazine that their plagiarism make for a poor article. It's highly disjointed." ...No kidding !!! How'd you like to work for us and be an editor, you have a keen insight for the obvious.  The cover of the issue plus the quickee article should well satisfy Wikipedia. That was my intention, sorry if we disappointed you with our cut n paste literary skills.I have a very large original paper (60pgs) on the digital currency industry publishing next week and it has a section on Bitcoin.  After next week, if no one does it before me, I'll get back to Wikipedia and work to get it back up.One final note for all of you (especially ribuck), DGCmagazine starts our 4th year in January and we have NEVER charged for advertisements or articles. Ads are free of charge to all industry or related businesses and anyone can write an article for inclusion in our issues. Ads have always been free. You email any company in there and you will find all ads are free.  The magazine does NOT generate any monthly income for me or anyone and it will remain that way. Do you have a business that deals in Bitcoin? Let us run an ad for you. It's no cost and that is a related business....what are you waiting for...free industry promotion you can't find a more direct place to advertise? So if you are hot-an-heavy for Bitcoin why don't you write an article on why you love it or how about this, write a monthly column for us on any aspect of Bitcoin and I'll publish you each month. Come one, time to nut-up or shut-up. You like Bitcoin, we like Bitcoin, get busy and come up with some monthly material and we'll promote it as that is THE thing to do. Work with us to expand Bitcoin's market that is all of our goals. I'm perhaps the easiest guy on the Internet to reach, 24/7 editor@dgcmagazine.com  skype "digitalcurrency" Twitter @dgcmagazine http://www.dgcmagazine.com/index.php/past-issues/digital-gold-currency-magazine-august-2010
