    This actually happened to the spanish during the colonization of south america.  They brought so much gold back to spain from the new world at such a low cost that it caused monetary inflation(they used gold as money then)  It also disrupted their internal wealth calulations.However, despite the disruption, it remained valuable.If we find a gold asteroid today, it won't even disrupt society(gold is not money, we don't use it for value calculations).  It will just drop the value calculation via the dollar.  It will still be an excellent wealth reserve because people will still want it. I use the word "money" for lack of a better term.  Read my definition of it above.  It is an internal calculation of value.  It is not part of the material world.Gold has been used as money in the past.  However, this stopped for the common man after FDR and it stopped for international trade after Nixon.  It hasn't been money since.  We have been using fiat dollars to make our mental calculations.Gold is an excellent wealth reserve(the best wealth reserve) but it is not money.Also, I am not university trained.  They teach crap economics in all universities.If you think gold is money then find me somewhere that you can buy something directly with gold.  Find somewhere that a person uses gold to calculate value.  Find somewhere that gold settles international trade imballance.  It doesn't currently exist. I should add that bitcoin's characteristics make it capable of outlasting any money system ever invented.  Once the adoption group is large enough, they will remain stable for longer than gold money or fiat money ever could. Gold is no longer money and it should remain that way.  People just need to realize that money exists only in the mind, to make transactions fair.  Money is the human concept of value as it relates to the real world.  Gold is payment in full by virtue of it's existance in the real material world (any physical object can be payment in full but gold is best if you want to store value for the future).  Gold should never be linked to the imaginary in any way.  Bitcoins are the best representation of the imaginary money system because they are only a small step away from being imaginary.  They have just enough structure to ensure a constant supply (stability).No money supply can ever be permanently stable.  All systems can be gamed.  But, if you save in gold then the failue of money can never hurt you.  If bitcoins fail someday then the bitcoin savers will be burned just as bad as the dollar savers will be.  The gold savers will just shrug and convert some of their saving gold into whatever comes along next as money. I think that bitcoins will work beautifully as a transactional currency.  I do not see people using them for savings.However, I consider the seperation of transaction/saving as a great thing.  People can use bitcoins to do buisness and then convert into gold for saving.  This would create a nearly perfect monetary system.  Untouchable by governments and reliable through the centuries.One of the main weaknesses of fiat dollars is that they are used for transaction and saving.  Dollar users are 100% tied to the whims of the central bank. I was surprised that he was not more enthusiastic.  Normally, he seems like he is all about bringing down the powers that be. This is only indirectly related to bitcoinshttp://maxkeiser.com/2010/11/12/crash-jp-morgan-buy-silver-america-says-max-keiser/It would be nice to see a criminal bank go down.  That is the kind of thing that opens the door in peoples minds to looking for alternate forms of currency. I gave admin rights to elaunch.exeThe bug log can be downloaded here http://www.voodoovelvet.com/egenesis.bug I forgot the file name.  I will check that and the bug log when I get home.  Will send you the info. I am running it on win 7I had to go into the properties of the exe file and set it to "run as administrator"This prevented the freezing.  Sounds good.  I should be able to be there.I had a chance to try the Chinese Treasures game and it was quite fun. Where can I go for game tech support?I created an account but when i click on the "I have bitcoins tell me where to send them" link, it says 'processing' for a few seconds and then returns to the menu. I've been forced to use my number 2 source for derp online while your site was down.  It has left me unfulfilled.  Hope you are back up soon.    I am respectfully withdrawing.You guys didn't really like my image anyway so no big loss to you.I enjoy contests and I thought this would be fun so I just jumped into it.However, after observation I realize that I do not want to support this. Completely without malace or regret I say good luck to you and your contest. I see, thank you for the explination.So the calulators that I see are just calculating odds then.  I take it you could solve a block in your first 5 minutes if you were lucky enough.  Or if unlucky then you might not solve one all month. Is there any loss of time or effort when you shut down coin generation?  Or, does it just pick up where you left off the next time that you start it?  Just curious. I'm not sure I understand what you mean here.  To clairify my own meaning, I intend that the image be under the creative commons liscense that you linked.  I also hope that my image will be used to promote bitcoins. This can fall under the creative commons liscense.  I hope that it will be used to promote bitcoins. Here is my entry for the contestFNORDhttp://www.voodoovelvet.com
