stellar. I think stellar is a good project and best project in this time. with stellar you can do anything like ICO, transfer money under 5s.  any telegram bot can notif me a good ICO coming or just have a new topic. really need something like this.  that is good. many ICO project are scam. I said most 99% ICO are scam and they run too many ads. this is good to protect our investor nice topic. I will check all your opinion :3 nice thread to find a good ICO to invest. you know we have too many ICO too day so it is very hard to check all ICO information In my opinion, Mark Zuckerberg and Facebook are preparing establish their own coins, so they ban crypto advertises.    congratulation! you have just had a big decision of your life. I hope that you will succeed with it and remember that do not put all your budget into one coin. let's choose a smart portfolio with 5 coins.  in my country, many people are considering to invest in BTC and altcoins. But they do not have enough channel to research. my friends asked me and I sent them some information about the social network, forum to get more detail. I hope that they can learn from it and choose good coins to buy I do not know what exactly when to buy or sell. i just follow the market and choose the suitable time when i have gotten profit or i wanna cut loss I do not know but i think at this moment many people treat BTC as kind of asset to invest like stock. but in the future, when the market is more stable, BTC will become the official currency of the world  I do not scare the banning of China because there are hundred countries still welcome BTC such as Canada. China is just one market in hundred market and BTC still rise up in the future  i think everything is ok. BTC can not always rise up with strong speed. It also needs a relax time and it will come back in next few months. You should be patient and trust in BTC.  yes, i completely agree with your point of view. Checking price every 5 minutes makes us confused. We have to spend time to other works such as bounty campaign or trading altcoins.  I totally agree with your opinion. Cryptocurrency will be the official currency in the future becaused of its advantages. So, we should not be afraid of BTC. we can buy it and hold for the development in next year.  i do not know but my think that investing in ICO projects is also a good way to earn money. there are thousand projects out there and most of them are really potential such as Reward Mob, Card Stack, Helbiz,... there are only 3 ways to get money: trading, investing, and working for bounty. Therefore, you should not believe anyone who say that can give you money. they wanna scam you I think that Reward Mob is the best project now. it is a nice project with good idea and experienced team. you can access its website to research more and find out the good way to invest in it of course there will be more and more altcoins which are faster, cheaper and greater than BTC. But BTC likes a Gold of crypto world. many people trust in its value and no thing can change it. So, in long term, BTC is still the best coin of the world i used to access in some ICOs ratine website to research and find out some potential projects. After that, I will read their whitepapers and connect with their developers in social networks such as tellegram, twitters to understand clearly. finally, i choose one to two of them to invest to anwser this question you have to know the reason why it falls down. if it is just a fluctuation, you can hold or buy more to reduce the avarage price. If not or you do not know why, you can sell your coin to cut loss and find others to invest #JOINBitcointalk username: octopusForum rank: MemberPosts count:  91WAVES address: 3PHEukuBm8TPxpc9sbhspCMt2EvuAeG8uUu
nope. lending ICO is ponzi scam. dont invest into it. ya you can make money from it but your money come from other people blood for me some big exchange is good to keep my coin. save coin on your pc is more dangerous  just like I dont like China people but they still have many good people. sometime some bad guys from these country make you angry but most of them are good I like bitcoin cash than bitcoin gold. dont know why but when I see how fast and low fee is it. I'm fall in love with bch lol. just see this topic. anyone? I have 1000$ and hope I can make 10$ passive income everyday. that will be awesome well that is a good profit for you. If you buy ripple when 8k for 6 month so price is about 0.25$ and you have x10 profit. If you hold bitcoin you just have x5 profit you mean it's againts law? why I see some people have centra card and used it ? @.@ tenx too you dont need to do anything. if you feel bad when losing money you should quit trading I'm not deal with it. just accept it. I can do anything to get money back so can't sad forever. Must calm and back to trading. offline wallet like mutilbit is a good choice for me. ez to save wallet dat. archive to rar file with password make hacker hard to crack it I have same idea with you about this. I believe stratis can get over ethereum soon.  congrat! me and my friend still waiting our token from dev. hope he can send all soon really see some people tell about this coin and I think this is just a joke.https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1487774.0is this goku coin? but on this time we shouldn't buy NEO. need more news from China or your fund will be freeze for a long time 500$high risk high value - 0.00001% success. buy trueflip ticket and maybe you get back 500k$low risk low value - eth and btc is a good choicelow risk high value - invest all on stratis  this is always happen. look at tenx chart. they from ICO price 1$ fall down to 0.6$ then go up to 4-5$.  long time. very hard to get list on these exchange. they need prove their strength before can list on bittrex or poloniex funny question. are you seriously? even eth doesn't have a chance to over bitcoin.  stratis is the best altcoin to invest. price still low and more update coming will make it to da moon hope it can list on some exchange soon. this will be awesome for this project
 I must find my twitter. dont use twitter so much. so many airdrop and bounty base on twitter  learn how to trading by youtube, website. go to some trader group. you can find some on this forum and talk about trader is the best way to learn ARK is too high now for me. Waves too. I think we still can make profit from this coin but only arround x2-x3. I try to find some promise altcoin can x10 I just bought more 5 ETH for invest to some ICO. I think 240$ is cheap for me now.  we not in a bubble. But we are in dangerous zone now. If China ban crypto. that will be a long nightmare for us (( I want find an ICO will start on October. with the first character is M..... but forgot bookmark they thread. and now I can't find in Ann board because too many ICO. anyone known that ICO http://www.investopedia.com/news/ripple-china-central-bank-cryptocurrency/Ripple Cryptocurrency Woos China's Central Bankcheck this out  is same idea with lbry coin This will make price fall down so much. But when all gov can control ICO. avoid scam ICO. Price will recover I want retire in a country with only animal and without technology. Maybe somewhere in Canada they think it's had value like ripple, stellar ( 2 free coin) everything fall too. not just EOS. checkout some other coin. They will recover soon the lesson is anything china bans - invest in it even Member and Full member have same problem like you. Dev had banned many user I believe their team not from  ChinaRonald B SaoCatherine OliverDeepak Kumar what's dev doing? any update on this project it's like 1 coin have 100.000.000.000 unit but many people hold ETH on exchange site. So they can receive any airdrops even they have 10000 ETH agree. just wait some more update from China then buy back later! I think they will ban all ICO from China even ICO had raised!
But I think SWIFT is making their own blockchain.  that is my favourite country too   waiting for bug bounty program we should be panic of panic people will sell all coin when have any bad news I dont have any ETH but if I have I think I will sell all and wait market comeback then buy back I dont understand. So u mean. U hold Bitcoin and ETH. If Bitcoin price go down u can hope in ETH. Right? Don't believe anything on bitcointalk say u invest anything. It u want advice u can request but don't think all they say is the truth!  see my life!!!! lost btc when mt.gox get hacked! lost btc when btc-e get raided! He doesn't exits! maybe not. many coin have new exchange and still down like a god. But strat have more future because it's have some update  Ya charlie Lee is an active dev. And He spam my twitter notice everyday! But I can't unfollow him because I hold many Ltc. He is a devil!   sometime being an oldman. live a life without technology is fun Haha thank you for saving my time. I see many people share this site and still think about join this airdrop lol. So how to get Fuck token. I see ICO completed worldwide... is that to say you've got taxis in major areas? any in BC?i'm interested to hear more about this, please post a website if you have one. How old is your BTC-E account? It has to be 72 hour old before you can transfer coins out. dono but fuckface here managed to pull it off god, you are such an insufferable faggot.yes, the argument was deconstructed you massive fucking cunt. it was analyzed piece-by-piece, and shown to be wrong.funny, because you're the one typing like you just raped a thesaurus. that was the worst analogy i've ever read. here's a better one.you go to a table, and place a bet.you hand over your chips. only then do they let you know that the table isn't accepting anymore bets. however, they are going to keep your bet because it's a rule. there's no good logic behind the rule, only that it's a rule. THAT is exploitation. can you explain how exactly it would make the site nearly untenable?really? you would be OK with rules that blatantly exploit users? you think it's OK for users to be held accountable for the webmaster's shitty code?we're not in a court of law, people aren't forced to use the service, bitcoin isn't technically currency, blah blah blah. that's not even the real issue here.this issue here is that bitbet.us are just plain assholes. they wont think twice about robbing you over some bullshit technicality. the apparent PR guy doesn't have a professional nor moral bone in his body.i don't know that he even has bones. bones have integrity. he's a human jellyfish as far as i'm concerned.open offer to bitbet.us to collectively choke and die, you slimy fucks lool why the fuck would you post this here? as if anybody is going to help you recover your 2btc.consider it a 2btc lesson in not: being a retard, dealing with retards.
how many times does it have to be said? it is the responsibility of the POS system to prevent this. it is no more of a scam than if i submitted a lottery ticket after the numbers had been announced. the lottery company would have to be really fucking stupid to award me the jackpot, and somebody would have to be really fucking stupid to claim i was trying to scam them.it is trivial to stop taking bets once the bet has closed. it should be expected that some bets will receive wagers when closed. a proper POS system will handle this eventuality by refunding the coins.unfortunately in this case, POS seems to stand for "piece of shit" rather than "point of sale"so is this your business model? steal from people who use your site, then redistribute some of that money to "shareholders" (paid shills) to attempt to keep your reputation afloat by continually reposting arguments that have already been thoroughly deconstructed? really?i think you fall directly under "calculating" You're massive bleeding cunt and I hope somebody robs your shit website for every coin you have. how is that scamming? if the sites accepts bets after the outcome is known, that's a logistical error, and not the fault of the user. it is completely plausible that somebody could mistakenly send bitcoins after a bet is closed. and bitbet's answer to this is "you fucked up, your loss, haha" ? the only reason bitbet has a the audacity to enforce such a bullshit rule is because they clearly make a lot of money this way."you're screwed." really? judging from the rhetoric alone, bitbet doesn't give a single shit about their customers.completely disingenuous. i reiterate, everyone over at bitbet.us can go get fucked. anybody who uses bitbet.us after reading this thread has got to have stockholm syndrome. the owner, or whoever this douchebag representing the site is, clearly does not respect his customer base. your site must not be doing well, if 10btc means this much to you.get fucked, bitbet This doesn't look very trustworthy. You're hosting a site that handles BTC on a free web host? And I may not know a lot about economics, but 150% return in 3 days? That just doesn't seem possible. Webmaster -- I found a security issue in your site. Check your PM. PM me or email at dissahc@gmail.commy OTC account:http://bitcoin-otc.com/viewratingdetail.php?nick=xetamine&sign=ANY&type=RECVthanks Code:import urllibimport relink = "https://api.bitcoinaverage.com/no-mtgox/ticker/USD"f = urllib.urlopen(link)myfile = f.read()last = re.search("last\": (.+?),", myfile).group(1)myFile = open('last.txt', 'w')myFile.write(last)myFile.close()custom tailored  1C2NWeHxtaGyo9keSLwNMYXSsDBYwhMgaEedit:self-updating:Code:import urllibimport reimport timewhile True:        link = "https://api.bitcoinaverage.com/no-mtgox/ticker/USD"        f = urllib.urlopen(link)        myfile = f.read()        last = re.search("last\": (.+?),", myfile).group(1)        myFile = open('last.txt', 'w')        myFile.write(last)        myFile.close()        print "updated: %s" % last        time.sleep(30) These are both scams:https://bitcoinwallet.in/users/lalala/https://easycoin.net/users/lalala/ (seems down atm)As you can see, he has both sites running the same codebase, which is built for easy access to their victim's info.One of his wallets has seen over 1200 BTCThese sites are listed athttps://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Trade#Bitcoin_Banking_and_Ewalletsand who knows how many more scam sites he's running.Kind of a late notice, but beware. Just wanted to warn everybody, I just tried to cash out my winnings and got this message:Not cool. Are you sure you didn't run a Java applet? Because that's pretty much the same as running an executable file, and in that case, your negligence can't be blamed on MtGox.I have a strong feeling it was a Java applet, because XSS can't install trojans on to your computer without an additional attack vector.Sorry, but this seems to be mostly due to your own negligence. I know it's hard to hear. Sorry dude  careful guys, this site has been known to pay out selectively -- your video views sometimes never registetr. they claim it's some browser issue, but others who use the same API as them never seem to have these problems.this is how they afford slightly higher payouts than other sites, they depend on people watching videos for free. rUiKDPzLTLsqiTKPDTmVEVtyvVJQwbnpHz r33dwR8VbfDvHptF2AYzp9JHjR7iVetqM I just bought a 48HR Xbox Live Gold code and it was used already...I sent it to 1KVFGpNUNY3oLEJ2dt5n3Q9J3XuxpApJCAWhat the hell? it's no technical issue. those errors are artificial. that's why he's able to provide a relatively high payout to a select few -- the others get shafted. it would have to ~double twice, so once a year. ... and a beak. I have eight arms.
