Thanks man, we appreciate the feedback and the recommendation! Things have been tough, small scale mining is kinda dead it seems. We're still in business but it is not like the "golden days" when most of the hardware in the shop was customer hardware.  It's been a long time since I posted but I just wanted to let everyone know that we're still around quietly supporting our customers and that we have available capacity to host your miners.  Hi everyone. I have the following miners for sale (28 in total a mixed bag of models)S17-Pro - 50 TH - TurboS17-Pro - 50 TH - TurboS17-Pro - 50 TH - TurboS17-Pro - 50 TH - TurboS17-Pro - 50 TH - TurboS17-Pro - 50 TH - TurboS17 - 53 TH - NormalS17 - 53 TH - NormalS17 - 53 TH - NormalS17 - 53 TH - NormalS17e - 60 THS17e - 60 THS17e - 60 THS17e - 60 THS17e - 60 THS17e - 60 THS17+ - 73 THS17+ - 73 THS17+ - 73 THS17+ - 73 THS17+ - 73 THS17+ - 73 THS17+ - 73 THS17+ - 73 THS17+ - 73 THS17+ - 73 THS17+ - 73 THS17+ - 73 THI'd prefer to sell them all as a lot or individually if needed but not 1 piece at a time. You can also keep them running at the current host (CryptoBoreas) for $70 CAD per KW.Asking price whatever the best market price, but I think these sell for $1300 USD or around there from popular sellers like KaboomRacks.PM me if interested.--EDIT---ALL SOLD. Oh I know that, but what I meant is for them to remove it or move to a different section on the forum. They should have a section for sold. There you go mate, all locked up!  I still have these. I have 8 in Toronto if anybody is interested. It should lower shipping costs. All miners sold. Moderator you can close the thread or archive it. Got it and replied! S15s sold. @chillfactr - well the S15s sold for $225 USD each so the T15 are obviously gonna be less than that. Make me an offer! Ahoy everyone! I've got for sale a variety of S15 and T17 older gen miners for sale. Currently running in Labrador hosted with CryptoBoreas. Shipping is possible at buyer's expense. All miners are running stock firmware in low power mode. Here is a list of the miners being offered:Inno T2 Turbo 24TInno T2 Turbo 24TS11 - 20.5 TH - AutoS15 - 28 TH - AutoS15 - 28 TH - AutoT15 - 23 TH - AutoT15 - 23 TH - AutoT15 - 23 TH - AutoT15 - 23 TH - AutoT15 - 23 TH - AutoS15 - 28 TH - AutoT15 - 23 TH - AutoT15 - 23 TH - AutoS15 - 28 TH - AutoT15 - 23 TH - Auto My client has 2 of these that he has just recently shut down and would prefer to sell them rather than collect dust. Throw your bountiful offers at me The miners are located in Labrador. Shipping is at buyer's expense. I'll check with the buyer soon to see if PSU is included as I'm not sure yet but I'd say that it likely is.  Thanks, you're welcome bro. Yeah I share your opinion. Hopefully I can find someone local otherwise these suckers are gonna eat dust for a long time to come. $45 a piece? Looks like with Canada Post it's $48.37 CAD per unit (without PSU). That's $34 USD roughly.  UPS Standard is $40.85  CAD so a bit cheaper. PSUs will add quite a bit to the weight unfortunately so if you happen to have ATX or server power supplies to power them it might be best to skip shipping the PSUs. Ok, I'll get you a quote ready today. As for price like I said I have no idea what these are worth these days. On ebay the cheapest I found was $63 USD so I'd say $50 is a good price, no? I'll PM you a shipping quote. I have 4 units at home I can ship. The ones in Labrador I'll quote with UPS. As for price I have no idea what these are worth these days. Make me an offer.  Still available.  We'd be glad to host them in Labrador Canada if the shipping costs are not too high. We have open capacity at the moment.  Still available! 2 sold, 21 still left remaining. SOLD!! Well, technically I can host them for you (I do run a hosting company after all) but you have to do the math to see if it is worth to host. Best we can do is $70 CAD per KW. 
Price lowered to $100 per cube. Sounds like a plan. $50 a piece is my asking price, willing to negotiate though and offer bulk purchase discounts. Still available.  Price lowered to $70 USD per S9 (with PSU). Lowered price to $125 per cube. 125 CAD not USD. Bump. I guess I'll try my luck on ebay soon. I dunno to be honest, but I think something around $150 CAD per cube is ok. That would make the entire rig 1050 CAD which is sub 1K USD. Shipping is separate though and that is where it may be a dealbreaker.  Depends on how close you are to the shipment source. Import taxes we can try and lower them. You could always drive and pick them up in person lol - assuming you're close enough to Labrador Canada. Still available.  Avalon 841 rig with 7 cubes. PSUs can be included. Each cube is powered by dual 750W Platinum and Gold rated HP PSUs.Local pickup (Labrador Canada) preferred but I'm willing to ship them anywhere at buyer's expense.  Bump..these make great space heaters  They are not noisy like S9s. https://imgur.com/ewxGfXS Nope, these are sitting @ CryptoBoreas - not at all affiliate with Great North Data. PM me or visit our website and send me a contact request via e-mail (contact form) if we you wish to go further. How many do you want and would you be able to pick them up in person or you require shipping? Also let me know if you want PSUs included. I am aware of that, but that is not us. We'd love to take over the space but at the moment we lack the financing required to pull off something like that. GND got initial funding from the government, we did it all ourselves with whatever little money we had. Also due to the various moves that GND pulled off the local politics are not very favorable for us miners. It seems many miner hosting companies still to this day haven't learned their lesson. This space is sadly filled with bankrupcy after bankruptcy, and not to mention maleficence, incompetence, and greed. Let's hope for the best.We'll just keep on ticking as long as we can.Happy mining! Bump..still a bunch available. Yes, we have 10 MW coming up for newer gen gear such as S17/T17. As for minimum consumption it's not set in stone, but we are trying to go for the big fish and we'd prefer a decent size chunk of hardware. Let me know via PM how much capacity you're interested in hosting.Cheers! Hi!We have some space to spare at the moment. E-mail us at sales [at] cryptoboreas.com with details such as the number and kind of miners you want to send to us. Miners go online 24 to 48 hours after we receive them. Current best price is $70 CAD on a 3 month pre-paid plan. Taxes are included in that price. The only thing is you have to pay to the Canadian Government the 5% import fee which is a one time fee when the miners enter the country. Miners can be accessed online via remote desktop solutions like anydesk or teamviewer but we typically reserve this capability for our largest customers for obvious security reasons. For the most part you should not need to babysit the miners too much and any pool changes can be done by us. Hope this answers all your questions. Correct on both fronts, no longer accepting S9s and phasing out own S9 farm as more efficient gear comes in. If you contacted us via our website and you're interested in sending out newer gen gear then let's continue the conversation via e-mail. Happy mining! Update: We now have a bunch of available capacity available as we are phasing out S9s. If you have S17s or similar newer gen hardware to host send them our way. 
Still available.  Just wanted to let everyone know that CryptoBoreas has several hundred KW of newly available capacity. Only newer gen hardware (S17s, etc) accepted though.  Still available.  I'd take one for $180 USD if you can ship it to Canada. If I'm happy I'd probably buy more later on.  What's your asking price?  Bumpidy bump!  Bump, still available! $200 is a good deal and I'd take it but please check to see first if shipping is worth it for you. Edit: PM me if you need a more precise address where the miners would be shipped from.  I have a bunch of S9s for sale if anyone is interested. These are running fine at the moment in our shop in Labrador. It's a mixed bag but the majority of them are 13.5 TH units. Please make me offers with or without PSU included. I'd prefer to sell them with PSUs as the majority of them have Bitmain APW PSUs. Also if anyone is interested in picking them up in person that would be better as well.I'm not sure what to ask but 13.5 TH: 52 - total TH 70214 TH: 18 - total TH 25212 TH: 14 - total TH 168 11 TH: 3 - total TH 33total S9s: 87Payment in BTC preferred, escrow accepted with OgNasty or other such reputable escrow agent, shipping is extra. I have original boxes for many of these. PSUs will be shipped separately of course.  Bump! Much appreciated QC! bump... @Stryfe - yes that's what I meant.@philipma1957 - no worries, thanks for the interest anyway. Good luck! Seen and replied.  I'm looking to sell 21 Bitmain L3+ miners currently running at our hosting facility. All of these have the Blissz firmware which means you can undervolt them and tune their performance to power consumption ratio. At the moment all are already tuned up manually by me. All of them hash at 11,606~ MH. I can sell them with or without PSUs. I'll have to inventory them all again to see what powers each but I'd venture to say a lot of them are powered by either HP DSP1200 or Bitmain 1600W PSUs.Location of hardware is Labrador Canada. Local pickup is optional if you want to drive up here. Shipment method we prefer is UPS or DHL or FedEx. - 2 units sold Feb 2020 - I have a few of these that I may be willing to sell for $140. If LTC price doesn't double us L3 holders will have no choice but to liquidate. The only issue is that the gear is located in Labrador Canada so I'm not sure how much shipping would be. If you want I can PM you the shipping from address and you can do your UPS/FedEx shipment quote magic. Capacity available now down to 100 KW!  I can do less than $100 per miner. I did some checking and we have a LOT of working 741s if you're interested - for the same price as the 721s. I can send you controllers as well. you can easily run 20 cubes per controller. I suggest 15 cubes max or around there though.So total # of 741s is 168 lol What's the magic number? Also where about are you located? Hey man, I see you PM'ed me so let's continue the discussion there.
I'd LOVE to get local pickup cause man preparing shipments is not fun. To answer your question (a bit late) is yes I have power supplies (of all kinds) for these miners.  I replied to your PM.If you want try to reach me on Telegram. I can PM you the telegram username.  What are you offering on a per unit basis for S9s? Willing to take 721s that are working (last checked 1 and a half year ago I think)? Where are you intending to host these and what is your offer price per unit? Update: Minimum consumption still remain 1 MW and price remains the same, but capacity is getting smaller so if you're interested now would be the time to contact us. 741s and 721 are still available. Maybe with the new high btc price they are worth for some of you to mine with. Let me know if interested. Update: We have roughly 250 KW available for newer gen hardware such as S17/T3 etc. Price remains the same $70 CAD per KW on 3 month pre-paid plan.  I'd be interested in one if you can ship to Labrador Canada. Those of you who are interested we still have 80 KW available. Price remains the same, $70 CAD per KW on a 3 month pre-paid plan. We welcome all mining hardware and no minimum hosting quantity.  They always did that. Anyone that mines at this pool still has an empty block between their ears. Do you have a bug reporting form on the site or can we report bugs here as well? I dunno if this is just for me, but it seems that if I remove focus from the Chrome tab containing the beta interface I get a blank page. After maybe a bit more than a minute or two it suddenly appears again. The previous/current site does not exhibit this behaviour.  There is a power outage in the Wabush area. I'm waiting for NL Hydro to fix it and hopefully that will happen soon. In the future if you are curious to know whether an outage is caused by power issues checkout the NL Hydro power outage status page: https://my.nlhydro.com/portal/PreLogOutages.aspxWe do not charge anything to swap the controller so just send us another one and we'll swap it out.Oh btw in the future please e-mail our support e-mail address instead of posting here if you want a faster response time. I am on the road at the moment and it just happened to be that I had access to a laptop otherwise I would not be able to reply to forum postings.Cheers! Please see our latest price structure below:1,000 kW or more - $41 USD (55 CAD) per kW per month All Inclusive (based on Antminer S9 or similar), $26 USD (35 CAD) installation per miner (Antminer S9 or similar)**15 Megawatts immediately available** Hmmm, so a coin without a working blockchain! Nice. This coins doesn't even have any active nodes.  Lowered price to $240 We just upped the available space to 100 KW ! Bump..721s make great space heaters   Very quiet. Get em while they're still hot lol It seems we've hit a really rough patch  Yes I have seen 250 block luck over 100%+ for brief periods of time. Over the long term all pool variance (ie luck) will tend to 100%  - it's just that you have to wait long enough for it to average out. Over an infinite period of time all variance must be 100% and cannot be higher unless you know a way to break the laws of mathematics.
The luck is not bad historically speaking. I've been through 45% luck periods. If you leave the pool now guess what will happen, the luck will return right as you leave  - it's the nature of luck, it's totally random. Network hashrate dropped, difficulty dropped previously and will drop in 4 days, but just because there are fewer miners competing for the block reward doesn't mean that each miner is more likely to solve a block than before. Your chances of solving a block will once again be purely random. What does increase in this scenario is your total reward per block - ie you get a bigger chunk of the block reward and thus make more btc. If I'm wrong on this hopefully someone will correct me. PPLNS will not help with your luck woes, only PPS will. If you cannot stomach the variance then move to a PPS pool and pay a higher fee or forsake the block fees (like Antpool).  Thanksgiving special @ 55CAD per kW per month.Miner deployment of at least 1.5MW for a minimum three year contract and three month deposit, with NO prepayment (billed at the end of a month) **************55CAD per kW ($41.5USD per kW or $0.057USD per kWh) How many controllers do you have in total? I want to let you all know that we have 65 KW of spare capacity immediately available. Cost is $70 CAD per KW on a 3 month pre-paid basis.  83 first gen Antminer S9s for sale. Location: Labrador, Canada Miners are currently hosted with us at CryptoBoreas.Hashing speed: 12.5 on average, some hash at 10 and 11 TH. Price will be of course reduced for those. Also some 2 blade systems.Initial asking price: $265 USD*asking price is _without_ PSU. We have PSUs but they are not as efficient as Bitmain PSUS so you're better off buying brand new APW7s.PM me if interested.  30 721s sold. 60 left! I have a feeling they are not going to pay that out. There also doesn't appear to be enough people bugging them about it. Let's hope for the best. You are right though that we are entitled to those NMC earnings.  How many do you still have left?  Would you be willing to sell just the APW3 PSUs? Probably to #1 and most certainly to #2   PM me your e-mail address and name and I will get you in touch with the right people to get the ball rolling. That's a very good question, but I wonder if it's all really worth it.  Lowered asking price for 741s to $55 Lowered prices on 721s, A4, D3, Ibelink. See first post. Out of curiosity what are you looking to get for the 841s on a per unit basis? 10 721s sold. L3s sold. New pricing structure as of Oct 29 2018:50kW to 500kW  90 CAD per kW per month (all inclusive, based on Antminer S9 or similar), 85 CAD installation per miner (Antminer S9 or similar), 3 months full deposit, 1 year minimum500kW to 1000kW  85 CAD per kW per month (all inclusive, based on Antminer S9 or similar), 75 CAD installation per miner (Antminer S9 or similar), 3 months full deposit, 1 year minimum agreement1000 kW to 5000 kW  76 CAD per kW per month (all inclusive, based on Antminer S9 or similar), 50 CAD installation per miner (Antminer S9 or similar), 3 months full deposit, 1 year minimum agreement5000 kW to 10000 kW  72 CAD per kW per month (all inclusive, based on Antminer S9 or similar), 50 CAD installation per miner (Antminer S9 or similar), 3 months full deposit, 1 year agreement10 MW to 50 MW  70 CAD per kW per month (all inclusive, based on Antminer S9 or similar), 50 CAD installation per miner (Antminer S9 or similar), 3 months full deposit, 1 year agreement50 MW to 150 MW  65 CAD per kW per month (all inclusive, based on Antminer S9 or similar), 50 CAD installation per miner (Antminer S9 or similar), 3 months full deposit, 1 year agreement Half a Megawatt available immediately within Moncton site4 Megawatts available in 60 days if a customer places order on us today.100 Megawatts available = 12-14 months in Moncton (can be accelerated)150 Megawatt within 6-8 months available within Ottawa (can be accelerated) Lowered price of 721s to $45. Need them gone as we are running out of storage space. I'm curious if anyone has tried manually updating the nvidia drivers via the latest 410.66 Linux driver from nvidia's website. The reason I'm asking is I'm not sure if smOS is using some custom driver package and whatnot.
I see. A bit of an inconvenience to reflash but I suppose manually updating the drivers should be possible but it may break things. Any chance smos will be updated to nvidia cuda 9.1 drivers to Monero 8 miners will work? bump... I'm back everyone and ready to move gear. PM me if interested.  I will be away for 3 weeks but once I'm back on Oct 5 all the gear I've posted for sale here can start to move.  I was not addressing you directly. Most people would also understand that it was beyond our control and not of our own choosing. Other mining shops in the area suffered the same fate. Most of our customers were understanding and worked with us to resolve this unforeseen problem, and it has been resolved. You are just bone picking and being cantankerous for no reason. I'll just chalk that one up for just you being your usual self  This is all moot right now, so no point in talking about it. Moving on. Happy mining. The people that chose to have their miners moved to GND are going to be have their gear moved very soon (like in a week). Most of the people affected chose to stay with us though and have their gear relocated to our other two shops. Anyway, this problem has been resolved 100% and everyone will get back to hashing very soon. If anyone has any questions please just e-mail us ( see our website) instead of posting on non official forum threads as you are not likely to get properly informed.Note: I don't follow this thread so please don't ask me questions here. I just happen to randomly come across it and noticed us being mentioned. URL: work in progressPrice: $70 to $105 (based on consumption)Location: New Brunswick, CanadaComment: Up to 150 MW of available capacity! Thread: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=4975509 New Price List and Terms:We are constantly investing and exploring green energy sources and technology and as a result was able to bring their service prices down to better serve the blockchain community.- Over 1MW orders - 70 CAD per kW per month based on Antminer S9 or similar  Installation 50 CAD per miner (S9)- Between 500kW-1MW orders - 95 CAD per kW per month based on Antminer S9 or similar  Installation 75 CAD per miner (S9)- Under 500kW orders - 105 CAD per kW per month based on Antminer S9 or similar  Installation 85 CAD per miner (S9)- Three month deposit No, it is with another Canadian hosting company we partnered with to take our overflow customers.  6 more A4s added to the stockpile.  Hello fellow miners. Looking to get into crypto mining in a big way? Check this out:100 MW of available power located in the Canadian province of New Brunswick. Half a Megawatt (500KW) available immediately.  4 Megawatts available in 60 days if a customer places order today. 40 Megawatts in 8 months. 100 Megawatts available = 12-14 months.Data center description:- 25,000 sq ft- Multiple National and Global Tier I-III Network Providers- UPS and Generator back-up power for critical network infrastructure- 24x7x365 Escorted Access- 24x7x365 Smart Hands Services- Reliable power grid with redundant feeder lines- 250V AC on Raritan switched PDUs (thus remote power cycle is possible)- Air cooling capable of handling the peak summer temperatures- 6 Layers of physical security- 24x7x365 monitored facilities with full perimeter video surveillance- High security procedures access- VPN access to your miners- Miner automatic reboot script available- High uptime data center designPricing structure:1,000 kW or more - $41 USD (55 CAD) per kW per month All Inclusive (based on Antminer S9 or similar), $26 USD (35 CAD) installation per miner (Antminer S9 or similar)We prefer compact ASIC miners but we may accept GPU miners as well if they are power dense and space efficient. At the moment though we are targetting customer who haveASIC miners from the likes of Bitmain, Canaan, Innosilicon, etc.Customer must supply a PSU for each miner! (We recommend Bitmain PSUs)Data center tours available upon request.If you are interested or know someone who is get in touch with me either here or you can hit me up on Telegram via this link:https://t.me/btc_guruI prefer telegram so I ask you a few question about your requirements and plans for expansion.Happy mining! Ok guys, I'm very very close to being able to sell the 721s. Anyone that is interested in the Avalons 721s first give me a shout.  No it's not; at least not until the next btc bull market comes. It's not my gear so I don't get to choose when to sell, but one thing is for sure the gear has to go. Sorry guys, I think I jumped the gun on this one. I posted this hw for sale much earlier than I should. There is a technicality in place that means we can't move the hardware out just yet. I will update this thread on when we are clear to move the hardware out. The 741s can be sold though mid Sept. We do have PSUs, but they are not  very efficient. I think they are being powered by either dual Dell 750W or 1 HP DPS1200. Not sure but just calculate based on the standard 741 original shipping box dimensions and weight. No it does not come with PSU but if you want PSU we can send it with PSUs (2 750 W Dell) but they are not very efficient, but they're cheap. How many of each, cause we have a lot more than 1. D3 are more accessible so we want those out sooner. I'm selling a bunch of gear on behalf of a customer of ours.a. A721 = USD$40b. A741 = USD$55c. D3 = USD$30d. Ibelink 11G = USD$30e. Innosilicon A4 = USD$30a. A721 (purchased late 2016/early 2017 )b. A741 (purchases late 2017)c. D3 (purchased late 2017/early 2018 )d. Ibelink 11G (purchased mid 2017)e. Innosilicon A4 (purchased early 2017)Buyer pays shipping. I'll act as escrow agent. Quantity:741 = 168 cubes721 = 90D3 = 9A4 = 12--edit-- updated 721 quantity. 100 in total not just 30.--edit-- added 6 more A4s to the sell list
Awesome, thanks for clearing that up for me. Thanks for the help. I will give that a try. I'm wondering if there is a way to make the voltage changes persistent.  "= Running since: 00:08.06, now sleeping for 54.7s =Invalid boards read, aborted!9 3" = Running since: 00:00.06, now sleeping for 54.8s =Wohoo, it works! Thanks   Failed to decode json reply:Extra data: line 1 column 1479 - line 1 column 1480 (char 1478 - 1479){"STATUS":[{"STATUS":"S","When":1532684339,"Code":70,"Msg":"CGMiner stats","Description":"cgminer 4.10.0"}],"STATS":[{"CGMiner":"4.10.0","Miner":"1.0.1.3","CompileTime":"Sun Jan 14 00:00:57 CST 2018","Type":"Antminer L3+ Blissz v1.02"},{"STATS":0,"ID":"L30","Elapsed":9059,"Calls":0,"Wait":0.000000,"Max":0.000000,"Min":99999999.000000,"GHS 5s":"556.241","GHS av":552.29,"miner_count":4,"frequency":"425","frequency1":425,"frequency2":425,"frequency3":425,"frequency4":425,"volt1":"7","volt2":"7","volt3":"7","volt4":"7","watt1":216,"watt2":216,"watt3":216,"watt4":216,"fan_num":2,"fan1":3114,"fan2":2508,"temp_num":4,"temp1":52,"temp2":53,"temp3":50,"temp4":50,"temp2_1":60,"temp2_2":60,"temp2_3":57,"temp2_4":57,"temp31":0,"temp32":0,"temp33":0,"temp34":0,"temp4_1":0,"temp4_2":0,"temp4_3":0,"temp4_4":0,"temp_max":53,"Device Hardware%":0.0000,"no_matching_work":23,"chain_acn1":72,"chain_acn2":72,"chain_acn3":72,"chain_acn4":72,"chain_acs1":" oooooooo oooooooo oooooooo oooooooo oooooooo oooooooo oooooooo oooooooo oooooooo","chain_acs2":" oooooooo oooooooo oooooooo oooooooo oooooooo oooooooo oooooooo oooooooo oooooooo","chain_acs3":" oooooooo oooooooo oooooooo oooooooo oooooooo oooooooo oooooooo oooooooo oooooooo","chain_acs4":" oooooooo oooooooo oooooooo oooooooo oooooooo oooooooo oooooooo oooooooo oooooooo","chain_hw1":0,"chain_hw2":0,"chain_hw3":0,"chain_hw4":23,"chain_rate1":"139.20","chain_rate2":"139.48","chain_rate3":"138.91","chain_rate4":"138.65"}],"id":1} Any chance you can mod this script to work with the BlissZ firmware?  The CoolerMaster fans these 841s come with are actually low quality. I've already had a bunch of them fail on me. I am planning of replacing them all with Delta 4.8A fans. These CoolerMaster fans _will_ fail, it's only a matter of time. I wish Canaan would've used Delta or Nidec fans.  Switch to the Ignis chain in the Ardor client. Then click on messages. Simple.  Give it time. It may go back up to $2. I don't know whether the $2 valuation was realistic though. I'm optimistic and hope this interesting coin will succeed for the long term. It certainly deserves more love than it's gotten in the past. Any chance you guys will add support for the better (IMHO) version of zcash - ZenCash ? Get some Delta PFC1212DE fans from aliexpress   Give them a reboot. I had the exact same problem just a few minutes ago. After power cycling those affected miners they are back and hashing pool-side. I hope that East Coast Stratum server connectivity issue is not back - that would suck. Late this year if all goes well. PM me your e-mail so I can check to see what's your spot on the list. No, unfortunately not anytime "soon" (depending on what you mean by soon). See our website and send us a contact request if you want to be added to the customer waiting list.  Bump.... Bump..still got a few poor S7s wanting a home. change the worker name and see if the new one appears...I've had this happen to me before. No such thing. It's however often you want to withdraw your earnings. However bear in mind that you pay TX fees so maybe set it to something that gives you a daily payout or several times per week. The pool pays during all times during the day as long as you hit the payout threshold. Much appreciated! Thanks. I think this time the issue should be resolved (at least for me ) as I don't any more miner hashrate drop e-mail notifications. The last notification I got was at 4:22 AM EST.
Open a command prompt from a machine on the same subnet as the miner and run "tracert us-east.stratum.slushpool.com " . You can google "how to trace route" . Weird. Make sure you have the correct stratum server address. Are you able to traceroute or ping the pool address from the rpi3? Ok, I take that back lol. It's still happening:S9lab16ip3dot233    OK -> Low    2 hours, 50 minutes    3.484 Th/s    7.890 Th/sS9ip4dot166    OK -> Low    30 minutes    7.868 Th/s    8.033 Th/sS9ip3dot67    OK -> Low    4 hours, 35 minutes    6.680 Th/s    9.270 Th/sS9wabush9dot174    OK -> Low    4 hours, 25 minutes    7.695 Th/s    8.764 Th/s Thanks Slush team! I'm pretty sure the issue is resolved. I haven't seen a miner hashrate drop notification since an hour ago so all should be well going forward. Ok, thanks for the feedback. I just let their support tech know that others having the same issue. I asked him if he needs some traceroute copy and paste txt so if he says yes maybe it would help if you send one as well.  Slush support guy says that they are not aware of any issues on their end:I guess I'll have to try using their main stratum.slushpool.com address and see if the same thing happens.  This is getting rather annoying. Miners go from low to OK in the space of a few minutes. I guess I'll try send them a support e-mail too than.  Did you receive a reply yet? My miners  have been getting steadily worse. I'm pretty sure the problem is not on my end as it's happening in two different mining shops. Still wanna get rid of these miners. I'd be willing to accept lower offers.  hahahahah...    I know eh, their older brothers are being retired. I think some of those poor miners will just be scrapped. Nobody wants to buy them.  I noticed that my miners have been going from "Low" to "OK" very frequently recently. I wonder if there is some issue with Slush's east coast stratum server. Anyone opened a support ticket with them yet? bump.... The services are the same. Nothing has changed besides that we now have more gear under our wings. You mean free capacity? At the moment zero, but we hope to get some more power either this year or the next.  Believe it or not it is pretty much mainly down to the difference in energy prices across provinces. It is one of the biggest and most important factors in mining. This is not _the only_ reason but I'd say it the main reason prices vary. Sometimes a company may have their infrastructure capital expenses already amortized and thus they can afford to charge less. Or they could own their own shop completely and thus don't have to factor in rent into the pricing structure. Many of these hosting providers will charge setup fees and charge you every time your miner requires maintenance or some sort of human intervention. You will typically be billed by the hour. So far we have not implemented such policies yet. We also have no setup fees and no minimum KW requirement. We welcome small to medium miners. I am very much ideologically opposed to the miner centralization phenomenon and if we can offer the "little guy" a chance to compete all the better.  Bump...gear is still available.  1 S7L sold  What is your point? Your post was pure speculation and that's all there is to it. You could've checked with me before posting it. We are a very transparent group and would've cleared things up with anyone that is our customer. There is no customer gear or assets at risk nor has there ever been. As far as I can tell you have nothing hosted with us so please quit your FUD'ing or whatever it is you're fishing for.  I'm not sure what you're on about, but my partner did not die!  Update: S7Ls are now back on the market.  Why didn't you just wait for 841s? lol
When it goes back up to $2 I'll believe that. I think for now it's rising because maybe just maybe btc has found a floor and is slowly going back up and also people are piling on to altcoins once again. But I do agree with your sentiment that it is an undervalued coin. Then again I am biased seeing as how I own some ARDR so I dunno, we shall see how this plays out.  Bump.... lol yeah I know I know. Bitmain is the scourge of crypto. If they could replace you with an ASIC they would! rofl. Unfortunately so - at least if you want to maintain the same average take home earnings. I was hoping this slump in price would squeeze out some hashing power but noooooo everyone has to add moooore. By everyone I mean the mega miners who don't really care about such pitiful mortal problems such as operating expenses. Yes, add more hashing power    Much appreciated. I was beginning to wonder if the problem was on my end or yours. Luckily my laziness saved me a lot of needless network troubleshooting. Woohoo!     Bump. S7Ls are tentatively spoken but until that is finalized and the gear is out the door I'll still accept offers. Hi guys. Alan here from CryptoBoreas. Regrettably we don't have that kind of power and when we get a power upgrade in the near future I have to go through our customer waiting list first. I am prioritizing smaller customers first! The 4.71 TH S7 is back on the market. Please people if you're not serious about buying a miner don't waste your time and mine. Thanks. 2 more sold.  2 4.X TH S7s sold.  No worries man, I'll wait. I'm not in a super huge rush anyway because I have to move the miners out from one of our mining shops before I ship them and it's going to take several days for that to get done. Hmm, shipping is going to be kinda expensive. I didn't do the precise calculation but I'd imagine at least $55 CAD For the miner I'd take $200 USD. This miner takes _2_ 1200 W PSUs or 2 880W PSUs (server grade) that each cost $50 CAD. So overall I would guess the total out the door cost would be $300 USD. Not sure if it's worth it for you.  I'm going to the shop on Monday and I will be able to move these out and get them ready for shipping if anyone is willing to take them all. PM me for offers. I meant will the screw holes on the PCIE risers align properly with most V007 risers. Like I said those PCIE risers don't work with the grey matter cases. What brand and version of risers are you using? This may help me to determine whether it will be compatible with my risers.  The question that I have is how is the PCIE riser spacing. The Grey Matter cases are incompatible with V007 PCIE risers - at least the ones I got from amazon. These PCIE risers are super common and it kinda sucks that I have to order case specific risers from Grey Matter themselves. Someone needs to come up with a case with adjustable riser spacing. That would be neat! Ah ok then it may be best to pass on this.  South. I can PM you the precise city he lives in. I'm gonna ask him today if he sold it yet by another method or not. It's due to planned maintenance. It should be working now. Bump...so far only 1 miner has been claimed. 
Free bump for you. Check your PM. Hello Mr Hobbs! lol No worries I'm not competing for the S7   What's up Vosk  I've seen a bunch of your YouTube vids. Keep up the good work. I'm surprised you haven't sold this S9 by now!How's Tails doing?Happy mining! Hahahahah....if you want I can attach an iron nugget to the miner!    I have a collection of S7 miners in various states that I'd like to sell and convert whatever value is left in them into btc instead. 3.245 - 2.70 TH (S7L) SOLD3.246 - 2.70 TH (S7L)3.247 - 2.70 TH (S7L)3.124 - 2.70 TH (2 blades)3.128 - 3.85 TH (3 blades) SOLD3.144 - 3.15 TH (2 blades)1.150 - 4.66 TH (3 blades) SOLD1.152 - 4.71 TH (3 blades)1.153 - 3.16 TH (3 blades)Above is a list of all the ones that are still functional. On the left is their current IP address - ignore that. The S7Ls come with a built in PSU. I can sell you a PSU for each of the S7s as well. I have a bunch of DPS1200s which are currently powering these. It takes 2 DPS1200s to power 1 S7. If you want though I can also sell you an IBM 2880W PSU to power 2 or more S7s (obviously the ones with fewer blades consume less than a full 3 blade S7).Shipping will be from Labrador, Canada. I will ship anywhere in the world as long as you cover the actual shipping costs. Due to the generation gap of these miners I would encourage North American buyers only because I'm sure you're aware the margins on these miners is far smaller than say an S9 and expensive overseas shipping would kill your ROI.PM me offers or post them here. -edit- Ideally I'd like to sell them all at once if possible.  Sorry, that's not possible unless you'd be willing to drive to Ontario. But I'll pass on your bid to him. Spoke with my friend, he agreed to lower the asking price to $8000 CAD  Oh, I see.  I'ma call the mod police on his butt lol. lol, everyone is a critic! What is a wrong with 580s?  A buddy of mine is trying to sell his GPU rig cause he needs money for his car hobby. Details of the rig:"It is a custom built open frame case, that hinges in the middle to allow access to the bottom level GPU cards in case you need to do maintenance. I have built this over the last 2 months, the oldest GPU was purchased Dec 12, 2017.The list of parts are as follows:6x XFX RX580 GTS Black OC 8G vram-- all stock, no bios mods-- all Samsung memory3x MSI Gaming X RX 580 8G vram-- each card has been bios modded for memory tables only (backed up stock bios)-- 2 have Samsung, 1 is Hynix1x Gigabyte Gaming 8G vram-- stock bios-- hynix memoryASUS Z270-A Prime motherboardIntel Pentium G4400 CPU2x 4G DDR4 2133 Patriot Viper memory2x EVGA 1300G2 Power supplies12x PCIE Risers (ver 007 and 007C)2x PCIE 4way riser splitter (1 spare)4x M.2 PCIE adapters (2 spares)1x Dual Power Supply adapter1x Internal USB adapter (OS runs off USB, this protects the USB drive)8x 120MM 60CFM fans to help keeps cards cooler1x 10way fan power splitterThis mining rig isn't WAY overclocked like some people, it is mildly overclocked and always runs at 60* or less per card. The rig is stable, no reboots, or mining program restarts (currently been up for almost 4 days, rebooted to add 10th GPU)All original boxes, manuals and accessories are included. Turn-key operation, mine virtually any coin! will include a fresh install of SMOS (Simple Mining OS) on an 8G USB drive"Pics of the rig can be seen here:https://imgur.com/a/DDV9FAsking price $8,000 CAD. Payment options: BTC, ETH, or Cash in Canadian Dollars if you are located in Canada and can pickup the rig in person. The rig can be shipped out in pieces but ideally seller would prefer local pickup if possible.  I will be acting as escrow for this deal. The seller has showed me the miners via skype videoconferencing.  Avalon 7 user here too...you should not have to.  Click the "How to" link on that pool website I pasted. You are essentially leasing your account balance to the pool's ARDR address. Any blocks the pool forges will be shared with the lessee proportional to his/her contribution to the pool. So the answer is yes, you will earn a reward. Bear in mind that if there are no fees contained within a block forged by the pool nobody gets a reward. Forging on Ardor does not work on the same principle as bitcoin mining for example where new coins are created out of thin air.  Join an Ardor staking pool such as this one:https://ardorpool.tezzigator.com/StatusThere is no specific amount of coins you need, anything will do (as long as you can pay the 1 Ardor transaction fee for the leasing transaction and whatever the fee will be to withdraw your earnings).  IMHO 821 are NOT a good deal. I'd rather wait for the 841 and if they are not ridiculously overpriced compared to S9 then it's a good buy.  It means the mining program is not running. Reboot the rig and see if that fixes it. It doesn't sound like it's initializing the cards properly. Do you get console output at all? Did you check the obvious stuff like your risers and perhaps trying to reburn the SMOS image your usb stick (if using it). I do hope you grabbed the correct SMOS image too lool. Yeah there's definitely some black magic going on. For my nvidia rigs I just left the clocks and memory to 0 and set the power limit to 120 watts and the cards are running at max boost clock all the time. 1847 1936 1809 1885 1898 (120)3802 3802 3802 3802 3802Those clocks are good enough for me. I have a mix of 1070ti and 1070 that are the "OC" edition and 1 plain 1070. Your antivirus es una mierda   But seriously there is no virus there. Your antivirus is probably seeing the names of some miners that are sometimes included in mining malware and freaking out.  -wd 1 -r 1 -epool stratum+tcp://us1.ethermine.org:4444 -ewal $walletETH.$rigName -esm 1 -epsw x -allpools 1 -mport -3333 -asm 1is an example of a miner string for ethermine... Has anyone noticed their GPU clocks in SMOS web panel mysteriously increase higher than the value set in the overlocking options? I set mine for all cards to 1150 yet SMOS reports 1215. It just increased by itself. No other values have changed whatsoever. I presumed that the clocks are hard set, unless the GPUS are all boost clocking up due to running colder.  Powerstage set to 6, undervolt set to 925. These are all RX580 cards - Sapphire Nitro+ . All BIOS modded. Mem set to 2200 and 2150 (for the Hynix memory cards only).
I guess sold? Do these come with a power adapter as well? I know the ones directly from Canaan do not. Just wondering. Have you turned on "above 4G decoding" ?That Asus mobo is supposed to have a "mining" mode or something like that. Also are you powering up a display off of  any of the cards you are trying to mine with? Actually you can set different overclocking values for each card. For example if you wanted to set a clock of 1215 for the first and 1130 for the second you'd put in this: "1215,1130". The first value is applies to the first card, second to the second and so on. The same logic applies to the memory frequency and voltage as well. The card sequence is based on the PCIE slot order, so the first card is the one in the first PCIE slot, etc. Hope this helps   You can use an RX580 and RX480 together, but you cannot mix different architectures together - ie Nvidia and AMD. You will need a separate rig with the NV version of SMOS installed.Overclocking your AMD cards is pretty simple. Once you log into you simplemining web panel click on your rig's corresponding little gear icon in the "actions" section. This is good news! I hope Ardor/Ignis succeeds!  Growing up in the 90's was the best. Saturday morning cartoons are shit these days!   1) Latest version should include the DAG fix. 2) lspci -v (if you run it as root via "sudo lspci -v" you'll get info regarding the capabilities of the  card(s) ) sudo shutdown -h now (halts , ie shuts down your rig)sudo shutdown -r now (reboots your rig)3) checkout the claymore thread..there's a whole bunch of variables you can pass to it but the ones that are set by default with SMOS are pretty much the only ones you need. Any chance they can accept pogs or chuck e cheese tokens in their next batch?   This is purely a cosmetic issue but why doesn't the terminal color prompt (ie color ls, etc) work even after I edit .bashrc and uncomment the "force_color_prompt=yes" variable. I discovered that if I run bash again it work, but when I first ssh into the box everything is monochrome   . The "miner" username has bash as the default shell that I am sure of, so why isn't the variable enforced upon login.Not really a super big deal, but I like my pretty terminal colors to distract me   Here on Slush? No. Only BTC and ZCash. I very much doubt it. From my knowledge the A6 were not compatible with the A7 controller/firmware and I don't expect the A8s to be backwards compatible. That's why I have two spare Raspberry Pi Avalon controllers prepared for A8s - when they come down from their astronomical beyond mortal reach price! Ardor is the parent chain, Ignis is the child chain. Ignis runs on top of the Ardor parent chain. One is meant to be the reserve currency while the other the day to day transactional currency.  Hmm, I will give that a try. We also have one that is totally not powering up whatsoever so for that I doubt a different power supply would help. If I remember correctly for the one with the LED indicator issue I tried another Pandaminer PSU but I am not 100% sure. These pandaminers are such a pain in the ass.  hahahah, gauging interest...   That's like gauging the interest of crack addicts for some crack! Does anyone happen to have a Pandaminer motherboard they're willing to sell? One of our customers has a pandaminer that doesn't power up. The first LED on the indicator light bar (if you have one you know what I'm talking about) turns on solid green but when you press the power button it doesn't progress to a fullly lit LED bar. I suspect it's a bad motherboard as there is no display output. --NO LONGER NEEDED-- I don't see any reason why not. Bet you anything the 821 cubes are identical in design as the 741 - just a possibly die shrink version or optimized silicon.  Gotcha   ! Ah I see lol   cheeky bastards! Playing with our  heart strings like that!   Out of curiosity what's the password for that page? Actually it doesn't matter cause stock is already sold out probably.
Oh wow is Eligius still up and running? It's been a long time since I used to mine there. The technically savvy among miners will get on board in spite of the lack of those features you mentioned, but the majority of miners like some decent stats page and other such niceties or dare I say "luxuries". It would be nice to attract some of these sheep miners. Sheep need to be guided so they don't wonder into the stomping grounds of the big bad wolf. Send me a PM when you get a chance. If there is some help I can send your way to cover the costs of a nicer interface for the pool I'll see what I can do.  Technically speaking Ardor is not meant to be a transactional cryptocurrency - Ignis fulfills that role and NXT also did (kinda sad NXT price tanked so much). You can still spend Ardor if anyone is willing to accept it. I am expecting Ardor to remain a low transaction volume currency that will fulfill the job of a "reserve currency" for Ignis and other childchains. Soon enough though you'll be able to sell your Ardor at exchanges.  Staking is a competitive process whereby the stakers with the biggest balance have a higher probability of forging a block and therefore earning the fees within that block. It's just like mining without the energy intensive process. If it was otherwise the system could be gamed pretty easily (ie if everyone with a balance had the same chance of forging a block). I posted it twice, don't exaggerate things - "over and over" makes it sound like I spammed it everywhere I could. Although the link is not to your linking cause it does not include your pool it none the less proves a point about Antpool which is why I posted it. Yes it is misleading I am not going to argue against that. Also, why don't you work towards better marketing your pool and improve the end user experience if you want to attract more hashing power? I'm almost 100% sure the author of that site did not include your pool because he/she likely does not even know your pool exists. What I'm saying is that it is very easy for you to post on a forum and point out this and that, but if you would've spend some more time on improving your pool I don't see any reason why your pool should not be in the top 3. The way I see it Slush, Kano, and your pool are the only 3 pools that are actually friends of bitcoin. The "good guy" pools need to work on their marketing and end user experience if they want to compete with the mega Chinese pools.  I agree with you, but don't hold me responsible for the website owner's oversight lol. https://poolprofit.io/en/^I'm just going to leave this right here^ ....*slowly walks away*. https://poolprofit.io/en/Go there guys.  I can confirm that the current rate of return on forging is pretty low even with a decently sized balance. Still though, there is no logical reason why you should not forge and let the coins sit idle.  You bring up a very good point about ARDR + IGNIS "diluting" each other. I like to think of this as Bitcoin + Litecoin rolled into one. As you say, Ignis can be used for day to day transactions kind of like the US dollar (using a fiat example) and Ardor can act as the reserve or "store of value" backing behind Ignis (like gold backing). IMHO I'd like to see a 10:1  or 10:2 value ratio of Ardor to Ignis. This hinges on there being more than 1 economically active chain on the Ardor motherchain. So I guess what I'm saying is that a fair market value for Ardor should be around $10 and for Ignis around $1 to $2 for _now_.  I suggest buying a boat load of Ardor and leasing your balance to a big pool like the one ran by forkedchain. Once transactions volume increases forging income will follow. This underlines the importance of patience in this crypto game. So many new spoiled kids in this industry that want it their way and want it right now or yesterday   Once more exchanges get their Ardor daemons ready I see no reason why Ardor/Ignis should not be worth $10 or more.  Preach on brother! If robbing foolish miners of their tx fees was the only thing that Antpool is guilty of I don't think many people would have such a hate for them, but the fact that they are actively working to subvert BTC has rightfully earned the hate and scorn heaped upon them. It bothers me that so many of these foolish miners continue to support them with their hashrate. By voting with their hashrate they are essentially working against the greater good of the BTC community. The sad part of all this is that 90% of miners care 100% more about money than principles.   Anyways, cathartic rant over. Had to get that off my chest!  The namecoins the pool miners get converted automatically to btc and given to YOU. The pool is not "stealing your hashrate" Also there is no correlation between luck and hashing power. I wish someone with a mathematics degree would come here and lay down some serious talk about probability just to confuse all the people that bring up this word "luck" until they never mention it again. Luck is random. Repeat after me..I will never complain about pool luck for as long as I mine, so help me god. lol  Ardor does not use GPU resources, just CPU and RAM. Yes it's true though that it can use half a Gig or more of RAM though.  You would have to analyze/decompile the minergate binaries and prove that it does something suspicious. It's also probable that some other infection in your system is the culprit. I hope that eventually there is support for Ardor and Ignis from one of the major bitcoin hardware wallet providers. That would solve the theft problem. In the meantime what you can do to protect yourself is run the wallet software on Linux within a virtual environment (Vmware, Virtualbox). Also make sure your wallet passphrase is sufficiently strong and always clear your computer's clipboard if you copy/paste your passphrase. You can google how to do this. Whatever you copy remains in your computer's clipboard until you restart the machine. Security is always the biggest "Achilles's heel" with crypto. We are in the early stages of the crypto revolution and as always all revolutions are messy and it always leaves a pile of victims behind. I doubt that anything can be done, but just maybe Jelurida can flag those coins if you can prove beyond a shadow of a doubt (this would probably involve official legal proof like from a judge).  As this is a proof-of-stake coin , the amount you earn forging is dependant on your staking balance. The reason you haven't forged anything yet is mainly cause there aren't a lot of transactions on the network yet and also cause your staking balance is likely small so you're getting outcompeted by bigger players. I suggest using a forging pool. Look up this one:https://nxtforum.org/index.php?topic=15129.0He ran the old NXT forging pool.  Correct. But some exchange may or may not give their customers Ignis tokens. The right thing to do would be to distribute the Ignis tokens to people who have NXT in their exchange wallet, but you never know what they may decide to do. Thanks for that link, that answers the question in my previous post!  If you _HAD_ NXT at the time of the snapshop on Dec 28 you should have Ignis in your Ardor wallet. Download Ardor 2.0.9 and log in with your former wallet address and both Ardor and Ignis should show up. Now on a different note, does anyone know of any Ardor forging pools? There was one long standing NXT pool that I was using and he mentioned that he plans to release an ardor forging pool but I'm curious if there was anyone else doing this.
Talking about pool luck is like talking about the weather   Just pay no attention to it and get on with your life. In the end come rain or shine bad or good luck you will still make the same amount of BTC  We all need to stop grumbling and start using Segwit addresses. This goes for both pools and miners.  Btc.com is ran bit Bitmain also. I don't understand why people continue to support their empire.  That's what I figured too. Thanks for confirming. -edit- Holy crap, I just checked the Monetary System section and 99+% of all the currencies are scams!  Has anyone else gotten a mysterious JLRDA asset transfer in their account? I did not buy any JLRDA tokens yet they just appeared today in my account out of the blue. Is Jelurida doing a token air drop to forgers? I fully endorse this recommendation   Sorry but it doesn't look like the devs monitor this thread; it's just us regular slush users. Have you tried contacting the pool admin from the website or getting some contact info from github? Yeah, BCH is the hobby coin of Bitmain and Roger Ver along with other "core haters"   They've made ridiculous amounts of money pumping this coin. I'm waiting for a big whale to come along and dump on their pump   Sad, that means it's not worth it for any of us.  I don't actually have a "lot" of S5s. I have maybe like 4 or 5 I think. It's been so long since they were hashing I nearly forgot about them. I do know for sure that I have 4 S3s.So they want a 10 order minimum per person I presume? Get your coins off exchanges people! You will be at the mercy of the exchange if they give you the airdrop coins or not.  Also congrats to Slush for reaching 1.01 EH! Well yeah, it's bound to happen after 138% to 200% pool luck! It's all random. Just don't worry or stress about it.  Just mine with Slush. There is an app you can use to monitor your miners hashrate (uses API key obtainable from slush's pool).  It's safe to say by now that they don't really give a shit. They are actively hostile towards Bitcoin. If I may use a biology reference, Bitmain was once a functional cell of the Bitcoin organism, but now it has grown into a cancerous tumor. Bitmain, do the right thing and shut down BTC Antpool.  Will this pool EVER stop mining empty blocks?! https://blockchain.info/block-height/494853 Does anyone have any of these upgrade kits in hand?  Your Ignis and Ardor tokens will simply just show up when you run the Ardor wallet software. There is no special migration process you have to go through. You get 0.50 Ignis for every 1 NXT you currently hold. You can only forge with Ardor, not Ignis. Ardor is the "parent" blockchain while Ignis is the child blockchain.  They always send it with a low fee and seeing as we lost over 50% (actually it was more but I can't be bothered to check the real stats lol) of network hash blocks were taking a very long time to confirm. The hashrate traitors are back on the BTC blockchain so things should be back to normal now.  Sadly yes. I'm curious to see if BCH price will dump and BTC price will retarget the 7000 support level now turned resistance level.No, at least not yet. I'd imagine Slush would not be as opposed to BTG as much as BCH. I'm also curious to see if BTG will draw in a lot of GPU horsepower from all the altcoins.
If only those hostile miners would stay with Bitcoin Clash/Crash once difficulty readjusts we'd be kings of the mining pool hill! One can only dream BTC forever!  Sort of. We got a new shop but its capacity is already sold out. Next year we expect to get a power upgrade for our existing shop, but we have 153+ people on our customer waiting list. If you wish to be added to the list send us an e-mail via the contact form on our website. The demand for hosting in insane! Given the super high BTC price at this point it makes sense to host gear even with high cost providers. Once difficulty catches up lower cost providers such as ourselves will still remain the best deal for the long term though. My bad, I'm a bit sleepy here lol. Yeah I don't think the Slushpool team monitors this thread anymore. Yes! Well I think it's time to give up on this. It's a dud. To the trash bin S5s and S3s they go. lol it does sound like a crazy question  As long as you got the right Stratum address and the worker name is correct AND created on the pool side it should all work without any problems. Does anyone know if/when they will actually offer these for sale?  Wait it out a bit more. As long as you have a correct payout address it should eventually confirm. They pay almost no fees to the network when sending out payouts so the transactions are prioritized lower by miners (ironic isn't it..lol) Today is his lucky day, cause he gets to learn about mining luck. @agismaniax - welcome to the great bitcoin lottery! bump My S7s are slowly dying (blast you Bitmain and your shoddy quality) so I've been trying to get some A7s to replace them but supplies are running dry and Canaan doesn't want to deal with us tiny guys anymore, so I guess I'm going to have to resort to fishing for gear in the great mining hardware bazaar. Anyone have maybe 2 to 4 cubes they want to sell. I'm willing to pay a small premium. I'd prefer US / Canada sellers cause the gear has to be shipped to Labrador. http://www.truthcoin.info/blog/pow-and-mining/Some food for thought.  Same here, if phil and sidehack take care of it I'd be glad to join. I'd like to pay via BTC though, so yeah there would be the additional hassle of having to sell btc right away and send payment to Canaan via wire-payment, but tis the burden the group buy organizer must bear. Also I'd also be willing to pay a small mark-up fee as compensation to the group-buy organizer. I was going to do it myself initially but we are way to busy with other matters sadly. Also, yes, blame citronick for everything! lool    Appreciate the shout-out! If anyone trustworthy in North America is thinking of putting together a group buy I'd be down for 10 units (no PSUs).  Well, I have some bad news for you guys. I asked Canaan when they'll have a new batch of miners in stock and they told me they have stopped selling to retail customers directly. They are working on setting up distributors though and "in the near future" we'll be able to buy gear only from these distributors.  Whoever organizes the group buy is on the hook for taking care of any future warranty/RMA procedures. We must keep this in mind because in Canaan's eyes they have ONE single customer and that customer is whomever received the gear.Also they do not give any meaningful discounts to modest miner purchases. If you guys want meaningful discounts you're going to need to order 1000 or more A7s. I tried in the past and was told exactly this.I don't think they have any political or geographical bias though. If you got the money they have the miners. Money talks as always so if you can put together a massive order they will be more than glad to fulfill it.  If we had spare power and enough interested parties I would have no problem reviving this group buy. Alas we don't have additional capacity yet and even when we do we have a huge customer waiting list to fulfill. Another thing to consider is I think Canaan is not accepting BTC payments on the large pallet purchases.  If one of you had a business you would pay only GST. For example we (CryptoBoreas) pay 5% import taxes when the shipment is made out to our business name. I would also like to say that if any of you join anyone else here on the thread on a group buy neither I nor CryptoBoreas would be held responsible for any events that may transpire. I suggest starting your own group buy thread if any of you are serious about putting together a group buy. Cheers! Hmm, yeah that is bizzare. Do you have custom DNS server set in your router? Or some kind of DNS cache system? Maybe also your router's routing table took a dump. Who knows. Glad you got it solved.  Make sure you spelled the pool's address correctly and that you have a proper worker name set. Also make sure you completely power cycle the S9s cause their firmware is janky and wonky and all sorts of funky junky clunky stuff lol. 
I closed the group buy because Canaan refused to offer any discounts at the group buy's level. For now you are better off buying individual units. If you buy a large number of miners (1000+) then I think they are more willing to offer some volume discounts. Contact them directly for further details. Ah I almost forgot. Since August 1'st due to the fact that bitcoin now has SegWit and Namecoin does not the two coins cannot be merge mined. So tis the end to merged mining on Slushpool. I hope the admins make this public so the userbase doesn't get confused. Simple answer, they are automatically being sold and converted to BTC and added to your BTC payout.  Wow, what a shit show. That poor Tupsu guy. Man I wish I had a few million dollars so I can build a miner and staff the company entirely with Western support staff IN the west. Looks like a nicehash bug to me.  Wow, if that is true and someone can prove it that would be some fucked up shit. So far every time I shipped an RMA to Bitmain I got a working miner back, but it does suck that now you have to ship the entire miner back, so let's say one blade dies you lose the entire hashing power of the miner and can't just ship back the bad blade. I have one S9 that has 1 bad blade and decided to not even bother shipping it back cause it would take more than a month to get a working miner back. The loss of income in that time period makes the whole process totally not worth it. Also pro tip for you S9 owners, buy lots and lots of spare controllers cause they will all kick the bucket eventually.  All my experiences with Canaan have been good so far. We've had clients order a ton of gear from them and they did not screw anyone over. Also it seems that their hardware is better built. I'm very disappointed how quickly S9 controllers are dying  I totally understand how you feel. I was/am a big fan of Spondoolies too. I sure loved my SP20s !  Hmm, me saying this may anger our mining hardware overlords, but maybe next time hedge your bets and buy a Canaan miner as well. This is how it feels like to get bent over by Bitmain. Jihan Wu going in dry! Ouch! So you sold your soul to the devil for some hashing power   kidding   The pool side difficulty is the _minimum_ difficulty the pool will use, but the pool's difficulty algorithm automatically sets the appropriate difficulty for your woker(s). If as you say the values you set are not saved that is definitely a weird issue. As strange as it may sound try it on a different browser or machine and see if it works there. I agree. Ardor especially! It should be in and around the top 20 at least. When it goes live I'd expect Ardor to go to $0.50 or $1 as a minimum. If more people begin using it and adopt the sidechains it backs then it should hold that valuation.  Just a status update for all of you guys who follow or come across this thread. We are currently at max capacity. We are working on adding some power for the short term, but I cannot promise when and if that will become a reality. Use the contact-us form on our website @ cryptoboreas.com to request to be added to our customer waiting list. I will then notify you when/if power is available. For next though we will have more power available. Happy mining! Actually Slush does support Chinese language, you just have to click on the Chinese flag at the top to switch to that language ( and others). Hahahaha, yeah that would be pretty funny if Bitmain started doing that but last I heard that "feature" was never used and they patched it/removed it in later firmware revisions. In regards to the daily payouts, it will fluctuate a lot more than with those bigger pools but you'll see the average should be roughly the same. I tried Antpool for a bit and the payouts were the same, they just came more often cause that pool solves blocks more often. When Slush hits a round of high luck like it did a 3 or 4 blocks ago you'll be very happy! Those few rounds ago gave the pool a luck percentage of ~140% The pool will estimate your daily reward and it should be roughly the same as with your other pools over a long enough time frame. Doesn't matter how much hash you have, one should still not feed the Chinese mining pool monsters. Maybe if enough people got clued in they wouldn't rape miners. The sad reality is that most of the miners on their pools are clueless. Welcome to our pool btw  Happy mining! Indeed. My advice is if you don't mind the more irregular payouts you're better off sticking with Slush. The pool has recently seen a modest increase in its overall hashrate too, so that will help theoretically with the block solve times (luck playing a big factor too). I do believe that pool fees are charged AFTER the block reward (+ txt fees + merged mining fees from converting NMC to BTC) and not before. Pool operators rarely reply to this thread I'm afraid so I don't think you'll get an official answer but I do believe your answer can be found here:https://slushpool.com/help/manual/rewards*pool fee is 2% at the moment* Well, it was an interesting experiment hashing at the hash monster pool (ie here) for a bit, but Slush is still better  lol It was nice to get direct NMC payments, but totally not worth the higher fees and the moral taint you feel when hashing here. Also I beg/implore you to move to smaller pools like Slush & Kano. We have better stats and we have cookies! Happy mining to you all!  You are totally ignoring my point just in the hope of attacking someone out there on the internet. I KNOW and agree with your points and I am not making any excuses. I am not supporting nor defending mining for Antpool. Yes I believe that most people are morons when it comes to finance. I am just trying to tell you what goes on through the average uneducated miner's mind and WHY these pools have such ridiculous hashing power (beyond the fact that bitmain mines on it too). The reality is that most miners are always chasing the higher payout rate and that's why it's so easy to lure them with all this 110% PPS bullshit and other such gimmicks the large pools use. So tone it down a bit with the passive aggressiveness cause you're preaching to the choir.  It depends, the statistical period varies, and also it depends on the reward calculation method. For some people reward methods such as PPS makes more sense cause they don't want to deal with the statistical variance and want to know for sure how much they'll get rewarded - as close as possible to the "calculator" tools estimate minus the fees. For large miners though you're better off using the PPLNS method but sadly Antpool here keeps the TX fees with that reward method, so *shrug* maybe it's just better to quit this experiment and go back to Slush. Won't some of you antminer come along ? We need more hashing power and we have better stats and monitoring system (this pool has none).
Relax guys. I'm talking about the rate at which a pool finds blocks. I _know_ the variance is a bogus claim in the long term. Personally I've been mining at smaller pool for the majority of my mining history. I'm just trying out the PPS+ bullshit out of curiosity.  Payouts are flowing once again. Just a "heads up" notice.  Nah,not so confusing. A lot of people have fixed monthly costs and the low variance of larger pools helps out. If your pool and others had reasonable hash pools nobody would mine at Antpool. I blame the network effect. People see the pool has high hash power and they join here, then the next guy comes along and sees the same thing and guess what joins the pool too.  Hey guys, sorry for the late reply, I don't monitor this thread all that often. The best way to reach us is to email us by using the contact us box at cryptoboreas.com.@jasonalAt the moment we are at full capacity but we're working on expanding. E-mail us and we can add you to our customer waiting list. We technically do have an annual contract option but there is no price advantage to going with an annual plan instead of the typical 3 month pre-paid. No additional charges or setup fees. No remote access for low consumption miners (limited bandwidth). Yes if the device fails we provide support.@gpsdnetE-mail us via our website cryptoboreas.com and we'll add you to our customer waiting list cause at the moment we have no room and the queue is getting very long. There is a crazy amount of demand for hosting it seems. That makes perfect sense and I bet Antpool is doing the same thing. We will see tomorrow or sometime this week if btc payouts start flowing again. What the hell is up with payouts? Why are 3 day payouts still not confirmed or sent out? Am I missing something here or did they stop payouts around the whole Aug 1'st drama.  Meh, this Bitcoin Crash (pun intended) is like when you wake up from a drunken stupor and find out that your apartment has been broken into, your TV is gone, and it hurts when you pee so you probably now have an STD too.  Yes I know. In the end it's all randomness and all about how long you can wait until you get paid. I've said it so many times both Slush and Kano deserve far far more TH then they get , but it's not happening  It likely is just random chance as true luck is supposed to be like. Sadly I had to switch temporarily to a different bigger pool which shall remain nameless. The 24+ hr rounds became unbearable.  Hmm, yeah our pool's luck has been shit lately. Most rounds are averaging 12+ hrs. I'm not really happy about this either but kano would likely be worse - ie rounds will be even longer! I totally understand you though and hopefully kano work better for you.  You are right, signalling bit 4 has no point now. I wonder though what you think about Antpool, GBMiners, Kano CKPool and Slush registering as "No!" under the Witness Commitment heading at xbt.eu  I see that now since BIP91 is locked in, the % of miners signaling has gone down. Interesting.  Is BTC.com owned by Bitmain? These guys are signalling SW instead of BIP91. Not that it's a huge issue now, but I was just curious.  @Troll Buster - What does Core have to do with this forum and why would -ck have to suck up to Core cause he's a mod here?  It's not the finish line, it's the STARTING line. SegWit is the gateway for other bitcoin added features. Now whether those features will be used extensively or not remains to be seen. It could end up that SegWit will turn out to be a dud and everyone will just continue to use btc as they were in the past.  I would buy them a t-shirt that says "I survived UASF" or "I support SegWit" and make them wear it!  Or maybe you guys can come up with some better taglines. "Bitcoin Core is a SegWit whore!"   lol thanks guys! I wish you both happy nothing to do with'ing! Kano can you bribe some of the Antpoolers (can I call them Ant-tards?) to come join your pool. It's a shame the smaller pools don't get the love they deserve.  Yep!I still see Bitcoin.com mining BU blocks though. Hope they enjoy their invalid blocks!Also this:476729      20000000   Kano CKPool   9F��pY�}^8��pY�* .🐈. KanoPool 0p @P /NYA/Kano doesn't plan to switch daemons?  Price almost touches 3K like I "predicted". Glad to see SegWit is locked in. UASF doomsday avoided!   Yay!-edit- BTW, go here to see the segwit parrot dance  : https://www.xbt.eu/ I'll just disregard the last bit after the period.   You live for the crypto adrenaline, I know it!
Actually it looks like Slush is finally signaling BIP91 so I don't have to switch   Good job Slush!  476713   BIP91   20000012   Slush Pool   )Fag�w͏��/slush/ Holy shit, it's about time! Yay! Bravo, you're making me very proud right now!  Bravo! I tell you Forex pales in comparison to the wild dragon that is BTC!I hope you did not sell your entire position cause it's going to go to $3000+  - called it  lol The 2x or rather the "x" part is an unknown now. One baby step at a time shall we  But SegWit is useful for all the other neat toys that Core came up with. Also I'm not quite understanding what you mean by how people are starting all this. Did you use google translate or something cause your grammar is difficult to parse. Silly guy, I bought the biggest dip that ever dipped! Of course I know  but like I said I don't have much money to work with. Do I get any geek credits for being right like all along, 100% since the beginning? loool Yah maybe. I kinda sort trade btc with a traditional forex broker so it's a CFD not actual coins. Bought in as low as 180, but because it's very very small lot sizes I'm only up like ~$1800 in profit. So I can sorta trade, just not really gotten heavily into it. I think I'm just better off starting a BTC business and contribute to the btc economy that way instead of sloshing fiat and btc around. We all have our niches as Searing said.  Yah I've come to the realization that one is better off just buying coins and holding. The only way you can make money mining is if you go BIG, and I mean REALLY BIG or if you're Bitmain or any other ASIC manufacturer, then practically you are printing money and minting coins.Anyways, me likey blinky blink lights! Weeeeee....moar whirly fans...must have all the hashes!!! Ah no for sure I did not. I'm cash poor. I just mine and that's it   Tis true, but I think Slush is the biggest of them all at this point. Correct me if I'm wrong. Also I love Slush's stats and web front end! (also monitoring and notification features). I wish I could go to China and slap them both with a very large trout! (old IRC joke   ) I must say I'm a bit disappointed with Slush at the moment. On the other hand I really don't want to mine with any of the Chinese pools (no offense to those of you who are Chinese!) Looks like price is reacting to the probability of SegWit locking in! Those of you who bought at 1800~ have made a lot of profit!Ummm, to the moon?  If SegWit activates UASF is history!  I don't know either but it looks like BIP91 will lock in without Slush's help - sadly.  Yep I agree! Back up to 80.5% and BIP91 is projected to lock in during this lock-in-period, just 80 more blocks to go at this percentage or above and we're all good! Once it's fully locked in it will activate later on in August (I forget the exact date but it's middle to end of August). Once it activates there is no turning back, but it has to be locked in before Aug 1 to avoid the UASF. So BIP148 (UASF) won't try to take over if BIP91 is locked in. We know for sure we're out of the danger zone once SegWit is actually active mid Aug. From now till then it's just more uncertainty. The first hurdle to overcome is reaching 80% signalling of BIP91. I don't think you can blacklist the bitcoin protocol. You can theoretically block the ports it uses, but you can always just get around such measures. Also why would anyone care to attack bitcoin like that. If it all becomes a clusterfuck the media and all the other altcoins will just point fingers at us and laugh. Shitcoiners be like "Who's the shitcoin now! Ha!"Heheh, I guess by the negative sentiment against PoW change you are a fellow miner! This is pure speculation but I don't think Bitcoin ABC will be "the chain of value" - quite the opposite. It will be the Polit Bureau Coin (PBC Coin - pun intended), centralized and controlled by the mini bitcoin dictator wannabees   Well, don't forget that right now he is onboard with the segwit2x agenda, so he is voting to stay on the original blockchain. The chain split (Bitcoin ABC) is a contingency plan if BIP 148 activates. It's sort of like a knee-jerk reaction. If we soft fork he hard forks. We all get forked that way!   BIP91 signaling went down to 77.7%. We're basically right at the end of locking in segwit on this current lock-in period and I have a feeling it won't succeed. Those 3 pools could make all the difference or the existing BIP91 signalers need to up their hashing power to compensate. We still have 152 blocks to go so there is time left.  https://www.xbt.eu/I think previous to that I saw mainly BU blocks being mined by Slush. Yeah I guess no BIP91 blocks yet. Either he is waiting for that mysterious bug in the btc1 client to be resolved or the pool (ie Slush himself) does not support BIP91 just the original SegWit alone. In other words he does not support SegWit2x. Slush allows users to vote, but he hasn't updated the voting structure yet so he's running multiple bitcoin daemons each with a different "vote". https://slushpool.com/stats/?c=btc45% of the hashing power of the pool is voting for Bitcoin Core - ie original SegWit.
Slight bump in the road. Looks like Bitfury, F2Pool and GBMiners are all signalling SW so they're likely on the sidelines waiting to hear about that bug ck described a few posts back.  Well, he's got a lot of money so he can just pay someone to engineer a new coin. I'd imagine though he wouldn't go with SHA256 nor Scrypt but something else as a PoW, or maybe totally PoS. Then he can have all the large blocks! Unlimited large blocks! Larger than his IQ   Ver should just start his own coin - Vercoin! I have a feeling Roger will signal BU till the very bitter end. We shall see. It's too early to tell  Maybe you may know better, but they could've just migrated the tokens to the slightly different blockchain maybe. I guess it doesn't matter all that much. I suspect NXT will die a slow death. I'm just pissed they had to invent a bazzilion coins to add to the ARDR mainchain. Why could they not have just rolled NXT into the ARDR blockchain and in a way NXT would have been IGNIS. No new ICOs and money begging, just build ARDR and run NXT on top of it. NXT would've been the main transactional token and other chains could've joined it.These days it seems if you want free money you just release an ICO. I need a new washing machine, therefore I plan to release WASHCOIN and later on CLEANCOIN.*Sigh* Anyways.... That's not a very probable "issue". It was very good that gmaxwell caught it but I don't think it will a serious cause for concern. There are manual methods the nodes can ensure that they communicate with each other. But I suppose it's the prudent thing to do.  Oh oh, someone is playing some games. BIP 91 was at 81 briefly now it dropped to 79%? hmm Pssh, a bankrun is no biggie when the sky is falling!  Don't worry, I promise we'll be gentle on you. We'll wear latex gloves and apply aloe vera lotion to your skin, and once you've arrived at your destination we'll give you a free SegWit cookie!   True, but I was thining of the people who use the exchange wallet as a "savings account" . These people are not really traders. Traders I totally understand needing to leave some btc on the exchange's hot wallet. Eewwwww, Bitcoin Unlimited   *plugs nose*. I kid, I kid. So you gonna join the great SegWit revolution? Slush started signalling SW in case anyone is wondering.  "476445   SW   20000002   Slush Pool   E!e���a1�ND/slush/"Yes Slush is signalling SW now. https://www.xbt.eu/ Probably in a private communication. I sent an e-mail via their contact us form. Waiting on a reply.  Hmm, I'm going to wait another 6 to 8 hrs. We've had 12+ hr blocks before. Also I hope Slush switches to BIP91 soon! I see. I did not know he was anti-segwit. Is there a thread or anywhere I can read why he takes this stance? Ah, okay, big thumb up!   Slush is a bit different cause he lets his users vote and choose which style of blocks to mine. I am guessing he means that everyone that voted for the "Let the pool decide" option will have their hashing power redirected towards BIP91 blocks. Still waiting to see a Slush BIP91 block. Kano/CKPool are not supporting BIP91 it seems.  It boggles the mind why people keep on doing this. Even an SPV wallet is better! At least with those you own the private keys. If the exchanges have issues your coins could be locked away until they sort out their problems. Anyone know what's up with some of the smaller pools like Kano, Slush? Are they going for BIP91 ?
Luck has been really shit, that's why.  Wait until SegWit is locked in.  "476325   BU   20000000   Bitcoin.com   �D /pool.bitcoin.com/BIP100/B8/NYA/ /EB1/AD6/��,��� C,�k�"HA!   Oh Roger Ver, you funny guy!  I don't know if Core cares, but I for sure don't. I don't necessarily want the block size increase for now, just segwit. However I do realize that all the signatory parties to the NYC agreement promised they will hard fork later. I would assume they will keep their word, but we shall see. Just please not the Bitcoin ABC monstrosity! It's funny cause I was just about to ask the same! Slush can you give us an additional voting option? Does voting for the bitcoin core option equal signaling BIP91? I'm currently voting for BIP148. BIP91 blocks are at 52.1% now. I lol so hard at the BU blocks. Why? Why oh why! -edit- looks like the BU blocks are slowly dying so whoever was running BU nodes is slowly migrating. I don't know if they can. If you are arguing that Core failed from a leadership perspective you're not going to get any argument against that from me. This civil war should not have happened in the first place. Core is comprised of a bunch of coders. Do we really expect them to be great communicators and leaders as well. Some of your of course would not even expect a strong and united core right? I mean decentralization and all that good stuff, right? This is a complex human psychology and sociology issue and I think if we get started on this topic we're going to veer waaaaay off-course from the thread's topic. I really avoided thinking about these problems until now because, well, bitcoin has largely remained the same since it was first a baby in Satoshi's mind. But now I have to squeeze my brain lemon extra hard. After all this drama I think I could use a bit of vodka in that lemon juice   Uhhh no! They do not have the cheapest electricity. They have a nearly unlimited supply of cheap human labor (slave labor perhaps), lack of regulation, centralized government control, disrespect for human rights, no business culture, copy and counterfeit everything under the sun, corruption at all levels of society....shall I go on? The Chinese don't give a shit about bitcoin on an ideological level. For them it's just another money making tool used as part of their great national get rich or die trying campaign. The antics of Jihan and Co. (he really should start his own bank and call it that, then he can be the next Goldman Sachs, JP Morgan, etc) proves that they will do whatever is necessary to secure their economic success even if it means that his actions will hurt other bitcoin users! So if it seems that there may be some "anti-China" going on, do you not perhaps think that some of it is rightfully deserved? It's not about hate it's just being 100% honest and real about things. It's kind of ironic that the hardware to secure the world's best example of a decentralized monetary system is being built in a country with a strong centralized control. Oh Universe, you are not without your weird sense of humour. I cannot argue against that, but in that case if we have a super-majority in the user/miner space then I would accept that as "the will of the people" and Core should do the same. Team X can support something and have it be a compromise at the same time. The point is that everyone gets a part of what they want, but not entirely 100% what _they_ and only they want.  ahhahaha...  Well may I ask why not? Wouldn't you like it if everyone was in the same boat? Did any of the Core members run over your dog or something ? Maybe it's just an idealistic pipe dream that everyone would compromise a bit and do something with minimal fuss. That would bring a tear of joy to my eyes! If we can have just SegWit without the hard fork it would be amazing. Then later on if _EVERYONE_ is on board with a hard fork without any drama I'm cool with that. BUT it would have to have the support of the Bitcoin Core team.  Well it's likely that some SHA-256 coin will remain, so they won't be 100% useless, but like I said I don't think PoW change will happen anytime soon. Worst fate for them would be if they had to mine ChinaCoin. Poor miners! I think a cooler idea would be to build a house out of them - a crypto house! lool. I can just insert them in the interior walls of the house. Or I could send them back to Bitmain with a C4 explosive bomb on each one. After 24 hrs of operation they would all blow up at the same time. Muahahah! Yes you are totally right and I was fully aware that this could happen. It's still too early to tell how this will play out though. Retards indeed.  Hold on, gotta go throw out my miners in the trash   Well, thanks for bringing that to us. Time to ruminate on this news and watch the price charts like a hawk.  It's the Alpha version of the Beta, then comes the Beta Beta and then Beta and then production.    Hmm, yeah you may be right, it could be a blessing if he showed himself the door. I watched an interview with him on YouTube and his entire reason for being willing to risk a split is that the current blocks are full (we all know now that this is no longer the case) and because of that future growth in value and adoption is stifled. He wants bitcoin to gain an even wider userbase _at all costs_. He strikes me as the kind of guy that would play brinkmanship with bitcoin just to get his way. But he thinks the only path forward is an increase in block size and that's all that is necessary. Doesn't this guy have like hundreds of thousands of BTC? If he dumped he would cause a volatility tsunami! But as you said it would be raining cheap coins on buyers!@ComputerGenieHey you think that maybe (and this is wild speculation here) Bitmain has been infiltrated by the CCP and they've been told to do what they can to bring bitcoin under the control of the party. The West on the other hand could be pressuring the core devs to do what they can to push out the Chinese influence on the network. There would be hidden undercurrents in this whole tug of war game in the scaling debate. Or maybe I should stop reading Zero Hedge    They would take a lot of mining power with them, but not so sure about economic nodes. No way that Coinbase would go with the least used blockchain - their entire business model is based on trading volume. Roger Ver on the other hand would just take a boat load of bitcoins with him (technically he would still have the same on both chains) and may potentially dump them on one chain to crash the price? (would be a big gamble and stupid move but hey he could theoretically do it if he wanted to be spiteful). I'd be interested to see in which direction some of the other Chinese mining pools not associated with Bitmain would go. Or are they all controlled by Bitmain? Where is that tin foil hat? Have I misplaced it lool   Well indeed it seems some of you have snapped up cheap coins cause price recovered a bit. If it stays above 2K for a while I'd be happy with that 
No amount of on-topic chatter by us will solve this problem, so just relax, grab a drink and enjoy the madness! Need can be interpreted in many ways. I'm sure if you ask them they'd say it's a "need"  . But I can also think of people seeking to avoid capital flow controls, people looking to make large or expensive purchases without leaving a trace in the fiat money space, people who need to make quick and timely international payment, etc. There is still a trace in the fiat money system for most of these use case scenarios though   But you are absolutely right, btc has been used as an investment vehicle/store of value for the most part. Once bitcoin has a stable circular economy than that will be the time where someone may absolutely need to buy btc to obtain a particular product or service which they cannot obtain through the fiat economy. lol funny enough one case where one may absolutely need bitcoin is when bitmain sells miners strictly in btc (ie they do not accept wire payments as well).  One word: drugs    I hope they are bluffing. In my opinion they are playing a dangerous and stupid game. Indeed drama and overt arrogance. I sometimes get the feeling that these people may be intellectually smart but probably have the mental maturity of a 10 year old. *Sigh*  You are right. Sorry I should've been more clear and not have used that as a comparison, but I only meant it to refer to a hard fork - ie a chain split.  Oh no doubt UASF will activate it. But I worry about the Chinese mega miners / mega pools. If they are playing a ruse it could get messy. I would really like to avoid an ETH - ETC scenario. You may be able to grab cheap bitcoin but at the end of it you'll end up with two or more "bitcoins" and your cheap bitcoins may not be so valuable in aggregate as when bitcoin was one whole entity. Anyways, I don't want to spread FUD. Good on you that you are so chill about it!  "The SegWit2x development team aims for July 21st to be the day that BTC1 nodes are actually up and running, and, importantly, the day that miner signaling should commence."-bitcoin magazinehttps://bitcoinmagazine.com/articles/countdown-segwit-these-are-dates-keep-eye/Damn this is cutting it really close. I bet a lot of bitcoiners are puckering up their butt cheeks now   Any discussion on this is totally off-topic so that's one reason why there isn't much point to discussing it. The coins have never been recovered, nor do I know who it was that stole them. The only reflection on that matter that could be slightly relevant to this thread's theme is that had wallet encryption been a feature of bitcoin core (at the time it wasn't called bitcoin core) this theft would never had happened. So it kind of illustrates the value of proactive thinking.  Too bad this forum has no way I can upvote your reply cause this deserves a big thumbs up! "What has been will be again,what has been done will be done again;there is nothing new under the sun"On a different note and more on-topic it seems segwit2x support intention went down lol! Yar, there be rough seas ahead mateys! Definitely! Plus I like drinking beer too!  Also I think I am a reasonable guy and I have no hidden agenda or axe to grind in this crypto currency space.I don't think they are lazy slugs. They very conservative because they kind of have to be. Being conservative and careful is good, but as long as you aren't so conservative that you stagnate. Like I said previously sometimes you have to be a bit bold. Even with the spam attack bitcoin worked, just not as its users liked. At the end of the day people will see bitcoin sort of as a utility. They expect it to work without any fuss or hassle. I don't think it's broken. It has minor "flaws" that are there in any peer to peer network (relating to the transaction spam problem). I agree that simply increasing the blocksize is not a magical fix. What saddens me is that we knew about this issue long time ago. Core has 3 years if not more to address this issue. Bitcoin as it is suits the current user base perfectly fine and is technically sound, however we as a community have to come to some consensus as to what we want bitcoin to be. Do we want it to be "money by the people for the people" or a niche system for gold bug refugees and financially conservative nerds? If we (and I use that term in the democratic sense of a majority) want it to be used by as many people as possible then would it not stand to reason that network performance has to increase? If I was on the Core team the moment I saw btc price appreciate like crazy I would've put some smart people together and do some serious brainstorming to come up with technically sound ways of increasing transaction throughput. SegWit is an apparent piece of that solution yet look that it hasn't caught on as the Core team had hoped. SegWit is their baby and no doubt they Core team has some emotional ties to their ideas. They put out the idea and it was nearly rejected. What should they have done? Try again with something new?I don't know much about Roger Ver, but I know for sure that money does not buy you wisdom nor intelligence. Wisdom is a quality that cannot be obtained at the crypto lottery. Ideally we should have both technically brilliant and wise people at the helm of the bitcoin titanic. That's the tragic part of anything we do as humans. Bitcoin could be the next best thing to sliced bread, but if has a hostile or negative culture/community with poor leadership figures it will all fall to fragmented pieces. So you think it was all overly exaggerated? Perhaps. Actually most likely yes. There is a lot of propaganda back and forth sadly. My head hurts from all of this. It will go through - at least attempt to - no matter what on August 1'st due to UASF. Now the question is whether the UASF segwit chain will be viable. Jihan Wu and his ilk could easily attack the segwit chain by choosing to hard fork and mine a different chain. I think they said somewhere that it's precisely what they intend to do - combat BIP 148. Nuts! Sadly I am not rich. My story is tragic and if you do some research you will find out why. I was into bitcoin almost from the very beginning. I am strong believer in the bitcoin dream but overall bitcoin has brought me a fair bit of sadness. But like your first love you never quite forget her nor completely erase her from your heart. Such is life and some of us just have bad luck and that's just the way it is. I prefer not to talk about it and just move on. Only small minds dwell on the past. This right here bothers me severely! Why in the hell are we replicating the same power structures that we purportedly seek to destroy. *Sigh*  I don't want to give out investment advice, but what I personally do when trading is double down when price drops.This is a potentially very risky strategy if you're trading on margin, but I bet most of us are not using borrowed funds (ie leverage) to buy ARDR (cause I don't think that's possible yet). Price movement has already pretty much destroyed all the previous gains and we're back to a price level that has been long standing ~0.05 to 0.08. I'm not sure it can or will go much lower than this unless the other major cryptos drag it down with them.  I agree. This kind of bullshit FUD is what pisses me off.    Like I said, ensure your miners show in the pool and you have a scoring hashrate both at the top of the status page and in the 5 min and 1 hr average and let them mine and you'll get a better picture later. You should see your estimated daily payout and other stats change to reflect your SCORING hashrate. If I had to guess I'd say you just aren't patient enough. Not only is this a small pool and it takes longer to find blocks but you aren't even with the pool long enough to see it in action. If you really really cannot wait to get some confirmed earning than mine with Antpool or any of the other large Chinese pools - as much as that would pain me to see or to say. First of all I am not part of the SlushPool team, I am a fellow miner there like yourself. I'm not saying you missed block confirmation, I'm saying you were not part of that block -ie you did not contribute any hash.If you are not 24/7 mining Slush is not the pool for you cause of the reward system it uses. Find a PPS or PPLNS pool instead. This pool rewards miners that stick with the pool for long durations. You haven't been a part of confirmed block that had your full hashing power apart of it. Your 5 min average is 0 and same with hourly. Is your gear even online? Maybe it's hashing for a backup pool if you set one. The blocks with the green checkmark are the ones confirmed. It even tells you how much hashing power you contributed to each block.You also had the bad luck of only having 94 TH into that super long block otherwise your reward from that block should have been 0.02 btc or around there. gmaxwell's reply to that article: https://falkvinge.net/2017/05/01/blockstream-patents-segwit-makes-pieces-fall-place/ What is your hashrate? Correct. I am indeed suggesting that. Bitcoin is now big enough that there are a wide variety of players in the arena each with their own agenda and various motivations and interests. I wish we could know the entire picture but I don't think people like me or you will. There was definite transaction spam on the network which has recently miraculously disappeared. I wonder who it was that did it! I guess you are right in the sense that my statement could be construed as me playing into the false idea that bitcoin's inherent design is responsible for the high fees and transaction spam. It is clearly not from a certain perspective. Anyone on the network can spam it with transactions and the network has no mechanism of saying which is a legit transaction and which is not. I for one did not mind the high fees so much as the ridiculously long confirmation times. At the moment I don't personally see or use Bitcoin as a high volume cheap to transact payment system. In the future though there may come a time when the legitimate transaction volume will be so great that it will put a serious strain on the network like the spam attack did. It is better to prepare and upgrade the network now. Perhaps whomever performed the spam attack was trying to teach the users a lesson about thinking ahead in the hope that users complaining would spur the core devs to deal with the issue. The scalability problem has been a known issue for a really long time now (super long in this fast moving industry). Whether the core devs have been lackadaisical about it is a matter up for debate. I can understand the pressure on their shoulders though. They can't make huge mistakes because the potential damage could be vast. SegWit should help by making blocks "lighter" and that should give us some breathing room for a bit. Making blocks bigger is just a dumb brute force way of approaching the problem, and yep you are right someone could spam the network even with 2 MB , 4 MB , 8 MB ,etc blocks. It would be very neat if we could come up with a technology that will allow the nodes to filter out spam transaction and share some sort of distributed blacklist. This is but an idea and I'm sure I'm not the first to suggest this nor am I an advanced coder to be able to put this out myself. Yep you're right there is a ton of misinformation and mind games being played. For a sincere and genuine user who doesn't have a favorite horse in the race it can be mind numbing to sort through all the rhetoric. Hang in there my friend and let's stay optimistic. 
I understand how you feel. I did not mean competitive in the dog-eat-dog capitalist sense that it may have come across. But I do feel that bitcoin should at the very least meet the use demand of its user base. If you have to wait 6 hours for your transaction to confirm or some other obstacle exists that prevents the smooth flow of transactions then I can totally understand why someone may be tempted to look elsewhere - ie the altcoin route. On the flip side being too malleable is also not a good thing. Finding the right balance between wise innovation and conserving the solid foundation is not easy no doubt. Then you have their detractors who for whatever reasons don't like Core and think they know better and are trying to pull bitcoin into the direction of their vision. I hope it doesn't end up being a shillcoin or a chinacoin or whatever the case may be. The biggest threat to the Core team are the hashpower heavy miners who think they know better or are smarter than Core. I am counting on economic self interest to prevent them from rocking the bitcoin boat too hard and sink us all. More drama and "fun" is sure to come!  True! They feed off the credibility and trust scraps that fall off the bitcoin table. Not all of them but quite a lot of them. A few of them are truly innovative and these innovative coins should get the respect and adoption they deserve. On that note Bitcoin users should realize that Bitcoin may not be the best mouse trap there is and because Bitcoin is open source and exists in a free and competitive market it better compete or risk becoming the equivalent of a crypto dinosaur. As for the pump and dump scams, in a truly free market it's inevitable that people will fall victim to these scams. There isn't anything we can do about this. Since this is bitcoin talk after all we should focus on how to get through the current segwit activation hurdle.  Ah sorry if I misunderstood. I am on the same boat as you. Mindless brand loyalty is silly and yes there is a lot of that around. However if we're all honest there are quite a lot of altcoins that are just pointless and are created as mere pump and dump scam attempts. There are a few altcoins that merit attention but the wheat to chaff ratio is pretty small  lol I see what your role is here on this thread - to be the resident smart ass  ok noted.I was not implying a hard causal link, just a probable causal chain due to herd mentality and basic principles of human psychology and group think. I'm pretty sure you understood the core of the argument and at the back of your head you too share the same concern, but you had to tap your twinkle digits on that magical keyboard of yours   Or maybe you just have a large investment in altcoins and were deeply offended by my use of the term "shitcoins" Who knows! Let's just hope that x doesn't fail in the first place and then we won't have to worry about z failing just because   That would be the best scenario for both the bitcoin fanatics and the shitcoin aficionados. Well it sucks that ARDR prices tanked but hey at least this could be a good buying opportunity.  Guys, stop using out of date mining software. The mining software has to support Stratum (aka the Stratum protocol). GUI miner has a console section where you can see any error messages or responses from the pool. Look there and see if there are any error messages that are relevant. For example your hashrate could be too low for the pool to consider you a valid or legitimate miner - ie this is part of their anti mining botnet protection (prevent hackers from using people's CPUs and GPUs to mine). Alts are not safe. Bitcoin will be the canary in the mine. If bitcoin proves to the clueless masses that a decentralized form of money cannot work due to social dynamics and essentially human psychology than do you think they will continue to have faith in these altcoins that operate on the same basic principles of dynamic social co-operation as bitcoin? I doubt they will. Bitcoin was the first cryptocurrency and it will be held as a reference point. Eliminating the "human psychology" risk from any structure built by humans and used by them is going to take a genius of epic proportions. Maybe in the future when we'll have AI this AI will hopefully be nice enough to build for us a cryptocurrency or at the very least manage it, cause everything we humans do is messy and we're bound to fuck it up somehow, someway, and sometime. The other thing we must keep in mind is that the only reason some of these altcoins exist is because the entry into the btc sphere is so expensive - ie some people just cannot afford to grab a stake in btc. If btc tanks the average Joe is going to be thinking "well shit, if this bullshit can happen with bitcoin the same thing can happen with my shitcoin too! I better sell right away before I lose my entire life savings that I invested in this shitcoin in the hope that I will be a billionaire!"So in a more verbose way I am just basically agreeing with you guys on this one - altcoins are not a safe haven if the bitcoin titanic crashes into an iceberg. lol, I for one really do appreciate it when small miners mine in spite the futility of it. Donating resources to the network is always appreciated. If only there were a winder miner base that would be great. Good luck to you! Fair enough, but both parties could end up losing a great deal to satisfy their conflict. It's a question of how badly do you want to get your way. August 1'st is fast approaching! It can, but you're not pointing it to a scrypt pool. Try something like litecoinpool.org or something. That gridseed miner also does BTC mining as well, so you have to mine in "dual" mode. It's a rather weak miner by today's standards so I would suggest not bothering with the SHA-256 (aka bitcoin) part of it and just mine scrypt coins - like litecoin. Yeah, Scrypt is not supported by SlushPool at the moment. If it's the gridseed miner I'm thinking of than you can't mine zcash with it either. But it would help if you knew your miner well enough before you used it. It would save you some grief. Is this even a stratum capable miner? What is its hashrate? Fragmentation is bad. It should be avoided if at all possible. To paraphrase a cliche, can't we all just agree and get along?!    I was not aware of that. These kinds of fine technical details are why I have trust that eventually some smart person will sort it out. Is it a core requirement of how LN functions that any time state of the channel can be included in the Bitcoin blockchain or is it just because LN is not yet fully developed. Hopefully a clever solution can be found to fix this flaw. You are right though, it is a niche technology for now and not likely to be touched by Joe bitcoin user. My gut feeling tells me that btc will not be competing with other payment systems on a sheer transaction volume capability basis; at least not for a long time to come. I think most average people / investors who are aware of bitcoin see it as a sort of digital gold, and nothing more.  I don't have to trust sales arguments because smarter people than me can read the code and find flaws. Besides the system can be tested before a single coin is ever risked. It's all open source, read the code and make your own mind if you should or should not trust it.       Yeah this dogmatism I see from some people is pretty amusing. It's a mix of stubbornness and self interest me thinks. Jihan likely just cares about Bitmain's bottom line not necessarily about new and innovative technologies. They fell into a very lucrative niche as a virtue of an accident of geography and they intend to squeeze this bitcoin thing for all its worth lol .Well, I guess 20 years down the road they can have their 1 GB blocks cause we'll all be using holographic crystal "hard drives" and we'll all have 1 TB fibre connections. This kind of thinking is akin to coming across a mountain in your way and instead of finding a way to avoid it you just smash your head against its cliffs with ever increasing power in the hope of tunneling through. Elegant and innovative solutions to problems are always more beautiful than brute force solutions.  I could be wrong about this but this idea probably stems from a misunderstanding of how LN works. If they wanted to attack the LN nodes they'd have to attack the BTC blockchain itself.  Thank you for that useful info. This clears up a few things! In light of that I still think something like it - if not LN itself - is an inevitable requirement if we ever want BTC to compete with the FIAT payment systems. If the BTC community wants for BTC to remain just a sort of digital gold store of value and large value transfer (once in a while) then doing everything on the blockchain will still work. I fully agree with you. I too expect this tech to be used primarily by exchanges, large traders and perhaps those btc gambling sites and whatnot.  Thanks for posting this. This was quite useful in gaining a general idea of the LN. Although I do agree with many people that this feature is "not Bitcoin" as some say, why the hate for it? It seems like a neat addon to bitcoin's capabilities and it does not require a radical protocol change. LN can be extremely useful to those who make frequent use of the bitcoin network (ie transact often).  Patience, mining padawan, is a virtue that must be cultivated!  
That I'm not sure as I'm not in the EU zone. I would assume that everyone involved in the shipping chain would know seeing as France and Sweden are part of the EU Free Market Zone. I would suggest asking both the shipping company and the company in Sweden you intend to host with. They may be able to clear things up. Well, you are not _selling_ the goods just transporting them so you would not pay VAT on the value of the miner just the VAT on the cost of shipping. VAT is charged when goods are bought or sold. I'm sure you already paid VAT when you got the miners from China as that was the original sale transaction.  We may be able to help you starting from August. E-mail us at sales [at] cryptoboreas.com and I'll add you to the customer waiting list (yes we too have a long waiting list - mining frenzy in full effect!). Perhaps you can explain why rising cost and high barriers to entry (ie to mine NOT at a loss) increases security for all? Wouldn't having diversification in the mining community be a good thing? I do realize that the entire system is NOT designed to be egalitarian at all. Much like the "real world" in the btc sphere the same rule applies - those with money will make money. But extreme concentration of interests/control in any monetary system/store of value detracts from the usage value of the system. Correct me if I'm wrong but isn't bitcoin supposed to be an anarcho-capitalist ideal. Perhaps here there is a clash of ideas. Some see bitcoin as just an improved version of gold - digital gold. What I wish it to be is a monetary system and store of value owned by everyone and controlled by no-one.Nah, it's not the best and it never was. If you're talking from a pure quality point of view Bitmain hardware is not the best. It just happens to be the best priced because they have access to cheap labor and certain other advantages afforded to them by their geographical location. It's just a pure accident of history that Bitmain came out a winner in this game. It was almost pre-destined lol. I'm also sure that Satoshi already knew that the first ASICs will be coming out of China and that eventually China will dominate this industry. Well, that point was pure speculation. We don't know and likely will never know the web of interests and control in the ASIC and mining industry. I would argue that we should care though. Users should care just as much as users of the FIAT monetary system should care who has undue power of the money _they_ use. Most people don't care though and that is the problem. The idea behind a sound monetary system is that it limits this very same centralized meddling and control that someone is bound to attempt to do - because human nature. Nah I don't think Bitmain is mining at a loss. It's not about being subsidized, it's about them using their vast and super cheap hashpower to push the other miners out. The true cost of their chips is dollars. The actual value of their miners is at best a few hundred dollars  Don't worry they are not mining at a loss nor are they subsidizing your btc usage. If anything the miners who buy their gear are subsidizing their mining farms and development costs. For them this is the name of the game; roll money from hardware sales into their own massive mining farms. Whatever gear you buy from them is coming out of their live mining farms. Yep! You are absolutely right and it is a very smart way to do business. I don't think they'll stop selling either as long as there are smaller manufacturing processes (ie silicon chips) to invest millions of dollars into. They will use sale of older gen gear to subsidize new gen gear. I bet you that they are already working on 10nm or smaller chips and are using their mining farm profits and sales profits to pay for that. The dream every "big miner" aspires to is to eventually build their own mining ASICs. I'm kind of sad that today we only have Bitmain and Canaan. Maybe maybe not. Perhaps we should start our own thread to continue this discussion. I would agree that the proof of work should not be changed now because it would affect people's confidence in bitcoin. It would erase a lot of money invested in the mining hardware necessary to secure the network. However that's just a practical argument not a moral or economic one. Perhaps there are better ways to structure the reward mechanism. That's why you have a ton of altcoins out there which attempt to experiment with changing this part of the cryptocurrency secret sauce. For bitcoin it's a bit too late into the game to make such a radical change. I'm not saying that it will not happen nor that it should not but I think it would have some bad consequences at this stage. I think a lot of btc users would not be happy with a 100% Chinese Miner Monopoly Coin (aka ChinaCoin). I would envision a lot of the current btc user base would move to altcoins. There are a LOT of them out there and one can even argue some may be superior in some ways to bitcoin. BTC does not have the luxury of being the only game in town these days. It needs to COMPETE with the altcoins. There is nothing intrinsically special about bitcoin either. You gotta ask yourself if you're trying to avoid the central bank controlled FIAT monetary system why create a digital version of it where a small kabal of people exercise undue influence and control over the system?It will be interesting to see how BTC competes with the altcoins and what it will morph into. Some of the purists will argue that if bitcoin gets some of the features now common in other coins it will no longer be "bitcoin". Just wait, the debate hasn't even started! If there is this much slow gear grinding about SegWit wait until other protocol changes are suggested/implemented/etc. I agree with you. It does not matter per se what scalability tech is used, but ideally I would want it to be the best tech possible and one that does not favor any particular group of people. I actually do care about the technical aspect as well as the social and economic aspect. What I want out of bitcoin is a system that empowers me and others and gives us control over _our_ money. I am an ideologue true enough.  So yeah maybe we should start our own thread. People are going to get pissed when we slam our wall-o-text in their eyeballs lool. This viewpoint seems a tad bit too naive. There are big barriers to enter this "free market" and it appears to me that the mega miners have already won the game. They will be the only ones left standing. I also get the feeling that there is battle raging now between the "landed gentry" (what I'd call the mega miners) and the average bitcoin user/small stake holder. These two (or more) groups have obvious diverse interests at heart. The rich and powerful will always seek more power and control. Huge mining conglomerates based out the Far East control the lion's share of the network hashing power. There is no transparency in the way business in conducted in China, so I don't really trust that all the various Chinese mining pools aren't controlled by the same small group of people. Also, we already have a near monopoly on mining hardware production by the likes of Bitmain (this is in the SHA256 space that is). If this isn't centralization I don't know what is. If there were a group of say 5 to 10 companies producing chips AND selling to the average Joe miner than your point about fears of centralization being "completely unwarranted" would be far more believable. I sincerely worry about the current situation and it sucks big time that we have to be at the mercy of Bitmain's good dispositions. Thankfully they still sell hardware to the general public, but technically they don't have to. I would not seem logical that they would kill the golden goose but they will sure try to keep it busily laying as many golden eggs for themselves as possible. I hope I don't sound too pessimistic, but I sure hope some of those free market forces would be more active. The exchanges and wallet providers don't have as much power as you think they do. Mining is the heart of bitcoin. The exchanges and the rest act as the arms and legs of the bitcoin organism. Anyways, I feel we are derailing this thread. Let's get back to constant back and forth about the scaling challenge If this problem gets solved without a major btc price crash or loss of confidence I'm going to be drinking a shit ton of beer to celebrate! SegWit2x intention peaked at 89% today. I hope it gets activated soon. This drama is reaching diva proportions.  I hope Slush starts offering a voting option for SegWit2x soon. At the moment I don't see that option in the voting selection box. I previously voted for USAF but I will change it to SegWit2x once that choice becomes available to me. Well this is good news for a change! You know, at this point Segwit2x is better than a chain split. Let's hope for the best.  No unfortunately because we don't keep inventory on hand. You can buy miners from our existing clients though. We thought about offering hardware ready to hash but that's something we plan to put into action much later when we finish our current project and everything is running smoothly. Thanks! We appreciate the feedback!  Yes, 0.09 CAD which is 0.07 USD. lool of course I realized!  But I also decided to give you a serious answer. You clever guy you! Wizard of wit achievement unlocked! I don't see how the two are mutually exclusive. I understand that people may have opposing interests, but you would think that these opposing parties would realize that co-operation is in their own best financial interest. It does require compromise in some cases, but burning the house down when you don't get your way is childish and immature. The whole world is watching us and everyone is going to laugh at us if the community implodes in on itself. I hope people realize how much trust and good will will be destroyed if btc fragments. Anyways, I will let you guys get back to your heated technical debate. I'll quietly hope rationality wins in the end. Cheers! Quite a shame it was all in vain, because there is a real possibility that these very same people will stand to lose more than just face. Such a shame intelligence and wisdom don't often go hand in hand. You have a bunch of egotistical stubborn geeks playing crypto currency poker  Fun times ahead! Good luck to us all!  If only people would put as much energy into working together as they do arguing with each other this scaling problem would've been solved a long time ago.  It means that if the miner requires a power supply and does not come with one built-in the $65 fee does not cover the _additional_ cost of a power supply. The customer has to either provide one (or however many are required to power the miner) or rent power supplies from us for a fee. This is standard policy across all crypto mining hosting companies.  I'm confused as to what you're trying to say. Electricity cost is included in the $65 CAD/month. It _IS_ profitable to mine with us if you have the most efficient mining hardware.  I'm surprised there is no discussion about BIP 148/UASF on here. How does Bitmain and its pools plan to deal with this upcoming deadline. From what I read it I take it that Bitmain does not support BIP 148 but will it go so far as to fight against the vote of bitcoin users (nodes)? This is a very important issue and it needs to be discussed in an open and honest manner.  I too don't think Slush will commit to a publicly states opinion just yet. It's good that miners using this pool get a choice though. I will go on record publicly to say that I support BIP 148. I spent the past 2 days looking into the possible repercussions and I think what is best for the users of Bitcoin is best for bitcoin itself. I am a miner, but I have at heart what is best for Bitcoin. The current state of affairs is unsatisfactory. Something needs to be done and both miners and users need to go in the path that is best for _everyone_ . The wise move would be for miners to signal SegWit early before the BIP 148 deadline. It pains me to see that some people are willing to risk the reputation and integrity of Bitcoin because of their own stubborn self interest. But anyways, such is how life works. Whatever scenario plays out I hope the damage (if there is any to either bitcoin itself or to its users via lost coins etc) is minimal or non-existent.  I think a more important topic to discuss right now is BIP148. Everyone please vote. I am also curious what the pool operators opinion is on this. 27% currently voted "pool decides" and 13% did not vote. So what is the pool decides option - support for BIP148 or not?
I'd say if we still don't see a block after 48 hours then I'd be definitely concerned. 26 Hrs and counting so far. Damn, 500 PH?! Holy shit, that's a monster load of hashing power. Then again I'm not surprised given the current btc price. There is a mad blood thirst for more hashing power now.  You sure? It still says ~4.x - precisely 4.2% right now. This could all just be shitty pool luck and nothing shady at this point. 25 Hrs without a block is bad, but not yet get out the pitchforks and shovels territory just yet. Website is http://www.cryptoboreas.comUse the "Contact Us" form on the site to e-mail us.However, I must mention beforehand that right now we have no spare capacity. We are working on expansion and we anticipate in max 3 months to have some available power. The pool should automatically vary the difficulty. I would set your pool minimum difficulty at a minimum of 1024. The issue with that idea is that the variables in this mining game change all the time. It can be profitable with just one miner actually. It all depends on the miner you buy and at what price. A brand new S9 from Bitmain is very profitable right now with our hosting fees. Of course you have to take into consideration the ROI of the hardware (ie how long it will take until you get your original investment back) which can take 4 to 6 months depending on how the mining difficulty and BTC price behave. If you are still determined to learn about the mining industry I'm sure you will. It's not super hard stuff, you just have to invest some time to build up a basic knowledge base. Guys we'd love to host your miners, but at the moment we are full. We are working on expanding, but I cannot promise any concrete timeframe on this. For now I suggest you send us an e-mail with your name to sales [at] cryptoboreas.com and I'll add you to our waiting list. Once we have more capacity we plan to e-mail everyone on the waiting list to let them know. Well I don't think you can have your cake and eat it too - that is get the higher rewards you're noticing with the current system AND be paid for work while your miners aren't doing it. It would be nice and yesterday I ran into the situation where I had some downtime and guess what even though I contributed to the block I did not get paid because the miners were not connected at the time. I dunno I guess it's a trade off. I can't personally confirm higher payouts than with a PPLNS system but I guess I'll take your word for it if you done the "pool hopping" thing more than me. Whoa, $0.08 and now 22'nd on the top crypto currency list on coinmarketcap. Nice Ador. This crytocurrency certainly deserves more attention than it's currently getting. Bravo! Well, it doesn't work like that. You are using that calculator wrong. You have to include the cost of the hosting and with such calculators you have to convert the $65 CAD fee to a $ per KW cost.S5s are NOT profitable to host with us. S5s only make sense if you have free or super low electricity rates. We cannot give you a solid number. This is a calculation you will need to learn to do on your own. It all varies based on what miner you purchase and the miner's performacne metrics (how much power it consumes, the hashrate, etc). All we can tell you is that we ask $65 CAD per KW/month. So say if you were to get an S9 that consumes 1.3 KW and produces 13.5 TH. Ok, so using a simple bitcoin mining calculator that shows that the miner will mine 0.185 btc per month which is $331 USD per month at today's btc/usd rate. Ok, so now for the hosting fees. $65 CAD x 1.3 KW = $86.45 CAD in monthly hosting fees (does not include power supply rental or assume that you will provide your own) $86.45 CAD is equal to $63.10 USD. Subtract $63.10 from $331 = $268 USD pure profit for you monthly. My suggestion is don't blindly jump into mining without taking some serious time to learn the details of this game and figure out if the risk is worth it for you (yes there are risks, it's not a money tree). Good luck with your research! It works just like server hosting. You buy and ship the miner to us and we provide you with power, space, and internet connectivity for a monthly fee. The miner gets pointed at whatever mining pool you desire so you get all the bitcoins mined. We invoice you on a 3 month pre-paid basis (month to month is available but it's more expensive). I have one request for all existing customers that have a forum account. Please subscribe to this thread so you will receive any important updates and news. We are working on having a status update page on our website and once that is active I will let everyone know here.  Power has been restored. There may be brief power outages after this if they decide to muck around with things after the power transmission line repair, but let's hope not. All customers please check your miners on the pool side and e-mail us if they are not online in the next hour or so. We are going around checking each miner physically but in case some are not hashing in spite of the miners LED indicators let us know. "Current estimated restoration time for Labrador East is 3 pm tomorrow. Crews will assess and provide an update in the morning." "Customers in Labrador East should prepare for the possibility that the current power outage may last overnight into tomorrow. (1/2)""Extensive damage on transmission line from Churchill Falls. The crews are working around the clock to resolve the issues. (2/2)"I reeeeely hope it doesn't last into tomorrow. For updates please go here:https://twitter.com/NLHydro?ref_src=twsrc%5Egoogle%7Ctwcamp%5Eserp%7Ctwgr%5Eauthor We are still capped, but are working feverishly to find new power. Unfortunately I cannot give any concrete timeframe for that. Just so everyone is aware there is a power outtage in the region we operate in. This is in case some of our existing customers can't get a hold of us via traditional methods (email etc). NL Hydro estimates power will be restored tonight at 7:00pm'ish local time:https://twitter.com/NLHydro?ref_src=twsrc%5Egoogle%7Ctwcamp%5Eserp%7Ctwgr%5Eauthor Wasn't there a big discussion on this subject and Slush's admins decided to switch to the current system after long research into the subject. I don't think there are high chances of the pool switching to PPLNS.But on a different note, man the pool luck has been shit for the past 10 blocks  Man these are expensive! If I didn't need to spend money elsewhere I would go for one. So LTC eh, hmm, me thinks buying LTC is a better bet than mining it with such expensive hardware, but what do I know :p
What are the odds that this pool would switch to a PPLNS reward structure. IMHO that method is a bit more fair to the average miner.  Yep I do rememeber that. In the contract that I have with them it does mention a FULL btc refund if they miss the deadline. So much for their fucking contract or the US legal system. Anyways, thinking about this just frustrates the hell out of me, so I'll go have a tea and try to forget about this. Hopefully this thread dies completely like all memories of this failure of a company. Yep, you were one of the smart ones. Good on you! Lesson to be learned: do not pay for mining hardware with btc if you can avoid it. In my case I did not have much cash at the time so I couldn't have paid with fiat.  What a bargain my good Sir! Does it hash at 1.2 Billion Petahash and consume  0.5 picowatts? I should expect so!Hey if it makes you feel any better I paid 120 BTC for 2 of these, but never got them. So I unlike you got fucked twice.  Yes good Sir, will you take a million dollars for it? I know my offer is low but I am but a poor miner that's been scammed by HashFast in the past and I have little money now. lol the thread that never dies...I bet 5 years from now you two will still be trading insults back and forth here     Well said! I 100% fully support this idea, but sadly human psychology and/or greed will prevent this from becoming a reality unless it was hard-coded into the BTC protocol. Thank you for the info guys, I very much appreciate it!    @Bitmain, would you guys be willing to offer an out of warranty repair service for this dead temp sensor chip issue? Even if it costs us $50 it would still be better than a dead ~$300 blade. Good point. But sometimes it's not the heat that kills them cause we've had board die in the middle of the North Canada winter. All it takes is one or two traces to become undone due to poor sodder or lack of sufficient sodder and bam, chip is offline and bam temp sensor is offline and bam blade is entirely offline. Also according to bitmain specs these are supposed to be able to handle fairly high intake temps - ie a traditional data center environment. I think the reality is a pure and simple ugly truth which is that Bitmain obviously cut corners on design and build quality to wide their profit margins as well as make the miners ore affordable of us miners. I would honestly pay a bit more for a rock solid design implementation and especially one that is user serviceable to a larger degree.-update- has anyone attempted to remove the chips off of an S9 board? I'm wondering what kind of specialized equipment we'd need.  Oh crap, that's the worst case scenario. Dammit Bitmain why you go so cheap on the design/build quality? Do they not realize that if the miner dies out of warranty they are just basically screwing their customers out of ROI. Should these things not be built well enough/smart enough that they will last more than 6 months before killing themselves. Welcome to the wild west that is the bitcoin economy  Hopefully they can resolve it amicably, but something tells me once lawyers are involved it will get ugly. I have noticed that the temperature sensor on S9 boards has an unusually high failure rate and it's taking down entire hashboards with it. When the sensor goes bad the board no longer hashes. This has happened on numerous occassions with our customers' gears. Does anyone know by any chance if there is a way to fix this. Does someone know where this temp sensor is located (picture would be really helpful) and if it can be swapped out/fixed/repaired, etc? Sounds good. I will get that info for you in the middle of this week. Cheers! No I definitely have S5 stuff, I wasn't referring to just any random junk. You okay with paying for shipping from Labrador Canada? If you're on the East coast of North America shipping should not be so bad. You could save a bit on shipping if we sent you just the hashing boards without heatsinks.  Oooo.....preparing to hurl all my junk at you! These laptops are beasts and very well built as OP says. If I had the need for a workstation class laptop I'd definitely buy it.  Shit bro I forgot to ask you where these are shipping from. I can't calculate shipping costs without that info. PM it to me if you want to keep it confidential. You say you have a bunch, but how much is a bunch. Also can you figure out the shipping cost to Canadian postal code: A0P1C0 , or alternatively provide me with the box (if you have original box) dimensions and weight so I can calculate it myself.  It is theoretically possible, but I'd imagine it isn't easy and if someone were to do this they should do it on a mass scale even if they buy them tamper with them and sell them at a loss. Anyways, on second though I think I'll pass and just buy straight from the developers of Trezor. $50 to $99 USD not a super huge difference in price for the piece of mind.
Is this even possible? lol Won't the bank catch on. Shady stuff. I'd be interested in both if you can provide proof of purchase and proof that you did not tamper with it - ie item in original packaging with seal. Also escrow with OgNasty would be a must. Hey what is going on with the web stats on the pool. My estimated daily reward is 0.0 and the stats in "your contribution to the pool" is totally empty. I see that all the miners are submitting work to the pool and the scoring hashrate figure is showing something and it is changing so I presume it's accurate.  Anyone noticed that bitmaintech's site is now unsecured. Their SSL cert expired? Any word from bitmain itself? Are they even aware of this?--edit-- nevermind, it seems bitmain is not using the bitmaintech.com domain anymore that's why. Still too expensive given the price of other gear available. Avalons go for $818 USD. I would be interested in this too. I have 30 of these PSUs that are missing the PSU,molex, SATA, etc cable packages. All they have is a few PCIE and even then only enough to power Neptune rigs. Essentially I'd need the original cable packages that come with these PSUs. Brand new they are 1.5K when they're on sale. Also I don't know if you guys know but batch 1 and 2 units are a lot more unreliable than later batches.  lol I was just about to paste the same reply. Anyways, I'm glad it's nothing serious. So let's just be more patient and all shall be well. Happy mining everyone! Same here. I wonder if they're having issues with their payout system. I've sent them a message via the website's contact form, but I don't know what response time to expect (if any). I would imagine though that they would've done the smart thing and built some watchdog process into their system which alerts them of such problems. Let's wait and see. Question is how much can we trust the pool own autodiff mechanism and do certain miners fail to work properly with this? When I check some S7s of mine they do seem to report appropriate difficulty - same for S9s.  Hmm, not sure what to say about that as I'm not really an expert on how so called "low quality hash" can affect the pool. I suspect you're referring to botnets or deliberate sabotage or high latency miners or? I'm sure the pool admins can see aberrant behavior on the pool. They do mention in the FAQs that they actively look for botnet activity and other such low quality hash being pointed at the pool. I dunno, let's hope that is not the case. Without knowing more details or feedback from the pool admin(s) I'd say it was just plain simple probability - ie pool luck. Luckily  it has returned and the goddess of coin fortune has blessed us with a recent streak of high luck. *does a little dance*  I can get them sold for you in one shot. I know a guy who bought a bunch more than 15 from me recently and I am pretty sure he'd snap up yours as well.I'll point him to your thread  Looks like really shitty luck the past 10 blocks   Sure you can do that as we still have a bit of capacity left, but not much.  Would you sell a 6 or 7 GPU config system _without_ the PSU? I can get a bunch of cheap EVGA 1300 PSUs so I can save a bit of $ going with a lower power draw configuration. Ideally I'd like power draw at the wall to be 900 Watts roughly while dual mining. I can offer $1200 USD per unit for the 13.5 TH units. Bitmain is selling brand new ones for 1445 right NOW. Btw, this price is WITHOUT the PSUS. I don't need them. Also shipping we can split 50/50 as I'm located in Canada. I'd pay escrow fees as well. Dang, that's a good price. Good snag  Still looking. I'll take whole S7s too as long as you're somewhat close by to minimize shipping costs. For blades only I don't care where they're coming from. I for one wish that more people would mine here. Antpool has 500 freaking PH!! Slush deserves at least half of that. Hey every bit counts! Happy mining to you Sir. Yeah I guess you're right. 0.09 vs 0.12 for the T9. Would you say a $100 difference in price is justified? So $12xx for your S9?
Have you tried sacrificing some virgins to the pool luck gods? There is nothing the pool can do about the laws of statistical probability. I might be interested. You willing to sell them for the price of the upcoming T9 from bitmain? The T9 is 11.50 TH for $1104 . Whoa, did I read that right, $320 for an S7-L!? 2.7 TH for $320? Dude, relax, I'm not trolling you, I'm just telling you information so that you know what kind of reaction to expect from your audience! As you can see by the other replies I was right. Like I said if you want to sell them at the same price Bitmain is asking I'd go for them. I do not need the PSU and I'd pay the shipping as they'd be going to Canada. Sell them on ebay, cause here you're not going to get that pricing. I would offer Bitmain's current $ per TH figure but I doubt you'd accept that seeing as it seems you're looking for someone to overpay.  Broken too? Oh neat, so you think you can fix them? What would you offer for broken ones?? It should be in front of your face when you first log into your pool management interface!  It tells you the estimated daily reward. Just keep in mind that it is an ESTIMATION and pool luck is a factor. You have PM  The two firmwares are incompatible because the auto-tune firmware is built for a xilink SoC.  Does your client want just S9s? You'd be hard pressed to find anyone dumping that many current gen miners all at once or even at all! So in that light I think your client would be wiser if he just waited for another bitmain S9 batch to open up and buy it directly from them. Cool. Replied. I'll take it if you're willing to ship it to Canada and accept escrow with OgNasty.If it runs at full 11.x+ TH I'd pay $1K for it. Bump, still looking  2K USD for both + shipping and escrow with OgNasty   Would you be willing to do escrow with OgNasty? Indeed, both excellent pools! Full disclosure, I currently mine at slushpool cause I really like the interface (among other things), but either one of the two would be a fine alternative to Antpool. Thank you very much QG! Cheers! Please I implore you miners to move your hashing power to a smaller non Chinese mining pool! Stop feeding the hash monsters! A large number of reasonably sized mining pools is healthy for the bitcoin ecosystem!  54 - 600 MHz54 - 700 MHz45 - 700 MHz Cool, much appreciated! 
I'm looking for a few S7 blades. PM me the frequency the blade(s) run at (so I can match it with mine) and your asking price. Escrow with OgNasty!-edit-I need the following chip count and frequency:54 - 600 MHz54 - 700 MHz45 - 700 MHz How many (if any by now) you have left? Yeah, it's quite sad, but that's what probability and low total pool hashrate can do The pool really needs 100 to 200 more PH! lol  Hi QG, could you edit our pricing for CryptoBoreas to say $65 CAD per/month (3 month pre-paid) ? Or would it be a technicality and only month-to-month pricing is allowed? At the moment our best price is given to customers to pre-pay for 3 months worth of hosting. I think it's plain and simple the herd effect and miner greed. They think that by joining a bigger pool they will "get paid faster". It has to do with block solve rate, that's it. Also you have lower variance (is luck fluctuation) with bigger pools. I've said it before and I will say it again, the best mining pool environment for btc would be a multitude of pools with hashrates as close to each other as possible. Because of human psychology and other various factors this is difficult to achieve unless the btc protocol itself somehow imposed this order.  The dogsled will be a very cold one by the time it arrives at our facility, but we are eagerly awaiting it! Welcome aboard! We look forward to hosting your miners. Cheers and all the best! Well, congrats. I think I am personally out of any potential deal due to the prohibitive shipping costs. Best of luck to you and your client! Just out of curiosity I recalculated the shipping costs but for 10 units and the shipping cost per unit does go down -  to $132 USD to be precise. I suppose the price will go down even further if more units are shipped at the same time, although with DHL apparently the most their online tool will let me calculate is 10.  Well guys, I have some bad news. I did a quick shipping calculation. I used Chengdo which is the nearest major city cause the actual city the gear is located in is not recognized by any of the shipping calculators (Chengdo is like several kilometers from the location so it's not far at all). Shipping cost directly to us with DHL is CNY1,363.84 which is $196 USD which is a deal killer. UPS is even more expensive. This is PER A7!  Guys, don't forget that you also need controllers for these! Also the USB to serial adapters are necessary and we don't know how many the seller has so it has to be priced in and paid for as well. I think when he means per unit he means _just_ for the A7 box itself without any of the accessories. Well, we'd naturally go for the cheapest shipping option. I typically send Bitmain gear via DHL or UPS. But Bitmain gets massive bulk shipping discounts which you/we likely can never get.  Sounds good. Let me coordinate with the seller and figure out if shipping costs are worth it. By a few you mean like 2?  lool, well get me some coins silly! I got some more S7s  That's actually a reasonable price. I'd like to grab a few for sure if shipping is reasonable. I may also be able to find you a client that can grab 50 or so and host them with us. Any way you can calculate shipping costs to Labrador, Canada, postal code: A0P1C0Or alternatively PM me the address and info they'd be shipping from so I can try to calculate the shipping costs myself. I presume DHL would be an available option in your area, no? Yep, pool luck has been rather nice since I came back to it as well. You're right, the layout and the interface are top notch. If the pool's hashrate would go up to 200 PH that would be super nice!  Right now we are 6.6% of the network. If we can get to 10% that would be awesome. It would mean faster solve rate, faster payouts, etc.  Hey can I send you 400 KW worth of gear?! This would be such an awesome deal!  Oh btw you were wrong about them releasing another batch on Monday    Without PCIE cables eh? Wait aren't they soldered on or attached with screw-down terminals? I suppose I can always just get my own cables from somewhere.  Oh nice, how do you know. I see that on their twitter account they mention a new batch of R4s, but no mention of S9s. Sweet, well I guess if that's true I shall snap up a few , maybe now you guys can finally take my S7s cause I know you love those lol.
Yes it is true the S9s are not perfect and there most certainly a 10 to 15% failure rate. Just keep in mind the better efficiency of the S9s, but I suppose if you have cheap enough power you can offset the higher purchase price of an A7. I mean to move on to other btc hardware from bitmain specifically. Sadly they haven't opened a new batch yet. I did not mean to move on to other coins.S7s are not worth not even close to $699, nor is the A7 worth $888. These prices are inflated and do not reflect a resonable ROI term. If you buy at those prices you are just throwing money away. You would be better off just buying BTC directly and holding.  Well, I'd pay a slight premium over bitmain considering they aren't selling any at the moment, but not a crazy lot more cause I can always just wait it out until bitmain starts selling again. Oh bro, for that money you could've had 22 TH. I guess you've bought them out of curiosity? I'm looking to grab a few of the older batch S9s if possible but I'll settle for the newer ones with the auto frequency nonsense if others are not available. Payment in BTC escrow via OgNasty. Shipping to Canada - Labrador - paid by me.  Well, back to the fun RMA dance with Bitmain. There seems to be a 5-10% failure rate with Bitmain, so the way to play the game with them is to buy a large number of miners that way the 5% hit won't feel as bad. Canaan's regular market price for A7s seems to me like they are just fishing for suckers. You would think with a less efficient miner they would at least take that into consideration when pricing them. This whole centralization phenomenon breaks my heart. I really wish I had millions to develop my own chip. I would build miners and sell them to as many people as possible with a 2 to 5 miner per customer limit per batch. The network's health should be in the hands of as many people as possible not just a small group of mega mines. I'm not saying there is something wrong with having a huge mining farm, but the _majority_ of the network's hashing power should be as diffuse as possible. Anyways, time to move on guys. Ok guys, bad news. The group buy is cancelled. I am a bit disappointed. After a lengthy period of negotiations and being lead to believe that we may get a discount on an order of 100 units I am now told "For orders less than 1000 units please go through the shop." We shall see. Even if we get the same $/TH as bitmain it would still be a supposedly good deal given the promised better reliability (I'm hoping it turns out to be true cause we need reliable long term miners if we expect to ROI on this).  PM received and replied. I'll announce pricing info as soon as I receive it. ^These consume 900 watts supposedly, so 0.9 kw x 65 = $58.50 CAD per month. Send an e-mail to the email address in the first post with the # of units. This way I'll have your e-mail address so when it comes time to collecting btc for payment I know where to hunt you down lol. Hi everyone. I am working on putting together a A7 group buy and I'm wondering if anyone else would be interested in joining. We are in the last stage of negotiations and soon we will have pricing info. This group buy is only if you are interested in hosting your A7s with us at CryptoBoreas. For hosting pricing and details see my forum signature.We will save a bunch on shipping also. The more units we can order at once the better. If you are interested please either post here or e-mail sales [at] cryptoboreas.com with: 1) The # of A7 units you want 2) The # of controllers you want (1 controller can handle 20 A7s)3) whether you want to rent PSUs from us or not ($4 per KW/month) (if not then you have to arrange to ship us the necessary PSUs)I will be collecting payment in BTC. There is no group buy fee, setup fee, markup or anything else involved. I will post details soon regarding the price per unit (if Canaan will allow me to share this info that is).  Maybe, but you'd figure if someone is smart enough to know about bitcoin miners, buy it, set it up, etc, they would be smart enough to do a quick search about all the various mining pools. I could have too much faith in humanity though. Most people are just lazy though. It would be nice if Bitmain shipped them with no preconfigured pool info. The reality is that what you get in your hands is just gear taken off the shelf from their giant mines and since they mine for their own pool of course it's going to come preconfigured with a bunch of Chinese mining pools. I have a very big concern about the dominance of one country on the btc blockchain. Not only is a large portion of the network's hashing power concentrated in one country but so is pretty much most of the hardware production as well. At the moment the only two companies selling SHA-256 gear are both Chinese. With such a centralized scenario if anyone wanted to go after BTC they can really hurt it by going after the Chinese miners, pool, and hardware manufacturers. I'm not sure if there is a workable solution to this problem though at the moment. I would however implore the Chinese miners to please think about the health of the BTC network and refuse to mine at pools that abuse the network and/or their users. If you have a lot of hashing power please spread it around to other pools as well. There are a lot of mining pools that deserve some love.  Yes you are absolutely right! What is worse though is the mining practices of Antpool which are bad for the network as a whole. The only advantage to antpool is the fast solve rate, but this can also be a disadvantage I'd say because network connectivity and latency to antpool's servers becomes a big issue when miners have to rush to send their work units. Ideal mining pool ecosystem would be a bunch of medium range sized pools that have low fees and pay transaction fees AND run a full btc node. PM me if so. I'll take it if you are willing to ship it to Canada. I wonder if the PCIE jacks on these are strong enough to handle the current flowing through just two plugs per board. I would use 16 AWG cables from the PSU so I'd have 4 PCIE cables per system, 2 per board.  Yah it makes no sense. Maybe it's just greed and the fee is too high. Then again some of the other pools have fees as well - with the exception of Antpool. I've used Antpool in the past and I'm firm convinced that Slush's infrastructure and web front end is superior in every way. The graphing and charting on Antpool is crap. I'd notice mysterious drops in hashrate. In fact oddly enough with Antpool S9s were performing worse. I'd see a loss of 4 TH on the daily average, which makes me think that the miners were dropping connection to the pool very frequently or the pool's network has some routing or connectivity issue. After moving them to Slush they've been rock solid and daily average is what the miners' web panel reports.Anyways, not sure what Slush can do to bring on more miners. Maybe he can give a "fee discount" for miners that have been mining steady for X amount of days on the pool - a kind of loyalty reward. I dunno, just saying that this pool deserves more hashing power, that's all.
$55 CAD per RIG (ie 5 cubes). The 5 cubes take _2_ 1300 watt PSUs or 3 850 Watt. PSUs not included in the price. PSUs are $90 CAD each. We have server PSUs for $55 CAD but they are noisy. Actually these are perfect for that. They are super quiet and somewhat efficient @ ~0.50-0.55 watt/GH. PM me your postal code cause we'll have to ship it as all of them are in Labrador.  Why don't you start mining in Labrador like us ? We have open capacity if you're interested. I use your software and am thankful for the work you do. Cheers! I've been trying to add Sonia Xu on skype but lol there are so many people with that name. Does anyone happen to know which is the correct person? Where is her location? I want to talk to her about organizing a possible group buy. I hope there is no MOQ. I may do a group buy if anyone is interested in having them hosted with me at CryptoBoreas (Labrador). But if not and there is someone trustworthy that will do a group buy, I'd be interested. Why is this pool still not more popular!? Antpool has 300+ PH  Thanks! We appreciate the support, and thanks for the sig link!  I have some good news. We just finished adding another transformer, so we now have additional capacity open for new clients! We have the lowest hosting fees in the world. PM me or e-mail sales [at] cryptoboreas.com if you are interested in hosting with us. Just a heads up guys that CryptoBoreas now has more open KW capacity. Barring any large client coming in an eating the entire KW pie I believe we should have 50 to 100 KW open for your miners to munch on. Yum yum hashes! Get'yer'KW while they're still there! We still have a bunch of these. $55 CAD per miner (that's like 40'ish USD) I just sold all my remaining good ones. What I have left are "runt of the litter" type of units. I sold the good ones for $45 CAD (in bulk of course so this is the bulk price) so the remaining gimped units I'm not sure what to ask for but $40 a piece maybe? (depending on the hashrate?).I probably have like 10 or 13 of these poor units. Oh won't you think of them and give them a nice cold home to warm up. lol Yes indeed. Found that out the hard way. The latest batch is far more problematic. The autofrequency firmware is a huge disappointment. Sure I'll give you all my broken ones! ha! kidding. I'm gonna have to go through the bitmain RMA hell. Wish me luck boys! These are 99% sold. I will still have a few "gimped" units left after the transaction is complete in case anyone is interested. And I also have 2 SP30s I believe.  hahahaha   I'm gonna miss the S7s. S9s are pure garbage - at least the latest batch with the auto-frequency IMHO is. Booo Bitmain!  I have 2 gimped units in Montreal and I have my associate heading to Montreal. If you want to pick those units up you're more than welcome to. one unit is 1.62 TH and the other 3.32 TH. But I think the 1.62 TH unit I'm going to need the blade for another customer. So you can have the 3.32 unit if you want. I also may have some other underperforming miners left in Labrador too. Officially I have 19 left, but I think they are pretty much 99% sold to someone in Asia. I was/am asking $250 USD per unit. PSU costs is $55 CAD per PSU. Each s7 requires 2 PSUs.I have a customer who is offloading 11 S7s, but he found a buyer, however if the buyer backs out (the gear is supposed to be shipped out Nov 3) I will PM you and give you a chance to grab them. 33 Sold! Glad to hear you're happy! Happy mining! No there is no cart. Just e-mail us at the address I gave you and I'll reply with our shipping address. You won't have to pay until after your miners go online. 
Sure I can PM you or you can write to sales at cryptoboreas dot com any questions you may have. The price per kw on a 3 month pre-paid basis (best deal and the one I suggest going with) is $65 CAD per KW/month (taxes included). So your 5 S9s would be 5 x 1.2 (depending on which batch you have) = 6 kw x $65 = $390 per mont x 3 = $1170 The miners will have to be shipped to our Labrador shop or we can pick them up if you happen to be in the Montreal or Toronto region.  You're my favorite kind of buyer  lol PM replied. Oh yeah I have tons of them 44+ . How many do you want? Would you be willing to drive to Montreal to pick them up? Yeah sadly. A guy local to Quebec will grab those. Sorry man. If I come across more of them or if some of our customers decide to sell I will post a thread here again. We can just drop them off to you, just pay us like $25 for gas and that's it. Yeah we can include power supply. Actually if you downclock them you can even more one with just a single PSU. You can run these as low as 600 to 700 watts, but hashrate naturally drops below 1 TH.PM me your phone # and we can call you when my associate heads back to Montreal. I may have all of them sold already though, just waiting on some final things - like escrow funding. Well at least you have something in massive quantities. I have neither lool.Update on this guys is that I found a buyer from overseas who is in the process of funding escrow to take all of them. An example of someone who has both massive amounts of money and power.  Yah, I guess some people here have deep pockets and lots of power!  I will let everyone know if the deal falls through. Shipping should be around $42 CAD. However I think I already found a buyer for all of these, but the deal is not complete yet.  PM replied.  For all of them or just 1. For one to almost any location in the US it's about $40 CAD. For all of them I found a quote for Washington State to be around $1000 CAD..$780 USD or somewhere around there. I'm still looking for someone local'ish that would be willing to pick them all up in person.  PMs replied. Cool, cause I got a boat load of them and I'm practically giving them away.  I still have a bunch of these. Nobody with free power? I still have 8 of these, maybe someone wants them for pieces? My bad, it seems I have only 3 S7Ls not 4.  Half the cost of of the S7s seems logical. Mixed bag, most are from the 4.7 TH batches though. I also have 4 S7Ls as well. 
$360 CAD at the current usd/cad exchange rate. Bulk to have them all shipped? They would have to go on a palette as we're talking a lot of gear here and there is no way it's smart to ship them individually. It would still be pretty expensive to ship them anywhere outside of North America. USD. I would ship anywhere, but I think it may be too cost prohibitive to ship to Malaysia. I tried to get a quote with UPS and it comes out to $400 CAD  I would suggest trying to find an S7 in the South Asia region. Is this the gaming 4G version? Just a testing the waters type of post to see what offers I can get on a boatload of S7s currently running in Canada. I have 66 of these for sale. I'm looking to get $280 USD without PSUs. Some are located in Labrador some in Montreal. They are of course available for personal pickup (suggested and preferred). PSUs for each are available at $50 to $55 (CAD) a piece. Each S7 requires 2 1200 watt HP server PSUs (that's how I power them either way and I suggest doing the same unless you have some of those IBM 2880 W units).BTC payment preferred but I can do cash on pickup too if you're picking them up in person.PM me with your offers. --edit-- 33 were just sold recently, only a few left, same buyer may take them all. Would you offer the same price _without_ PSUs included? $50 USD per miner. What do you think shipping would be to Montreal, Canada, and would you even be willing to ship to Canada? Is this sold? I'd be interested if you're willing to ship it to Canada.  I'd be interested if you're willing to ship the miner to Canada.  My apologies, I did not mean to be pushy. Hope you and your wife are ok. Enjoy your vacation! We will pick this up when you're back. $60 per miner Still available. I can lower the price by $10 a piece. Well I was waiting for the seller to give me a shipping quote but he just disappeared so I'm not sure what is going on. How much would you be willing to sell it for? Do you have some pics of the item. Have you opened it? Where will you be shipping it from. The reason I ask is I'm wondering if it has the UK style keyboard or the US style - ie with the non "L" shaped enter key. I'll take your other S7 + PSU combo if you're willing to ship it to Canada - Montreal. Your 6800K is not much cheaper than a NEW one from newegg for example. You sell yours for $425 USD, yet I found it on newegg canada for $423 USD. Yes I still have a bunch. I think 5 are already in Montreal. The rest are in Labrador so if you need more than 5 let me know right away so I can have my associate bring them with him to Montreal. PM me and let me know how many you want. It's likely going to be about the same ~$30 to $35. 
Lowered price to $70 per miner. It's likely going to be $30 to $35 USD.  Oh damn, I did not realize shipping would be so much!  Yeah then it's definitely a better deal considering he did the work of undervolting it for you which of course carries some labor value.Happy mining! Umm, I was going to say that it's $291 directly from bitmain, but since "he'll take it" ,let him take it..... Ooops,sorry, I just woke up so I'm a bit late. I'll PM you right now edit-- PM sent!  If he doesn't take it, I will. Bump... Are you willing to ship it to Canada?  Still available. Make me offers. I'm willing to let these go for really cheap.  Lowered price to $75 per miner Lowered price to $50 per miner Hmm, $60 ? Not even sure what these are worth. I'd be willing to let them go for $50 a piece if someone buys a bunch at once. Back. Let me know if you're still interested. I may have a few more lying around. I would recommend grabbing SP20s though as I have a lot more of those and I'm very flexible on the pricing. 60 Neptunes available now (we've decided to sell more than the initial 20 batch). PM me offers. Ok, I'm back. So yeah these are still available. ~40 of them. Still available. 8 Still available, 1 sold. I'm back from vacation so things should resume as normal. No worries man, I know what it's like to be crazy busy.  I will be on vacation from June 19 until July 9. Please direct all inquiries to sales [at] cryptoboreas.com Do NOT PM as I won't be able to reply!
Send an e-mail to sales [-at-] cryptoboreas.com I will be on vacation from June 19 until July 9. Please direct all inquiries to sales [at] cryptoboreas.com Do NOT PM as I won't be able to reply! I will be on vacation from June 19 until July 9. Please direct all inquiries to sales [at] cryptoboreas.com Do NOT PM as I won't be able to reply! I will be on vacation from June 19 until July 9. Please direct all inquiries to sales [at] cryptoboreas.com Do NOT PM as I won't be able to reply! I will be on vacation from June 19 until July 9. Please direct all inquiries to sales [at] cryptoboreas.com Do NOT PM as I won't be able to reply! I will be on vacation from June 19 until July 9. Please direct all inquiries to sales [at] cryptoboreas.com Do NOT PM as I won't be able to reply! Replied via PM. Bump..still available. Maybe these would make good space heaters? lol $70 There is a solution to that. We can order the hardware on your behalf and ship it only ONCE to us. It would make no sense to ship it twice, especially if it's brand new hardware. If it's second hand hardware sourced locally you have no choice but if you're going to buy from Bitmain for example it makes no sense whatsoever to ship it first to you and then re-ship it us. There are two ways of proceeding:1) Send us the BTC required for however many miners you intend to purchase (including shipping costs)2) Use OUR shipping address in your bitmain account so that any hardware you purchase gets sent to our mailbox. The only problem with this second approach is that you have to set the name associated with the Bitmain account to be our COMPANY NAME otherwise shipment gets refused by our mailbox provider if it's not addressed to our company name.I've ordered a ton of hardware for customers whereby they send the BTC required and I did the rest of the work and placed an order under my personal Bitmain account. The downside to this is that if any RMA requests have to be opened I have to do the leg work   and open the ticket myself lol.Either way works for us really. In the end it doesn't matter that much as long as the hardware gets to us safely.There is a 5% import fee on all miners into Canada, but we invoice you for that after WE pay the import fees ourselves.  Just a quick shout to let you all know that CryptoBoreas now has additional capacity. Now would be a good time to send your S9s and S7s  $125 per rig! bump SOLD hahahaha... The good thing about this recent btc price spike is that it breatherd some new life into some of these older gen gears, but still the reckoning will come eventually. lol pretty soon I'll have to PAY people to take them away.. these two have been temporarily sold..just have to ship them in a day or so. I have a client who has 2 of these, so if anyone wants some too let me know.  price lowered to $130 per rig.. Sad sad situation. So much money lost. I so regret buying into Cypherdoc's sales BS. OK, well I wish I could say this whole journey has been fun but it hasn't. Time to move on and stop giving a shit about this thread. In other words after all this legal hoopla every creditor will eat shitburgers. Awesome! 
lol sure man, whatever you want   Sure thing man. Just let me confirm with my associate that the S5s are ready to go. I will talk to him today in the morning sometime. PM me where you want them shipped so I can calculate shipping costs. S5s have been around $24 USD to ship near the East Coast of the United States in case you're in the area. Bump...$140 per rig... Bump Bump Bump Yah sorry about that. I let my emotions get the best of me. Reading that 6 months after it happened just blew my top. Anyways, I will not be replying to this thread or anything he says in this thread again. Happy mining to you all! I think I can put together 3 to 4 more. So if anyone is interested let me know. Hmm shipping should be around $30 USD. But why don't you come pick them up in person. Montreal is not super far away from New York. I have 7 of them in Montreal waiting.  Bump.. No problem  Happy mining! I am selling them individually. I don't think I said I won't sell them individually just that I _prefer_ that someone grab them all once.Shipping is $42 CAD. So total in USD is $122 If that is agreeable, PM me your name and address and I will send you the payment address.  6 more sold. I might have enough parts to put together maybe 4 more fully hashing ones though. I will update the thread once I get them running. Still available. 7 of them are in Montreal and available for quick pickup and quick shipping. Any takers?  bump bump. Bump. Replied to your PM.  I think undervolted SP20 is better cause you can have the same w/gh ratio as S5s and not as loud by adjusting the fan speed. Like I said we can drive the gear to Gatineau but it has to be enough gear to justify the trip (it's 2 to 3 hours each way from Montreal). I have 7 SP20s sitting in Montreal and 4 S3s. 
I was waiting for one guy to get back to me on a deal that would take all the remaining ones, but he does not seem to be responding, so anyone that is still interested I have 6 left.  Yes I can understand you. Shipping is always going to be high for these. I don't know why I even bothered to post them for sale here. Depends where. These are very heavy apparently - 16.6 KG I don't think this miner is worth shipping to be honest. 437*247*183mm, 20 lbsshipping from Canada postal code H1S0A5 Oh OK. So how many are you interested in? You're ok with my asking price + shipping? 15 MH Scrypt miner for sale. 450 watts power consumption (does not come with PSU). $50? not sure what these are worth. Pickup or drop off in Montreal or Toronto. New York is not so bad as far as distance. Would you be willing to drive to Montreal to pick them up? It would be cheaper I think. It depends on the State, but it should be around $25. PM me your postal code and I'll do a more precise calculation. To be honest I've been so buys trying to flip S5s and SP20s that I totally forgot about these lol. I haven't ran any calculations recently but no doubt they are losing money.  Yep it's pretty sad indeed. Come June I am turning them off.  Hmm, it would be tricky. We don't have any miner drop-off or pickups to do around the area. If you were to buy some other gear from me maybe we can justify driving over there. It is a long ass drive from Montreal.  Ok, shit, sorry it seems I confused you with another Quebec guy. Did you e-mail me? Anyway, let me know if you are still interested. I have 4 of them in Montreal and my associate is in Montreal now so I can have these ready to be picked up. Are you sure I overlooked it? I did reply saying that they may be worth like $50 USD and that I would be willing to sell them for a price around that mark. Maybe $45 USD would be better though. WTS 2 functional Antminer S4+ located in Labrador, Canada. Shipping is possible but there will be a 2 day downtime while the gear gets driven down to Montreal. Asking price is $180 per miner. Bump No takers ? Ok, I will PM you soon. Are you interested in any other gear? I have way more SP20s left and also some KNC Neptunes (batch 1 units). Ok, let me see how many I have left. I have to ship 1 and drop off 2 on the way to Montreal. Where do you want them shipped to? Shipping to the East Coast is around $24 US per miner. PM replied.Not many left guys, maybe after I repair some units I'll have probably 6 working units left. Bump..$150 per rig. 4 sold...40 still available.
SP35 is now sold. 2 SP31s and 2 SP30 left. Yep, glad you liked the price! Happy hashing  6 left, 2 just sold. Oh shit, I dunno how I missed all these replies. Yeah these miners are indeed pretty old and weak by today's standards but they are ideal for people with free electricity cause they're very quiet and super stable. It's ridiculous how stable they are compared to flaky S5s. 8 left  I'm sorry but I don't want to deal with the hassle of shipping to Pakistan. Also shipping would be stupidly expensive for you.  That seems like a hassle for the customer and involve additional costs. It would be easier for him to buy S7s from Bitmain at that point. I'm ideally looking for customers in the US or Canada. Those with super cheap power or free power would be perfect for this gear. They are reliable miners and can be nicely underclocked to maximize efficiency. Damn, that is quite sad to hear - the discrimination part. Thanks for the info and the heads up. I will not be forging any customs paperwork so I am going to have to pass on this customer and find someone else.  Ok, where you located? One of the SP30 is problematic and we're working on determining what is going on with it. The other fully working on is in Labrador so it will be a while until we go out there and bring it back to Montreal for shipping. However I do have a SP31 in Montreal running just fine. You can have that one shipped to you in a day or so from now. 4.4 TH it what it performs at, so following my suggested $70 per TH idea it would be 0.68 BTC for that one.Let me know if you are interested. 30 sold today. 12 still available. $70 per TH with all of them. The SP35 is supposedly sold - haven't handed it to the customer yet but I'm pretty sure the deal will go through.  added asking price..$150 USD per 5 cube rig. Bump. Bump.. Bump.... This may be a long shot, but I'm curious if there is anyone out there who still wants these. They are the most reliable miners I have ever owned. I love them and I am sad I have to sell them. Send me offers either here or via PM.These are located in Canada. Some are in Montreal some are in Labrador. I do have some Seasonic 80+ Gold 450W ATX PSU that are powering a few of these so if you want the PSUs as well let me know. I think I can sell the PSU for around $45 CAD each. Asking price for the miner alone is $45 USDMontreal,Toronto or Labrador pickup is preferred.  Bumpidy bump.... Bump... Bump...40 still available. 1 SP35 potentially sold.
Bump. Bump I left you feedback. Feel free to do the same. Pleasure doing business with you! PM replied.  I can sell mine with PSUs. Most are powered by DPS1200FB (HP Server PSUs made by Delta). If you undervolt these to 0.70 to 0.71 you can easily power on SP20 with one DPS1200 (1200 watt) PSU as long as you run them at 200+v Yes of course pickup is possible from Montreal and in fact pickup is preferred cause shipping is a lot of extra work and likely cost a bit more than if you were to pick them up yourself. Let me know how many they want.  Actually I just google your postal code and I see it is in Ontario. We may be able to deliver them there as well.  44 left Bump Bump. Sure we would gladly host them if you want. We can also drive them to your location if you decide that running them yourself is better.We have a total of 60. At first we wanted to sell 20 just to see if there is any demand, but we may as well sell all of them.The thing about hosting them is if you have cheaper total costs than what we charge it will definitely be better to run them yourself. If you have 0 capital costs to amortize (unlike us) then you're very lucky.Hosting price is $65/Kw/month on a 3 month pre-paid term. You do your math and figure out what is best for you and get back to me.Cheers! bump... bump Just a brief update to let you all know that we still have available capacity. We currently offer the cheapest miner hosting in the world.  PM replied.  It wasn't an offer really, just a tongue-in-cheek remark to your "advice" on pricing :p.  Ok, you want them all for $150  ? lol Lowered price to $90 per miner (not including shipping).  Still available. Thanks for the lead. I think though that guy is a beginner and likely will be a hassle to deal with - just a hunch, but I could be wrong. I'm hoping to sell the gear to a Canadian buyer though. I'm kind of jealous he has free electricity   I have some rackmount Spondoolies gear I'm interested in selling: 2 (SP31), 1 SP35, 1 working SP30, and 1 unstable SP30.Miners are located in Canada. Buyer pays shipping & escrow fees. Willing to ship worldwide at buyer's expense. All of them are hashing reliably except one SP30 which seems to shutdown/lockup after a few hours of operation - we've yet to troubleshoot it and we may be able to fix it - could be PSU problems.Looking for offers. PM me or reply here.-edit- The problematic SP30 appears to have a problematic Loop. Disabled that and it looks to be stable now.
Bump. How many S7s do you have? No I will ship anywhere - even the Moon - if you'll pay actual shipping costs. Warning though, these are _not_ lightweight miners though.  It's going to be far too expensive to justify it. Over $50 CAD for sure.  lowered price to $110 Bump. Well it might, but I'm not sure what the market rate for these is. Given that I'm asking $130 US for a S5 which is 1.1 TH I think $150 US for these seems relatively reasonable.  I'm looking to see if there is any interest in a bunch of SP20s we have hosted. Most hash at 1.5 to 1.6. The have been hashing reliably for quite some time now. They are excellent miners and can be undervolted to improve their efficiency. No PSUs come with these. Local pickup in Montreal preferred, but I will ship them if need be (you cover shipping costs). Also bulk buyers will have priority. No sure what price to ask, so make me offers.Lowered price to $90 per minerLowered price to $80 per minerLowered price to $50 per miner If you're selling it for the current batch 14 price I'll take it.  So you guys can calculate shipping costs:Item Weight   6.6 poundsProduct Dimensions   11.8 x 5.4 x 6.1 inchesItem Dimensions L x W x H   11.81 x 5.39 x 6.1 inchesShipping from Canadian postal code: H1S0A5 lowered price to $120  Still available. Payment method is BTC or cash on pickup/delivery if you're in Canada in the Ontario/Quebec region. Bump. bumpity bump! I'll try to get a quote for you soon. We don't have original boxes for these so we'll have to make some. If you can find somewhere online the dimensions and weight of the original KNC shipment let me know. No worries, if they are still available we'd be more than happy to strike a deal.  Dropped price to $130 US per miner. Bump. We are willing to let these go for $200 US per rig not including shipping. Local pickup in Montreal is preferred but I realize that is not always possible for most of you. Shipping should be reasonable though given these rigs are not super heavy. Canadian customers or local to the East Coast take precedence over any other region. Bump. Still a bunch available. PM me offers or post them here. Shipping window closes in 2 days.  Can you do a bit over $200 ? Let's negotiate. What is the best price you can offer ?
Good news, we've decided to sell a small chunk of these. At the moment we're looking to sell 20. 1 was sold today. 45 left. $10 discount to anyone that buys more than 2 or more at once. I have someone at the data center location so these can be shipped out asap. The shipping window closes in 4 days. The LEPAs have 18 AWG PCIE cables or 16 AWG? What price would you like ? Over 40.  Lowered price to $140 Is that S7 still available? Closing this thread. These will be taken over by us. We plan to sell in batches of 5 to 10 every month or so. If you want some of these PM me.  In the interest of speeding up all these shipping quotes you guys can figure it out yourselves too. Here are the dimensions:Item Weight   6.6 poundsProduct Dimensions   11.8 x 5.4 x 6.1 inchesItem Dimensions L x W x H   11.81 x 5.39 x 6.1 inchesShipping from postal code: H1S0A5website to calculate: www.canadapost.ca  Sorry guys I'm rather busy lately. I'll get to it eventually.  PM me your postal code so I can figure that out.  Well you let me know which interest you more. Either way is fine with me. The Neptunes are not mine though so I don't have the ultimate say as far as what price they'll go for, but on these S5s being my own gear we can bargain a bit  How many are you looking for in your "starter" thing?Also where are you located. Feel free to PM me these details, no need to post them here. I have a bunch of S5s if you're interested.  Transaction completed. Safe to close the thread. Thanks! Wow. It was tempting for me to sell on ebay as well, but no way I'm dealing with the potential chargeback, and fraud issues.If you want you can have all remaining units for $140 US a piece. With bulk shipping (freight) shipping costs should be reasonable.  Bump..... Oh anything here beats ebay! Yeah I'm fine with it, just remember to add in the shipping costs to your profit equations. If you have free power then it doesn't really matter much. I'd figure shipping to Florida should be $30 to $40 CAD. Oh yeah for sure. We do have other priorities to be honest, but I dunno it just may end up that we'll have to do that. It will take a long time to liquidate all the hardware that way that's for sure.  I sure will if you pay the actual shipping costs. Like I said via PM shipping to Europe is going to be a bit more expensive. Send me your address via PM and I will try to get a quote for you. Awesome. I'll keep future contact via e-mail.
lol thanks !:) for me it's a straight hashrate swap so not exactly new hashing power, but hey new toys at least   update, I will come and pick them up after all, I was waiting on a S5 sale deal to clear as the buyer had some last moment butterflies. That's all sorted out. So the S7s will be picked up either today or tomorrow as agreed upon. 40 S5s sold - just have to drop them off. 58 left.  Yes he does want cash now. Ok 8K it is. I'll pass that on. Well that would be convenient either way as the gear is already in Labrador so no shipping costs for you. So $10K USD for everything including PSUs is your offer, correct? If so I'll pass that on. I'll pass on your offer, but I doubt it would be accepted. Thanks! I just told everyone what he wants, 23K for everything. These non traditional split revenue, let me host it for you in my leaky shed type of arrangements are difficult as it's difficult to find someone you fully trust. If you have some brilliant plan you can always PM me your contact info and I can pass it on to the seller, but mocking offers will get you ignored. Let's put it this way guys, if 2K was an acceptable offer I would've bought this gear myself as it's already running in our shop. Just a brief update that we may have 120KW open capacity very soon. I never sold any miners on ebay mainly cause of possible chargebacks and other fun stuff that happens on ebay. Better find all the free electricity apartments you can !  The one advantage with these is they are super quiet.  I don't think the seller is ready to part with the PSUs individually yet. The idea is to move this whole mountain of gear all at once.Yeah you are right it is a total buyer market out there and the buyers aren't buying cause the reward halving and high diff is causing them to run scared. We shall see how this game plays out.  Got word from the seller that he is willing to take $23K for the whole lot including the 120 PSUs. PSUs alone can be easily sold for more than $50+ on ebay etc. C'mon guys, stop talking about this as if that was a real offer. Miner wet dreams here. Control yourselves   lool Edit March 1: Lowered price to $160 per unit Update: Added total # of miners for sale - 98 left. 186 TH based on average 3.1 TH per rig. PSUs are easily $100+ each alone.  I'm really hoping he left off a 0 cause than it would be a respectable offer, but as it stands it's like a slap with a fish across the face. I'm not insulted or anything but it's just hilarious.  loooooool....hold on, let me grab my jaw off the floor. lol no worries, I don't mind the free bumps, continue to talk shop Well, I would buy them myself if we did not have other costs on top of electricity. With low electricity costs these will still be profitable for much longer. The free electricity folks or those with their own already paid off shop is what this gear is ideally suited for. 60 complete neptune rigs..300 cubes..lol it's a shit ton, but these days it's not a lot of money really...Ah ok, western Canada would be tricky. Shipping would be approaching 2K probably.
Ok, but I say it's always better to toss an offer his way rather than just wait. You never know he just might take it. I suggest driving to Labrador to pick them up if you can. If you have a large truck or something you may be able to save on shipping by quite a lot.  So no offers guys, just shop talk  ? $180 per TH is really good and I'm sure the seller would jump on that deal in a second. If you buy in bulk I'm sure he can give you a discount too, so I dunno maybe $150 would be a good deal. So $450 per complete Neptune. PSUs I know he is asking $100 US each. He may be able to come down on the cost of that given the fact that they're used and have been mined on for many months. Ok, let me try to give you a more precise quote. I should have this for you tonight. Don't worry about insulting anyone, just throw and offer out there and I'll pass it on. The worse that can happen is he'll say no. $150 for an S5?! Damn it's a crazy buyers market out there. I guess I have no chance of ever selling my S5s lool. bumpity bump... Are you willing to cover the shipping costs? Shipping is likely going to be around $40 CAD ~30 USD Lowered asking price further... ASKING PRICE: $55 CADI am looking to sell this on behalf of a client of ours. 20 batch 1 KNC Neptunes in very good condition. They all hash at 3.1 TH stable. These are NOT the crappy compensation units that I personally would not touch with a 10 foot pole. They are each powered by two EVGA 1300w G2 series PSUs. These PSUs are apparently the most suited for these miners.Pics: http://imgur.com/RqCsvEJI am looking to field offers in the following manner:1) For just 5 cubes and controller (ie 1 "rig" or complete system)2) For 1 complete miner with PSUs.Shipping costs are paid by buyer. Pickup is available. We are not sure yet from which location but most likely from either Labrador or Montreal. Moving all this gear to Montreal could be an issue and Labrador is too far way for most people, so likely Montreal or bulk shipping is going to be the best way to do this. A skid full of these miners is going to be around a grand or more in shipping costs. We can likely break down the shipment. At this point I think most would be happy with a USD refund, but that seems to be taking a sweet long time. Any update on this (from you guys that have PACER access)?  bump..... What about at least the USD denominated refunds, any progress on this front? *Bump* Ok, sounds good. Yeah difficulty rise is gonna hurt   No, but you're in Quebec so for you it should be super cheap. Maybe we can also split the shipping costs 50/50 too. These miners are located in either Montreal or Labrador (Canada). I can sell some with PSU included. PSU cost is $55 CAD per PSU (Artesyn 850 watt).Local pickup in Montreal/Quebec area preferred. Shipping worldwide possible, but you pay actual shipping costs from the following postal code: H1S0A5I have the original boxes for most of these. Now as for price, $120 US (without PSU) is my starting asking price. Obviously prices are negotiable, but I'm not in a huge rush to sell, so I am fielding offers for now. Canadian customers will take priority over foreign (for logistical reasons). So you guys can calculate shipping costs:Item Weight   6.6 poundsProduct Dimensions   11.8 x 5.4 x 6.1 inchesItem Dimensions L x W x H   11.81 x 5.39 x 6.1 inchesShipping from Canadian postal code: H1S0A5Price lowered to $110 (not including shipping!) Price lowered to $90 (not including shipping!) 30 sold, 12 still available. Willing to ship to Canada?Ooops...totally missed the "US Only" in the title...if you change your mind let me know. Did you sell the miners yet? I wants that PSU :p lol Hey I'm wondering if you can sell me just 1 cube . I want to make a neptune rig that I currently have whole (4 cubes only so far). Sad to say but most compensation neptunes are garbage. They're the "rejects" of KNC data center. 
Do you want to sell me just the EVGA PSU? Located in Canada. Hmm, I may be interested in this. Could you do me a favor and calculate the shipping costs to our shipping PO box address (you have it I know for sure)?  Have you received a PM acceptance of this arrangement?  Wild shot, but would you reconsider selling some of your S7s? Since you are in Ontario/Quebec this purchase would be super convenient for both of us.  Worry not, we'll have space for your gear.  CryptoBoreas has ~50KW open capacity. This may change quickly seeing as we have some of the cheapest - if not the cheapest - hosting fees in the world. Third transformer upgrade is in the works once we put together the capital. Once that is completed 200+ kw will be available. That would be perfect. Yes, I am also in the Montreal area.  This is a weird request, but can you sell me just one cube? I have a 4 cube Neptune that is missing their 5'th brother.  What is the power consumption on this? I'll leave this for posterity's sake. We have both come to an agreement:syth3 receives 7.7338 BTC as compensation.allinvain receives a 10 BTC refund. Maybe you suck at communication. How about you put a bit more effort into it and try to make yourself clearly understood. Do I have to second guess your words?"My compensation = 12.14BTC" You mean this amount comes back to me or YOU? When people use the word "my" they typically mean themselves. So please do explain what you mean. I understood it to mean that YOU want 12.14 BTC to YOU..YOURSELF.If by this somehow you mean that is the refund I get than I'd be fine with that!  What I cannot believe is how nobody is noticing how the seller is trying to get the full value of his miners (at market price) AND still keep the miners AND still hash with them! So basically he is asking for free money and nobody noticed this yet. Astounding. Based on $620 purchase price (see my quote of your PM) I will adjust my compensation offer higher to $2445 to account for the $20 per miner difference. $2445 is 5.48 btc at today's rate. Please do not use emotional appeals. I have PM proof where you tell me precisely when you'll be back to test them. I doubt you missed your Christmas plans to test them.  I will not let you rob me blindly. That is what you are doing. Your compensation is unreasonable. I offered to pay for everything now including the difference in price between current market value and purchase price and yet you refuse. Every time you come up with a bigger compensation number which is obvious evidence that you are just using your position of power to squeeze as much money out of me as possible. You operate like the mafia.  What was advertised was 3.0 TH stable miners. What was delivered is unstable miners that hashed nowwhere near that - when they were hashing. Seller blames our PSUs. Our PSUs have no problems powering Batch 1 Neptunes, SP20s, S5s, just his miners for some reason are special. Maybe just maybe somehow our PSUs don't have the magic juice to make them work. That's why I approached to send the gear back to the seller and not waste our time and his while we wait and find other PSUs (which takes time and at the time we had other priorities). Seller agreed to this, and I though there would be no hurt feelings. We both tried to get them up and running reliably and failed. We tried all tricks we could think of. Nothing worked.  There is no double standard man. You are just trying to swing the deal in your favor so you come out the winner on top no matter what. That is the problem here. You get a USD refund and I get a USD refund and the remaining btc is still mine. It's the same in the end man. Well duh, of course you would get them up and running right away. I do not care what you do with them from this point on. Accept the 5.10 btc compensation and get lost please you have already stressed me enough with your greedy selfish self-entitled nonsense. You just can't take any business loss can you. You must always be on top, right? The units were advertised at 3 TH. None of them performed at that. They did not perform in fact, most cores just died and cubes dropped leading to a drop in hashrate to 600 to 1.5 TH on average. They were all over the place. The units currently make 1.5K $ a month at today's difficulty. Seller gets that and MORE. 4.75 btc is $2118.50.I am offering 4.75btc compensation to seller for his lost time + repair costs + shipping costs. Tell you what I will even go as high as 5.10 btc which is $2274 - Let's deal in USD terms here as the sale was from the beginning calculated in USD. Holy crap man. You are just unbelievable. Even if I take a USD refund the remaining btc is still MINE. Where does that go?! To whom. To me!  See. All my offer to your were in $, not BTC. I did not say will you take x btc for them did I??
Listen scammer. I bought them for $600 a piece, NOT 17.7 btc. 17.7 was the btc value at the time of sale. I agreed to pay the USD $ equivalent value and the BTC exchange rate has god damn nothing to do with it now! The deal was in USD not btc. Got it?! Stop trying to wriggle your way like a worm to get 17.7 btc. Take the 4.75 btc and go. That is my final offer. I will take the $200 loss per miner. If you sell them for $400 a piece and add the $200 on top that I give you you are back with $600 which is what I originally paid. You lose no money.  NO! Under no circumstance I am paying you for the miners' full market value AND you still keep them and sell them. You are either bad at math or are a plain crook.I will pay the difference in purchase price and market value - ie $200 per miner, but nothing more. That seems fair. You just don't know what depreciation means apparently. Past value - current value is not 7.11 btc at today's 449 btc price, it's 3.56. $600 - $400 = $200 / 446 = 0.4484 * 8 = 3.58 btc3.58 + 0.33 + 0.44 + 0.75 = 5.10 btc. THAT should be your MAX compensation. I offered 4.75 btc compensation which is what your 13 btc refund would've meant. I accepted your 13 btc refund offer.  NEWS: Second transformer is online! We should now have some more spare capacity.  I think there is something wrong here with you. How in the hell you expect to be compensated 7.11 btc for the miners. You want us to pay you $400 per miner and you still get to keep the miners and sell them for $400?! WTF?! Should't depreciation be the difference between $600 and $400 - ie $200 per miner?! I hope you made a mistake here cause if I am understanding this correctly what you are doing here is plain robbery!I think your first "off the cuff" compensation request was more reasonable - ie 13 btc back to us you keep the rest.If you want that, take it go. I will take the loss and move on.  No worries, thanks for letting me know. Good luck with the sale! PSU rental fee is $4 per KW. So it's basically around $2 per S5 to rent a power supply. Total for all S5s should be ~$58.80 (based on 14.7 kw consumption). Of course! They are your miners (or they will be) and you can do with them as you please - at the end of the hosting term!  Yes that is true. But I don't see how any of this is relevant. Just like you took your time testing them when you got them back we were constrained by our time table. We did our best to test them as soon as we could. End of story on this front.The PSUs were an issue to an extent, but it is not fair to put the blame entirely on the PSUs. Those very same PSUs power batch 1 Neptunes just FINE. Your shitty compensation batch Neptunes are shitty. It is a reality. The compensation batch seem to be flaky as hell. They have no thermal pads on them and hence VRM cooling is an issue. That is why you suggested that I put fans on them and do all sorts of ghetto rigging to get them working reliably. Sadly we did not have any EVGA or other ATX style PSUs in the shop to test with so called different PSUs. They should've still worked reasonably stable even with ANY PSU. When we got them we saw that you tuned the hell out of the cores and dies which suggests that there were not reliable at stock setting for you either. Your hardware is flaky and thus only suitable for your use. We made you aware of this. We need stable hardware and not hobby gear. Sorry, I am not lying, it was just so long that I forgot what we paid for them. I have a mountain of PMs and I relied on my memory of what I thought we paid. Once again sorry I did not do this intentionally. You know very well that I told you this and we did not test the other ones because we wanted to avoid getting blamed for any damage that may come as a result of the testing process. We wanted to keep your miners in a pristine condition. It took 1 to 2 weeks to convince you to take them back. Look we are not arguing about shipping damage for shit's sake. I told you already I will pay for shipping damage!! It was a risk we took both ways , yes, and we will cover the damage. The sticking point is and continues to be the fact that you will want to be compensated for "depreciation". *sigh* again with the PSUs. The PSUs are not faulty. They power other miners just fine. It's just your Neptunes that had issues with them. I told you this already. At the time we did not have any other PSUs to use or test with. We decided rather than hold up your gear for longer it would just be best for BOTH parties to send your gear back! We were trying to do you a favor. You got the gear back in the beginning of December, and you sat on your ass and did not test them until the beginning of January. If depreciation is such a boogeyman for you why did not put a greater importance on this? Were you sure that you could hold us on the hook for depreciation. Give me a detailed breakdown, don't just pull a btc figure out of your ass cause you feel 4.7 btc is what you are owed for nothing. You want $2K compensation in total?! I need you to justify what you think is the current market value of each rig, your "time", your repair costs. Once again, give me detailed breakdown and I will discuss it with my associate and see if it's a reasonable loss to take to get you off our backs and never deal with you again!I'm still blaming them for being faulty with expected settings and under normal conditions. You will see the next person you sell them to will tell you the same, but anyways, that is besides the point. It could end up being that way or it could not. We wanted to run all cubes at stock 475 MHz with PSUs that power SP20s and S5s just fine. No issues there. Just your Neptunes. I have no idea what power supplies you use. You told me you have fans blowing on them and other ghetto rigging. No doubt that is to cool the VRMS or whatever cause your Neptunes have no thermals pads and the VRMS will easily overheat and shutdown. This leads to dead dies that do not come back until a power cycle. That is what was happening in our case. It was my fault for not double and triple checking with you every fine details. I do remember at first that I confused myself and though they were batch 1 Neptunes. Only later I found out they were compensation units. I asked you what hashrate I should expect, and you said 3.0 ~ . We expected them to hash at around 2.9 to 3.0 TH. Nope, that was not the case. 1.5 to 2.0, 2.3 were the kind of hash rates were were expecting. How are you holding the back man! Explain!! You have the gear in hand and we did NOT damage it. You can hash! Of course I believe you should be compensated but it should be fair for BOTH of us, not just the most you can squeeze from US. I agreed to pay you for repair costs of the 3 damaged cubes, your shipping costs, and as you said "your time". Not sure what $ value you'll put on your time but as long as it's reasonable I will pay it. If you can give me a total of how many hours you spent testing the units and getting them to hash to your liking and what hourly rate you expect to be paid I will once again pay that. We want this behind us with no hard feelings as much as you do, but don't try to lord it over us an think that just because you are a seller the buyer gets no protection and we are at your mercy.If you are a reasonable person than let's negotiate the compensation. Don't accuse us of being scammers. We are not. I realize this is not ebay but I think that resonable buyer protection rules should still apply. Just because this is a btc transaction does not mean we are in the wild west. Have you tried to sell them again or not? Put it for sale and see - either here or on ebay or wherever you want. We don't care for how much you sell them for. We paid a specific $ figure at the time of purchase and we expect a refund of that amount. As you said it's $600 per Neptune rig. The shipping you pre-paid we will pay you back. The repair costs, we will pay for. The time you put into testing we will pay you for it. Simple! We ask for nothing more. I even told you we'd offer a bit of extra money on top as a sorry for wasting your time payment. Us selfish?! That is uncalled for and you know it. If your gear performed as expected we'd would've gladly kept them and even so gladly accept them again. The only reason you're offering this now is cause you are being selfish too and you think that you will hit a windfall cause btc price is higher. We paid for them in $ terms and that's all that should be factored into this. If btc price would be lower than when you sold them you would NOT be even offering this. You know this and stop trying to take us for fools. Ummm, no we returned them without testing the other 4 cubes because we did not have the time to test them and mess around with them. My associate had to leave for Labrador and could not spend 4 to 5 days messing with your unstable gear. Rather than waste our time and yours further (by keeping your gear idle longer) we decided that we'd ship them ALL back including the untested ones and let you see if you can sort them out. This decision was a loss cutting decision and I thought at the time it is what you wanted too. You never said or mentioned ANYTHING about depreciation compensation BEFORE we sent you back your gear. Had I known about this beforehand I may have never sent it back. This is unfair and a bait and switch. Anyone can see this is not a fair business practice. I've sold and bought a ton of gear here and I've never had any problems with any transactions except YOU. If anything people should be careful when dealing with YOU as you try to do everything in your power to have everything work in YOUR favor without any loss. This has been your whole attitude.If you want to sort this out here is what I need from you:1) What market value you think these miners have NOW in $. We can then subtract that from the purchase price. Even though I do NOT agree that you should be compensated for depreciation we are curious to know what figure you come up with.2) A $ figure for your repair costs for those 3 cubes that got damaged during shipping3) A $ figure for your time spent testing them and ensuring they hash to your liking4) Shipping costs we know and those I will cover. I covered shipping costs back to you already. His last reponse was to blame me for breaching a "contract" and how I should be responsible for the loss due to depreciation. He agreed to take them back and at the time he made absolutely NO mention of any depreciation penalties. Funny that he does this act now that he has his gear in hand and hashing fine. I'm still waiting for a response from him (still Sunday night here) as to what sort of $ figure of depreciation or compensation he is looking for. He is a selfish seller and that's the end of it. I would never ask what he asks if I was in his shoes. I understand the risks involved in selling hardware that does depreciate in value. The funny thing is that it's likely due to the high BTC price his Neptune rigs have INCREASED in value, yet he asks for depreciation compensation. I bought the rigs for $700 plus shipping. $700 for 3.x (promised) TH. None of his rigs performed at that level but that is a different discussion. That price is still pretty decent given today's hw market. He should have no problems selling the gear for $700.The reality is likely that he is just mad that he did not successfully unload his gear and now he wants to give me a hard time and punish me for it. Unprofessional behavior, even after I promised to pay him for his wasted time testing the gear when he got it back, and for his shipping costs, and I paid for shipping costs back to him. He is not the loser in this whole deal, by any means! Seller offered no $ figures of any sort.  Well the smart thing to do would be to host them for 3 month pre-paid and get the $65 rate. We've been generous to offer this rate to anyone regardless of the amount of kw they consume, as long as they pre-pay for 3 months.  It's a win-win for both of us. bump This is kind of crazy to think about, if $75 CAD is too high (52.92 USD) than how is everyone else making any money when their hosting costs are $80 USD or $90 to $95!! lool I think even with 52.92 you're still making profit, but true the ROI is stretched further into the future.  You mean you wish to pay on a month-by-month basis? Yes it possible but the hosting fees goes up to $75 CAD per kw. No more discount. It was suggested by my escrow agent OgNasty that I should open this thread.I have an open dispute with a seller of 8 x Neptunes I purchased around the middle of November 2015. He sold me compensation batch neptunes which did not perform as expected when they got in our hands. Seller suggested it was our power supplies (DPS1200FB) which may or may not be right. Batch 1 Neptunes has reliably but not at full speed when using the same power supplies. His Neptunes would in hashing power massively and cubes would die all the time. At the time we did not have other power supplies to use so we thought returning the gear back to the seller is best. Seller was adamant his gear is fine and it works. The gear got shipped sometime around the first week of December. We paid for shipping back to the seller. Out of all 8 rigs, only 4 were removed from their boxes and tested/used. The other 4 were left untouched. All units were shipped back in the exact manner and packaging the seller used.He got the package: Wednesday,  12/09/2015 at 12:34Tracking # as proof: H9950333319He told me that he is on some holiday related visit back to the East Coast, so he could not get around to testing the gear until sometime the beginning of January. Here we are. He got the gear and tested it. All the rigs tested out fine according to the seller. Seller says 3 of the cubes suffered damage during transit back to him.Our costs $35 USD per unit ($765 per rig with shipping included), Import costs $150 CAD, Shipping back to him $450 CAD. Seller seeks compensation for his time, damage, and shipping (original shipping to us). We agree to all these terms, However where we fail to come to an agreement is when the seller asked us to pay equipment depreciation. He seeks: BTC paid by you - present miner value + my time + my shipping costs + shipping damage.I offered: BTC paid by me - his time - his shipping costs - shipping damage On top of that I even offered a couple hundred dollars as a good will gesture for wasting his time. We did not enter into the transaction with the intent to screw him over. His gear did not work as advertised for us and that's that. We sent him back his gear and he has it back, so my problem is what more does he want. He has suffered no major financial loss in this transaction. The gist of this is that I guess I need some advice or some way to come to a resolution and end this dispute. I am of the opinion that it's unfair to ask the buyer to pay for his equipment depreciation. This is a strictly an RMA transaction. The way I understand things is when you return something you get your original payment back - any expenses that are obvious and necessary. First of all he took his time testing the gear. I realize this may not have been under his control but this is the risk you assume as a seller. Second of all he would've suffered the same hardware depreciation just by holding on to the gear. Once again this is the risk you take as a seller. Advice, comments, suggestions? Feel free to share. Power supplies are rented actually. But if you want power supplies to go with these sure you can buy them right out - they're like around $55 CAD each - Artesyn 850 watt (server PSUs). Ask him if shipping out is possible. I may be interested in these if that is the case. Sold? Aren't these a bit overpriced considering this is 0.66 to 0.69 gear. Ah ok, excellent. Sent you a PM with an offer.
This hashes at 4.7 TH, or? Counter-Strike Global Offensive - it's a FPS game.So umm, I'd like to echo OgNasty's remark, pics or it isn't real  :p..Escrow too? Willing to ship to Canada. $265 with PSU is a pretty decent price. You still have any left? Not to thread crap, but I just want to clarify one thing, the S7s are likely just as reliable as the S5. In fact S5s are NOT reliable at all. They are prone to random lock ups - I should know I have a bunch. The SP20s on the other hand are rock solid. The S7s use pretty much the same controller as the S5s and thus are likely to have the same issues. Anyways, good luck with your sale!  I was using the Batch 9 price which is $1032. For 110 TH you'd need 24 of these. 24 x 1032 = $24768 + shipping + import. In my case import fees are 5%. I suppose if you're in the EU then even batch 9 is more expensive.  PM me your asking price for the S5s (on a per unit basis) if you do not mind. For me it doesn't not keep me logged in more than a few hours tops. I'm also using the windows version. Windows 7 machine with all the latest updates. Is there a setting file I can edit. I wonder what could be causing this. I should also mention that I'm running the latest _stable_ build. Pff..I offered to buy this from you TWICE and twice you took your sweet time and never closed the deal.  Hmm, your stuff is way too expensive. For 23K we can get the same hashing power from Bitmain.  Any way from preventing cryptoglance from timing out? I mean after some time it logs itself out and brings me to the login page again.  I am surprised someone on head-fi forum hasn't bought it already; this is one sweet amp!  When you're back from New Years partying and are fully sober give me a shout with a shipping quote to the following postal code: H1S0A5Thanks!  Tis sad indeed. Funny enough I still have a few of these and I think I will keep them for nostalgia.  Sure would've. One day I will make it out west...one day I tells ya..one day..lool :p I think to stand of chance to at least get the money one invests into these the miners would have to sell for $50 a piece. This does not even factor in shipping costs which will likely totally kill the deal for some. Ah, sadly no, in Quebec/Ontario. I'd offer $700 + shipping for the 2x working blade S7 (full unit). Shipping to Canada.  I'm interested in 1 of your Neptune cubes. Would you be willing to ship it to Canada? PM'ed you a postal code you can use to figure out shipping costs. Shipping could make or break it. I can perhaps pull some magic and pay you via paypal.  You have good taste in audio gear  I'd be interested but I'd like to pay via btc if possible and have the amp shipped to Canada.
Would you sell just the A2 for 1 BTC ? These have got to be my all time favorite miners. They are so stable it's ridiculous. Would you sell these 2 without PSUs and ship them to Canada?  Thank you both for the positive comments! Here is a status update for everyone. The installation of the second transformer will begin in a a day or two. Once it goes live (around the first to second week of January) we should have more capacity open. Then it will be on to transformer #3  Ah ok, thanks for letting me know.  Just curious what would you like for the SP20Es on a per unit basis? Cool, appreciate the help. Sent you a PM with to and from postal code info. Let me know if you need the full address. You have a UPS account I'm assuming , hence how you're able to get a lower quote. Looking forward towards growing together   Ok, let me grab one than from you for $105 + shipping. @ncsupanda - where are you located by the way?  Sounds good. I will let you know. Hmm, it's looking like the cheapest UPS option is $54.19. Let me think about it for a day.  Shit I forgot to ask you to PM me your postal code. I saw your PM about trading S5s for these, but at the moment I am not interested in going that route. I'd rather just grab 1 or 2 from you directly.  Ok, so here is the deal guys, I think I'm going to keep these running for 1 more month and re-open the thread at that point. My friend sold a few of his but into hosting. If he needs some more cash and is willing to sell some more I will post here and let you all know.Sorry for getting your hopes up guys lol.  Yes he is right. We offer this deal to pretty much all our hosting clients lol. It's basically the same 6 month rate without the longer commitment period.  Hmmm, I did a bit more calculations and I believe I jumped the gun a bit and factoring in my running costs I may have underpriced these by a bit more than I should've.  Hosting varies according to what term you go for. I typically offer people the 6 month rate if they go for the 3 month pre-paid option, so the price would be $65 CAD per 1 kwH/month. 10 of these is 5.5 kw thus $1072.50 CAD for 3 months hosting.  Ok, so back near a computer. Give me half an hour to respond to all your PMs.  I'm going to be heading out in 5 minutes guys, but I'll be near a computer around midnight EST.  Certainly can hosted as they currently running now right now. That would make the deal pretty quick and painless. For hosting I can do $65 CAD a month for a 3 month term pre-paid term. As for actual shipping, the cost should be $26.86 CAD - $19.46 USD $25.55 CAD with Canada Post for 4 business days Express - delivery confirmation included. $25.55 CAD is $18.51 USD. I used "11.8 x 5.4 x 6.1 inches" and 6.6 lbs as the dimension/weight info.  Cool, I'll give you a shipping quote sometime later on tonight. Do you have a preferred carrier? 
Sounds fair. Can you do me a quick favor and weigh one of these and give me the dimensions of the box you'll be shipping it in? Just a "testing the waters" post to see if anyone is interested in buying a bunch of S5s. I'm not sure what to ask for them but they'll clearly have to be cheaper on a per TH basis than Bitmains "5 day shipping" S7 batch. So I'm thinking of a price point around the $200 mark / per TH. I'm not in a super huge rush to sell but I'm open to offers either here or via PM.Hosting them for you is also an option and in fact customer looking to host them take precedence over those that want them shipped out (cause it all remains in house and it would make the transaction super quick and smooth).For hosting fees see the link in my signature.--edit-- My bad guys, I think I may have rushed into this. I did some further calculations and it seems it may not make sense to liquidate these in bulk just yet given my running costs. I will revisit this thread in a month and likely just open a new one. I'd like one shipped to Canada. Willing to do it? I think the only problem was the pool. I know someone who had similar problems and his tubes only work on ghash.io. Kinda weird but yeah I believe you found the source of your problem. You mean you want half of the shipping costs upfront? Even at $800 it's still a good deal if real. If you'd do escrow through OgNasty I'd take it. I'd pay full shipping to Canada.  Scammers be scamming... Wait a second, are you selling an S7 for $400?! Are you sure it's not an S5? If S7 then it's too good to be true  Hmm, pools eh, what pools you run them on? Have you tried GHash.io? For some reason Tubes work best with ghash. Give that pool a try for a bit and see if they are stable.  True enough but I hope you guys realize that difficulty is increasing at a good pace and that these are 0.60 to 0.69w gear as compared to bitmain's 0.25w. That is a huge difference in efficiency that can be had for just a few hundred dollars more. The other risk with these is the PSUs will kick the bucket eventually. I have SP31s and they require specialized and harder to source PSUs. What I'm saying is these represent a bigger long term risk than say S7s S5, SP20s, etc, and thus price has to reflect that and enough breathing room is necessary for the hope of ROI'ing. Perhaps my offer is a bit too low, perhaps not. To give you a comparison, I recently picked up a few Neptunes that perform at 3.0 to 3.4 for $700 a piece. I must admit though that I am a bit partial to SP-Tech gear and I absolutely love their SP20 units  Having said that OP I can increase my offer to $750 + shipping. I wonder if it could be a VRM overheating issue. It's quite odd that they start back up by themselves. This reminds me of similar issues with KNC Neptune gear. Would you take $650 + shipping (per miner) & escrow with Jonathan or OgNasty? Unplug the misbehaving board out of the loop and the rest should hash fine.  I just got the objection letter today, and if I understand it correctly it means that they are moving to convert my claim to a specific "unsecured" dollar amount. In my case the debtor's lawyer did not tick the "disallow" box so I'm not sure if my response is required. I am basically tacitly agreeing to the compensation amount denominated in dollars. No doubt if my claim had a greater dollar value they would move to "disallow" it for sure! Do you have any more of these?  See my previous reply.  Yes, we all are. Antpool has a bad case of diarrhea. As usual don't expect a reply from the people who run this pool. Just be patient and wait for your pool overlords to fix things. Why don't more people go with slush's pool? Riddle me this!  Really....really..my post gets deleted but all the other negative ones do NOT. I would type some very select expletives but I'm sure that the topic would be locked and my post would be deleted again.For the record here is my post again. Delete it again jackass:"It's pretty terrible, and what's more terrible is that the other alternatives are also big Chinese pools. Everything is terrible dammit!" Than hand it over to the competition :p This would be more of hail mary type of deal. I could of course just buy from bitmain directly and get a bit more hashing power, but the main advantage with your S7 is that it will get here sooner than bitmain's. However I am not willing to pay more than $1500 for it :p 
I think I might take this. How soon will you be able to ship. Escrow via OgNasty or pre-ship and pay you after if you can trust me. Ok man, you do that and let me know asap.  I guess Antpool is being DDoS'ed, maybe?  Not sure but look it up on newegg. 3 stars. That is but one, there are many. Dude what happened with our previous discussion lol. I agreed to your shipping price and after you did not respond.  Sorry for the late reply, I got wrapped up in something. I replied to your PM. Hope it's not too late.  Did some research and these drives have some pretty bad reviews. Apparently they get so hot they start to disconnect from the system and will likely also burn your fingers too :p Shame cause I would've liked to get one. Excellent  ! Bring them on!  So 1.5 btc all 5, correct? I may be interested. You think you'd be able to drop them off in Toronto or maybe we can come pick them up too but you'd have to be willing to wait a week or more.  If I grab all of them you think you'd sell them for $70 each?  No worries. Let's see if shipping doesn't kill the deal. If so then it's all yours.  Sure, I'll PM you my postal code and you can tell me roughly how much it would cost to ship. I'd buy this if you were willing to ship it to Canada  My advice is just keep it. Even if you just wanted to get your money back whoever buys it would pretty much pay for shipping twice (first to you and then to them). So if you discount the shipping cost to you you're gonna get less money back in the end. I'd probably buy this from you but I've got another deal waiting to close for some older gen gear (sp20) so if I have some btc left over I'll give you a shout - assuming you did not sell it or decided to still not keep it. See my edit man, don't get but hurt bro  My bad. Scalping them S7s bro My bad, I mistook this for a Batch 5, which had a lower price for sure. I can do $60 + shipping to Canada. Holy shit that's a lot!  Bumpity Bump Bump! I'd be interested in that silver wallet coin  OP how many of the X6s do you have in total?
I wonder why you guys buy these EVGA PSUs for mining purposes when you can buy server PSU for far less money. Just a status update for all those of you who are following this thread. We are planning a transformer upgrade sometime next month if all the chips fall into place. Thus we'll have more hosting capacity! bitcointalk.org - now with free 25% more scams! Clean your wallet today with Tide scam edition (tm) - now scammier than scam!  Your asking price would have to go down though. Also you have neptune firmware already on it? 1.06s? Hmm, I guess you're a busy man :p no time for this mickey mouse forum shit, eh  ?  +1These are not worth what he's asking for them. Carlos, I know what you are thinking, but sadly he will not ship to Canada, so :p lol... These still haven't sold? Or is this thread dead but someone resurrected it. Zombie sales thread!   Watch out! Can you also ship it to Canada? Price should be just about the same as this is a very lightweight item. We'll sort it out once I get these 8 and find out how many he has left. We're going to need an upgrade very soon!   lol now you guys are making me feel bad  . Tell you what guys. I know there are 2 of you that want to buy some and want to host them too. Once he has more I will reserve 1 for each one of you. Deal?  Let me get them first  lol, he'll have more  But yeah I haz bought them all. I iz big lil f'er. What would shipping cost to the following Canadian postal code: H1S0A5 Where are you going to ship it from? (ie where are you at?) That's cause you have to allow API port access from the IP of the computer you intend to run this software on. By default API access is allowed only from the localhost (ie the SP31 itself) On the Spondoolies gear you have to ssh into them, and then edit the /etc/cgminer.conf.templateBy default there is no ssh password on the root account, so you have to go into your SP31 "settings" section and make sure you set an SSH password. Once that is done use a terminal emulator like putty and ssh into the your SP31. Then do:vi /etc/cgminer.conf.templatepress "i" to enter edit mode - now you can add or remove to the section where it says "W:127.0.0.1" . Add in there the ip of your management PC so it looks like "W:127.0.0.1,192.168.1.10" as an examplepress "Esc" key to exit out of edit/insert mode and then press ":" and then press "wq" (which tells vi to write changes to the file and then quit).Now go back into the SP31 admin panel and go to the pools section, and press the save button. Nevermind that you did not make any changes. This will restart cgminer process and now you'll see in the section below the pool info that the IP address of your management PC is now in the API allow list.Now you should be able to set it up in cryptoglance no problem.Enjoy! You should not need to as this package does not depend on a separate windows php install. It uses a self contained php engine.  You really sure you don't want to ship to Canada as well? Can no haz miner, can haz cheezeburger instead  ! Would you do 1 btc shipped to Canada for the S5 - shipping should be $20 to $30. I'm in Montreal/Toronto so distance is not super huge. How much would you sell it without the PSU? Also willing to ship to Canada?
Yes, I assumed that him getting banned would be so obvious that it was not even worth mentioning.  Can a mod just please delete his threads. They are cluttering up the sales section. Yeah escrow is the only way to do this deal. He doesn't like Canadians! We are too nice for him. Also I think this may be a scam. Hi ye scurvy dogs! Tarzan is too busy counting his gold shillings to let you all know that these have been snapped up and are on their way to my treasure island. Hahahah...you're funny! You're only shipping to US, UK, & AUS, yet you're forgetting the country right above US. Oh snap, time to buy again  I'd like to add that ideally we would prefer that one PSU power 2 miners only, not 2.5, for a load of ~2200 watts. We like to run everything below max capacity and everything in our electrical setup is overspec and loaded up to a maximum of 70 to 80% for safety reasons (not to mention long term reliability).  Seizing the hardware is a bit extreme, and should only be reserved for exceptional cases. I think something more reasonable from the hosting provider's point of view is switching the hardware to mine for the hosting provider until the customer pays the amount owing; thus it's not a double loss.  That is true, you have no other costs to consider like amortization of electrical hookup/equipment and whatnot, so indeed hosting may only make sense for people in your area if you run out of room. I'd like to add that if you guys go with Finsky for PSUs you can save on shipping costs because a member of our team lives in Toronto, so he can just personally pickup the PSUs and we'll drive them up to Labrador free of charge. I would also recommend buying the necessary PSUs _before_ the miners ship, this way the PSUs are ready and waiting in Labrador.   hehehe..I see what you did there  I will take ALL of them...they will be my precious  I'll also take the other 6 in a month. Now we just have to haggle about price. How about I pay you in rum?  Btw, I hope you do realize that it's not just me doing this. It's not like I put this facility together via remote control. You linking to that thread is irrelevant to the scope of this thread.  We have been around for a while - far more than a month or two. We have customers other than "this carlos guy" but most of them are not active on this forum.  The system which we're seeking is to automate the management process not to "run a mine remotely." The less we have to do manually the more time we have to sip margaritas on a sandy beach!  The 6 month price does require pre-payment, but I'm sure we can offer that on a shorter 3 month pre-paid term if you're really nice to us  If you're super nice and bring in a lot of killowatts we may even do more! We like to build long mutually beneficial and stable relationships with serious miners and we will do everything possible to keep said miners happy.  First off I do like your personal humor touches that you put in all your posts; it makes the dry for sale section more fun  Now on to the dry serious business, umm, Khajiit has coin, if you have wares. How many of these do you have? That is definitely true, but it is something that we plan to have in the future. However, all our miners go on switched PDUs so if remote reboot is necessary that is an option. You guys can designate one guy to keep an eye on the gear and who will reboot gear when/if necessary. I do hope these Avalon6 miners are stable.  Just a heads up to everyone else that we are still looking for a coder to complete this project. MaximeAD's setup is great but we need our own customer setup and we'd require full source code and ownership of the end product.  Hmm, I'm going to have to stick with my offer of $250. How about you sell me a controller for $50 then ?  It would be nice to have a spare around.  He is in the land of the free and the home of...plentiful miners? I think he's in Nashville, TN.  $150 for the S5 and $50 for each controller .
I'd be willing to donate some cash towards the added improvements with no strings attached - you release the improvements as open source. We do need some rather more "service provider" orientated features though so those can be discussed later with the possibility of open sourcing those as well. I created a wanted add here: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1239603.0 As you can see we'd like to have the ability to have hosting customers log into a page and monitor their miners as well as alter pool info, see neat eye candy graphs, etc. However, obviously more important than that is miner monitoring and reporting features, downtime tracking etc. Thanks for the feedback Carlos!  We're glad to hear you're happy, and we look forward to hosting your growing mining farm.  Well, that's sad  I guess no cube for me then.  --EDIT-- project closedHello. I am looking for someone to code for me a database driven http accessible app that does the following:Critical features required now:1) Uses the cgminer API to monitor and keep track of miner uptime 2) Records when a particular miner went down and when it came back up3) Generates power consumption total (monthly) stats taking into account downtime for each miner (power consumption total must be for a particular customer's miners)4) Notifies admin via e-mail and SMS of miner downtime with miner IP, time miner went down, etc5) Notifies admin via e-mail again when miner comes back online6) Groups/organizes miners by "client name" - should be able to see client total hashing power/number of miners organized by miner typePotential features that are desired but not 100% priority for now:1) Ability to power cycle a miner if down via APC switched PDU SNMPv1, SNMPv3, or HTML link. These apparently can be triggered by visiting a direct html link (after passing simple password auth)2) Generated PDF invoices at end of month (must take into account miner uptime/downtime, etc). Invoice should be stored and the admin can either download the PDF and potentially have the ability to e-mail the invoice directly. For now payment verification will be handles manually.Future capabilities:1) Have a web front that clients can log into and see their miner stats, uptime, number of miners, miner name, etc (you know useful stuff) 2) Ability to push pool changes to the miner via cgminer API3) 2 factor authentication (e-mail)4) See fancy pants charts with their miner uptime, hashrate, power consumption total, etc (you know once again useful stuff)Budget - A billion dollars! No seriously just PM me with a quote and we'll consider your bid. Samples of previous projects are desired. Demo of working system required. Payment will be done via BTC. Yes, no? Ok, I see the devs are super busy saving the galaxy from evil. I shall have to put up a "for hire" thread somewhere.Cheers! It would definitely be the "adult" thing to do. I intend to grab a bunch. Hoarders shall inherit.....a big pile of stuff! Ok, how much for just 1 cube then? Ah damn, that's like 1 light year away from where I am. I am jelly of the weather though . Here it's supposed to drop down to lows of 1C soon. I forgot to ask you, where are you located? Also maybe you'll take $350 per unit for all the remaining ones if I pick them up - this hinges on your location though. Not really. As long as the shipping costs are reasonable. I mainly need 1 cube  but I may as well take the extra one and a controller too. What would shipping cost to the following Canadian postal code: H1S0A5I'd be interested in the whole setup.  If the PSUs come with 16 AWG cables it should be no problem to use 2 PCIE cables per S5. 6 PCIE 16 AWG cables is all you need for a 3 x S5 setup. These would be very nice for S7s as well  Man, you really need to bring btcguild back up. These Chinese megapools are bad for the btc network. How much does it cost to keep the pool infrastructure up and running? Maybe you can re-open it up here in Canada? Could you PM me some details regarding running costs if you have the time.  It varies from region to region, but our hosting facility is located in the place with the cheapest electricity rate in Canada - perhaps the world. That is insane shipping costs even to neighboring country. I wonder what is the reason for that. In this case maybe your best bet is to sell them locally.  S7 batch 4 and 5 is now open so nope that should not pin the S5 at $522. An overpriced miner is still an overpriced miner regardless of where it is sold. The price per TH of an S7 is $364. If yours were a bit above 364 from bitmain to account for the "must have it now" premium then that would be nice. Anyways, enough of my thread crapping :p Good luck with the sale!  Oh my goodness, that's some expensive shipping. I guess I should've expected that seeing as you're on the other side of the world. Yep I will take all 4; I don't mess around with small quantities :p Still, shipping is going to eat too much into this deal sadly   $350 shipped to Canada :p No PSU please.  Is ALL of them considered a "decent number of units" ? The only issue is cost. I don't think we can meet your asking price or what you have in mind. You are being very smart in the sense that you are trying to get the same $ per TH as the S7s and just turn around and roll that hashing power into S7s but the issue is that we as buyers are aware of this thing as well. There is no incentive or advantage to buy these instead of S7s short of the time saved while the S7s ship, but the btc these mine in the meantime will likely not make up for the increased price. I kind of miss the days of cheap btc  when I could've grabbed an S5 for $280 to $300  rofl ..umm...selfie sticks are now "computer hardware". Do these selfie sticks hash? How many TH can one stick output ? These are important questions man! I needs to know! Sweet, I'm in Ontario too. 12 btc is a bit high though especially with the high btc price right now. I can offer ~$2K USD _without_ the PSUs. 
What province? Kind of a shame you're not shipping internationally though. I'd consider making an offer but I'm based in Canada.  Where are these located if you don't mind me asking? Also will you agree to use escrow through OgNasty? If so and the price is right I can grab a good chunk of these.  I'm wondering though if we pay for your time would you consider adding in some capabilities such as notifications and miner power cycle via PDU SNMP or html , etc. APC switched PDUs is what we use for example. Ok, well if that's the cheapest you can do it is what it is. I PM'ed you my offer price. Is there a slightly cheaper shipping option? I'm thinking in the $70 to $85 USD range. 7 to 12 business days.Now as for price, can you PM me what you'd like for the cubes?  They all work? Tested? Pics? I'd be interested in taking them if you could also let me know what it would cost to ship to the following Canadian postal code: H1S0A5 Yes we are located in Labrador just like GND. We can have hardware delivered to Labrador too. For large scale hardware it's the only way to do it. Would you sell one or more for $1120 USD + shipping to Canada? Willing to ship to Canada? You know what would be a really nice feature; the ability to monitor miners and power cycle them if down. This would of course only work with switched PDUs that support SNMP or can be scripted in some way (ie directly html link to reboot port as some APC units have). Also if it had the ability to send an e-mail notification when rigs go down that would be great too. Sending SMS would be ideal, but for now even e-mail notification is better than nothing. I can't lie, I'm a bit disappointed, but I can totally understand the seller. Congrats on the sale. Happy hashing Blaze! Hey, can you let me know if you still want 1 S5 and want to get in on this as a group buy. If not I'll just take them all myself.  I suppose it would if you pay in fiat, but if you buy miners with btc a higher btc price is actually advantageous. On the flip side difficulty eventually will catch up so eventually you'll make less btc even though you also paid fewer btc for the gear. Yeah also bear in mind that where these babies would be sitting noise is no factor. In fact in our data center it's pretty much like standing next to a jet engine at full blast (hyperbole of course but you get the point). Would you consider sending these to Canada? Well if we can work out a quote on all this gear so I have an idea of what it would cost I am definitely interested in going for this gear. I can a split with VirosaGITS and maybe another person as well so the shipping costs is split 3 way. Here is our Montreal postal code you can use to attempt to get a shipping quote: H1S0A5Only thing is, I for one do not need PSUs as we have a bunch of server PSUs we use and prefer immensely over consumer ATX PSUs for various reasons.  what a shame you aren't closer for local pickup. After you add in shipping to Canada or the East Coast these miners could become pretty expensive. This would have to go for under $100 in order to have a chance at ROI in a reasonable time frame.  Well, if you can get a shipping quote to the following Canadian postal code: H1S0A5If it's worth it either to ship it to us and have us host it or us to buy them from you then great, if not, then so bet it. 
I'd suggest a price, but I can't even bid on these as I'm just too far away. I'm in Canada and shipping per unit would just kill the deal most likely. If you are just simply intending to continue mining and your main concern is power costs you could consider hosting them with me. See my signature link.  Yeah that's what I think the seller would like. He's trying to roll S4+ hashing power into more efficient S7, but he should know that buyers here are a bit more savvy than that. I'd say $240 per TH is a fair price.  I'm afraid you are asking waaay too much per unit.  $250 would be nice but as you said it's a sellers market right now. The second hand miner market is pretty much dry now (at least on this forum). Difficulty will catch up but if price outpaces it then there will be further incentive for miners to introduce more hashing power. The net effect is that less efficient miners will be squeezed out of the game.  US. Right now I'd pay $280 for one, before shipping.  Us Canadians are hungry for hashing power, so I'd like to make an offer for the S5s. I'll PM you shortly. Seller if you're no intending to reply to PMs please take down this thread. So, antpool people, when are you going to add the worker sorting feature back in?  All of these are sold? You have PM. Only way this is legit is if he accepts escrow, so do you seller? Check your PM. I'm still interested if we can figure out a way to send it out here for a reasonable price.  Oh really? Just sitting there, or are you actually using it? I think last time you offered to sell it it was a tad bit too high for me. I was exploring perhaps getting a 5820k but that now has gone up in price! Thanks Intel!  Hmm, I'm still thinking I'd want this. Anyone here have at least the CPU for sale for a good price? Do you not see the pics in this post:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=500121.msg12368976#msg12368976??No, the facility is ready and we are already hosting customer equipment. It is just that it's not "neatl" organized yet. By that I mean the racks are not in their final location and there are various bits of equipment lying around. Our priority first is adding new gear and expanding, cosmetics later.I hope you understand me now. lol, don't take my bid that serious ..I'm a total scrypt miner noob and I likely don't even know the true value of this thing. I just wanted an scrypt miner for fun I suppose.  Hmm, I was under the (wrong) impression it had a built in controller.  $800 + shipping? no
Montreal would be ideal. We have a shipping address in Montreal so that works out perfect. From there we can drive the gear to Labrador or we'll see how much it would cost to put it on a truck and ship it to Labrador. As I said in my PM I would advise against shipping the PSUs but it's up to you in the end. My partner can take care of the importing and such. Another thing, make sure you or whoever does the packaging does a good job of adding some protection or padding between the cubes so they don't get banged around too much as the heatsinks can come off during transit or something may snap off.Also in relation to your PSUs, if you don't have PCIE splitters for them I would highly advise against using them as they are a fire and safety hazard. Most of the consumer grade PSUs use 18 AWG PCIE cables which are not suitable for the kind of power a Neptune cube draws. They will eventually melt. We've had it happen before.  Ouch. That is crazy high, but I am not surprised to be honest. Can you find out the shipping cost via shipping container to Goose Bay, Labrador, Canada? That is where the gear would be running assuming you or anyone else would want it hosted here in Canada. Sure, that may work out. Also, if you want you can host it with me (see link in my signature). I am trying to get a bunch of S5s now but if I have some funds left over I'm definitely looking to grab some of his batch 1 units. If you know anyone else that wants to get in on a group buy arrangement feel free to let them in on it, and like I said if you all want them hosted with me I have the cheapest $/1kw price around.  Scroll a few posts up, there are some pics there. For now there are no new pics as we're still working on the entire setup. There are new racks to be installed, new gear to be arranged, and more exhaust blowers to be installed. Once it's all cleaned up and more "neat" I'll see if I can post more pics. Have you thought about hosting them somewhere else? I have a place for them if you'd like. Shipping to Canada may be a bit tricky but for that much hashing power you should be able to recoup the cost. Now on a different note if I was to say make a bid for these I'd be wondering if you'd be willing to sell just the first 40 units. I have a hunch these are batch 1 (original) Neptunes which is my opinion are better. When I got my compensation units I had nothing but problems with them. Compensation Neptunes are pulled from KNC's mining farms so they were heavily used and abused. Are you buying these PSUs for mining purposes? If so it's far cheaper to use refurbished server PSUs. I have a friend who sells modified DPS-1200FB (Delta) for under $100 CAD (this in the $70 range). Not trying to push gear but I'm just saying that ATX power supplies are a bad choice for mining from an economic standpoint. I'd be interested but I'd want it shipped to Canada. Due to the higher shipping costs I'm wondering if you'd be willing to drop the price down a bit. Can you also tell me what it would cost to ship to the following postal code: H1S0A5 Just out of curiosity can you tell me how much it would cost to ship to the following Canadian postal code: H1S0A5 Would you sell it without the PSU and shipped to Montreal, Canada? So you still have 1 left? I'd like to take it off your hands, shipped to Montreal Canada. Congrats! You got it for a steal! Thanks to this thread I found out about his miner monitoring software - very good work! Props. Official shipping address:9163158 Canada Inc6683 rue Jean-Talon Est, Unit# 204Saint-Leonard,Quebec,H1S0A5CanadaWhen you're trying to get a shipping quote use the above address (or when sending us new gear). Yeah shame he's not shipping internationally cause even with shipping paid by the buyer it would likely be good deal. Of course I'd buy both.  $280 !  muahahaha... I'd pay the shipping of course. Can you let me know the shipping costs to the following postal code: H1S0A5 I'd offer $250 CAD   UPDATE:We now have a UPS shipping box in Montreal. All new customer gear should be sent there. Postal code is: H1S0A5This should be enough info to calculate shipping costs. Local pickup in Montreal and Toronto is still available so if you live in any of these two cities or around the area (within reason) we will pickup your gear in person.  I'll take them shipped to Montreal, QC. Would you take $280 a piece? Would you ship them to Canada? 
Good news, worker sorting function will be back soon. This is a directly reply from Bitmain."Worker sorting function will be back soon.2015-10-03 22:16 GMT+08:00 Bitmain Technologies Limited " I'd offer $210 CAD local pickup Toronto. I've sent them an e-mail about the horrible re-design asking them bring back the worker sorting capability. I bet some of you have done the same thing as me. I wonder if they will listen to us or even bother to reply.  I wish more people would be using your pool so the block solve rate would improve. Having said that I wonder how well your pool software would scale. It would be wise, or you could just buy S7s now and later on sell them and get SP50s. There would be a slight loss of hashing power and additional funds may be required to get the same equivalent hashing power but you are at least hashing sooner rather than later and thus could also benefit from a potential rise in the btc exchange rate (which likely is an important factor for some of the GB members). PM replied to.  Sorry for the late reply, I just got back from a brief (well relatively brief for some) vacation. We can easily host 100kw worth of gear. Armedmilitia I replied to your PM. I'm going to discuss your offer with my partner and PM you a rate for 100 kw worth of consumption.Did you guys decide yet on what miners you will purchase? (SP50 or S7s?) We are still around (cryptoboreas). Out website was down because of a screwup with the hosting provider. I'll post pics of the inside when I'm back. I'll also add it to the website. Right now the facility is not in its final "neat" form but here are a few pics of the work in progress:Umm, well the S3s consume 350 watts at the wall so if you're sending us 2 S3s then yeah that's clearly under 1000 watts. We accept C1s. I don't see any reason why they should be a problem. We will likely keep them bunched together but separated from the non water cooled gear just to be safe Yes that is correct, you are actually paying $57 USD (or whatever the exchange rate is these days) per 1kw which in my book is an amazing deal! When I used to host in the States I remember paying $90 to $99 USD. So while the USD is strong vs the CAD it's time to take advantage and host with a Canadian miner hosting provider. P.S. If you have further questions send them to sales [at] cryptoboreas.com  I will try to get my friend in on this thread so he can answer your questions but e-mail is the ideal way to reach us while I am gone.  I am going to be away for a while (vacation) so until I get back if you have any inquiries please write to us at sales [at] cryptoboreas.com or visit http://www.cryptoboreas.com and use the "contact us" form. Happy mining to you all! Yeah forget this. Sellers want to be stingy now it seems. If I had some for sale I'd sell these for $350 and an S5 for $300. That to me is a more fair price level.  Thanks!  Good news everybody! We've got power and we're now ready to accept your miners! Website: http://www.cryptoboreas.comHosting Fees:All prices are in CAD (Canadian Dollars) and are based on 1 kwH/month (ie 1000 watts continuously per month). All non month-to-month terms are pre-paid.1 Month             $75 3 Month             $706 Month             $65  For further details see our Service thread here:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=500121.0 lol yeah no seller is going to accept that...I think I'm just better off giving my btc to bitmain once again. Hmm, I may be able to offer $310 + shipping to Canada + escrow with OgNasty. Hmm 503 errors now   Upon further consideration we've decided to include the tax in the price. So both foreign and domestic clients will now pay the same price. So from now on it's $75 CAD - taxes included. Thank you guys for your input.  http://www.canadabusiness.ca/eng/page/2651/"If you sell goods and services to international customers, you are not required to collect GST/HST or PST, provided they take delivery of the goods or services outside of Canada"http://www.cra-arc.gc.ca/E/pub/gm/b-090/b-090-e.html"A supply of intangible personal property or a service made in Canada, including supplies made by electronic means, may be relieved of tax under the export provisions of the Act that zero-rate certain supplies of intangible personal property and services made in Canada to a non-resident person."I will double check again with my friend and do some more research. Setup remote access asap. Teamviewer or RDP, or even VNC would do the job just fine. Maybe the stats servers are offline or having issues but the stratum servers are fine. That's my best guess as to what is going on. As long as the total payout is fine and shares are accepted I guess there is nothing seriously bad happening. Still, it is a bit disconcerting upon first sight to see the huge dips in the graph.
I've noticed that too. Right now my 10 min average is only 10% of my hashing power, the 30 min average is a quarter and the 1 HR is 3 quarters. The graphing on antpool is frankly disappointing. Not only is it always laggy now it started being inaccurate too. In the past it did this too but it was only very briefly that the lower time frame averages would dip like that and come back. I also see that some of my worker names report 0.0 TH hashing rate even though on the miner side they show as hashing just fine. So the pool is accepting shares, but either they do not count towards my account - ie they are not hashing for me - or they just don't count period.I'm not sure if this is relevant but I mine using their US stratum link as that by far has lower latency.I really hope they sort this out soon. Not when you factor in the higher running costs of the S5s vs the 0.2x w/gh of the S7. Gear on the forum is now ridiculously overpriced. Maybe once the S7s ship buyers will come to their senses once they realize that now their gear have further depreciated.  He's in the Lone Star State - Texas. Update: just a quick post (should've made this a lot earlier) to let you all know that we now have a modest web presence http://www.cryptoboreas.com Sorry it seems I missed your reply for some reason. Well, we ask for your name and address but we don't ask you for any proof of ID or blood samples, or anything else extravagant. Hmm, we'll see what we can do about the paypal situation. Paypal is sadly too expensive but if you insist on paying with it we might be able to make an exception just for you but we would have to charge you the additional 2.9% paypal fees.  I'll offer $250  per unit.  Would you consider selling the units outright though? I personally likely have cheaper hosting than you so I'd like the physical hardware in hand.  Do you have a price range in mind (per unit) ?  You would be ok with international shipping? I have in mind Canada - Labrador or Toronto to be more specific. Just a quick post to let you all know that we (our hosting facility is on the first post) have 100+kw of capacity that just opened up in our shop. We are located in Labrador just like the Great North Data people. Three cheers for cheap power! We don't have a minimum consumption requirement so we'll accept "small time miners" as long as you don't turn into a support nightmare; in that case we'll toss your gear in the Atlantic Ocean - kiiiddiing! You guys know what to do if interested. Cheers, and happy mining to you all. They would still have to be discounted a bit more to take into account the 50% lower power consumption of the S7. Essentially the cost per TH between the S5 and S7 is the same so there is no reason to buy S5s if you can get S7 for the same $ and get the bonus lower power consumption. The only advantage I see with these miners is that you'll potentially have them hashing sooner than S7s. lool, well I try to find a few good deals here and there where I can get them. Now that we have cheap power it makes sense to pickup a few miners if the price is right. There are still some sales from Canadian miners I think. There is one guy in Sudbury who is selling S5s for $340 US I think. Heck if you bought some you can have them mailed to our Toronto shipping address and we'll drive them up to Labrador. Another option is to buy from US sellers on the East coast. Shipping from the North East to Labrador should be reasonably priced. We don't really have any worthwhile gear for sale yet. We are thinking of buying bulk gear and offering cloud mining or actual miners for sale but we're not at that growth stage yet.  I have good news everyone. We've finally completed our new data center and we just got power hooked up a few days ago and thus are fully ready to accept your miners. Price per 1 kwH/month is $75 CAD. You can rent a 1200 watt DPS-1200FB server PSU for an additional $4 a month if you don't have PSUs of your own to send. We accept every kind of miner. We have two kinds of shipping options. You can either send your gear to Toronto or Labrador. We make regular trips every 15 days between Toronto and Labrador so if you want to send your gear to Toronto you can do that and we'll drive the gear up to the data center. PM me if you're interested in hosting with us. Oh I remember you now!  I suspect there is an issue with _all_ compensation units. They are KNC farm rejects/used and abused miners. It's totally luck of the draw if you get a miner that is both stable and performs well. You're probably better off keeping them and running them until they die.Sadly I am not interested in Neptunes any more. They are far too cumbersome for my hosting environment and I now much prefer the design of the S5s and SP20s miners. The S4 might be an interesting purchase though. How much are you asking for that? I just picked up some SP20s for 1.4 btc each. So yeah, I dunno, probably if I'm going to overpay I should keep with tradition and overpay for new gear lol. I did offer him to do that, but he is not willing to budge on the price. For 1.7 it's not a good deal. He likely bough them in bulk and likely already ROIed and now he selling them at the same price bitmain was which means he is likely double profiting. This is of course an assumption but I could be right. Right now the biggest risk factor is the release date of bitmain's S7 miners. If they come soon then buying these S5s would've been a mistake.  I'd offer 1.35 for the SP20 considering shipping will add quite a bit to the total price. Shipped to Canada, OgNasty escrow. Did you end up selling this as a package? Willing to consider selling some of those HDs? Did you end up selling that SP30? Hmm, if you're running a farm in Ontario I think you may be losing money if you don't have free electricity. I would consider moving them to a cheaper location. But then again I'm just speculating as I don't know your situation. I will talk with my friend and see if we could maybe buy a few of your miners. We have much cheaper electricity so we could squeeze more life out of them. 
If he would be willing to sell below $300 (doubt it) I'd buy a few. A cool, pleasant surprise, that is pretty close to me more or less. I could come pick them up in person. The only sticking point on this deal is the price. I think with 0.21w/gh gear coming out the old gen stuff has to be sold at a decent discount to attract buyers, otherwise it's just better to wait and buy bitmain's next gen gear. Yep, and the funny thing is that buyers know this and they're likely going to push the price of old gear down - I know I am! If no good deals can be had on old gen gear then it's just better to wait for bitmain to release their 0.21w/gh gear. And so it begins......the great hardware dump. Where are you located? Are the Neptunes original batch ones or the compensation units? Also the S4's PSU is original or has it been replaced  / hacked with custom PSU(s)? Well considering that Bitmain is coming out with 0.21w/gh gear likely soon and that likely a lot of people will begin to dump this current gen of gear I'm not even sure myself what offer to make, but I will try over PM. I'd take it if you were nice enough to ship it to Canada. I can pick them up in Montreal. I'm wondering what is your best asking price? Can you provide pics, proof of ownership, and allow escrow? Also as the previous poster asked, where are you located?  I was going to say the same thing. I'd like to make an offer but if you are asking more than bitmain for used miners than that's not such a good deal for the buyer. I can offer $80 a unit plus I pay shipping to Canada (assuming shipping is not super ridiculous). Let me know if you agree or you can PM me a counter-offer. If you want to also PM me your postal code so I can figure out shipping costs that would be helpful - oh and maybe the dimensions of the box and weight of miner (this I can probably find via google) Stable is good. The original Sierras consume how much power (2200 watts?) ? Do they come with those dual Seasonic 1000 watt Platinum rated PSUs or did you swap them out with some other ones? How many of the original Sierras you have? Hmm, it's been so long since these were on sale from HashFast that I forgot the specs. It seems the originals hash at 1.2~ TH and have dual 850 Seasonic PSUs. Can you confirm this? If I'm not mistaken these require an external cgminer/bfgminer host pc/device, and since I see a bunch of netbooks on the ground would you sell the miners with the control laptops (ie a package)? These are the HashFast Evo 3 units, right? See my PM reply.  PM me info regarding how much gear and the type of gear you have as I may have just the ticket for you. The hosting location is in Canada, so shipping would be a must, but hosting fees are super competitive.  Willing to ship to Canada? desperate miners are desperate....lool I'll take the last one if you're willing to ship it Canada. I think though that shipping costs may be prohibitive. Crap I just noticed the scammers username. OOoooops 
I'll take your S5s for the revised price. Escrow through OgNasty. We have a deal? If so PM me and I'll cc OgNasty and start the ball rolling. If you can package all 3 in one box that would be ideal as it would save on multiple shipments if we use something like UPS. I'd prefer USPS though. Anyways, PM me if we have a deal.Edit: Ah crap, I just noticed the difference in the scammers username. Nevermind what I said above. Screw off scammer! Yep, I would listen to mindtrip if I were you   I too sold and bought a boatload of hardware here on the forum and in my personal experience buyers here are far more savvy than ebay and craigslist plebs.  If you want a quick sale I can offer $375 per unit for those S5s.  Yeah just because something is scarce doesn't mean it's a good deal or that you have to buy or that you have no choice. The best choice sometimes is to not make a decision at all. Just sayin. Not possible as there isn't a limit. You only pay for what your miner consumes based on a metering of 1000 watts/h/month. What this means is 1000 watts non-stop consumption for a period of a month. Naturally if your miner say consumes 1500 watts, the rate would be 1.5 x $70. So the total rate you pay depends on your miner's power consumption. I hope I am making myself clear. Sadly yes, unless you buy the miners/good from a Canadian (ie local) source. We can help you reduce the import fees by having the item(s) shipped to our business name making it a commercial import and thus you'd have to pay just the GST (government sales tax) (which I believe is 5%). Hey, at least there is no 23%+ VAT like in the EU  No, at this time we do not have any KYC procedures as I do not think they are necessary based on our business model - we do not hold customer funds nor do we exchange or move money.Ideally you'd want to buy gear from either Canada, United States or China (directly from bitmain, etc) and have it shipped to our data center. We do not know of any storefront around us that is selling miners. I'd suggest just scouting the for sale section of this forum.  I have an update with the price per 1kwH/month...and it shall be $75 CAD + tax (you only pay tax if you're a Canadian resident)Edit price. Would you be willing to ship these to Canada? You don't have any more miners do you? Whoa, $1435 per miner?! That's crazy high. I guess that includes the VAT on top  Damn crazy high VAT! If hosting is too expensive for you we can host them for you here in Canada. I am 2 weeks away from getting the power ready. But I'm not sure how much shipping is going to be or if it will be worth it. Are these compensation Neptunes or original batch 1 units?  Oh ok. Thanks. Do you have in mind to reply to my PM ?  The market price is $600 USD? Are you basing this assertion on ebay prices? I've seen desperate miners here pay over $500 for SP20s but $600 is probably pushing it.  Alright let's do it then. Not the best price but sadly not much hardware out there on the market. For $450 I'd want it shipped to my Canadian address. Escrow with OgNasty as well (we can split the escrow fee 50/50 if you want). Canada as my previous PM. I PM'ed you the postal code yet again though. Would you take $800 shipped for the S4+? It has been a long time since I updated this thread, but I have some good news to announce. Site #2 is 3 weeks from being fully operational. Because site #2 gives us access to much cheaper power our hosting fees will down as well. I think you will all like the price. When you take into consideration the current low value of the Canadian Dollar our hosting fees will be cheaper than anyone currently has on offer in the United States or pretty much anywhere around the world. I'll update the thread once the site goes live.  Fair market price for S3s should still be in the $80 to $90 range. I'd pay $60 for each. The problem is that shipping kills the deal as these things are not exactly super light. They are still worth it if a) you got super cheap power b) you can avoid shipping.
That is a bit too rich for my blood. I may be able to do $430 shipped or even $450 shipped though. Shipping alone will likely end up being $40 to $50 I'm guessing.  I'll offer $410 for the SP20.  Would you be willing to ship it to Canada? PM me that offer and I'll see if I can match it and beat it. Ohwell, I give up on this. Seller is not responsive.  Would you take $800 per pair of SP20s (without the PSU)?  If it will help reduce the overall shipping cost I do not mind teaming up. The only issue is that we'd have to agree upon a common shipping address. Ideally I'd like them shipped on the far East coast of Canada, but I told the seller that alternatively he can ship them to my Toronto address if it ends up being cheaper.  You have PM.  I'd like to buy it but I think the price is a bit too high. I'm going to PM you my postal code and if you would be so kind to do a quick shipping calculation I would appreciate it.  Not willing to ship a few to Canada by any chance ? Were these damaged cards out of warranty when they died, etc? I had quite a few cards that died over time too, but I ended up eating the loss by giving the cards away to people who thought they can revive them (it requires some electrical engineering skills). Please pay this man his asking price. He clearly has superior talents! It is by no means easy to take open source mining pool software and slap it on a consumer grade PC in a rackmount case! Also he is giving you a battery to go with it so your internets don't fall and your hashes multiply with great haste!If you want all the hashes to belong to you, then look no further than this amazing deal! Kinda sucks that you aren't willing to ship internationally. I'd like it shipped to Canada  It would've been nice if you notified the interested parties that you sold it "from under them" sort of speak. I was waiting for the shipping quote and PSU info you said you'll send and then I find out here indirectly that you sold them.  Yeah I realize that but I thought I'd try anyways.  I'll offer $350 per unit as long as you are willing to ship them to Canada for me and as long as shipping does not end up being crazy expensive. If I PM you the postal code you think you can calculate shipping costs for me? Back from vacation yet ? SP30 still for sale? I kind of doubt everyone made their money back. Do you know what their 16 card rig used to cost? 16,000 euro. If you bought the rig with btc you will would have never ever in a billion years make that back..ok maybe a billion  but still. Anyways, no bad feelings I'm just telling it like it is. If you are greedy for hashing power wait for bitmain to bestow you with their dusty used up miners  Like I said I don't think they want to deal with the hassle of regular customers. They are likely only going to miner with the new chips themselves or sell to the big mining farms.  Talk about resurrecting a dead thread. Just let them happily mine with their chips in private as this seems to be the route they've decided to take. You are not going to get their 28nm chips even if they had them. They already paid for the NRE costs with your money and they do not need you anymore. 
Not willing to ship outside EU by any chance? I might be interested. Would you be willing to ship or to drop them off at the Centerus hosting location in Washington?  Hey, he stole my laptop! lol I have one just like it....somewhere. That right there is most likely a P4 (Pentium 4) or maybe early gen core2. I'll bet it's a P4 though. Edit: hah! I did not even see the post with the model # and I guesses correctly...my powers of deduction are beyond limits....j/k I have one exactly like it, like a clone of it...maybe it's his long lost brother?Good luck with the sale!  What surprises me is he's a miner who mines on a larger scale in Texas of all places where it's hotter than hell nearly all the time.  No it's not cheaper. I can get cheaper power than their $0.11 /kwh.Edit: You have PM. I'll take it at 1 btc as that seems like a pretty good price all things considered (the fact that the PSUs on these things live about as long as fruit flies). What does umisoo charge to have it shipped out? If I PM you two Canadian postal codes you think you can figure out what it would cost to have it transferred out? Edit: Hmm, looking at their website I don't think they allow physical ownership of the hardware   I forgot to ask but are you willing to ship to Canada? lool, that would be a dream price! (for you  ) Ok, cool. I may be interested in the mobo, cpu and ram, but let's see if you manage to sell it as a complete system first.  4 SP31's for $3K?  Would you be willing to ship to Canada? Those HDs are 7200 RPM or 5400-5900? I'm guessing that you would not want to sell just a few of the HDs, no? I'd give you $375 per rig. PM replied to  How many you have left? I'd be interested in buying one complete kit shipped to USA. Actually I changed my mind, make that 2 kits, one to US one to Canada. Perhaps, but they are very well built miners. I'm a big fan of Spondoolies-Tech gear.  Cool, let me crunch some numbers and have a quick glance at newegg's pricing once again. I'll pass on the RAM though as I need high density sticks (8 GB) so I can later on potentially upgrade to 64 GB once DDR4 prices fall to the realm of mere mortals. Indeed! I shall make sweet lovin' to them each and every day of the week!  lool Ah I see my bad, I missed the part about it being hosted with Umisoo. Shipping the thing over to North America would be cost prohibitive without serious volume discount from shipping companies and I doubt Umisoo have access to these discounts, so I'm going to have to pass on this deal. Good luck with the sale! Well, I for one am not asking for you to give it away, just hopefully beat the retail asking price of most online shops. What is your asking price for each part (PM me if you'd like to keep the price private)? I assume these are all new, right? The 16 GB RAM comes in how many sticks total? Is it 4 x 4 GB or 2 x 8 GB? 
Just testing the waters to see if I can find a good deal on a brand new i7 5960x CPU. If you have an Asus X99-A/3.1  or Asus Rampage V Extreme Motherboard I'd be interested in that too. Heck I'll take DDR4 RAM too but it has to be G.Skill Ripjaws 4 series. I'd be interested in 32 GB (4 x 8 DIMMS). I should mentioned that I'd like these new in sealed box. Payment in BTC with escrow via OgNasty.  Where are you located? Well, considering that I don't have to worry about shipping + import fees this would be a very smooth transaction so how about I offer to buy them from you? I'll PM you. Those 2 SP20E are still available? I'd like to buy them, but I'd want them shipped to me, so you think you can discount the pre-paid hosting from the price? Also since you are a client of Lee Group you think you can ask them to put together a shipping quote to a Canadian postal code? (I'll PM you that if they agree to ship the miners to Canada). From my personal experience the batch bonus neptunes are garbage. KNC gave us the bottom of the barrel used and abused boards on all the compensation units they sent out. Is this still available? I may buy one from you.  I'm waiting to hear from a guy that said he will sell me 2 S5s.Oh, one more thing, do you know if it has 16AWG or 18AWG PCIE cables? Well, let's figure out if the shipping is reasonably affordable. I sent you a PM in regards to this.  $750 shipped   ? Any Lepa PSU left? SP20s uses a beaglebone black controller but it's a custom design so I'm not sure how one would go about getting these boards up and running without an original SP-Tech controller. Out of curiosity how much is SP-Tech asking for a controller? Surprise, I'm not shipping them outside US this time  I shall take them off your hands  I'll offer $320 per miner (shipping included) for all 5.  You still have the S5s? I see that on the first post but I'm not sure how recent the info is.  I can do $280 if you can ship it to Toronto or maybe my friend can come pick it up?oops nevermind it's sold  Maybe the bitcoin mafia came after him. All jokes aside who knows if this is legit or not. Either way good luck to all you involved! Ouch that is expensive for such a small and lightweight thing. I'll have to think about it or look elsewhere. Good luck with the sale! Damn, missed this one. Good deal at 1 btc. Wish more S5s were priced the same. 
Would you ship these to Canada and include the shipping cost in the $45 (this is for the stock S5 fans) ? I'll take the other remaining 2 with PSUs if you are willing to make me a good deal. Bear in mind I can get these brand new (granted without PSU) for $375 shipped. I don't think anyone would give you $400 for a potentially problematic miner. You can buy a brand new S5 shipped for $375 which hashes at the same rate as your gimped SP20. In light of that I think I can make an offer of $340 shipped to Toronto, Canada.  Where abouts are you located? I looked at modular classroom prices and it seems containers are still the cheapest option unless someone knows something I do not.Good luck with the sale! Where are you located? Are you willing to use escrow through OgNasty? If the answer to the second question is a Yes then I'll take all 8. You willing to send these to Canada by any chance? Hmm, I'll give you 390 shipped to Washington, but you have to send it soon. Escrow through OgNasty.We have a deal? PM me. Are the Compaq PDUs managed or not?Also are you willing to ship to Canada?  ? Any update on this?  Is that 390 shipped with PSU to USA? Can you tell me the exact model # of the Dell server PSU and also I presume it comes with not just the breakout board but the PCIE cables too, no? Hi everyone. I've got for sale a BRAND NEW ROG Gladius optical gaming mouse. I bought this a week ago as I was curious to see how it is like and it turns out it's not ergonomic for my hand. Total use of the mouse has been about 2 hours. Rather than send it back and pay the restocking fee I was thinking it would be best to sell it here and convert roughly what I paid for it in btc. I'm asking $75 CAD which is as of this moment 0.2551 btc. Depending on where you want this shipped I can split the shipping costs with you. I'd naturally prefer a Canadian buyer but I can ship it anywhere in the world. It will come in its original packaging. For a picture of how the mouse looks like I'd suggest googling it.  Yeah actually I am looking to make another deal. You think you can ship them this time to Canada though? Ooooo..you got more   Price lowered to $95 USD per miner. I've got for sale 2 KNC Neptune complete (5 cube) miners. They are both compensation units that I bought from other forum members. Unfortunately I cannot use it with my current hosting as they require a far cooler environment than we are able to provide it. One of them has no thermal pads on the VRMs which is odd. When running cooler they both hash at about 2.5 T. Local pickup in Montreal or Toronto region is preferred, but I suppose it can be shipped if you are serious about it. Asking price is $750 CAD per miner equivalent in BTC, which is IMHO a good deal. Since one of them has no thermal pads on the VRMs I'd take $50 off of that one. So one 700 one 750.---edit-- sold locally...if anything chances I will start a new thread. I'd take them if you would include shipping in that $450 - shipping to Washington state. How many bundles do you have in total? How about you just sell it and buy a S5 from bitmain. PM me with your desired price if you'd like to sell it.
I spoke with my friend and he has 8 complete kits left. Let me know where you are located and if you can do pickup. Meeting would have to take place one week from now though as he is around the area doing some research.  Seller please respond to your PMs. Are these still worth anything? Haven't they shutdown their cloud mining operation? Are you in the Ontario/Quebec region by any chance? It would be a lot easier to sell you a bunch if you could pick them up. Shipping is not worth it maybe for this older gen gear. But I'll ask my friend what he wants for all the remaining ones. I think he's sold 1 or 2 already but I will confirm. That is a weird request but I will pass it on to my friend (they are his miners, I'm the "marketer"). Are you in the Toronto area? Are you rejecting his offer with the mention of those prices or are these your asking prices? I very much doubt you'll sell it even on ebay for your asking price, but  you have a higher chance of someone overpaying for it there than here. Good luck with the sale!  Got an official reply:"Then there will be no fee if they come to us and do the packaging/transportation themselves." Can your friend come and pick them up? Otherwise there is a 0.15 btc charge per package for shipping. 0.15 works out to $33 at this time. If they can stuff all the miners in one big box the charge should be reasonable on a per miner basis, but I still think picking them up is best.  I just sent an e-mail asking them that very question. They charge a processing fee to ship stuff out but I think if local pickup can be arranged there should be no fees, but I'll find out for sure.Based on their website it seems they charge a handling fee only when shipping miners out:"Yes you can. You can sell your miners later, and we will take care of shipping them to the buyer. We charge a handling fee of only 0.15 per package. Its per package and not per system because if the power supply needs to be shipped also then it will be packaged separately. Of course, the same handling fee applies if you want to ship it to yourself instead. You pay for shipping costs." $325 + shipping to Canada or US (I'm not sure where I want to send them yet) Ok, in light of that I am lowering the price by another $10 to $90 a piece. Local pickup from Centerus is still an option. Possibly yes. So I guess we are just talking among ourselves here.  If you accept my offer I'll buy your EVGA 1300 watt PSU and the HX850 as well. How much would you knock off the selling price if you removed the modded fans and put back the factory stock fan? Do you still have the original fan(s)?  I'd like to offer $300 per unit. Lowered price to $100. What are these typically going for these days? Not a very realistic or likely scenario given that I have purchased tens of thousands of dollars worth of hardware from people on the forum and I haven't screwed anyone over. You think I would do this for a measly 2 S5s?
$600 for both. Why lower than ebay, well I'd be paying via btc so no chance of chargeback and no ebay fees. Escrow through OgNasty. Ok, sounds fair I guess. I'll take it for $110. I can do $95. For my purpose I think I can get away with just the 4 single port PCIE cables. It will power 2 x S5 miners running at stock. Ideally it would be nice to have the extra cables to lessen the load on each cable but I think this PSU comes with decent quality 16awg cables. Alright then how about I PM you my zip code and you can calculate shipping costs and if it's worth it I'll pay for the shipping.  Hmm, I can do $600 if we can close the deal soon. $563 for both shipped to Toronto, Ontario. If shipping ends up too much for you to include in the price then I may be able to cover the difference. I take it your in Florida, no? You have PM.  I can offer 3.30 btc shipped to Toronto, Ontario. How much you want for those 2 SP20s? Would you do $400 shipped for all 4 PSUs? Not willing to be a bit more flexible on the pricing? I see that you also are using EVGA 1300 watt PSUs. Are you willing to sell those with the miners too?  I'll take them both for 2.5 shipped if that is ok with you. Escrow with OgNasty. Guys, let the man have his weekend. Not everyone spends their every waking minute on this forum  dropped the price by $10..now $140 CAD.  How many S5s do you have?  I will continue to lower the price until they are sold. Did you sell the S5 miners yet? Ok, you have PM. $110  Have you sold these yet? I'd be interested if you can ship to Canada. Any idea what the cost of shipping would be to Toronto? Let me know if you need a specific postal code and I will PM that to you.
Wow, that's a pretty good shipping price considering their weight and length. I'm 99% I'll take them. Let me double check with my business partner. Curious if you'd be willing to ship to Canada? Also would you accept escrow? Just an update to let you all know that we have unfortunately maxed out Site #1. We are looking into gathering the necessary capital to build site #2, upon which time I will update this thread and let all you know that we are accepting hosting customers once again. Hmm, it looks like my Washington host does not have any more capacity until late April or May, so the only other option would be if you ship it to me in Canada. Would you be willing to do that if I provide you with the postal code? Then again it may be less hassle for you to sell it locally. I also found out that only the first batch used PCIE cables to power the hashing boards, and all future revisions use screw-down terminals so a PSU has to be modified to work with this miner, so that means not everyone can just pick a regular ATX PSU and swap it in place thereby limiting the audience that you can sell this to. How much would shipping be for the PDUs? Use the same address I sent you for the miners. lol I was actually thinking of doing the same thing. Shipping is a killer though. I'd estimate it would be around $80 to $100. I'll up my bid to $250 but if you can get a better deal selling both together do what's best for you. Great. You would be ok with shipping to Canada?  I can do $235. Yeah I'd be fine with Jonathan escrowing it if he's up for it. I just e-mailed Centerus. They are typically pretty prompt to reply. I'm pretty sure they can hook me up with  a temporary server PSU of some sort, so this deal is most likely a go. The next question is whether you're willing to accept escrow with OgNasty or maybe even Jonathan from Toomim Bros. Cool, well the only downside for me is that I have to find proper PCIE cables and/or PSU to replace it. Can you give me a day or so to talk to the Centerus people and see if they can accommodate me. Edit: hmm, I think I may be wrong about the screw down terminal power hookup...it may be that not all units have that. Looking at some pics of the internals on google shows that the boards have PCIE jacks on them. A freind of mine shows me the PSU for one of his units and the stock PSU had screw down ends on the PCIE leads, so I guess not all the S4s are the same? Yeap, the only thing is that the machine uses screw down terminals for power so it has to be modded properly. If there is nothing else wrong with the unit I'll take it. I'd like it shipped to the Centerus data center which is a few miles away from Toomim bros location.  Will you take $380 USD + shipping to Toronto? $110 for the Rosewill PSU Cool, thanks for the info. I will consider doing what you did once the temps start rising in our data center. I just hope it will be a mild summer. Cool, thanks. Now how much do you want for this PDU? I'll give you $360 USD right now. Local pickup in Toronto.  Hey regrading those PDUs, can you still grab the model # and details? What is the average hashing rate of the sp31 and can you post a screenshot as proof?
Most of mine are running at stock, but I think it would be wise to underclock them slightly for the sake of efficiency. I think these are ok with running hot though, but I could be wrong. The exhaust temps are always high and I believe they were designed like that cause hotter slow moving air is easier to exhaust.So far all of mine have a starting voltage of 0.69 and a max of 0.75. With that setting nearly none of them run at over 1600. Most run at 1550 to 1570. I gotta get a 220v power meter or hook one up to a switched PDU and see what each one consumes currently at the wall.What voltage do you run yours to get 1000 watts DC consumption? I think there is an efficiency chart SP-Tech published somewhere though. Hmm, let me think about it for a bit though. I normally use HP server power supplies that cost around $75 each for 1200 watts. I'd need two of those to power one SP20 or 1 and a 1/2. If you could sell them for $130 each that would be ideal.  I'm all over this. BTC in hand and ready   Alright, then let's do this then. Now I'm just wondering if you'd sell the rig for around 497 plus shipping (2 btc + shipping) The PSU we'll deal with separately unless you want to ship everything in the same box. Dang, ohwell. I'd be willing to pay for shipping if it was around $25 per unit. He can put them in one big or crate and save on shipping costs. How about $500 with shipping to Toronto included ?If so I could buy all of the remaining ones.Also what are you asking for the PSUs? Have you been mining with that AX1200i? If so for how long? What's your asking price on the SP31? Would you be willing to ship it to Canada? (without case) Would you sell me one or two for 420 + shipping to Toronto? $500 Canadian dollars, correct? Also where in Canada are you located? (Reason I'm asking is maybe local pickup is possible) $110 shipped to Washington State. Ah sorry I missed that. Would you take $400 + shipping ? Where are you shipping from btw? I think I've dealt with you in the past but I don't quite remember the state you are in. Also I presume you are fine with shipping to Canada, no? How much you want for the SP20 and SP31? /grouphighfiveI don't know why people bother posting here when they should know that we are not your average ebay chumps who will overpay for gear. $350 + shipping  Op you around or what?  $550 to $850 is a more reasonable price...heck maybe even $900 considering bitmains s5 price but nothing over $1000.  Whoa, $1652?! 
Well depending on where you are it should not be that much more to ship it to Canada. I'm located in Toronto so I'll PM you the precise postal code so you can calculate shipping costs. I'd prefer UPS or FedEx. I think shipping should be around $89 but we'll find out for sure. wow...just freaking wow...how can ebay get away with this blatant rip-off of the seller.  I'll take it for $550 shipped. Only shipping to US though?P.S. Ebay sucks, never sell miners on ebay. I'll take your S5s if you can sell them for $300 a piece. I'll cover shipping to Canada (Toronto). As for the PSUs how much does each one cost? (trying to see if it's better than my $55 server psus that I've been using). 2 sold 10 left.... $120 a piece. Relax man, I'm not trying to lower the price as I really don't care about the price of these things. The asking price of around $700+ is still fair even considering the potential problems. My previous statements were more of a "consumer warning" and nothing more. The dead die issues are independent of how the package was treated, and I bet you anything if you tested these before selling them you'd notice it too. I suggest you test them before selling or live with the guilt of knowing you sold someone an underperforming miner - unless you really simply and absolutely don't care (to paraphrase you). A tested and "open box" miner should not be and will not be considered of lower value by a smart buyer. These things aren't freaking iphone or ipad or whatnot.  I think the main problem with these "free units" is not the risk of starting fires ( if you use quality PSUs with tick gauge pcie cables it should not be an issue) but that it seems to me the ASICS these come with are sub-par. They have a lot of dead dies/cores. If I had to guess I'd say these came from KNC's mines after they've used the hell out of them they give them to their former customers. One unit I bought from someone on the forum is hashing at only 3 quarters of it's capacity and both free units came with fine dust all over them so they were likely mined with. Also a lot of these get banged up during shipping.  Yeah not sure about their bankruptcy as I haven't been keeping up to date with the latest happenings in the bitcoin hardware market. My friend can cross the border at New York State, but we've had some local interest so we may end up selling them locally first. Shipping for these is NOT recommended. They are not designed for shipping and will likely not survive it. I had a nightmare in this regard when I bought a few of these from some guy in the Netherlands. Anyways, be careful with shipping and go for physical pickup if you can. It's  a shame you're in Texas as my friend has 6 of these for sale you can pickup for a really cheap price considering.Have you tried approaching Bitmine with an offer. I think they still have a ton of these they haven't sold because they are asking ridiculous prices. The thing that I worry about here is the shipping speed. I bought a miner from someone from India and the shipping took a long time (3 weeks or more) so if that is the case I don't see any advantage in buying from him instead of bitmain directly. $320  Update on the block erupter controller power adapters. Apparently these did not come with any power adapters. My friend says he bought a bunch of 5v cell phone style power adapters but he did not test them. He is currently powering the controllers from a standard ATX PSU. He said he can add the chargers for $5 to $10. But naturally if you can source a cheaper alternative yourself it may be best.  It would depend on location. PM me your postal code and we will try to figure out the most economical shipping option. If you live somewhere close to Toronto or Montreal it would be ideal to drive up and pickup the hardware. I'm sure it does, but to be honest I totally forgot to ask my friend about this. I would not think he'd have any other use for the power adapters so my preliminary answer would be "Yes" it does come with a power adapter for each block erupter controller. Give me a bit to see if my friend still has the original boxes, and if not we'd have to find a suitable substitute. Yes we're in Toronto. Damn scammers. This forum is getting steadily worse in this regard. Thanks for leaving him negative feedback. Report him to the moderators while you're at it too (report the PM he sent you) and I'm sure they will ban him. Yeah we'd be willing to ship anywhere as long as you pay the actual shipping costs. My friend has a bunch of these miners (1 to 1.1 w/GH). So far I think the inventory is:6 Coincraft Desk units (1 TH each, 1000 watts)12 ASICMiner Tubes (800 GH)A bunch of S2s I think.1 Dragonminer (I think PSU needs replacement though)a bunch of S3s4 or 5 KNC JupitersHardware can be picked up in Toronto or MontrealLet me know if interested. Lowered price to $150
Washington State....cheap power. You can just take over the hosting if you'd like. I can sell you PSUs that power the units as well or you can buy one of Centerus' 1300 watt server PSU that should be capable of powering 3 S3s at once. I think each one of their PSUs are around $130 to $150. Lowered price to $140 a piece.  Yes but my friend is now reluctant to sell as there is no new hardware out there to replace his missing hashing power. However I guess if you offer a really good price he may change his mind. I wanted to ask you if you'd be willing to ship the gear to Canada? What sort of SP-Tech hardware is it mostly made of, SP20s? Yep totally understand your viewpoint. The other sucky thing is the high energy price in UK as compared to some places in US and Canada.  Yeah sadly these are not worth shipping as shipping costs would be close to or near the purchase price. Yes they stopped selling these officially. S5 is where it's at but even those are in limited supply and overpriced. I believe my friend is still asking 149, but make him an offer; he may accept. 26 units left now - 13 S3s and 13 S3+. Updated first post as well. sidehack is correct, we've got 12 separate units at $250 each. Yeah they're already on kijiji actually and according to my friend the units are moving slow (ie being sold), but he's not really eager to sell either because there is no new gear to replace his missing hashing power. 13 S3 and 13 S3+ I'd be interested in buying it if you can sell it for the sale $/GH ratio as bitmain or spondoolies.  I will bounce this back to the seller and see if he can maybe lower his price.  12 is the magic number. I will post the precise amount soon.  If your proposed buyer is still not serious about completing the transaction I will  increase my offer to $400 per unit.  Send me a PM so I have a record of your request and I'll ask my friend to put you in touch with his seller. Well according to what he tells me "this weekend i have order for 5 S3+ and 2S3. S3+ package for 420 and s3 package for 380/400 depending on situation."I think he is getting a better deal selling the locally so I'm starting to think closing this thread might be best as it's not likely he's going to get much action from the forum. Based on that price he's getting his asking price of 169 CAD (133 USD). He's selling them with HP 1200 watt PSUs too that each cost around $70 CAD so it's a decent deal I guess. Hi everyone. I have for sale on behalf of a friend 10 ASICMiner Tube miners (performing at 800 GH). For every 2 Tube miners you buy you get 1 free Block Erupter EV-1 controller. Each controller can operate 6 Tubes. Asking price is $140 CAD (or equivalent in USD) either in fiat (CAD or USD) or BTC payment. Local pickup available in Toronto or Montreal. 
Nevermind about my questions and/or bid as I found out my friend can get switched PDUs for $150 CAD. Good luck with the sale! By switched I mean they have a web interface where you can turn individual power sockets on/off. Do they have this capability or do they not? If I had to go based on my research on APC's website I'd say they are not switched because they are not listed in their "Switched PDU" category. Well I'm not sure as they are not mine. I will pass your message on to my friend.  Ah right, forgot about ebay. At below $100 it may be better to just mine with them until they are no longer profitable. Considering you can't buy these from bitmain anymore we are still accepting offers on them. If the price is right we'll still sell them. I think I have a customer for you for $150. PM me your e-mail address and I'll have a friend of mine who is looking for a lot of these contact you. If would be nice if these were switched too, but alas one can't have it all. The SP20 but I guess if you got higher offers it doesn't matter then does it.  I'll offer $350 to start. Can you also roughly how much it would cost to ship to Toronto, Canada (I'll PM you the postal code) I'll take that sp20 from ya if you're willing to ship to Canada (Toronto). Also what is your starting asking price? How much you want for it? Also willing to ship to Canada? How much for the PDUs (price per unit pls)? Also what is the brand and model # ? Yes we'd be willing to drive to pickup the gear. In light of this can you PM me what your absolute lowest price is? I'm in Canada and I have a friend that would like to buy them. Would you be willing to lower the price to $350 to $370 per miner? Also where are you located. If you're in the Toronto region personal pickup would be preferred rather than shipping. Ah ok, replied to your PM. I think I'll take the 2 remaining ones for your offer price via PM. Let me get back to you ASAP. Would you take $350 per miner for the SP20? Shipped to Washington State. Willing to ship to Canada as well? Yeah you're right they were likely never going to ROI. Well hopefully they will enjoy the miner for what it's really good at - space heater. With 2300 watts and the low noise fans these neptunes are perfect for heating rooms.Glad you sold it though. Best of luck to you! Any update? Did you make up your mind? Will you take $450 + I pay shipping to Toronto Canada (beyond the first $20). Probably my total price will come to $500 anyways. Let me know if you are willing to ship internationally (Canada is not that far from you either way though) and I'll PM you the postal code to check the shipping fees. Kind of sad you won't consider international shipping as you may have a client in me (Canada). I'm going to echo MCHouston's question regarding what city you'll be shipping from and whether you can offer any discounts off the purchase price if the buyer buys the whole lot in one piece (including PSUs)
Hi there. Yeah definitely a long time. I think I remember you from pidobir's group mining op when I bought some shares from you. Definitely let me know and we shall continue our discussion via PM if you'd like. I'm curious if you'll sell these for $420 shipped to Canada (Toronto). Failing that I'd take them for $410 shipped to Washington State. Sent you PM. I have a hunch shipping might not be worth it but I PM'ed you the sender's zip code which you can use to calculate shipping costs with UPS or FedEx.  Will you take $740 + shipping to Toronto, Canada? Price lowered to $262 ($330 CAD). PM me your e-mail address and I'll forward it to my friend in Toronto. Do you still have these for sale? I'd take one if you could match Spondoolies price per unit of $366 per 1.6 TH. If not I'd be better off buying their mini-farm deal in a group buy. Here there fellow Ontarian, I see that you have some EVGA PSUs powering these things. Are they by any chance the 1300 watt G2 variety? If so would you be willing to sell just those (if you have more than one that is)? Under no circumstances would you be willing to ship to Canada (Toronto)? Hmm, apparently that's not a real US zip code (did a search) even if I remove extra 6'th digit.  Do you have a buyer lined up already or not? If blackheart doesn't get it I'll take it for $405 Shipping would be to Washington State. Ah ok, I'm gonna leave this for someone else then as I think I'd be better off buying from Spondoolies-Tech.Good luck with the sale! Well considering I can get the same hashing power from Spondoolies for $366 per unit and get free shipping I was hoping you could undercut them by just a bit and we could have a deal. Note it takes 2 SP20 to equal the hashing power of a full neptune. As for shipping you think it would be more than $200? Whereabouts in the US are you located? Any chance you'll ship to Canada ? (Toronto region) Also whereabouts in the States are you located? Would you take $340 per unit? Also would you be willing to ship to Canada? Escrow also? I was referring to my friend's hosting service linked in my signature. I remember you e-mailing me a bunch of times.  Are these hosted where I think they are?
Ok, I'll pass on the info, but shipping is going to be likely a tad bit much so I'm not sure if he would be willing to include the shipping in the unit price. I will let you know though.Also, how many units you want? Each. 6 left. I'm interested in the EVGA PSUs, but I'd like them asap. What is the lowest you're willing to go on a per unit basis for those? "My asking price is 150 USD" is what my friend said. He can sell 10 for 1400 USD I'll ask my friend what his asking price is now and update the thread. Maybe, it would all depend on my friend. I do believe you have both our e-mail address via our past contact via our mutually known local classifieds site. Please contact him directly with your offer. Updated our hosting fees. We had to increase our prices by $5 across the board to cover some capital expenditures which we found out were not correctly included in the previous pricing. Also please note that Canadian customers will have to pay GST/HST on the hosting fees. It's funny you mention this because I think the btc exchange rate was very close to what it is now when most of us bought our hashcrap miners with btc. Roughly going by the charts price was around $170 to $180 I think.  So yeah this may be the time to refund in btc, but I am 110% certain this is never going to happen. There is likely nothing of value left in this failure of a company. All the money went to lawyers, to pay for the undeserved salaries of the people running the company, etc.On a different subject, I am amazed this thread is still going. I though this was a dead horse already.   I suggest you not bother with this seller. Just buy them directly from SP-Tech. If you buy 3 you can get a $498 per unit price and free shipping.  For sale, 20 6 Bitmain Antminer S2 miners in perfect condition. Asking $300 USD or equivalent in btc. Local pickup preferred in either Toronto or Montreal.Price lowered to $262 ($330 CAD).--edit-- keeping the remaining ones...thread closed. The $500 price was a new years group buy special. Free shipping too with minimum 2 unit purchase. That deal is gone now though, but if you buy their nano-farm package (3 miners) you'll get them for $498 + free shipping. Just a quick post to let you all know that with the current spike in the usd/cad exchange rate it is now far more advantageous to host with a Canadian company than in the US. Just a tip. Is there a noticeable decrease in performance when dropping the voltage to 0.74. It does not seem like a huge drop so I'm wondering if I myself can do this and still retain the average 1.6 T performance. I guess I shall find out  I'm curious about the max voltage setting. Do you have a link to where philipma1957 advises you to do this and his reason (if it's in your review I'll just that out).  You have PM. 9 more miners sold. 57 left. lol ok then, he'll take one at $500 and I'll take 3 at $480  I'll take all 4 if you're willing to sell them for $480 shipped with escrow (I paid the escrow fee - OgNasty will be the escrow agent). I can get 3 of these for $498 directly from SP-Tech and I don't have to tack on any escrow fees.  Would you take $80 for the 2 CX750M PSUs? Also can you figure out shipping costs to postal code: 98802
He's not responding it seems. Maybe I shall try PM. Hey, I'm looking for a 1500 watt PSU. One of your Enermax units should be what I need. Any chance you'll sell one for $120 shipped to Washington State? Reason for my offer is I bet these were heavily mined on with either GPUs or HashFast gear. Can you tell me how much it would cost to ship to postal code: 98802 Crypto died? Really, all because btc price is depressed? I think you are giving up on it too easily, but it's your decision. Ah crap, too bad you want it sold as a lot because I would be interested in the supermicro server. I'd be interested in this, if this seller turns out to be legit. I think he has enough SP31s that we can all get at least 1 if he's got them for real.  They've extended the GB for a few more days, and as of now according to the counter on RoadStress's thread there are precisely 7 hours left until the GB supposedly ends. It would be funny if they extend it again.Yeah you're right for just one unit your price is better than SP-Tech's.  It's a shame the OP will not accept BTC. @Killerloop - I hope you don't take offence but your feedback rating might scare some people off. Anyone know a reputable escrow agent willing to do GBP? There are 12 hrs left in the new years group buy. Someone can buy the miner for $500 a piece and get free shipping. Although 2 is the minimum quantity. You may want to wait until the group buy is over before you try to sell this. Would you accept escrow in BTC as well? If so I'd be interested in all of your SP31 miners. 4 BTC This sale is EU only? Yeah, I'm not even sure the first kit he sold was a successful transaction. This may be one of those "if it's too good to be true, it probably is" type of situations. Who knows.  Lol, thanks for sharing your opinion. It has been duly noted in the big book of internet opinions   ? They are $149 on the bitmain website, and those are not "new" units. They're all taken from their existing mining operations. So regardless from whom you buy you'll get used miners. Also it appears that on the bitmain website the purchase minimum is still 2. 6 more units have likely been sold..waiting for buyer to arrange pickup. Sorry to bring up a dead thread, but I'm sad to report that mcramer has not delivered and hasn't been heard from again since Nov 26. I'm not sure what happened to him. On a positive note, there was no monetary loss as no btc were sent. I thought this was common knowledge by now. Rarely are any of their products now brand new. In the beginning their S1s were fresh, but now pretty much all of their miners are mined on already. There is no way to know for sure how long they've been mined on, but make no mistake about it, bitmain is not likely to just let the miners sit idle while they wait for you to buy it. This is also how they are able to deliver "from stock" (ie from their existing mine). If they had to keep a surplus of brand new miners in the hope of selling them (like a traditional retail model) they'd be losing potential earnings. Morally it is not right that they do this, but I'm not sure how you'd solve this dilemma other than them switching to a "built after purchase" model.  Well, if you allow for escrow I'll take the chance. If you agree PM me and I'll reply and cc OgNasty in on it, and send you the shipping address. After speaking with my friend he decided to lower the asking price down to $149 USD ($169 CAD at the time of this posting). That's the same price as bitmain, and with his miners you don't have to pay for shipping nor import tax. 
I'll take it if you can ship it to Washington State. Whereabouts are you located? Yep, I've seen that thread, but the quantities are more than I or my friend can afford and I think we'd be overwhelmed by the sheer number of miners. We would prefer something more dense. As for the price I don't know if he can match bitmain's bulk pricing but I will pass your interest on to my friend who owns pretty much 99% of these miners on sale here. If he wants a quick sale I'm sure he can be flexible on pricing especially if you're willing to purchase them in one lot. So you may be able to get close to the bulk purchase price and not have to buy so many at once (500 minimum from bitmain) PM me your phone number if you're in the area and he will call you to discuss further details. I sure hope your in the Ontario/Quebec area as local pickup is the only realistic way of doing this. Just noticed that after you mentioned it. Well I think a price reduction is in order. I will discuss this with my friend and see what he wants to do.  lol don't pay any attention to him, he's just trolling...I guess he got bored with the HashFast thread and he's looking for new drama in his life. Nope, not cloud mining, physical bitcoin miner hosting - ie you purchase and own the miner and we host it for you. 1 KwH/month. That's 1000 watts continuous power consumption for an entire month.  Give me a bit to verify these answers but tentatively my response would be:1) There is a corporate structure behind this (numbered Canada corporation). 2) There are no formal agreements setup yet, but we do intend to compensate customers for major downtime. If the miners are down more than 48 12 hours, you will receive a refund fee for the entire down time. 3) No insurance yet unfortunately but we are looking into the financial feasibility of this.4) Not as of yet. This is something that is on the "to do" list. There are obvious security concerns with doing this and this has to be carefully planned and implemented.  Lowered the individual unit asking price to $170 USD and abolished the individual unit price premium so now regardless of the quantity it's $170 per unit2 units sold so now total down to 66 units available. Do you guys still have any of those package deals (ie DPS-800GBA + adapter + pcie cables) ? Also any adapter boards for the DPS-1200FB PSUs? I checked your website for these but they were not listed. Have you stopped making/selling them? Price lowered to $850. Local buyers still preferred. No import taxes or shipping charges.  Hmm, so $127 per unit. Ok, I guess that's not bad. I'll take them. PM me your btc address and I'll send payment right away. How soon can you ship? Give me those 4 1500 watt units for $100 each and you'll have a quick sale. Still have any of the EVGA 1300 units? Also I wanted to ask you what is the lowest you can do for the 1500 watt units, shipped to postal code: 98802 lol np..just let me know as soon as you can as the miners I intend to have these PSUs power have already shipped.  Heheh..yeah I totally understand where you are coming from. I think some sort of bottom price will be found soon. On the reseller market these should maintain competitiveness with the S5 for quite a while even though the S5 is slightly more efficient.I don't know about you guys but I for one would love it if they lowered the price on the SP35s as well to be almost price competitive with the SP20s (I understand that the PSUs in the SP35 add an additional cost that is likely approaching almost the cost of a standalone sp20). Hmm, SP20s at 300  I'll go for that   I wonder how long this GB will last. Has SP-Tech mentioned this?  Would it be possible for you to PM me the best price per unit you can offer? lowered price to $160 per unit Ah ok. Well can you meet me somewhere in the middle then. I'll take 1 for $90. I may buy the other one but I am waiting in on another guy selling the same PSU for $90. If he can do $90 then I'll take 1 of his and 1 of yours, if not then I'll take 2 of yours. Given the current amazing discounts by SP-Tech for brand new units I'll make a final offer of 12 btc for the SP30s - shipped internationally (Canada).
I'll take the 1300 watt EVGA units if you can do $80 each shipped to Washington State. The only reason I'm offering this lower price is that it seems they've been working hard powering those bfl minirig monsters (likely at 90% + load all the time) and thus their remaining lifespan is unknown.  Would you take $90 shipped to Washington State? (I'll PM you the precise address if you agree) Shipping should be roughly $55 CAD (so that's ~$47 USD) per miner. How many units are you interested in?  15 btc for just the sp30s Oh really. Have you ever owned a SP20? Do you like jet engines? No? Why not? S3s are home miners, and no matter what SP-Tech would like you to believe SP20s are not. S3s also allow you to segment power usage and placement with more granularity. But yeah having said that I never said we are not open to offers. Also I'd like to ad that we're mainly targeting the Canadian market where people have to pay import taxes on miners.  lool, yeah I know that Vancouver is in British Columbia, but at the time I wrote that I was half asleep....I shall correct the mistake so as to not irritate the geography pedants among you  Ok, I will note that. I'll get back to you later. We're waiting to see if someone local will pick them up. I may be able to do $175 but I need to keep those PSUs then. You'd have to contact Centerus to find out if they are still going to let you power them miners with their own PSUs. Lol guys bear in mind when I placed this ad the S5 did not exist. Also there is indeed a certain advantage to not paying import taxes nor shipping and also having the piece of mind that you will get working miners. Bitmain has a slow turnaround time when issues arise and as you know downtime in the mining biz is not a good thing. The other thing is that the S5 is a different beast - more of a home miner than a data center one such as the S4. I'd imagine they will come out with the S6 sometime later on down the road, but who knows when.Realistically I think we're likely going to have them all sold locally before anyone buys them from this thread. I probably should not have even opened the thread, but I figured that I'd at least give someone the opportunity in case they are local and do not browse the local classified sites. Sounds like a plan. Hope you still have some $ after Christmas for these  Merry Christmas! Indeed the Vancouver area is beautiful. So, the great Canada Post says it will cost $24.28 CAD to ship to you. Not so bad considering these things are 6 kg each.As for escrow we prefer OgNasty. You pay escrow fees though (1%). PM me your postal code. Without a postal code you may as well be living on Christmas Island and I still would not be able to give you a proper quote.  lol, no worries, you weren't butting in.  Yeah it's cheaper with Canada Post if you send in Canada. That price I posted was for a guy in the United States.  They started offering power supplies to customers sending them S3s a while back. "If you are looking for a hosting service for your S3s, you've found it here. We will provide the power supply needed to power your S3 Antminers! Just place your order at BitMainTech.com, and have your S3s delivered to us. Email us the tracking number together with your mining setup details, and we'll have your S3s mining for you within 24 hours upon arrival. We will send you our standard hosting agreement for signature as soon as we receive your email." Ok, it looks like the shipping cost per miner is $41.95 CAD. This is with UPS.  Ok, I will get this info for you. As for the other units, those are actually located in Canada which means more expensive shipping for you. Just thought I'd let you know. bump... I forgot to mention but you want them _without_ PSUs, correct? Well if it tanks then you benefit. Yep, I will ask them about that now that I have your zip code. I should also mention that they charge a "0.083 per package" fee. This is in addition to shipping. 
I don't think we can include the shipping in the price as it would likely be a good chunk of the actual value of the unit. PM me your postal code and I will try to get a quote nonetheless to see if it's worthwhile to ship.  Yeah their website needs some work. No they do not lock in the btc per 1kw rate. They've kept the same rate for a while now. Their btc pricing works to your advantage when btc price is low though. You actually end up paying far below what others charge.  They charge by 1KwH/month. 3 of them come close to 1000 watt. So according to my calculations for 5 it should be 0.276 btc per month. The rate per miner is 0.0552.  Umm, I did not think about that. I'd imagine that the new owner would get billed from the time of purchase by Centerus. At least that seems to be the reasonable way to do things.  Hi there everyone. I'm selling on behalf of a friend a big batch of S3 miners (not S3+). They are available for pickup in Toronto or he can do personal delivery if you're in the GTA area. We'd prefer to sell them in one lot. We're asking $170 per miner. They do not come with PSUs but if you want we can provide you with a HP 1000 watt server PSU for $50 (these already have soldered PCI-E cables in place). This PSU can easily power 2 S3s without breaking a sweat. Accepted payment options: BTC equivalent at the spot rate at the time of purchase. Lot price: $170 USD per minerIndividual unit price: $170 $149 USD Local pickup or drop-off is preferred. Shipping is possible but at buyer's expense.All of them are hashing just fine at the expected 440 GH (except 1 which is hashing at 400~. For this we can give you a $50 discount). Proof of hashing can be provided of course. Please PM me or post here if you're interested. Large lot buyers will take precedence. Ideally we are looking for someone who can buy all of them at once.--price lowered Jan 1 2015---- 26 units left now - 13 S3s and 13 S3+-- 13 units left I've got for sale 5 Antminer S3 (non S3+) currently hosted at Centerus. Buyer can either ask for shipping or keep them hosted with Centerus. If you decide you want to ship them out Centerus will charge a fee for this which has to be covered by the buyer. Asking price $180 per miner. This is without PSUs. I've decided to keep the PSUs at Centerus in case I send them any other miners that are not self-powered. I do believe that Centerus can provide you with PSUs to power them though. They also sell 1300 watt PSUs for just $150 I think. These can power 3 antminers easily.-edit- Are these units reliable? I heard they are super noisy and prone to locking up, etc. 2 sold, 17 remaining... Yeah it is, and the sad thing is the shipping would be so crazy high and we cannot get volume discounts like bitmain does. Bump.... All 4 cases are sold.  OK, excellent. I'll PM you my btc address and please reply with your shipping address and I can have them sent tomorrow morning at 9:00 AM EST. If you want to pay with LTC and NXT I can accept those as well.  Ok, got the cases disassembled. I left the bottom assembly together as it really does not make a difference in shipping as it still has the same length in the box. I found the original box one of the case came in; it's 22" x 10" x 10" (inches, that's 55 cm x 25.4 x 25.4) and everything weighs 15 lbs (6.80 kg). Now the problem is that shipping is not worth it. The cheapest I found was with Canada Post for regular ground parcel for $112 CAD. UPS and FedEx were ridiculously expensive (not sure why) - in the range of $300+ dollars. I tried changing the dimensions of the box but that makes almost no difference in the price, but changing the weight does so it's all mainly about weight as I expected. If you still want them let me know right away. lol Ok, well I shall respectfully bow out of this thread...good luck with the sale OP!  Sorry I only have 4. I think Spotswood still sells them, but I could be wrong. Hopefully I do not anger the bump police this time around.... Hmm, that sucks. I usually don't have to pay fees when receiving stuff with USPS and the item is declared as below $100. If you can check with USPS as a last resort option that would be great, otherwise $47 is not worth it I'm afraid  I will give you almost the same price SP-Tech is selling them for if you're willing to ship it to Canada. -edit- oh and also if you'll accept escrow Yeah I would not ship it assembled anyway as there is no box that I have that would fit all 4. Give me a day to take them all apart. I will likely work on it tomorrow afternoon. I will get back to you once I have them all packaged up.  I just discovered I have another case that was sitting in a box from Spotswood. So I now have a total of 4 cases left.
Can you give me a rough estimate as to how much it would cost to ship to Toronto, Canada? Hi everyone. I've got for sale on behalf of a friend 19 17 Antminer S4 miners. These are available for pickup in Toronto region. We are asking just $865 USD or equivalent in BTC. This is just break-even here. This price is firm. The plan is to replace these with more power dense miners. These are from the latest batch - they came from bitmain's black friday sale batch.Shipping would not be an option I'm afraid unless you really really want to waste money on it. PM me if interested.  Hi, previous customer of yours here  I may be interested in this. Can you give me the dimensions of the bitmain box and the weight? On the bitmain site it mentions dimensions but I don't think that's of the actual shipping box just the unit itself.  Can you give me a rough estimate as to how much it would cost to ship to Ontario, Canada? Toronto region. You have PM. hehehe..I saw you lower the price than raise it  tricky guy you. Ok, so will you take $80 for it? This time it would be shipped to Canada - Ontario.  Would you take 9 btc for just the SP30s? I'd pay shipping + escrow fees.  We are looking at potentially expanding to a second location. Those of you with a lot of gear (ie those who bought the S4 black friday deal) get in touch with me.  $500 a month!?! Damn! Would you take $2K +shipping to Canada?Oh yeah and I forgot almost, escrow is a must. Why are you amazed? It doesn't matter how "nice" the gear is -all that matters is that it stands a chance of achieving some ROI.I was looking to buy some Neptunes and also Titans but seeing how much people are asking I was scared away. I understand that many of you paid $10,000 for this, and trust me I understand how you feel cause I bought a Neptune for that much too, but I would never go around and try to sell it off for even close to what I paid because I understand that since this was released it lost 60% of it's value sadly. Out of curiosity what are you asking for your Neptune? 1 sold recently. 3 more left. Price lowered to $40 + shipping. Thanks. I'm also wondering if you know the efficiency rating of this PSU. I tried to google this and not much has come up. Some sites that sell this model (there is however a "-1A" at the end of the model # of one) say it's 90% efficient (ie Platinum rating).  Those 6-pin PCI-E cables used 18 AWG wire or 16 AWG?  1.1 btc is way waaaay too much. This machine is already basically unprofitable with for example $0.10 per Kwh. I'd suggest you spread the power load among several circuits and run it until it breaks. At least this way it would be a way of constantly converting $ to LTC (as you're paying more in power costs than it mines!) It's not even worth shipping either as it likely weighs a lot (not sure the precise weight).  I think you're better off buying SP20s and getting a cheap server PSU for it than these S4s.  Transformer installation complete. We now have additional capacity ready.  PM replied and free bump for the OP. Or you can get a spiffy nice aluminum case for them  funny thing is I still have 3 of them. I have some fond and not so fond memories of these finicky rigs. Maybe BFSB will come up with some new products soon. Transformer is being installed today. So, this means that if any of you fellow Canadians are looking to get their miners hosted, give me a shout!  That EVGA unit looks tempting. Would you take $120 for it?
Ok, I guess OP does not want to answer either here or via PM. I retract my bid.  I can offer 4.2 if you'd be willing to ship it to Canada. Escrow with OgNasty. Offer is valid for 24 hrs. I want a quick transaction. Let me guess, you bought 16 during the black-friday special with free shipping for $818 a piece and you're looking to flip them for $1100.  Take the 150 and run. These will have a hard time ROI'ng at 150+. They are set to produce about $63.80 a month at current diff. Out of that 63 they cost $23 to run (assuming electricity is $0.10 kwh). So $40 a month in profit. This is of course assuming the diff does not increase whatsoever (which is wildly optimistic and kind of stupid).  These would make sense to someone with free electricity or super cheap electricity. The most I could offer for them is maybe $75 to $80. Likely $80 seems fair as _maybe_ I'd get back that $80 is 3 months. But the shipping kills it for me. Also to answer your question, yes I did look at the auction but I though you may be interested in getting direct btc instead of paypal which carries a higher risk for you - chargeback, etc. Anyways, I'll leave you alone now . Good luck with the sale.  lol, abort abort..abort...*sigh* thanks anyways, good luck with the sale!  I can offer $60 a piece. Do you think though that you'd be able to ship to Canada? I assume you intend to use these to create an AntFurnace  ?  We are back in full swing. Next week we plan to install the new transformer which should give us an additional 75 KW.  Oh you're still trying to sell these. I figured you would've sold them by now. How much do you pay for hosting?  You'll be paying almost close to the value of the units in shipping alone. Within the US it should not be so bad, maybe around $80 to $120 range.  "There is a RECALL on these RM850 and the RM750 units. And the recall was done in November for units made with the serial number 1341 or lower. The first two numbers '13' are the year 2013 and the second two number '41' is the week manufactured"Can you check the serial numbers on those RM850s please? Well, I guess I will just use a re-shipping service then. I'm wondering if you have any motherboards to go with this bad-boy? Maybe something by Asus like their X99 series boards. I have the same question.  How about shipping to Canada? Would you be willing to do that? Also regarding the VAT/Taxes, you don't have to do any of that as the buyer pays all taxes/VAT not the sender. Ok, cool. Thanks for letting me know. Did you end up selling that S3? It's missing <blank> of the power connectors. Please insert a number in the blank spot.   PM sent as well.  So I guess this all means that us regular creditors are screwed. Did you sell this already?
Damn, I'd buy them both if you only shipped to Canada. How about you ship to a former colony  Would you be willing to ship the S3s to Canada? Also what batch are the S3s from? Did you pay the regular $99 a month hosting fee or did you get a discount? What is your asking price per unit with hosting included? I sure can. However, I'm wondering if you're in a huge rush to sell. I intend on shipping it to my buddy's place who is going to host some miners for me. The thing is he is on a business trip and won't be back until around the 30'th of this month. If you can I'd like to buy all the 850 Watt PSUs.  You'd be willing to ship to Canada as well? Just a brief service announcement to let all prospective clients know that we won't be able to deliver new gear to the data center until the 30'th of this month. My friend who does the leg work will be away on a business trip until the 30'th. Afterwards it's back to business as usual. We are also excited that in mid December we'll be bringing online an additional 75KW transformer. Hopefully by then there will be some discounts or price cuts from the mining manufacturers so we can all make use of this additional capacity  Thanks! We appreciate the positive feedback    Hi Pats. PM me your e-mail address and I will pass it forward to my friend who will be the one moving your gear to the data center. You'd also have to let him know which pricing structure you wish to use - ie monthly, 3 month plan (likely the best value), 6 month, etc.Edit: My friend is also in the GTA so it should be easy for you. These are $249 brand new from the manufacturer. 500 GB too.Nevermind. I was looking at the HD, not the SSD version. These may be cheaper to ship from China.  The miner drop-off location is in Toronto, Ontario.  Did you sell these? I guess what I was asking earlier is, what is your skype id. PM it to me please if you do not mind.  I have two SP20s hosted with Centerus and they both got damaged during shipping. I passed on the assembly instructions sent by Barbara to the Centerus support crew and they re-assembled the units and checked all the connections, but neither miner is hashing. I'm wondering who do I contact to request an RMA.Do you guys have skype support as well? I see people mentioning zvisha being available on skype but I take it he's there more for detailed technical support not customer service issues, no?Since Centerus is not on your hosting partners page I take it nobody from your company keeps in regular touch with their crew, no?  Prices have been posted!  Who exactly are these hosted with? One of the major hosters in Washington? PM sent.  I'll take them. I'll PM you with an offer in a short while. But if you have a price in mind feel free to PM me first. Edit: Are you ok with shipping them to Canada?  Why don't you just keep the contract and hope to get back even a small portion because there is no way anyone here is going to give you 62,000 for it. You can get the same amount of hashing power from bitmain (with S4s which are overpriced as well) for $26,250 roughly. It would require 21 S4s though, but someone who had that amount of cash on hand likely has a place to host them. I won't even bother to bid because as a previous poster said all realistic (and smart) offers would have to be below 10 BTC. 1 BTC now and a promise to pay 1 btc when the btc/usd exchange reaches 63,000.Crazy how overpriced this contract is, but so is all hardware these days anyways.
It will be cheaper also  Guys, PM me what kind of hardware you want to host and I will hash out a reasonable cost with my partner and we'll arrange everything. If you are in the Toronto area pickup or drop off can be arranged. Even if you're further away as long as it's cheaper to drive than to ship the gear. [Service potentially will re-open]: - This time in a different part of Canada and overall a much better setup. I may open a new thread or may continue on with this one. I'll have cost details posted soon.  Sold.  I'm closing this thread. I found someone local to take care of them. Those of you who have PM'ed me, sorry, but I hope I did not waste too much of your time   Careful there Tupsu. This seems like a scam. Seller keeps on switching CL sites. I guess the gear magically teleported itself from San Francisco to Dallas. Behold the raw power of SHA-256! Check again. It should be there. It seems your craigslist listing has been flagged for removal...wonder why.Check your PM. bump. I've got for sale here 4 Antminer S3 units that each come with a Seasonic G-Series 550 Watt 90 Plus Gold PSU. I'm asking 0.71 btc per miner (this includes the cost of the PSU) for 3 of them and 0.67 for one as this particular unit hashes at ~400 GH only for some reason. It's missing 51 GH basically. No X on the ASICS just doesn't want to go higher. None of these have been overclocked at all.This is the particular PSU they come with: http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16817151119&cm_re=seasonic_g-series-_-17-151-119-_-ProductPSU(s) will be shipped separately as I still have the original boxes for the miners.Looking for a quick sale. Shipping is from Ontario, Canada. I prefer to sell them to a Canadian buyer and with the PSUs as well. If need be I suppose I can sell them without PSU, but preference will be given to buyers interested in a package deal.These are all Batch 6 units. Purchased 2014-08-12. Sold.  I think they are taken. Now it's just a matter of me getting the shipping label.  That's probably your best bet, or amazon it, or just price match it somewhere. Heheh..this is quite funny cause I was planning on doing something similar but with S3s. These Jupiters are far more quiet though. Yeah, I totally understand you guys. Thanks for the well wishes! I'm actually shipping from Canada. Thankfully these rigs are not super heavy, they are just big. I was contact by a Canadian buyer so if he does not take them the next one in line is fullzero and then Blazedout419 and then xZork.  Price lowered to $375 Depends on where you are and what the shipping total is. Officially it does not include shipping though. Yeah I can sell 1 for 0.56..which is a bit better than an S3 with more hashing power.  Hi everyone. I've got for sale 2 KNC Jupiter units that have been hashing reliably at 550 GH a piece. I'd like 1.12 btc for both. No PSU included but if you really want a PSU to go with them I have 2 EVGA SuperNOVA 1300 watt PSUs that currently power them. I can sell each PSU for $150 a piece.  I'd be interested in the Neptune. How much you want for that? Yeah sadly you're not going to get $800 for it. I'm been trying to sell my Coincraft 1 TH miners which are of similar build and the price range seems to be $300 to $450. I'll vouch for these dragonminers, they're pretty solid if you get a good one. Good luck with your sale and here is a free bump.
I still have 5 of them purring away. PM sent. Hmm, in the past the shipping was included in the price. I could be wrong on this, but does it now give you a separate shipping calculation box? These are still available for sale if anyone wants them.  Price lowered to $400 It's one coupon per order if I'm not mistaken, not one coupon per S3. Anyone can confirm this? Hashes at an average of 4.45 TH? Escrow accepted? So what is your absolute minimum asking price? Bear in mind that all 9 of them will at best make 1.61 btc based on the diff rate coming in 6.3 days. PM'ed you. lol yeah maybe you are right..btc price keeps on sliding down the price void..not good...it's hurting us miners big time. well if you have the fiat you're better off buying btc instead of mining it... Price lowered to $410 I can do 5.20 + escrow + shipped to Washington State. 5.25 at zencloud at the momentOn that note I'll go for $620 I can offer $577 for this considering that I can buy 110 MH on a cloud mining provider for that same amount.  Dude, at $600 a piece I can sell you 5 coincraft 1 TH units, 1 Dragonminer, and 1 S2!! 1.3 a piece btc at the current Canadian exchange rate is $510 which is still a very good price and I can definitely sell them to you at this price as well  You'd have to drive down to pick them up but we can subtract the cost of gas from the _total_ price.  You'd be bustin ill lyrical rhymes all the times?  Do you have your own PSU with them or did they provide one? I've got a few S3 with them so I'd be interested in this if the price is right. Maybe, but you gotta realize that with that amount you can almost buy a 6 TH SP35.  I can't believe they put the equivalent of a smartphone on the front - what a waste.  Scammers be scammin'. On a different note, is this sold yet?
It will make an excellent furnace.  Definitely lucky. I am not looking forward to lugging these things around.  Would you consider selling just the chassis ? I'm looking to build something similar but I think I need something with a bit more oomph than the Intel Atom CPU can offer. I can likely go as low as $425 too. You're shipping those Dragonminers? I found that the Dragonminers are a bit lighter than the Bitmine Coincraft miners.  For sale: Recom 1600 watt PSU. This came with a bitmine coincraft 1TH that I bought from someone here on the forum. Unfortunately it has a different connector at the end of the PSU. I can't remember the exact socket type but it may be C16 or something like it. It came from Europe so this is likely a commonly found connector on high wattage European PSU.Picture of the PSU:Due to the different power socket I did not have the chance to test it. This could be useful even for North American users as long as you get the proper power cable.  Post your offers here or PM me.  450 That is good. I guess you got units with non-faulty PSUs.  In my case I am not adding hashing power but swapping older less power efficient gear, otherwise I would not bid 3.9 Speaking of which, who wants 3 1 TH miners for 3.9 btc  lol kidddddiiing.. So this is that miner with that fancy new SelfCombust(tm) feature that doubles your hashing power, right? 3.9 damn, high roller in da house.... 3.7 5.2 4.2 with escrow and shipping to Washington once hosting period is over. I'd offer 3.5 btc, but I too would require more info and also I'd ask to use escrow. lol thanks   460 $480 Neat access point...how much you selling it for? I'm looking to buy 2 KNC Neptune miners for shipment to Washington State, USA. Please PM me or post your offers here. I do not care where they are being shipped from but I'd demand that the miners hash at minimumn 3.3 TH and not have any dead dies or any defects. 
...and the shit talking continues...Does anyone know if there is any serious progress happening?  Hmm, I guess they raided their prices then. Last time I looked the price was $125, but yeah at less than $119 your cooler is a decent deal. Good luck with the sale! Nope cause the Swiftech H240X is a much better AIO water cooler  and it's only $6 more than this (brand new). Does bitmain even allow the transfer of pre-orders or do we have to wait until you have the unit in hand. What if we never saw your site or heard about it until now?  500 520 Where are you located? I know this is below your starting bid, but I'd like to offer 2.8 BTC.  I'd like to avoid ebay at all costs. I posted the miners on a local classifieds site and for now this forum and that classifieds site is all I'm willing to try.  3.9  Price lowered to $550 I'll raise my bid to 3.8 btc.  Sorry I need liquid funds as I intend to take the money and put it back into hashing power - but cloud based. Thus I'd prefer btc payments.  $600 I'll bid 3.5 btc for the remaining unit. I pay escrow and shipping costs to USA. Well, I'm kind of in a pickle here. On one hand I'd like to replace the hashing power with cloud based miners but there isn't anything out there that is competitive if I were to sell each miner at $400 to 450 a piece. So I'd essentially be throwing good money after bad sort of speak. Maybe the best life for these miners is to run them until they are nothing more than scrap metal. I've had no luck finding a local buyer and I'd rather not ship these as I have this very bad feeling they will get destroyed during the journey, so I don't know.  670 680 Have these sold? I'd offer 3 btc per full kit (ie 5 boxes + 1 controller)
I don't think you'll ever get that - at least not from anybody that's able to use a bitcoin mining calculator. I can maybe do 3.2 to 3.5 Would you take 3 btc per machine?  2 to 3 btc per machine is more realistic. I can offer 2.03 btc per miner. I am already a customer of your hosting provider so it would be a simple process of switching ownership over. Price lowered to $690 I'll PM you the city and postal code.If the shipping doesn't turn out to be too much I could include the shipping in the price. As for weight and dimensions the shipped weight of a Coincraft Desk is 20kg and dimensions of the shipping box are 560 x 530 x 280mm.  Price lowered to $700 Hmm, I'm in Canada (Ontario) so not sure if it's worth for you to pay shipping on my miners.  I have 5 Bitmine Coincraft A1 based miners and a Dragonminer. All of them hash at 1 TH stable. These are still profitable and mine more than they cost to run, however I'd like to change them to more power efficient miners as unlike you I don't have as much electrical capacity. Whereabouts are you located? It's Centerus. It's likely the same company you're with. Price lowered to $720 I actually have some S3s already hosted at Malaga WA so I could take over the hosting. The tricky question is pricing cause at the moment one is expected to earn just $76 a month with the next difficulty adjustment coming in 2.2 days.  Just to be clear, the S3s are sold but the SP10 are not still. Perhaps you should start a new thread instead of changing the thread title . Price lowered to $730 Where is it being hosted? Price lowered to $740. I can offer $560 per unit. Shipped to USA. I pay for shipping and escrow. lol ooops  did not notice that... Did you sell this yet? price lowered to $750
Bump for $760 Can't someone just take over the hosting? Whereabouts in the US are you located, and also would you accept escrow? Price lowered to $780 $3000  Price lowered to $800 I think the best way to approach this (unless someone local buys them all) is to continually lower the price until it meets the market price. In light of that I will lower my asking price to $850. This is not quite as outdated as you may think. The majority of hardware you can buy in hand these days (not pre-order) will have the same efficiency levels. S3's are better true but you can't get them for immediate delivery. These can be undervolted and a lot more life can be squeezed out of them. On the flip side they can be overclocked and more can be gotten out of them - especially with the coming winter in the northern hemisphere. I only want to sell them cause I want to replace their hashing power with hosted/cloud miners which sadly I will take a hit on. I can come down on price. $900 was just the starting price - you know start high and go low What would you consider a fair price in your opinion?  @ nocroom - I think we may be out of luck buddy cause the seller said he's not looking for anything less than $4000 but it doesn't hurt to try   8 btc is quite a good deal if he can get it. Sadly though the pay off @ 4.5 TH with a price of 8 btc is pretty grim. I'd offer 5.8 btc. This seems like a fair price (at least for the buyer) but I doubt he'd want to take the loss. Can't you just mine with it? Are you lacking in power or space, or cooling? I can offer $2500 + I pay shipping and escrow fees.  Dang, and I really wanted at least one to play with. Ohwell - good luck to both of you (seller and buyer).Cheers! I placed the miners for sale in local classifieds website but I am still open to selling them to someone from this community.  Where are you located? bump.. bump...miners still for sale..$900 a piece hashing stable at 1 TH.  If anyone is looking for a few more than 1 I too have some for sale at the same price as OP. However I am much further south (still in Ontario). Also pickup only as these beasts are heavy and prone to shipping damage.  I'll bid 14 btc. What is your asking price?
Umm....how about some details regarding how much these hashlets hash at? I can't believe people are bidding without first knowing this. $1200. Updated price. I think I'd feel comfortable letting these go for $900 a piece to someone local. I can ship them but they are quite a bitch to ship. These hashlet primes are overpriced unfortunately. Having said that I think I can offer  $1000 for it.  Did you end up selling this yet? I can offer $80 for all of them. lol, ok, congrats! Hmm, I'll make another offer of $400..maybe tops $420. PM sent.  What is your asking price? I can offer $20 per MH. Also are you willing to ship to Canada and accept escrow? I'd like to put out a public offer here at $1200 for this hashlet.  I would buy one if it did not have the European layout. Good luck with the sale!  $336 for all. This is based on the fact that I can get the MultiHashlet hashlets for ~$16 so total price is about $336. A bit slow eh. I wish I could quantify that slowness.  lol exactly...not sure what the OP is trying to pull here, but I'm out of this thread...good luck gentlemen! Hope you don't get scammed. Did you sell this?Can you confirm that gawminers will allow the transfer of the hashlet? It doesn't quite matter, except the OP took the entire text from another hosting provider's website - look at a provider called "Centerus". "Innovative CoolingWe pride ourselves in the way we keep your machines cool. Again, we are not a data-center class hosting company. We do not use air-conditioning (AC). We use evaporative cooling technique to keep your machines cool. Evap coolers are very efficient, much more so than any AC. The air is very dry, which lends itself to evap cooling very well."https://www.centerus.com/services-view/hosting/See for yourself. Why would the OP do this? Either he was just being lazy and does use a similar system to the above mentioned site or he's up to something else if you catch my drift. Bet you anything that picture was taken in China. 1800 watts. Also would you consider shipping it to Canada? You just copied the entire text from another website. What's the deal?
For me it's the opposite. I found my name on the list but they still sent me that letter about registering my claim. I think it's safe to say that if they have your name on the creditors list then you don't need to file your claim again. If I were you I'd file the claim again and also send a letter asking them to confirm that I'm on the list and or to send you an updated creditors list (with your name on it). Where exactly?  I share your sentiment.  I am thinking of going the same route, sell all my personal miners and buy a few sp31's and host them with someone with cheaper electricity than me. I wish Spondoolies lowered their price a bit for the sp31 units but they will have the most efficient miner on the market when it's released. Hmm, that is interesting indeed. I have a few batch 4 (I think, I'd have to double check) and they hash at 440 to 450...except one which is hashing at 413 for some reason - likely the chips on either one of its blades are likely a lower bin quality or something?But for sure they are refining the design along the way. Batch 8 units are expected to hash at 500 GH. Scammers, that's who. All it takes is one successful scam and he's all set.  Really? Hmm, interesting. What is the difference in performance?  Well, realistically your expectation is not reasonable, but I think I can go as high as 5 to 6 btc for all. If you sell to me I'd buy your PSUs as well if the price is right. Otherwise I'll just buy some of those nice $65 server PSUs  It does not matter, they are all the same.  This is so sad. These are expected to make a mere 2.93 btc once difficulty adjusts again in 9.7 days. I can offer 3.55 + shipping + escrow fees.  Lol, I had a feeling this was too good to be true. Anyways boys, back to the hardware section of the marketplace we go! Are you flexible on the asking price? gawminer's hashlets are also pretty affordable compared to physical hardware.. I guess that is not so bad considering the cost (talking about the efficiency level) of the PSU itself. In the long run it's not going to makek a huge difference between 80 Bronze and 80 Gold or higher. However, I'm wondering if you'd be willing to knock off the cost of the PCI-E cables so I can use klondike_bar's 16 AWG ones instead. Likely very loud - they're pretty small but high speed fans. The good thing is that they are thermally controlled so if you're not putting a heavy load on them they will not be as loud. I do not know the thermal load fan curve and when I tried to search for it I found nothing useful.  For how much? PM me your asking price if you do not mind (and any other details such as the batch it's in) What gauge wire do the pci-ie cables use?Also do you know the efficiency rating of these HP PSUs?  Quite a shame his asking price is so high cause I was hoping to use some of these to replace my home region hosted miners where I pay $0.13 kWH on top of rent. At $2700 per unit it's just a free gift to the seller. At best these should sell for $800 to $1000 a piece.  lol, I'd take some for 1 btc but I doubt the OP would sell for that price. lol, funny thing you came on the thread jtoomim cause I was actually planning on hosting some miners with you and some with flyonwall...this is assuming OP would sell some for a reasonable cost. 
Here is a free bump for you. I too am interested in the price per unit. Now that I know you are willing to accept escrow I feel a bit safer. Also I asked about the hosting fees if we wish to continue hosting them at the existing data center. Otherwise I would have in mind to ship the gear to another part of Washington. I'll tell you why nobody is "breaking down your door" for a good deal; it's because the difficulty is so high and the btc price so low that whoever buys it for your asking price will never in a million years get back what they paid for. Buying this miner is like giving you free money essentially. These are nice miners, but you'll never sell them for your asking price. However I do wish you good luck! Yeah, I was going to bid on your neptunes but then I saw your feedback. The other issue is that with KNC the buyer would have to wait until you get the hardware in hand and then ship it off. There is no way someone would pre-pay you. 10 btc for 1.2 TH...wow, I'll have what you're having! Don't stress yourselves out too much guys, if the OP really wanted to sell his magic stash of miners he'd be more responsive on this thread.  I know, but Zeusminer does not offer a good deal. I PM'ed you my address. I too am interested in just the S3 miners. Would you consider shipping to Washington State? I may even take the BTCGarden units if the price is right. Same question here, and also I'm wondering what are the hosting costs on a per miner basis (in case we wish to continue hosting with your existing provider)? We can get this miner for $499 from gawminer with 1 month free hosting, however I think for $349 it could be a good deal as long as the shipping is not too much. Would you consider shipping to Ontario, Canada? Alternatively what about Washington state? You think you can do some quick shipping calculations for me? If you need zip codes let me know and I will PM you the info. They're likely being shipped from Canada as that's where he is located.  lol, it seems like one of the modules on my miners died, so I guess I'll have to swap it with this one...so for now this sale is cancelled... I will offer 0.65 per miner. I know it's not 9 btc total but that much is not realistic and nobody with a bitcoin profitability calculator will ever pay that much. I hope you mined with them enough to recover some of your costs. Did the seller PM you with a btc payment address? If so, then obvious scam is obvious. lol if it did then he clearly does not have pure intentions...sometimes though when something is too good to be true... I see.  Well then I'd guess I would need far better cooling than I've got on my Oct Jups so I'll stick with stock speeds. Thanks for the info though! Do you know if there are any adverse side-effects to running the custom Padrino firmware? I presume the firmware just overclocks the shit out of them, no? So did you decide on this?  I can offer 0.55 per miner. After all the bad experiences BFL gave the mining community one would be wise to avoid them at all costs. 
Are these from the latest batch? Did you pay 0.66 btc per unit?  bump Yep, that dude with the 0.50 bid is in for a rude surprise when he will never ROI on them. Ohwell.  22@0.30 Hmm, I think you are right. 700 GBP would be 1167 USD and with 882 GH it would be tough to ROI at that price. These miners would be ideal for someone in the UK. Would you be willing to ship to the US? And how much do you figure it would cost to ship them to Washington State, USA. 22@0.26 Yeah I'm still interested even at $100. The issue is that I was planning on using the PSU to power 3 Antminer S3 units but it seems they sold out their batch 7  So I'm trying to find a few of them second hand. So I guess this means if you can sell it right away to someone don't wait for me, but if I can find some S3 units soon I will give you a shout ASAP and we'll conclude the deal. 22@0.15 lol no, it's 441 GH. I'll offer 0.66 btc. However I'm wondering if you can get a refund on the remainder of the hosting term so I can ask them to ship the miner directly to me asap. Any chance you can get a refund on the hosting so I can ask them to ship it to me right away? If so I'd like to offer $687 for them (0.66 btc per miner as was the price of the last batch available on bitmain's website - now sold out). Oh, wow that is a very generous offer. I am not surprised the buyer backed out. For 2.64 btc you can buy 1.7 TH from bitmain.  May we ask what was the offer of that buyer that backed out? I was interested in your neptune but you seem to have a very unrealistic expectation of its true value. Something tells me you still think it's worth 10 btc or so which is likely what you paid for it  Well, disassembling them will take quite a bit of my time so I think a fair price would be $50 per case + shipping which should be cheaper when disassembled.  Meh, whatever. I guess I will just sell them for scrap metal lol 1.80 BTC offer... Yes. Would you be ok with $90 + shipping. It would be going to Washington State. If it gets there before Aug 20 I'd be happy so a balance between shipping cost and speed needs to be struck. The AX1200
How much for the Neptune and the PSUs? Is the PSU still available? bump... 96  lol I'd take both for $90 + shipping. Shipping would be to Washington State. Whereabouts are you located? Where did you get this from?  Bump....no US/Canada miners interested? I got an inquiry from EU people, but realistically this is not wroth shipping overseas for just 200 GH. bump, still available... Sold the cards locally. Yeah I can definitely take it apart, but you're on your own re-assembling it :p Would you be ok with $80 shipped?  Sure, it does not matter to me where it's shipped. Just beware that you'll have to pay the shipping costs. The item is not heavy at all but since it's fully assembled it will take up volume. I can try to disassemble it, but I doubt you'd want that as it may be a pain to re-assemble and I do not have assembly instructions. Although shipping it disassembled might save on shipping costs and you may be able to find assembly instructions on Spotswood's website (he has some sort of blog like website where he showcases his various aluminium cases).One thing is for sure, these do look pretty sweet when you have your bitfury rig mounted in them - especially with LED (blue is what I used) fans  bump.... All very stable even in high temp environment which has surprised me. So far I haven't had to reboot any of them. Bear in mind that I keep the PSU outside the case so I think that helps greatly with the stability as the PSU is able to run cooler and more efficiently. Hashing speed is 5 TH +/- 10% Typically the units hash at _above_ 1 TH by a few GHs. I've got a 5'th unit to add to the total. I'm reconsidering selling these again. Why you may ask, well, I'd like to replace them with S3 units cause I like them better.  Would you be willing to sell individual miners? Hmm, I guess nobody has any bitfury gear anymore or people prefer to host the gear ghetto style  Ok, well PM me with offers. I can likely go as low as $90 per case. I paid $140 for these. bump.... Bump..cases still available. Anyone still want this? I'd prefer someone within North America (for shipping purpsoes) (heavy card)
Bump...nobody? Well, sort of. If you object to the proposal in that letter you can issue a formal objection (written) I suppose. I am fine with the proposal so I will "ingore" it and keep it for future reference. It was nice to receive something though and it made me feel a bit more "in the loop."  As pmorici says, the document is from Baker, so I don't think there is a need to scan it (there is a LOT of pages there). I just received in the mail a document which appears to be from the Chairman for the Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors. It proposes the hiring of a particular legal firm. I just wanted to check with you all to make sure this is legit. Also since I received this document can I assume that I am actually on the creditors list? (I will still check with PACER once my registration info arrives in the mail) bump I will register with PACER. If that takes too long (to get the account info) I will PM you. Thanks for your help! I did that almost a month ago. So far no letter response from them and afaik I have no way to find out if I'm on the creditors list or not.  bump Hi everyone. I have some leftover Spotswood Aluminum Bitfury mining cases. They look like this:$100 $40 per case (btc, ltc & nxt accepted). Buyer pays shipping separately.  Power connector is a standard 6-pin PCIE type. Data plug is SPI chain connector. Not sure. They do use the same chip though, but the signaling and control system may be a bit different.  Not sure how much shipping would be but it can't be super crazy as it's just one blade - granted it's a tad oh the heavy side with the big ass heatsink on it. No, Canada. Do you still want this or not? 1.50 is what you paid, right? Would you accept 1.45 btc? Sounds like a fair price considering this will make 0.18 in one month. I think you'll actually ROI with this blade - a rare thing these days with current new hardware. You can spare yourself the escrow fee and pay me directly. I have a good rating on the forum but it's up to you.  bump... bump... All the remaining rigs have been sold.  I have a spare bitmine coincraft desk blade for sale in case anyone is interested. It hashes at 200 GH. The only issue with it is that two of the front aluminum heatsinks were knocked off during shipping. This should not be a big deal as the chips actually disspiate heat via the back of the PCB where they're a big ass heatsink solidly attached. The front heatsinks were glued on so if you really are adamant you can use thermal adhesive to glue them back on. I will include the front heatsinks of course. Also it's a big heavy due to the massive heatsink on it, but shipping should be reasonably affordable. I also have an empty coincraft desk case and "mainboard" (the board where the Pi, the LCD display connector and the SPI backplane connect to) in case anyone wants it. You will need a backplane which I do not have. Buyer pays shipping charges. PM me or post offers here.
I have some left over GPUs from the good'ol'days of GPU mining - four Radeon 5870 cards with the reference turbine coolers.I'm not sure what these are worth these days, but I'm thinking they should still be worth at least $50 each, no? PM me or post offers here. They've all been mined with of course but none of them were overclocked and they should be in good working order. On some the turbine fans were replaced with brand new ones.  He sure does, and once he sends you broken equipment you will never hear from him ever again. Also he sucks as packaging or just plain doesn't care what happens to your gear after you paid him. This post will likely get deleted anyways, but I felt the need to let off some steam.  Not very cool of you to ignore my PM and then turn around and sell it to someone else.  See the first post. I updated it just a minute ago.  Anyone still want any of these? I replied but I guess you did not respond back. So I filed my claim with the Office of the Clerk via expedited mail but I have yet to see my name in the creditors matrix. Is this matrix even updated or do I have to have a Pacer account to view an updated version. Will they mail me back a response confirming that my claim has been accepted. Anyone with experience care to share with me some guidance?Thanks! A quick google search shows that the NextFort company is real (try it for yourself). However, if I understood the OP correctly he is merely a individual/company who will be buying hosting with NextFort on your behalf. So burden of trust rests with the OP. Although your hosted miners are overpriced, I felt the need to give you a free bump for having an amazing hosting facility!  Wish you guys were located near me as I'd totally host my miners with you. If you're going to sell it for $60 I'll take it  found a seller... Is this still available? bump... hehehe  well, it's a start...the sad reality is that this 3 TH miner is going to earn only 3.41 in it's first month at the current difficulty which is set to go up 28% after which it should earn 2.77. The diff adjust should occur in 6 days and then all the 1 TH miners priced at 3 btc will be a total rip-off. I think I'd go so far as 5 btc maybe for this unit. 3 btc bid  You still interested in selling it? I'd like to have it right away as an idle rig is a money losing rig. 3.5 btc. I've PM'ed you my postal code. Let me know how much shipping costs. I'd be fine with $30.  No it's not my photo - google image search. Is it yours ? BTW what do you want for it? I have no clue what these things are usually worth as they are not sold "brand new" for spare parts by bitmine - or anyone else as a matter of fact.
I'm looking to buy 1 working backplane for the bitmine coincraft desk units. It's essentially a 5 slot GPIO distribution backplane. Here is a picture of what I'm looking for:*It is the red PCB on top of the blades*I'm not sure if there is a difference among the ones with a green PCB and the ones with a red PCB but I have a broken red PCB one and I'd prefer one of those as I know those should work and might even be the latest PCB revision. Where is this item shipping from, and will you consider shipping to Canada? Hmm, seems like you are right.  Let me think about that for a bit and get back to you.  Still available. I can offer 1.0 btc for ~500 GH of hashing power with v1.2 h-cards. lool, yeah trust me I what it's like to be on the buying side of the market  I guess it's settled then, I'll keep them for a few more weeks until my Neptunes come in. Btw, there is a guy on the forum that is a reseller of LKETC gear, and last time I checked he will sell you a 1 TH miner for a bit below $1600. I bought one miner from him at $1650 and it arrived in perfect condition so it seems the guy is legit. Can you give us some more details regarding where the miners are hosted. What is the space like, are the miners running in an air conditioned location, is the internet connection reliable and what type of internet connection it is, etc. No, I'm not mad at all. That's precisely what I paid for 5 of them 2.60 btc a piece. I figured at the time it was a decent price considering antminers S2 were still over $2K and the Chinese A1 clones were going for $1799.  cryptx are you ever going to bother answering my PMs? Really, tell me where you can buy a new one for a lower price. I think the cheapest you can get a 1 TH miner is $1550 - A1 Chinese clone. I think at this point maybe I should just keep them. Umm, only if I have no luck selling the complete rig. Selling it with one less card may decrease the desirability of the rig. If anyone wants just the h-cards without any accessories I'd consider that too. Yes, sorry but I can't sell them for that low. I paid a bit more that your offer for just _1_ unit so I can't do that for 2 units.  submit your proof of purchase..there are instructions a few pages back on where to send it (Office of the Clerk..etc). I mailed my proof and I'm a "small order" customer.  Hmm, you know what I think you are right cause the PSU in one of the units was a 1600w unit. He still shipped the miner with an european power cord though. A quick google image search and it confirms what you told me.  Umm, I checked my PMs and I don't see any new messages from you other than the first one you sent. lol, no it just means I was busy typing that wall of text you see above this post  I can next time I'm at my hosting center. But honestly I'd really rather not take the lid off all of them unless I really have to. The insides of the working units are in good shape. The boards move a bit side to side because they are secured with screws from underneath the case which I guess works but they're not the deepest or the widest screws I've seen (the Avalon units I used to have where better mounted). The boards moving a bit side to side is not the main issue, the main problem is during shipping if the move around too much in a variety of direction (left to right, up and down) the boards can bang against each other and the heatsinks on the front of the boards can come off. The two broken miners had nearly ALL the front heatsinks broken off and rattling around in the case! You can see that partly through the development process someone's brain turned on and they finally realized that if they use epoxy or some other glue it's eventually going to come off, so some of the boards have clamps that gold the heatsinks attached firmly to the PCB along with the main heatsink.  The stupid thing is that some board have clamps on some heatsinks but not on some. Either they ran out of clamps or they got lazy. tldr; I'll have pics in 3 to 4 days. I will be quiet busy the next few days so sorry I can't go there and take pics.  Yep, just 4. The rest are in parts and pieces. I've got 8 non working (tested to the best of my abilities) modules, two extra PSUs. One of the PSUs won't work with a North American power plug because the power jack at the back of the PSU is of a square shape - likely meant for European or Asian markets. So yeah, not a fun buying experience for me.  bump..need the v1.2 rigs sold right away..they take up needed room.
Overall the price was decent, the problem is the seller sucks at packaging (sorry cryptx buddy but it's the truth, no hurt feelings). No thanks. Guys, don't bother lowballing me with half my requested asking price. I'm only selling them if I can get what I paid back, otherwise I am infinitely better off mining with them. 2 btc for one unit I presume? meep...meep... Southwester Ontario, Canada. Hi everyone. I'd like to sell my 5 Bitmine Coincraft 1 TH miners. These are original bitmine.ch units not Chinese A1 clones. I bought these recently from cryptx and needless to say it was a nightmare for me. Out of the 6 I bought only 5 of these hash and had no shipping damage. Whoever buys them will get them shipped with the modules OUT. I am not risking the rigs getting destroyed a second time. Also the PSU will be OUT of the case and shipped separately with the modules. Trust me you want the PSU outside the case anyways (if you're a really handy guy I suggest you cut out a 120mm hole on the side of the case for the PSU intake fan if you like to have the PSU inside the case).I'd like at least $900 per unit - but see the last post on this thread for the latest (lowest) price as I'll continually lower it. If no good offers come I guess I have no choice but to keep them. I'm not trying to make a profit off of these just get my btc back and maybe reinvest that into some different gear.Pics available upon request. These are USED units. I bought them used I'm selling them used.EDIT: BTW, local pickup would be welcome and PREFERRED! - assuming you're nearby. I'm located in the Southwester Ontario region (PM me for the exact location if you are really interested in these and can commit to carrying through with the transaction) So I got my 6'th rig, and guess what, it did not power on. The LED display lit up but the PSU would not turn on. I tried swapping the power board with a different one from another broken rig - no go. So I just moved 3 of the modules to a rig with 2 working modules to make it a full 5 module rig and the modules from the new rig work (at least 3 of them).I am thinking maybe the Raspbery Pi unit is busted or maybe both the power distribution boards are busted. I'm in Ontario, Canada. Most of mine have the I/O connector intact, but they do not hash. The from PCB heatsinks were all totally broken off and I suspect they must have damaged the PCB. I am still hoping cryptx will swap them out. If not I guess I am out 1.60+ btc. If anyone can fix them I might resell them at a discount if cryptx does nothing. Just today I got the 6'th miner I bought from him and I dread opening the box. My gut feeling tells me it will be in pieces too as I noticed no difference in the way it was packaged. The machine is loosely moving around the box. The so called "protective foam" was paper thin on the other packages and I doubt this one is any better.All in all I think I made a big mistake buying these miners.so, anyways, long story short, let's keep in touch....PM me with your e-mail if you prefer that contact method. bump.... I have 8 dead modules!  Jesus shit. no replies from cryptx ... Very expensive, but what can you do, some people don't have the space + cooling capacity. I have a feeling this summer is going to be a scorcher. Here is what is left for sale:1) 9 v1.2 h-card rig  (Aluminum case available)2) 12 v1.2 h-card rig (Aluminum case available)3) 8 v1.2 h-card rig (no case available)4) 16 v1.2 h-card rig (Aluminum case available)5) 16 v2.3 h-card rig (Aluminum case available)Get'em while they're hot  The 15 card rig is now sold! Case name is "HashFast Technologies LLC"Critical info is your full name and address (has to match your proof of purchase - basically your hashfast receipt), and contact phone #. You may also want to include your e-mail address (I did). I also included my btc address in case the astronomically low chance of getting my original btc payment actually happens.  Ok, sorry. I will correct that. Thankfully I haven't mailed the proof of claim yet but I faxed the trustee. He will disregard it no doubt. Ah ok, no problem then. I will take care of that ASAP. Then I guess it goes to "Tracy Hope Davis  UNITED STATES TRUSTEE"I'll fax AND mail him proof. Damn you hashfast for screwing us _and_ inconveniencing us by forgetting to add some of us to your creditor matrix. That government form is not allowing me to register my proper address. It does not accept non US states or zip codes. Should I fax proof of claim to Jessica Mickelsen's fax number  as listed on the creditor matrix? Done.  I do have everything described on the first and second post except the 15 v2.3 h-card rig which I just sold to btljuice.The bitfury units are definitely quiet. If you don't overclock them you don't even need active air cooling. All my rigs already come with aluminium heatsinks on each chip.
Ok then. I got 2 dead cards for you. Shipping to your address should be roughly $24. It will be sent as a parcel (packet) cause it's cheaper than sending the cards individually in a regular bubble mailer envelope.  Wait sorry, did you say you wanted a dead v2.3 h-card or 1.2 I have more 1.2 cards.  What is the hell! How could the damn power cable be so badly mangled?! Were these shipped through the gates of hell or something? Hmm, I'll take your offer if you add in an extra $100 for the case. I paid $140 for it. I'd also like to keep the pi if I can as I want to use it to replace a broken pi in one bitmine coincraft unit I bought recently which came with a pi unit that had a totally manged ethernet port.So total would be 1.16 btc. Shipping is separate but luckily if you're in the United States or Canada it should not be too bad as the package is not going to be heavy.I will be shipping the unit disassembled. The m-board will be left on the case, but the cards will be yanked and put in anti-static bags and wrapped in bubble-wrap. Make sure you have a PSU that can push out 500+ watts reliably on the 12V rail and do not power the unit off the same PCIe 6 pin PSU lead. I will include the dead card if you want -maybe you can fix it (like just a burned out VRM). If not let me know and only 15 card will be shipped. With our without the case?  Hopefully you got lucky and got at least one unit with one of those Super Flower 1200 Platinum PSUs, but I would still recommend taking out the PSU from the case. Hmm, indeed the packaging job could've been better. Out of 5 that I bought from him which were shipped 2 were totally destroyed. I'm waiting for another unit which I bought from a separate auction. I hope that one arrives in one piece. I'm also hoping cryptx would either refund me or replace the damaged units. We shall see. He must be a busy man as it usually takes a while to get a response to PMs. bump Yes it does. No fans though unless you really really want them. I'd like to repurpose them as intake fans on a few bitmine a1 rigs.By the way, that 14 card rig is now 15  I got the misbehaving card to work. It's hashing at 525 GH right now on Eligius.  Ok. I have a dead v2.3 h-card for you. PM me your mailing address and I'll figure out shipping costs. It seems another h-card died. I haven't had any time to troubleshoot the issue, but with 14 cards it hashes at 490 GH. lol, another public service announcement. If your unit comes with a Silverstone 1200 watt PSU please remove it from the case and mount it externally. It cannot stand operating inside the case - hotbox. It will overheat and shutdown. I had this happen to be a few hours ago. The other PSU I have is some sparkle power one and it seems to be surviving operating inside the case, but I for one will be moving it outside the case just to be safe - hopefully the PSU's cables are long enough. Those of you more enterprising would want to drill a 120mm hole where the PSU sits and reverse the PSU so it's intake fan is facing the hole - ie do what the designer of this miner should've done in the first place. I think cryptx needs to use a thicker box with more foam padding. FedEx is not too kind to heavy boxes.  Ah ok, so likely mine has shipped but I just don't have a tracking number. Maybe I'll have a surprise at my doorstep sometime this week.Public service annnoucement: make sure you open the miner and check for shipping damage. 2 of the miners I bought previously from cryptx arrived with all the secondary heatsinks detached and rattling in the case. Also one capacitor is missing from one of the blades. Hope you all have some thermal adhesive handy to reattach the heatsinks.  One is full 16 cards the other is 15 as one card died mysteriously. Even with one dead card it still hashes at 500 GH though. As for price, I'd say let's use the bitmain price. So half a TH's worth. However I think there are cheaper 1 TH miners out there that go for $1500, no? So a more fair price would be half of that. Throw me an offer. I might sell the v2.3 h-card rigs as well. Both hash at ~500 GH. Have any of these shipped....I've yet to hear from cryptx with tracking info. I've decided to re-open this thread. In case anyone is still interested in bitfury rigs, PM me with your offers or post here on the thread. 1@1.7 1@1.6
Hmm, I am tempted to bid on this cryptx, how many of these rigs you got? A million? lol Nice. Finally an auction end time  1.1226 0.61 Meh, I give up. I'll just mine with them until they all die.  Payment has been made.  Auction timers could be useful too!  Woohoo I'll PM you with my shipping address. Ah, ok. Well that's if you're in Europe. I'd still have to pay the Canadian Government's HST (VAT) though.  Shipping is 1.x for 5 pieces according to the fedex shipping spreadsheet the OP linked to. Taxes will be a bitch though. I'm going to pay 13%....someone in an EU country will pay more..poor souls. Well, it ain't over yet. I bet you anything some big baller will come in here and flex his btc around right before the auction ends. Cool, I'm fine with btc-e as well. The site I mentioned is just one that takes an average of all the bitcoin exchanges to build an average btc/usd exchange rate. It's not an actual exchange, but I will use btc-e's exchange rate as you requested. hehehe you really want these don't ya  5x2.6...about as high as I can go as I can get 1 TH A1 clones for $1650 I'm pretty sure he will have more auctions soon. I bet he is liquidating used hardware and upgrading to something bigger/better.OK, so 5x2.4  Just to confirm the btc address you want the escrow released to is : 1AYnG3CcfYonqdhpUQKeLCrBPENWFVGhm9 correct?My escrow agent will send me a payment address soon. As soon as I have that I will transfer over the necessary btc and post a link to the transaction details via PM. You ok with me using the price from bitcoinaverage.com, or do you prefer another site? Yeah I'm not sure. I wish the OP was here to clarify if that is acceptable. Basically, I want all 5. If OP prefers to sell all 5 at once at 2.3 then that would be an acceptable bid. Although, my gut tells me that I'd have to bid 3x2.4 to overtake yours and 2x2.3 to get the rest. 5@2.3  So I guess OP is ok with us bidding in higher increments then? 1.11 btc Jun 9 is good and the price is good. I sent you an e-mail so you have my e-mail on record. Next step is to talk to my escrow agent and we'll get the ball rolling. You ok with the following username acting as my escrow agent?: KCmining 5@2.2
0.01058the bid increment is far too small.... 5x2.0 btc Hmm, sorry but June 20'th would be too late. By then I would've lost ~ $480 in potential earnings versus having the hardware delivered immediately. I may as well accept your asking price. By June 20'th I'd expect these to sell for $1200.I'm bidding on some coincraft desk units which use the same A1 chip as these miners you're selling, but if I do not win those I'll grab one from you, but I'm hoping you'd be willing to lower your price just a bit and offer immediate delivery.  5x1.80 btc 0.01053 Would you sell me one for $1600 or $1650 shipped? If you want this to be an auction then either open a thread in the auction section or set an auction end time, otherwise it's just a ploy to bid for time until someone exceeds or meets your asking price. A month long auction?! 0.60 I'll give you $1499 for all 10 plus I'll buy the usb hub (I presume it's a 10 port) and usb cables from you. However, I'd like to use escrow though with either escrow.ms or KCMining.  The sad part is that even if they were to deliver that miner today it would likely never make $2890. Now add in the likely several more months you're going to have to wait and you'll be lucky to get back $500. That very same $2890 will buy you 1 TH right now. Sad indeed. He's not the one shipping silly  He's just pimping his knc referral link - nothing wrong with that - and to incentivise you he's offering a rebate. The hope is that if he gets 10 customers he referred he'd get a free miner from KNC.  The miners are coming from China! Not from Juan's US location. It wasn't "this guy" (aka Juan) that prepared the shipment. Also, let me get this straight, you want them to lie about the nature and value of the shipment? Would you have preferred if they declared the shipment a $50 magical unicorn maker ?  bumpiddy bump...nobody has any of these? Dang it!  Wait, what? Bitmain did not cease production, they just took a shipping break due to some Chinese holiday. They will be back shipping a few days into June - like June 5'th. I hope they lower their prices Nice to see that you lowered your asking price, but 3.97 is $2497 at the current exchange rate which makes the unit more expensive than with bitmain - especially when you add on the $400 discounts. Juan, any ideas of you'll do another group buy batch? If I'm not mistaken batch 2 units do not have a PSU air intake on the side of the case. If the PSU lasts more than a few months I'll be surprised. What are you using control these, just a regular PC or Raspberry Pi? Any chance these can be powered by a ATX power supply? Also do you accept escrow or not? I have two broken (likely easily fixed with replacement VRM or capacitors) bitfury boards. One is a v1.2 h-card and the other a v2.3 (PCIe connector style) h-card. Well, the verdict is in. One of the cards is dead, but two are fine. I tried each one of the other 3 supposedly dead cards into the first slot of the known working card and all but one of them worked. So my original hunch turned out to be correct - the second card was dead and it was preventing the cards behind it in the chain from hashing.I guess I should changer the title now So I'm now looking for just _1_ h-card. Yayyyy! I am of the opinion that these cards are just not engineered for 24/7 operation without failure. They will all die eventually; it's just a matter of time. Btw, if any of you electrical engineering wizards out there want a dead v1.2 h-card for free let me know. I sent one to a guy in the UK a while back and he was able to revive it by replacing two components. 
Does it not detect the extra cards at all or is it that it's unstable with anything more? Yes indeed these rigs are finicky as heck and had I known this ahead of time I would not have bought them. The upside is that they're very power efficient.Make sure you secure the cards in their slots as any vibration will knock them from the chain. That's usually the most common reason why hashrate mysteriously drops to 0. Also if you have the cards overclocked it's possible you pushed them too far. The sd card corruption can likely be solved by using a class 10 card - maybe . I'm actually working on that. I haven't had much time lately to mess around with it, so I figured I'd open a thread to see if someone has some h-cards just in case the cards are 100% dead. If experience is anything to go by it will likely end up that at least 1 or more cards are completely dead. I've had 2 h-cards fail on me, but so far I haven't had any m-boards go bad on me. I suppose it is possible the 3 slots are bad. The first card on that bus (the third  or "C" bus) is working just fine. Since the cards operate on a chain something tells me the second card is dead and it's preventing the other 2 from hashing. I shall try that hypothesis later on tonight.Btw, let me know when you get the m-board I sold you. Hopefully it will get all your cards hashing.  bump... So what is the hosting fee per month for this beast? Thanks. Indeed, always better when there is no drama or fuss.  payment confirmed..all units sold..thanks to all of you who PM'ed me with offers and thanks to all the buyers.. That red cable needs to be plugged in. I opened my unit and two of the red power cables running from the GPU/CPU block (red block area) were connected.  Received mine today. I am impressed that there was no physical damage to the miner. I expected the cards to be rattling around the box but to my surprise they were all solidly attached to their now metal holding rails. Good job bitmain I'd go for another one of another batch opens up. The remaining units are now sold pending btc transfer. I'm not that hardcore I'm afraid. Does custom keycaps count? Does paying $300 for a Topre keyboard count? lool..I do have an account on geekhack. I sold and bought a bunch of stuff on there. Hey would you look at that, another free bump  Hi everyone. I'm wondering if anyone has 3 of the new PCIe style h-cards (v2.2) that they're willing to sell for a reasonable price. Three of them died on one of my bitfury rigs and although it's not a "must have" it would be nice to get back that lost hashing power. Quite the shame they died out of the blue like that - they were not even clocked high in any way and they were properly cooled. Anyways, send me a PM or post here if you have some cards for sale.Thanks!--update -- turns out only one card is truly dead so I'm now looking for just _ONE_ card! I got tracking. I wish I would've bought more though. It looks like bitmain is not lowering their prices yet. See my post above. There may be none left. Sorry. Technically there are none left as the guy I sold 4 to wants the remaining 3 as well. It's just a matter of finding proper packaging for them as it seems like I lost 3 of the original boxes they came in :\ 4 more sold - pending btc transfer. Something does not add up. Manitoba has a 5% HST/GST , no? Another one sold, 7 left. How much would it cost to ship this to Ontario, Canada? Just give me a rough estimate, but if you want I can PM you my postal code for a more precise quote.  Free bump for a fellow mechanical keyboard aficionado - I got 6 of them at home  mostly mx brown and some buckling springs and one topre.
Asking price lowered to 0.35 When the GBP/USD exchange rate it taken into account Alpha's hardware is overly expensive and is not likely to ROI.You really should mention that whoever buys this pre-order is responsible for paying the rest of the price as what you're selling is just a downpayment.  Here's to hoping all will turn out well. It is time to end this nightmare! Asking price lowered to 0.36 1.3 Well, not to pressure you or anything but another buyer offered to take all my units via PM. I can reserve one unit for you because I'm a nice guy , but you'd have to decide very soon.  No problem. Good luck with your miner hunt. I think there is a Romanian miner reseller that you can buy hashfast based gear from. They are a bit overpriced if you ask me though. I'd need to know your "codul postal" , but if I had to guess I'd say it's not worth the shipping costs. What are the import taxes for Romania, 18% VAT? Yeah I don't think it makes sense to pay the import taxes for a unit that has such a small hashrate, hence why I think buying them second-hand is a better idea. S2 units on the other hand are worth the additional fees.  Tell you what, since you bought one already from me I'll sell you a second one for 0.34. lol, sorry I have to stay reasonably competitive with bitmain and those guys seem to be lowering the price every day. I wonder how much these cost to make if they are priced at a bit over $100 "brand new" .  PM me your Belgian postal code and I will tell you. Price lowered to 0.37 btc.Sorry guys, I forgot about the 0.05 S1 coupons people can get, hence that's why my asking price was higher than the bitmain price with the coupon yet lower than the price without coupon.Anyways, I'll keep on lowering the price gradually. No escrow? Asking price lowered to 0.40 Ok, then maybe 2.25 _with_ PSU? Would you do 2 btc without power supply? I'll do a bit over 1 btc for the jupiter.  So the jupiter that is left is hashing at 700+ GH. Is that the average hashrate? Can you post a screenshot of the average 1 day hashrate?  I'm closing this thread. It's not likely I will get a reasonable price for these. I guess I will just mine them into the ground. If you want to make me an offer I can't refuse (no horse heads  )  ,PM me.
If you want this sold I suggest you lower your asking price. One can get 1 TH for ~$1800  I am down for one  Now let's see if bitmain lowers their price soon so I can make use a coupon to get another s2 for even cheaper  Just to let you guys know I do accept mixed btc & ltc payments. If you have just LTC I could likely accept that too. I confirm payment from mbauman89. 1 is all his.8 left.  Do you even think there is a slight chance of that happening (btc refund)? Last I heard they spent all customer btc payments on developing the chips. lool, true, totally forgot about that   Lowered preliminary price of S2 and A1 rigs (clones) further. I'll likely drop it even more if I can secure cheaper power through an energy retailer. My local power company only gives discounts to major power consumers and I likely do not qualify yet. Thanks for the info. I'll likely lower my prices further. This facility must have some cheap power! PM me the name of this colo facility if you do not mind.  Hey can you please go back in time to Aug 2013 and tell me that. Maybe you could also punch me in the face when I was about to make the btc payment to them.  Well like I said in the first post I am flexible on pricing. I only offering this service to a few people so the hosting fees will assist me with covering some of the expenses of running the data center. This is mainly for my own personal use.  lool, you are almost borderline amusing  Hey, did you know I have a personal Sikorsky helicopter I plan to steal all your hardware. But sadly you have  unraveled my secret plan. Dang it. Seriously now, go troll somewhere else.The postal code is N8W. Holy crap, I stop paying close attention to this thread for a week and boom hashfast goes belly up. I guess no refund, chips or anything for us.  Suggest you learn some patience, manners, and learn to read the first post. I did disclose the province, and I would even go so far as to say it's in the Southwestern Ontario region. I cannot post the precise location here on the thread for obvious security reasons. Any issues with the hardware would be looked after by myself. I would've responded sooner but I did not get any notification from the forum about new replies to my thread. Judging by the attitude you display I doubt I'd want you as a customer anyways, as you'd likely be a pain in the backside.  Well, then by all means order from bitmain. I clearly cannot compete with them when it comes to the total price with shipping included. I think the ideal customer for these units would be someone in the region who would want tried and tested units and who does not want to deal with potential RMA situations.  I very much doubt these are going "poof" anytime soon. Also since they have already passed the trials of international UPS shipping I think you know you are getting a rock solid hashing unit. These are not overclocked and they got good clean power so once again they are not as "used" as some of you may think. I am not selling some pushed to the limit units. Not all of these are 5 months old. Some are newer as I got them in stages from Sushi's group buys. I know that at least two units have been repasted and one has a brand new new hashing board that was replaced by bitmain under warranty. I'm going to see if I can find out the exact dates I got them delivered.0.33 is too low. Sorry.Asking price lowered to 0.42. Just an update. I will have internet setup May 22'nd so afterwards I should be able to accept hardware into the data center.  Sounds like a deal. I'll get back to you after May 21. I'm waiting on my internet connection to be setup at my new hosting facility (open to public hosting btw there is a thread in the services section) and once that's done I will actually go ahead and put the order through. Asking price lowered to 0.43 btc per unit. Can you just offer a discount code instead of having you order for us. As far as I can tell you are making around $50 per discount code/order so if you'd be willing to offer me just the code I'd turn around and give you $50.  Asking price lowered to 0.44.I will gradually lower the asking price until I sell them. 
PM answered. They've been running for 5 months roughly. I've never overclocked them though so they've been gently used. I'm afraid it does not come with PSUs. The PSUs I've been powering them with are not 80 Plus Gold rated so I doubt you'd want them anyways. Most of the units are running in pairs of two per 1000 watt OCZ EliteXtreme PSU. Hi everyone. I have for sale 9 Antminer S1 units (1.6 TH). I think you're all pretty much familiar with them so I won't go into details. Those of you who would want to buy them are likely to be very familiar with them. Reason for selling them is that I need to cut down my power  footprint so I'd eventually replace their hashing power with S2 units.Shipping is paid by buyer. Shipping will be from Canada (Ontario). I will ship internationally.I'd like 0.45 0.43 btc per unit but of course I am open to offers.--edit-- I forgot to mention that all of them are running the latest firmware with a custom version of cgminer 4.3.2a already installed. This cgminer version is far more stable and is not vulnerable to the hijacking bug known to exist in the previous versions and the version that the stock firmware comes with. -- edit -- 8 left (sold 1 of 9)--edit -- 7 left (sold 2 of 9)--edit-- 3 left  (sold 6 of 9)--edit -- all sold  Hmm, I am inclined to agree as after I too updated to 4.3.2a all my S1s are hashing properly without "hijacking". I'm curious why you call it hijacking, is this a known security hole in the cgminer version that comes with the latest official bitmain firmware? What I'm asking I guess if it's true hijacking in the computer security sense or if you're using that as a description of the symptom - for lack of a better word.--edit-- nevermind my question about hijacking..I read the rest of the thread and now realize it's a redirect bug.  Wow, it is shocking to realize that these monsters once cost $15 to $30 K!! and now people are bidding in the low hundreds! Only got one? I'm looking for find enough pre-order to get one of their rackmount system conversion. Also do you remember when they first started accepting pre-orders...I think your pre-order is way out there at the back of the queue, no? Ok, gotcha. Thanks for clearing that up for me. By controller you are referring to the raspberry pi. So to power the whole setup one would need 16 Pi units. Now, do these boards have some usb breakout connector or do they interface with the Pi only via the SPI connector. The issue is that since you have 6 per chain how do you tie together 4 chains together to be controlled by the Pi's single SPI connector?  Actually you can get that much hashing power _tomorrow_ (May 08) from bitmaintech. My post was not meant to insult your overly sensitive feelings, I was just saying that you are basically wasting your time asking such an UNREALISTIC price and you will find that there are people here who will chew you to pieces and be far more blunt with you. Unleash the forum hounds!Anyways, best of luck with your sale!   You are nuts to ask $4300 for just 600 GH. One can get 2 TH for that money. 2.25 btc for the 500 gh rig, no? I just want to clear that up. Well,it seems my antminers fucked up again on ghash.io even with the latest firmware. I just installed kano's cgminer as per this:https://github.com/kanoi/cgminer-binaries/tree/master/AntS1time to see if this helps...if not it's definitely something wrong with ghash.io I don't think KNC allows you to sell your account like that.  They are reselling zeusminer gear essentially.  No m-board..I'm having doubts about selling the rig it was apart of. I'll likely not get a decent price on it so I may as well "mine it into the ground"...So just the "dead" v1.2 h-card. 0.05 btc + shipping  (it's like $7) and it's yours. This seems like an issue with ghash.io. I opened a trouble ticket with them, so let's see what they have to say. I have a hunch that maybe their DDoS protection might be kicking in - ie the antminer hammering their system to check to see if it's alive.I'm also going to attempt to update cgminer on one of the units as a test case. Guys, I'm having doubts about selling these rigs. My original intentions were to replace their hashing power with antminer gear (S2 to be specific) but it looks like even if I sold all the bitfury rigs I would not be able to get the same equivalent amount of hashing power in antminer gear. The gist of it is that the resale value of this gear plus the high price of antminer gear = lose . Hey you still have that switch for sale? hey I have another dead card for you if you want...likely the same scenario of a dead cap or regulator. Which is a shame because when I last had some bitfury rigs on their main stratum port the units were not hashing optimal due to low diff shares. There was at the time (not sure if this is the case) some poor method of "automatically" setting min diff share size. Since you cannot manually specific the minimum share difficulty I had to move to a different pool.
Anyone encountered an odd issue where all units stop hashing after several days (this happened to me before but now it occurred after 6 days of nonstop hashing)? I use 3 pool with ghash.io as the primary and it seems like the units switch over to the secondary and tertiary backup but never go back to the primary. Even if there was a brief issue with the primary pool they should all eventually retry the primary. This would not be such a big deal but what is happening is that after some time they units stop hashing even on the backup pools - ie I see no increased share count on any of the pools. The hashrate counter looks like it maintains the same average. It's as if it's hashing into thin air.The fix is to reboot the units, then they go back to hashing as normal.All my units are running the Dec 26 firmware except one which is running the Fed 04 one, but it is doing the same thing. I think this is a firmware bug, but I just wanted to hear if anyone else out there is experiencing the same thing. Do you have them overclocked? (pencil mod) That is likely the only way to minimize import taxes.  Do you have any pictures of the actual board(s)? How many can be chained together in an SPI chain? You say that any standard ATX PSU can be used, so does that mean they have PCIE power connectors or you have 6pin to barrel/12v adapters? I think it will be the same as the US. The problem is with EU customs.  Indeed. It seems the only people making money in the mining game are the hardware companies and those with deep pockets to buy a shitload of hardware at discounted prices.  Perhaps...well, at least no ROI in btc terms. But I ask, is there anything out there that you can buy right now that has a possible ROI? I'm not sure, but I'd like to get a least the same price per GH as bitmaintech. So if for 1 TH they are asking 5.876 BTC I'd think 3 BTC for 500+ (510 with modest overclock) is a fair price. The advantage being that the bitfury rig is a bit more power efficient and less noisy - actually a lot less noisy. The main 16 card rig is now hashing at 500 GH. It took a bit for the cards to warm up I guess. This is without any tuning on my part. Most of the chips are tuned to 55. Pics of the rigs described above:http://imgur.com/a/bWp1U Hi everyone. I've decided to sell my bitfury based hardware. I have a variety of gear.This is what is currently available for sale:1) 9 v1.2 h-card rig  (Aluminum case available) (~294 GH)2) 12 v1.2 h-card rig (Aluminum case available) (~383 GH)3) 8 v1.2 h-card rig (no case available) (~250 GH)4) 16 v1.2 h-card rig (Aluminum case available) (~488 GH mildly clocked, 515 GH overclocked to the tilt)5) 16 v2.3 h-card rig (Aluminum case available) (~510 GH)*updated Jun 30*No PSUs are included. You will have to supply this yourself.I have the original Spotwood case box so I can just drop the entire rig already assembled with the cards installed in the box and ship it to you or if you are a bit more paranoid about shipping damage I can ship the cards individually and the case separate.I can sell the rig without the case if you'd like.Escrow is accepted through "escrow.ms" or "KCMining" I am located in Canada. Shipping would be via UPS 3 day select or Canada Post Xpresspost. You pay the shipping charges.Payment method: BTC All offers accepted via PM or here on the thread. I'd like to sell this ASAP.Pics of the rigs:http://imgur.com/a/bWp1U To be honest I'm not sure as I was not monitoring them actively before. But I do remember them hashing at around 25 GH or so. Another card died just the same. I ended up giving the card away to some dude in the UK. He found out that "16 Capacitor mising and 1or 2 Resistor blowup." I hope you use robust resistors and caps.  I would be interested in a few. I just had two h-cards die on one of my rigs, and it looks like another card is hashing ridiculously poorly on a different rig so it's probably going to kick the bucket soon. I just hope that they will hash roughly equivalent to the 16 chip cards. I'd be happy with 25 GH. The thing is, they'd have to be pretty cheap to justify reinvesting in bitfury hardware rather than just saying screw it and go buy a bitmain or A1 based product.I've come to the conclusion that v1.2 cards are just too poorly built to run 24/7.  Holy crap that's not good. Alpha will likely deliver before that and then some; maybe even KNC.  Any idea when these guys are going to deliver a product? Are they even remotely close to tape-out? Nice, that's what I suspected all along - something blowing up lol. These cards are not made for 24/7 operation. What a shame. What was wrong with it, if you don't mind me asking. Hey aren't you the guy that I gave that "broken" h-card to? I may have some more for you. I may also have some working h-cards and m-board.Did you manage to fix the dead h-card? Do you know where they are going to be hosted - geographically speaking. Also he charges what per month for hosting? $200? Just to clarify you mean for both or 1.5 btc per order?
Well it would work, although it would be a tad bit more complex. First you release the account info to the escrow agent. The agent confirms login and then changes account info or at least the password and e-mail associated with the account. Then buyer pays seller. Escrow then releases changed password to buyer.This of course can be avoided if you'd be willing to trust the buyer first.  Isn't the lowest price available now $2200? I don't suppose you'd consider that with maybe a hundred on top for the "get it now" factor. They will allow easy ownership transfer? Also would you accept escrow? Really? That would be awesome. That would also mean that batch 1 is limited in number otherwise the logistics could be a problem. lol is 5 btc a "low ball" offer? Also can you post proof of ownership (pic with forum nickname) and a screenshot of the admin panel showing the average hashrate. Do you know how far back in batch 1 your order # is?  How much would you want for it? How much you want for it? Can you provide some proof of ownership? So where are the juicy pics? I would buy this but I think Alpha may be first to deliver. Congrats.  So, what will it be OP, still alive? Ok, that reply it a bit confusing. You mean sold to someone else at your asking price? Ok, so 297 GH based on the image you posted. Would you consider $450 and I pay for shipping and pay separately for the PSU. I would need the m-board included in that price though. $115 shipped even to Canada for example  ? What is the average hashrate for this rig? Can you post a screenshot of the web admin page? You mean $105 per board, right? Assuming each card gets 31 gh that's a total of 279 gh which currently earns $307 /month.  4.7 for all. #1 - 4.1 btc#2 - 4.1 btc#3 - 4.1 btc#4 - 4.1 btc Killerloop makes a very good point, it's tough selling them even at 6.5 btc. If you really want to sell them quickly and not mine with them yourself then I'd suggest selling quickly to the highest bidder and take a loss. Just look at it this way, at least you are not a HashFast customer like me and got jack shit for your btc. You have hardware in hand. 
#1@3.2#2@3.2#3@3.2#4@3.2Escrowed with agent of my choosing. I too am located in Canada, so shipping will likely be less of a hassle for both of us. Also if you're going to pull that "signed delivery releases escrow" nonsense let me know as then I will not bother to get in on this auction. Escrow is released only when the miners have been verified as working. That means hashing for at least 30 to 1 hour continously without it blowing up or doing anything unexpected.  Wait, how is it a 70K USD loss if the total price for all 35 units at 6.5 btc is equal to $111702 at the current exchange rate of $491?!? I'm the buyer of the above poster's miner. I am very happy with the way escrow.ms managed the escrow process. I would definitely recommend him. Thanks! I'd just like to state that antminers are not more power efficient than bitfury chips. If you do not overclock them the bitfury rigs will draw less power. These are messy and not as reliable though (finicky and need to be tuned and also maybe babysit it once in a while). Having said that they are only worth it at the right price.  I look forward to getting to know you and your team better. As for the issue the balance not displaying I can confirm that it is resolved now. Thanks! Ah ok. Thanks for clearing that up for me.   I wonder if he had two PCIe jack running from the same source PSU socket. I made that mistake with a bitfury rig and the same thing happened. The wire gauge is just not think enough to handle that much power draw. I was using a Corsair AX860 which incidentally is also made by Seasonic.  Maybe he already did. If I do not see my hashrate back I think it's time to call the credit card company and ask for a chargeback. Also how do we sell the hashing rate back? I see no option anywhere on the site. 25 btc escrowed The site currently says I have 0 GH when in fact I did pay for hashing power. Care to explain? I sent you a PM with an offer.  Why do you keep avoiding my questions?! I might take them if you are willing to do escrow. Also what part of Canada are you in? I too am also in Canada, so who knows I may just be able to pick them up in person. I do intend to setup a website very soon. As far hosting the dragonminer the reality is that I can host ANY miner. I do prefer miners that can be cleanly mounted on a shelf - ie come inside a case. I will just charge a reasonable fee on top of the cost to power the miner. I am flexible on cost and anyone can deal with me - just send me a PM and we will work something out. Avalon and other very old gen miners are probably not worth hosting as they are pretty much close to the point of being unprofitable (ie pay more in power costs than it earns).I've edited the first post with more details.  True, the only reason I bought was that I could use a credit card and play the "buy hardware" with fiat game.Could you also tell us a bit more about your team and your company if possible? Where is the hardware hosted and what hardware powers your cloud mining operation? That is definitely true. So far I've been paid twice. Bear in mind that there isn't that much btc 10 GH can earn these days, so the payment are minuscule.   Well, I can confirm that they are indeed paying me earnings from the 10 GH I purchased. Also I'd like to add that at the moment cex is cheaper. You guys plan on competing with their $4.81 per GH rate? Gave your service a try with 10 ghs  but I have one curious question. Are you guys Romanian by any chance, cause the name associated with Google checkout is suspiciously Romanian sounding.  Thank you pidobir for the service you provided and for being a trustworthy person. I wish you the best of luck with everything you do now and in the future!Cheers!
I'll take it if you're willing to accept escrow and ship to a friend of mine in the States.  Board donated to poochone. Board shipped. Thread closed. I'm fine with selling them on the open market to see what we can get for them. You could also try the non Russian marketplace here perhaps: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?board=75.0 Well I offered 3.9 btc, but since difficulty is due to increase within 252 blocks from now I'm going to have to lower my offer to 3.8 btc.  Hey Ben, any ideas when the Elite units are back in stock? I'd like to get one to try it out.  How many Jupiters do you have and what is your asking price per unit? Also are these Oct or Nov batch? You know these are overpriced at $6000. For a little over $6K we'll be able to get 2 TB from bitmain. They will likely lower prices too. At 6K the hardware break even point is 88 days (for the cointerra unit)Anyways, good luck with sale! A whole 5 btc ... Ah the memories..avalons, how I wish I would've bought more from the first batch..Good luck with the sale! These hash at 1.6 T? I'd offer 4 btc per unit to start.  At which point are we going to sell the hardware and distribute the proceedings to shareholders?  Hmm, I guess there is no interest. Perhaps I was mistaken. I will give it a week or two max. Hmm, so these make ~$239 per month. Me thinks these were overpriced from the very beginning    How do you identify the chips? I'm assuming the number after "bfsb" is the bank number but the rest of the characters are? Is there some logic to it. What is your asking price?  All my v1.2 h-cards are overclocked so maybe cgminer does not like that. The v2.3 is not overclocked by me but it comes out of the box pretty much pushed to the limits (ie the adjustable voltage pot is aggressively tuned already). I dunno, I will wait until the next release of cgminer and see if kano/ckolivas make any improvements. I said it before and I will say it again, I wish cgminer/bfgminer had a chip table that allowed me to manually set which chips I want to be completely turned off or tuned down from the start.  Hmm, I think I should just give it away for free. Just pay for shipping.  4 btc, escrowed, international shipping (Canada). Cool, thanks for the tip. I shall give it a go.Here is a quote from kano:Kind of a bummer  Most of my rigs have more than 2 boards per SPI channel so :\ yeah..After a few minutes of running with the bab-options set on my v1.2 rigs it still seems that performance is not consistently equivalent to that of chainminer. That may have something to do with the quote from kano above. Another thing is I'm not sure if cgminer turns off dead or "zombie" chips like I would when manually editing the chainminer best.cnf file. By zombie chips I mean those that no matter what always hash at a pitifully low hashrate (0.05 to 0.10). I think I may have gotten the hang of the bab-options startup variable. I'm now using the following for v1.2 h-card rigsCode:--bab-options 57:53:52:1:15For v2.3 I use:Code: --bab-options 53:53:51:1:15Now it remains to be seen if for the long term the pool side performance matches that of chainminer. 
For me the power efficiency is not so important yet, I merely want it to match or exceed the performance of chainminer. Should I also set the BAB_SPI_SPEED higher even on v1.2 cards, and could you give me an example of the bab-options you use or perhaps some more aggressive bab options? lol, found a post on a different forum by you that could be beneficial: I tried that but it seems that hashrate is consistently lower than with chainminer. I've got v2.3 h-cards. The v1.2 h-cards run on average about the same as with chainminer - or so it seems. I should mention that I did not change the SPI SPEED value for the v1.2 h-cards rigs only for the v2.3. Maybe I should let cgminer tune for a longer period of time? I take it 3.8 is not good enough fer ya ...3.9 perhaps...? I had the same problem, but luckily only 1 card died so far. Shame that they are so expensive to replace.  I don't know if you're aware of this but the Titans are likely going to consume just as much power as this Jupiter. To perform at 250 MH (scrypt mining) it will need to suck up a lot of power!Anyways, I'd offer 3.8 btc for this Jupiter. Are you willing to accept escrow? A few bucks and enough extra to cover shipping...toss some offer my way.. Did you set them up and see what rate they hash at or if they are fully functional?  The card does not hash. It was hashing for the longest time and then one day it just decided to give up the ghost. I tried it in a different m-board - no go. There is no obvious signs of damage on the card. All the chips and the voltage regulators had heatsinks on them. Perhaps some of you electrical engineering geniuses can bring it back to life?  If I had to guess I'd say the voltage regulator on it died as it was overclocked (mildly) to hash at 30 GH/s (stock 20 to 25). Anyways, if anyone wants it give me a shout. 2.1 Assuming this is legit, I offer 4.8 btc.  He must be from Europe somewhere cause that's where they typically put the day of the month before the month itself. So July eh, 7 btc, no thanks. By then it's going to be worth .7 btc  Fellow Canadian here that would love to buy a few of these, but man why are they so expensive? At the average price that I see people selling them they will never be profitable. Or am I missing something? lol sorry about that..  I'll take the cheaper option.PM me your btc address and I will pay you ASAP. I will use the bitcoinaverage price. Any update by the seller? Hmm, I'll take it are willing to ship to Canada. I'm located somewhat nearby in southern Ontario. Can you also send proof of purchase - the only reason I'm asking is that I'd like to be sure that it has only had a month of usage. I'll take the sportwood case. Can you tell me how much shipping would cost to Ontario, Canada? No international shipping? Booo...  (I'm in Canada for example and can't bid).Is your friend also willing to sell them directly (ie not via ebay) and accept escrow? You cool with escrow? They won't offer you a refund? These are bit pricey at $5700 a piece.
Well, it's not like bitmain's gear is an awesome deal. Their new S2 units are overpriced too. I think though you're better off just keeping them... Any luck selling these?  Pff...you want $4000 for a 1200 GBP pre-order?!? C'mon dude just get a refund if you can as nobody will fall for your pre-order flipping game. If you absolutely want out I will take your spot at the pre-order price assuming you cannot get a refund from Alpha. So we are talking 450 GH/s on average. I can offer 2.x BTC for the whole lot (just the h-cards) and $125 for the sportwood case. I'd offer more but these won't make much more than 1.61 btc per month and who knows what difficulty will be like next month.  Hehe, I had two modules die out on me as well - much sparks, so smoke! good luck with sale. Ok, cool, $130 it is, but maybe you can include shipping to Canada (Ontario) in that price   ? How much for just the knc mercury? All I really want is the hashing module and the control board. The case is not necessary. Umm, how old is this switch? Would you take $100?  2.58 btc for all is my starting offer. With the new S2 miners coming soon I am not sure if these are such a good idea, but I'll take a chance. What is the total hashing output of the rig?  I decided to offer Antminer S2 hosting and gridseed scrypt miners as well. Now, I am gearing up to accept hardware. I would kindly ask those of you who are interested in hosting your miners with me to either post here or send me a PM. I am also going to offer discounts for longer term hosting agreements - ie if you host for a 3 or 6 or yearly term, etc.  How much for the HP switch? I'm going to close this thread. I am just going to sell the v1.2 rigs a little while from now.  https://www.bitmaintech.com/productDetail.htm?pid=00020140314135446510cxXNeYAy06E52 TH for 12.40 btc  Same 2000 watt power consumption. Having said that, the _highest_ I can go is 13 btc. Hmm, ok. I shall think about it and let you know. However I must state that if I do accept that price it will be with escrow as a MUST.  Power costs are currently negligible and as I'm sure you're aware power is cheaper here in Canada than in most places. For now I'm more worried about the rising difficulty rather than power costs.Would you consider 12 BTC ? Sale pending..to whom? lol I bid your asking price and I'll pay for shipping. I'd buy both if you would agree to escrow.  Whoa. At that price it will be quite hard to get back those 18 btc. For 10.99 BTC I can get that much hashpower (2 TH) with Antminers. The break-even period with Antminers would be 1 month and a few days, not 3 or never months with your asking price of 18+. I can offer 10.99 for all 5 or a bit more.  I can offer 8 btc + shipping. I forgot to ask you, when you say "hashfasts" you're referring to 5 separate babyjet units or maybe two upgraded (with dual hashing cards) and one non upgraded babyjet?
Cool. Would you be ok with shipping them to Southern Ontario? Also all of these come with Raspberry Pi units running Minepeon, or do you have them hooked up to your PC or some other management device? Are you located in Canada by any chance?Power usage on these things is like 400 watts per unit, no? I wonder how he maintains that farm. Knowing bitfury rigs to be flaky I wonder if he's got some guy whose sole job is to toy around with the best.cnf file or to reboot and/or start/stop miners like a madman. I think the buyers on ebay just don't know how to value miners. Some would use not so kind words to describe them, but I shall refrain. But I think you are also right about the convenience part, and to that I would add that the buyer protection offered by paypal is an important factor as well. So although they may be paying more for the hardware there is less of a risk involved as compared to buying the gear from some random dude on the forum. Pros and Cons as with anything.I agree, the Avalon miners are true heavy beasts of mining burden. Since you have a batch 2 or 3 avalon with first gen chips I think you are making a good decision to sell it. You can cut power consumption in half and double the hashing power by replacing your avalon with an Antminer. Yeah, I avoid ebay for selling now. The only positive thing about ebay is that it seems buyers are willing to pay more, but of course there are downside risks - like fraud or refund. Good luck with the sale! Got your PM and replied. At the moment a brand new Antminer is 1.11 BTC, but they may lower their prices in the coming weeks. You could perhaps find a good deal on a second-hand antminers either here on the forum or ebay and other classifieds sites.  I could likely start taking orders in a week and a half. If I know there is definite interest I can do my best to speed up the process. You looking to host just antminers? Like I said I will likely lower the price even more. But an antminer should make $442 a month at the current difficulty. Naturally the kind of people that will be hosting them are those that have quite a few. I'm also thinking of offering volume discounts as well. It would make sense.I anticipate I can get a ready to use facility in 2 to 3 weeks max.  I lowered prices for both Antminers and Jupiter units (regardless if they're Oct or Nov batch). I'll likely lower it yet again once I figure how how much it will cost to insure the gear and of course factor that into the monthly price. That's a good idea. I'd be glad to do that.  The facility is located in Ontario. I will update the first post as well.  Just an update. I have found another spot that is suitable. The one I choose all depends on whether anyone else wants me to host their miners as well. If not then I will go at it on my own. We can get up to 3000 square feet if needed. lol, double escrow eh. In the end escrow is only as safe as the last party to hold the funds or the first. You gain no additional protection from double escrow unless you do like a 50/50 split between two escrow agents. Or do something crazy like split it 10 ways, each escrow agent having on 10% of the funds. But try not to stress yourself over such details bro, cause the seller did not even say he actually accepted your offer as a valid bid. This auction has a reserve or minimum bid anyways. Now, seller, can you please post some pics of a few women in bikinis standing next to the car while there is a mountain of cocaine on the rear spoiler and stacks of money littered all over the body of the car.  Yeah, the ones that are looking to get a much of a handle on his money as they can  You better be prepared for the assumption society makes when it sees you driving in such high-priced style.  I'll escrow your bid. But I doubt you'll meet his reserve...so keep on bidding up. Give'em at least 50K  I very much doubt that person would post here. I think if it sells to a bitcoiner it will be via PM deal and the buyer will remain anonymous. The reason for this should be obvious to anyone. lol if it rises 20x I'll give you 15! Much bitcoin. Wow!   10 BTC? Is some kind of joke? I don't think you get it. This guy has money already. He likely does not need to accept your joke offer and hope and pray that btc will rise to a billion dollars power coin to profit. But, your post has some comedic value though    Yeah I am not touching that stuff either. I am not only concerned about the legitimacy of the product, but also the quality of the assembly and components. A cheap miner is fine but one that fails within the first month is as good as useless.  Cheaper than 5K? Where? 
True, but typically it's the noobs that buy on ebay and bitfury gear (especially v1.2 hcards) are not noob friendly at all. They are finicky and sometimes unreliable with often constant maintenance required. Maybe you'd be just better off mining with it until it's "worthless." Having said that, if you have no luck selling it here or on ebay, I'll take it for a little over $400 which is what is required to at least break even in 2 months.  Hmm, $800 is a bit too high for 80 GH. Are these v1.2 h-cards or v2.3? lol, what happened to the owner, did he get abducted by aliens? He used to be very active here on the forum and also if I remember things correctly he was trying to get into the bitcoin ASIC business as well (but that project flopped). What happened to this pool? Why hasn't it been updated to keep up with the latest advancements in pool mining tech - ie like stratum support, etc. Yes please post pics (with your forum username on a piece of paper so we know it's you). Where are you located by the way? Would you be willing to ship to Canada? How much you'd figure it would cost to ship to Canada? (Ontario region) If you need a precise postal cost let me know and I will PM you. The bitcoin mining ASIC business is not for the timid or incompetent. If one can't take the heat, one must get out of the kitchen. I think what happened is the HashFast founders had one of those "me too" moments and went head first into the fire without planning for the worst. Now they are left with a ton of delays as well as angry and unsatisfied customers. Quite a shame. I think you thinking of just the power costs alone. As for the total cost I took what some of the other hosters are charging and undercut them by a bit. I may lower the price still. If you look at a popular hosting offer by sushi-review (reseller of antminers) he asks 0.50 btc for two months hosting which at today's average is $166 a month.  *reserved* By then it will be a 1200 watt space heater.  We now have several shipping addresses, so please ask us before you do any shipping quotes!We now have a modest web presence at: http://www.cryptoboreas.comInternet connectivity:Internet connection is redundant. Cooling:Cooling is air based. The climate in our Labrador data center is very well suited for what we do - it gets cold there and remains cold nearly year-round. Summers are also very mild with only a few days of ~29-30C Temps.Hosting Fees:All prices are in CAD (Canadian Dollars) and are based on 1 Kw/month (ie 1000 watts continuously per month). All non month-to-month terms are pre-paid.1 Month             $75 3 Month             $706 Month             $65  TBD = to be determined*priced updated Sept 02, 2015*Accepted payment methods: BTC, CAD (in the form of Interac e-mail money transfer, wire-payment, direct bank deposit)If you pay in BTC it will be based on the btc/cad exchange rate at the time the bill is issued. CAD is preferred as all expenses are paid in CAD and you as a miner likely want to keep your btc as well. Setup Fee:We do not charge any setup fees. Power supply for the miner can be either provided by you or you can rent one for an additional $4 a month. Monitoring and maintenance:It's included in the monthly fee. Later on we may setup some sort of VPN or remote desktop access. If you have sufficient gear with us you can have your own subnet on our LAN and you can put your own pc/laptop/server/etc on the LAN and remote into it so you can manage your miners that way. Security:Location is securely locked. More advanced security system is planned. IPTV security system will be setup.Location:The precise location is kept private for obvious reasons. What we can disclose is that we are located in the Canadian province of Labrador.International Clients:Yes we do accept international clients. Our hosting is ideal for US clients specifically as they are geographically close by and shipping will be cheaper for them as well as compared to EU or other countries. Also the USD/CAD exchange rate is favorable.How to sign up:If you are interested in hosting with us you can either PM us here, or you can use the contact us form on our website (http://www.cryptoboreas.com) We look forward to serving your mining needs! Do you have any idea if they're making any progress and getting close to the shipment period? (ie have they e-mail you as a customer with news?) This entire farm can be easily replaced by a farm of gridseed miners. It would require 285 gridseed miners at a cost of $69K.  Yeah you are assuming they kept it and did not sell it at the time you sent it to them. If they sold it it means they lied about not requiring our funds to complete the project. Yeah, anyways, the saga continues. You making any progress on the legal front? Do you know how much power the KNC miner is consuming and what ATX power supply comes with it? (Brand and capacity or model # if you know it) Why waste our time then? I was going to bid but now upon hearing he's not a serious seller I changed my mind. Anyone else have some KNC saturns or individual hashing modules for sale? Where are you located? So I take it you will ship to Canada? What mining gear was it powering and at what % load was it running at for the majority of the time. Also where are you located? What would shipping be (roughly) to Ontario, Canada (assuming you will ship to Canada). I use chainminer, mainly because I have no choice. I tried bfgminer (admittedly not cgminer yet) but due to the necessity of individually tuning the chips and bfgminer's poor auto-tuning feature I abandoned it. A successful bitfur driver would have to allow for the manual tuning of individual chips. It is sometimes necessary to completely turn off a chip or a few chips in order for the rest in the chain to perform optimally or at least normally. The way chainminer does it (with a user editable table) seems logical.Does cgminer even support these bitfury boards running on the rasp pi? I see a bitfury driver in the latest 4.0 release but I'm not sure if that driver handles these h-cards or if it's meant to handle only bitburner boards or usb bitfury miners.
BA cards? BlackArrow perhaps? Yeah I see they're a bit cheaper, but the question is how reliable are they. Sad that they still use chainminer in rasp pi image they distribute. Chainminer is junk.  Well, I got heatsinks ready for the cards. The ones BFSB is selling are expensive but they're very nice and I like the mounting option - far better than the glue-on type I'm using, but so far I haven't had any fall off. Some have sort of came loose a bit as the thermal glue weakened but it only happened to a few of them.  If anyone wants to trade me the more overclockable v1.2 h-cards for v2.3 (PCIe) h-cards let me know. Thread is here: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=486827.msg5363410#msg5363410I am also open to exchange of other hardware but naturally I prefer the more power efficient bitfury gear. Damn these are expensive. If you're going to mine litecoins with them they will likely never pay off. lol, I had to hound him and wait quite a long time to get them. They are pretty nice though. Sadly though, if I give you the cases I'd have nowhere to put the rigs. The only way I could do that is if I replaced the bitfury gear with something totally different - ie, KNC, CoinTerra, HashFast, etc gear. Congrats on your new ant farm.  Is there any reason why cgminer consumes so much of the poor control router's cpu cycles, and if not can it fixed? I also wished the unit allowed for better control of the fan profiles. It seems odd that on some of my units the fan spins higher even though the temps are lower than some of the units with lower fan speeds. I too have the latest firmware on two of my units and I see no obvious improvement in any stats as compared to the previous version.  bump! The fact that he's also got an auction thread pretty much says it all - likely a desperate seller or desperate to find a sucker. Are you willing to sell just the kncminer? Any reason why you're not shipping internationally?  This might be a longshot but is there anyone who wants to trade bitfury v1.2 h-card based rigs for v2.3 h-card based rigs (the PCIe style ones)?  I am also open to a swap for other hardware like kncminer jupiter, etc. The reason I am doing this is that lately I do not have the time necessary to muck around with these rigs. They sometimes freak out and demand some attention. For example being that these rigs are pencil modded after a while the overclock increases over time by itself to the point where a card may be running to fast so hashrate drops. This is when you have to step in and re-modd it down a bit. Once you do this you're all set for a while. From my understanding v1.2 cards can be pushed pretty far if you know what you are doing. I personally would prefer the lower hashrate but more stability of the stock v2.3 h-cards.I have a few of these rigs, all with heatsinks already attached. Here is a summary of the bitfury gear I have:ONE 16 h-card rig (runs at ~500 GH pencil modded - could be better if you are better at modding it than me or replace the resistor)TWO 12 h-card rigs (runs at ~380 to 390 GH)ONE 8 h-card rig (runs at 250 GH) I have aluminum Sportwood open air cases for all except the 8 h-card rig but of course I'd give you the case only if you trade in some other hardware for it. I'm open to offers or ideas either here or via PM.  Oh I see. I guess they changed the design then as the renderings on their site shows an internal PSU. Can you post some more pics of the unit? That's not bad. It has a 1200 watt or greater internal PSU? If so do you know what brand and its efficiency rating? (assuming you opened it up yet) What is the power consumption on this beast? Also how is the stability of the unit? Yeah that's clearly Bitmain - aka antminer.  Here is an update. After 24+ hours of uptime I'd say it's safe to declare bitfury hardware stable on Eligius (using the KNCMiner port). Well it should be considering cex.io uses bitfury gear. Also the fact that you can manually set a minimum diff is important too.  Wohoo  Good news. It seems using the kncminer port has stabilized my bitfury rigs on Eligius. Sorry btcguild, you're still an amazing pool but I am forced to move due to no fees. For small miners such as myself 3% is a LOT. Anyways, let's hope it continues to be stable. So far it's only been been 30 minutes, but before I would notice the hashrate drop after the first 2 to 3 minutes, so it's definitely as stable as on btcguild. Hmm, you know I was thinking of doing that myself but never got around to it thinking that the their dedicated kncminer port would not start with a higher diff but do some other magic. I shall try that out with one of my bitfury rigs and see how stable it is. Thanks for the tip! 
This gear does NOT work well or at all with Eligius because Eligius uses some dynamic difficulty algorithm that clearly sets the difficulty TOO LOW and this overloads the bitfury's work queue and thus hashrate drops. As a result of this I am forced to use btcguild which allows me to set a minimum difficulty that is actually proper for the miner's given hashrate.  Escrow accepted? Whereabouts in Canada are you located, and is local pickup an available option (if close enough for example)? Here is a howto I found on how to get the Pi to boot from an NFS share. http://www.whaleblubber.ca/boot-raspberry-pi-nfs/It really should not be all that difficult and since you're not actively using the SD card it will no longer corrupt them. The bootloader is the only thing loaded from the SDcard and that's a READ ONLY operation.  Proof of ownership? No? Then GTFO as a previous user posted.  This might be a little bit more complex to setup, but have you looked into booting the Raspberry PI off of a NFS network share (network booting essentially). This way constant writes or power outages will not kill your sd cards. Meh, doom and gloom. Either way no matter how you slice it KNCMiner customers got and will get better treatment than HashLast customers. HashFast screwed it's batch1 and likely bath2 customers sans souci sans lube. They sure know we like it rough.   mais oui oui! You know I wonder if they really have an incentive to get competitive. My hunch says no, they do not. I think they have all the money the could ever need and enough income from their massive farm to acquire more than enough future funds for either re-investment in new tech or adding additional hashing power. But I could be wrong.  The "market" is misguided as clearly some miners don't understand basic economic principles. I also suspect that some miners are using hardware as a sort of long bet on btc. They figure who cares if they overpay for hardware now when the bitcoins their gear mines today will be worth a lot more tomorrow and in the end they will be in profit overall. Anyways, klondike_bar is right, power consumption is NOT a big advantage of bitfury hardware as compared to bitmain antminers. It will be a strong advantage only when the difficulty is high enough that you're nearly at that razor edge of profitability. I suspect if ever that becomes the case bitmain will either just lower their prices to match the current difficulty landscape or by then they would have 28nm based gear (or lower but I suspect the next logical jump for them is 28nm) that can match or overtake bitfury gear on power efficiency. Hmm, you're giving up on bitfury hardware? I though you had big plans to build your own h-cards, etc.  What SD card are you using. This problem has yet to happen to me, so I'm not sure why people are getting these sd card corruption issues. I think a lot of the kits came with Transcend 4GB or 8GB SD cards and two of my rigs use those, and once again they have yet to give me any file system corruption issues. What I do is I first stop the miner (to prevent it from constantly trying to write to the .stats.log and other files) and then I do a "shutdown -h now". I then wait for all the light on the RaspPi to stop blinking (indicating that the shutdown process is complete) and then and only then I power off the rig. Maybe it's my method maybe it's luck; I dunno. Regarding the tuning issue, yes I have that too. Because I overclock my rigs after some time (strange effect if you ask me) the overclock increases with age and I find myself having to downclock the chips a bit selectively to maintain stability. Suffice it to say this is a maintenance headache that I'd like to avoid, but with bitfury rigs it's a necessity. In the future I think I will buy only low maintenance miners. Sometimes playing around with this stuff is fun, but at other times I think of all the other more fun things I could be doing with my time. To make a backup of the system you'd have to take it out of action, put it in a linux or windows box and use a disk image copy program to create some ISO or standard image file of it. In linux you can use the "dd" command. To copy just the key miner settings file you can use plain old ftp or something more fancy like rsync - oh, or NFS.  Actually they ship anywhere in the world. Even so, they are still overpriced at both shops. At say 25 GH these will not likely pay for themselves. By the way 250 euro is around $337 so they are cheaper than at Dave's shop, but not by much. I guess if you can avoid not paying any duty or taxes it may make more sense to buy them from Punin at his shop.  Shit, that sounds pretty bad. I don't know about you but I would be open to some sort of reasonable compromise. Even if it takes longer to get back my original investment it is far better than losing 100% or 50 or 60% with accepting delivery. Can they not host some Sierra units for customers who are owed refunds in btc? I don't even want to own the miner after I've been paid back I just want to eventually see my original investment back and end this nightmare.  I wonder if HF sales reps tried to entice you with immediate shipment if you cancel your refund request.  Wait, did they refund you in btc already, or are you just joking about 0.03 cause I think people wouldn't have made such a big fuss over 0.03 btc.  I don't think that's a 900D; more like a 700d or  800d... Is that really a separate controller board or is that the corner of the hashing board? If it's not a separate power control board I wonder how two modules will work - meaning how will the power switch and reset switch control both boards. That to me looks like one corner of the hash board so each board would have to have it's own power switch. Nope. If the PSU is jump started with a paperclip then it's always on. Since the PSU is not in any way connected to the Raspberry Pi it has no way of shutting it down.  Hahaha..no they won't. They will never pay. They will always come out on top cause they got many of us by the balls. What in the heck are you guys thinking?!? Have you ever even tried the currency exchange game? Please explain to me how spending say 110 in the past say for a BFL single to have it mine maybe 10 or say 15 btc over it's lifetime EVER EVER going to be a profit?! Why is mining better than buying and holding on to the coins? The only way mining will ever be worth it is if you paid with fiat. Then and only then you are truly betting on the exchange rate of btc -ie you are long BTC to use trader speak. So if the exchange rate keeps on going up and up even if the hardware only mines less than what your fiat bought you in btc terms at the time you purchased the hardware then you are still IN PROFIT IN FIAT terms, but then that begs the question why did you even do that. Why not just keep btc that you bought with fiat at whatever price and go long btc. You would've had MORE overall had you not spent it on some digital gold digger that will likely mine less than what you put into it! Let's be honest here. The main reason we do this is because:a) we enjoy playing with the technology b) we have some fetish about mining c) we are fools cause we think we will actually make a profit in btc termsd) we are too gutless to trade btce) we don't have enough fiat cash to buy hardware so we reinvest or invest btc insteadf) we enjoy making the ASIC mining companies richThe reality is that you will be outgunned by people with more money than you when it comes to mining. Why don't any of you do a little test. Buy a miner with X $ and also buy some btc with the SAME $ amount. See in the end which has made you MORE money in $ terms. Just do it. "If you invested 10BTC at 10 bucks back a couple years ago to get back 1 BTC today, you made a massive profit"WTF? Are you really saying this? Tell me honestly, were you drunk when you typed this ?  If you spent $10 for 10 btc and during the time span of a couple years all you got was 1 btc you now have ~$1000. Had you kept that 10 BTC you bought with $10, you would now have $10,000. So in fact you _lost_ the opportunity to gain $9000.
It's the weekend bro! FedEx has their regularly scheduled soccer match (with your boxes) on the weekend. Give them a break  I don't think its better than a human tuning the chips. For example it seems that bfgminer does not know when it should turn some chips off completely. Luke - it's creator - answered me with "why would you want to turn the chips off anyways". I think he does not really know how these bitfury miners really work at the hardware level. I suggested he'd talk with punin, cscape, or the mysterious Russian/Ukranian guy who designed the chips.  No sympathy from me. It is totally true.  Hmm, selling the hardware is another viable option. At this point getting an ROI is out of the picture that's for sure. That can't be their total, no way!  No, bfgminer does not display nor log chip status. It just tries to continually auto-tune the chips.  Crap, Chinese New Year. I totally forgot about that. I always found it odd that practically everything shuts down for an entire month almost. Time is not on our side then. By the time we get all the shareholder to come to a decision it will be too late to put our order in. If we wait 25 days the only way this would be worthwhile would be if they lower the price again or maybe buy the units from a person on the forum (which carries its own risks of course).Also if you can host them that would be sweet. The cost of power supplies and all that can be spread among the shareholders. Are you located in the United States?  I wish they made the potentiometer larger.  Well, I  used bfgminer directly with mixed results. The main issue with bfgminer is it's autotune feature is not as effective as manually tuning the chips yourself, and you can't get it to save the results of the autotune nor edit a table to get it to forcefully use a specific setting. You could theoretically tell it to use a specific clock for each chip as a command line argument when you start it. That would result in one hell of a long command line argument - although you could script this with a bash shell script. I prefer the way chainminer does things. It just makes sense to have a table with clock values and parameters you can adjust. On the flip side chainminer is crap at other things. I doubt that bfg will be able to keep up with 400gh of diff 2 shares, but there is only one way to find out.  That's actually a good idea. Do you know if their hosting is reliable? The hosting cost is roughly $200 USD per month. However bear in mind he charges in btc, so hopefully he adjusts the hosting fees if btc/usd rate goes up. Also since they use ghash.io it could complicate things a bit as they pay the equivalent of 180 gh of hashing power to a specific btc address. So you can't point your miner to your own ghash.io account. Although I'm sure ninjatech may be able to make an exception in our case seeing as we're a group.I must also mention that the price at ninjatech is a tiny bit higher than from sushi-review or bitmain directly. 1.90 btc is the cheapest price at the moment.  Safety warning: DO NOT attempt to pencil mode your v2.3 h-cards as you will damage them. The pencil mod  is for v1.2 h-cards only.Do NOT power your antminer from the same PCIe cable from the PSU. If your power supply is modular run another PCIE 6 pin (or the 6+2 pin connector) from your PSU modular end. If your PSU is not modular then once again find another _separate_ pci-e 6 pin cable and use that! If you neglect to do this you could burn out the PSU's cables at either end (miner end or power supply end), or worst case start an electrical fire. I dunno, I guess you got lucky with Eligius. I one the other hand noticed horrible drops in hashrate. My guess (like I mentioned before) is it has something to do with the way Eligius handles variable difficulty. With btc guild I set a manual minimum diff and it work very stable. I dunno, I guess my setup is a bit different as my rigs contain more cards (some 16 card rigs), so perhaps this issue manifests itself only when the work queue for the stratum proxy gets too high that the rpi can't handle it? Your guess is as good as mine.Now as for the heatsinks, I bought a bunch of those from that exact seller a while back  I intend to get some more soon. They are very effective, but one top is if you're using one of Sportwood's cases make sure you attach the heatsinks that go at the top of the card a tiny bit lower so when you pull the card out or mount it in the m-board slot you don't run up against the board stabilizers.  Are these v3 m-board kits (with v2.3 h-cards) or v2.3 m-board with v1.2 h-cards?Easy way to tell (besides the version on the m-board written in bold letters) is if the m-board has PCI slots or non PCI slots. I can vouch for antminers as well. They do run great - reliable, quiet, and fairly efficient too. I would agree to have all our half our miners converted over. It just sucks that import fees into RU are so high and that shipping options are so unreliable and slow. Any chance you can find some for sale locally or in a nearby country (EU)?Edit: Is there no  other quicker way to ship? Would it be quicker if someone from another country orders them and then reships them to RU?  It works the way described in this quote by punin. You essentially have to tell bfgminer at startup the speed for each individual chip. As you can see it can result in a very long command line argument (naturally you can script this by creating a shell script): That's the exact same thing I've noticed! Damn, so it must be something related to the min diff which supposedly Eligius automatically sets to the "optimal value" - this clearly is not correct. Moving them back to btcguild solved all my stability issues. This is quite sad as I would've like to move all my miners over to Eligius to save on the 3% fee - hey every bit matters these days especially for low hashing power miners like me. There is but it's not as userfriendly as editing the best.cnf or .stats.log as with chainminer. I've tried bfgminer on v2.3 m-board but not on my v3. I will have to give it a try out of curiosity. If it was easier to tune the chips with bfgminer or if it remembered the speed settings for it's own auto-tuning system I'd switch over from chainminer. On a different note has anyone found that bitfury gear did not work well for them on the Eligius mining pool? In my case it seems that they are far more stable on btcguild. Could it be due to network connectivity. Maybe the stratum proxy submit queue is getting overloaded and hashrate is getting destroyed. Why not ship international. Customs charges are paid by the _receiver_ and it would not be any "hassle". Shit I can't believe I missed this. I would've bought your bitfury rig.
Out of curiosity how much for the HP 3500-48G-PoE Switch J8693A Has anyone tried bfgminer on a v3 m-board. I was under the impression that it does not work with v3 m-boards and using it could even damage the cards/system. Any info on this? I would be very surprised if they were not mining with the inventory. If I had to guess I'd say they are just pulling the cards/rigs from their live farm as customer orders come through. They may have a bunch of brand new cards in stock too that they may throw in once in a while. Either way we are all just speculating and we can never know for sure until we hear from MBP. Like you I really don't care if they used the cards as long as they are not offloading troublesome cards on to us. Maybe YOUR cards all came in sealed ESD bags, but my order came in a mixed combination of sealed and non sealed (ie just tape to close the edb bag). In fact the majority of the cards I got were not fully sealed. I bet you anything others got cards that were not fully sealed too.  That is no long term fix. Why would you not properly shut down? Think about what not shutting down properly does to a regular hard drive. There is nearly constant writes happening to the sd card. Not properly shutting down is asking for trouble, which will come eventually even with overpriced fancy pants class 10 sd cards. Indeed 1.90 is a good price, although it may take 2 to 3 months to pay off.  I got me one too just a few minutes ago as I have a spare 550 watt power supply that just begs to be used. As for full rigs being unstable you are 100% right. I intend to trim mine down to 12 h-card rigs. Even this may be unstable but probably not as unstable as 16 h-cards. I wish they built them a bit better as having to m-board space like this is just plain stupid!As for stopping  the hardware purchase cycle, I dunno man, I think this is like an addiction or something. Mining hardware is like cocaine for some lol. Indeed that's the way to do it, but don't forget to WAIT until the system has gone through the shutdown procedure. Don't just issue shutdown -h now and then immediately pull the plug. You have to wait until there is no activity on the PI's indicator/status lights. The one far from the left should be solid red (indicated powered on) and that's it - no other lights should be flashing. The sd-corruption issue is likely cause you are not properly shutting the rigs down, not the fault of bitfury and team. Log into the miner issue a "shutdown -h now" command. Wait for all the activity on the Pi to stop - you will notice that just ONE red light is on steady. NOW it is safe to power off the miner. Another tip is do NOT remove any fans off the miner BEFORE shutting down the miner. Believe it or not the cards still get full power even when the Pi is not sending them any work. Bitfury rigs are built as simple as possible. Having said that I haven't had one sd card get corrupted since I bought my kits, and it's not like the kits came with ultra high quality sd cards either.  Honestly the only reason I gave them recent business is to top off my rigs. After that no more purchases as a) they are overpriced b) not as robust as some of the competition (my opinion, yours may vary) c) there is a difficulty storm coming and I want to weather it out before dumping any more money into hardwareAs for bitfury adding to their private farm don't you think all the bitcoin ASIC companies are doing that? Why would they not? They all should have their NRE costs paid off and from here on they can get chips at cost. The only reason they are selling hardware to you and me is because they know that YOU and ME will pay for their hardware this way so they don't have to spend one dollar out of their own pockets.  This seems to be caused by either people not setting their router's IP address as the primary DNS in antminer's config (thus the router would do DNS forwarding) or when their routers do not support DNS forwarding. I've ran into this issue trying to help some guy in Europe setup his antminer. His router just did not support dns forwarding. Setting the primary DNS to google's (ie 8.8.8. fixes it. There is nothing wrong with it? What is your reserve price? Clearly I would offer below 2.2 btc which is the going rate brand new from bitmain. I'm located in Canada too - also Ontario - so shipping would be quick and hassle free.  I think HF hired him to distract us lol Well, back then when I ordered I think the wording was different. They kept on changing their website and ToS every day of the week.If they're not going to pay back the btc people sent them then at least send them double the MPP...ie 800%. With 4 TH delivered soon I may at least get back 50% of what I paid. That is a lot better than a 90% loss with their forced pay-off option. Nice. Yeah tell me about it, some of my cards have as many as 6 fracking dead chips! Yeah, dare I say this is a lot of time wasted as you could be doing something else more fun than repetitively scrolling through .stats.log and making minor changes like some feudal era peasant. It gets repetitive and monotonous after some time.  Hmm, that's ok. I think it would be better if I buy it locally as 35 EUR is obviously more than $35 CAD. That better not be the case. I want either a full btc refund and if they cannot do that then my original order plus MPP with enough miners to get back my original investment. This is what they guaranteed and this is what I paid for and expect. If they think that just cause they sent us a "fuck you" USD check we are out of the shipping queue they can go screw themselves. More cause for legal action and further justification and proof that they don't give a shit about their customers and only about their pockets.  Glad to hear I'm not doing anything stupidly wrong. As for getting all the cards/chips at the same speed you mean actual hashing rate or the clockrate in the miner's best.cnf file? I currently have those card overclocked a bit. I tried to get them as close as possible to 1.70 ohm on the R02 resistor. It's a pain in the ass to do and there is no precise method so this results in some cards being pushed harder than others. Now as far as clockrate in the miner's conf file I tried my best to have them running at the highest clockrate that is possible without the chips producing too many errors but this once again is a bit tricky. Sometimes the chips run fine at a particular frequency for a long time and produce low errors and after some time they crap their pants and start producing errors. Like I've been saying all along I find bitfury gear finicky and not as robust as it really should be. But that is just my opinion. Hey you don't happen to have an Raspberry Pi and SD card to go along with that m-board do you? Hmm..after further tuning and testing it seems one of the cards you sent is hashing at max 11 gh  which is far below the minimum advertised rate. This is a v1.2 h-card  - one with default 1.80 ohm on the R02 resitor. I was forced to turn off quite a few chips on that card as they were throwing up errors like crazy and hashing at basically 0.I won't open up an RMA ticket just yet though. I plant to get a spare m-board and I will test that card by itself on a different m-board. Maybe it just doesn't like it's current home?Also since this is a 12 card rig can you guys remind me again about the way the card order goes? I currently have all slots populated except the last 4 rows. So if you're looking at the miner management web page like this:Bank 11: 35.204GH/s2: 37.366GH/s3: 35.176GH/s4: 0GH/sBank 25: 35.562GH/s6: 32.599GH/s7: 23.365GH/s8: 0GH/sBank 39: 33.315GH/s10: 34.145GH/s11: 26.829GH/s12: 0GH/sBank 413: 35.204GH/s14: 38.612GH/s15: 14.03GH/s16: 0GH/sThe last 4 slots on each bank are empty. I am assuming this is the correct logic to apply to spread out the cards across all bank as punin suggested, but if any of you know better please correct me.
Cool, thanks for letting me know. I have found that full rigs are just not stable. As soon as I added the 6 v1.2 h-card I bought from you guys the rig started acted all wonky. Random cards would shut down. I did some tuning but eventually in the end 3 of the cards in bank 3 and 3 in bank 4 would shutoff - hash at 0 or close to it. I removed 4 of the cards from the rig and the previously non-hashing cards are hashing again.  Jason, what is your RMA policy. I assume it's still the 30 day warranty described on the sales page, no?  I think I may have gotten some bad/dead boards. These are v1.2 cards. I'm going to try hard to revive them and fix the issue first though. ok, that sounds good to me. In an unrelated note, do you have any of those full sized heatsinks for bitfury h-cards? I think you had a few a while back for sale. Maybe you can let me know where you bought them from if you don't have of your own to sell. Ok, cool. That comes out to 16.58 at the starting price, so I'll bid 0.02 for 1. I'd be interested in one. What bitcoin exchange rate as you using, so I know what you're asking for in $ terms. I'm guessing those red boards at the back are temp probes, no? Yep, well thanks for confirming it. This pretty much tells me what I need to do soon - get extra m-board and take out 4 cards from each full rig, that way I'll have two 12 card rigs and one 8 card rig. These rigs run on smoke and magic apparently. It would be nice if Dave sold m-boards by themselves as well. Well it seems the golden ticket there is a v3 rig. I currently have two PCIe 6 pin feeding the rig and it's running at 512 gh. I would however like to ensure the load is even more spread out so I'm wondering if you know where I can find some pci-e 6 pin to screw terminal connector adapter. Or maybe you can make me some for a fee? He's still alive and making cases. I just got word that he finally shipped an order of mine placed like a month or two ago. He is pretty busy and backlogged I guess. Oh noooes!   That sucks bro. You may be able to get away with it - it may still work. From what I heard though doing that is a sure way to fry all the chips as what you did is essentially reverse the polarity and the magic smoke came'a'calling. It would suck mighty hard if I had to buy a uber expensive evga 1300g2 PSU to power a 460 to 480 watt full rig. I think we are better off just splitting the rigs. Hmm, I too use a 1K psu for a full rig but it is still flaky, so I'm not sure if the power supply is to blame though. I bought another PSU - Corsair HX850 that will replace that Seasonic GS550 that is currently powering (so far so good) a full rig. I should mention that the 1K PSU is not 80 plus gold rated (more like 80 silver) but that should not matter as it only affects efficiency at the wall. Well you may be right or not, but personally I'm not so sure if PSU are designed to push 50% of their power to the mobo. That would be a LOT of power to serve the needs of the motherboard and cpu. From my understanding with a single rail design it should not matter which connectors are being used as they are all drawing from the same rail. Also these days GPUs are the biggest power hogs so the PCIE express connectors usually draw the most power by a long shot.What a horrible flaky design these bitfury rigs are. Why could they not have included more PCIE connectors to spread the load more evenly or even make use of the mobo CPU connector - anything to ensure that the m-boards and thus the cards get reliable power.Right now one v3 m-board rig is being powered by an AX860 PSU and another v2.3 m-board rig is being powered by a 1000W OCZ EliteXtreme PSU. I wish I know if these were adequate. However even with a 1000w supply (single rail) the rig is not stable. I think the main cause of instability is running all 16 cards at once. I am going to look into splitting up my rigs as I'm tired of constantly having to mess with these miners. I may as well just give up and buy a KNCMiner Jupiter. lol, anyone want to swap hardware ? Just out of curiosity how long are you going to wait until you accept the highest offer.  I don't think that's true though. According to my power meter a full rig with v2.3 h-cards (the pci ones) is consuming 450 watts at 520 gh. 450 watts is at the wall of course. But I still think that it would likely be better to give the power supply more room to breathe. Voltage ripple on the 12V rail is likely to occur more frequently at higher loads and the h-cards may not like this.I think another solution would be to trim down the full rig by 4 h-cards. I was told by punin (from Bitfury Strikes Back -bfsb) that 12 h-cards is a more stable config.  110 euro and I pay shipping to Canadapayment in btc though You would have to use your own stratum proxy/gateway or use bfgminer. Chainminer by default does not offer failover support. On the miner's web page if you set multiple pools it just splits the workload. Hmm, do you have any recommendations. Believe it or not I'm running one full rig with a seasonic 550 watt 80 plus gold psu but I'm thinking of buying something more beefy. I have in mind the AX860 series. One thing that does suck about these rigs is that they do not run very stable when fully populated (ie all 16 cards installed).  Hmm, I just noticed that on two of my miners one of the blades uses only half the number of ASICS.216350046xoxoxoxo xoxoxoxo oooooooo xoooooxo116350138045xoxoxoxo xoxoxoxo oooooooo oooxooooso on one blade 2 and on the other blade 1...Has this happened all of a sudden to anyone else. Could the chips have died? I have not overclocked the unit whatsoever. Time to power cycle them I guess and see if that fixes it.Edit: After power cycling the units they went back to normal. I was really hoping they would not do this. This is the exact same issue I've had with Avalon units. After some time mining they would lock up and only a power cycle would bring them back to normal. 
They let just any scammer have a booth at CES? What does one have to do to present one's wares there? Ordered at 4:30am EST got FedEx shipment notification at 2:57pm same day. Package is scheduled to arrive on Monday which is pretty amazing if you ask me. Then again that's what I expect for FedEx International Priority.   I don't think so, but I could be wrong. Dave is supposed to be a distributor for only North America. Indeed I can vouch for him as well. Excellent aluminum cases. I wish though he'd take bitcoin payments. It would be more convenient than paypal. I dunno about v1.2 hcards shipping from stock as I just ordered several hours ago and being the weekend I don't think they process orders or ship. Wow, I almost can't believe they lowered prices. I took this opportunity to fill up my rigs. Thanks Dave and company. As far as the prices, they are generally ok, but still a tad bit tough given the diff trend. Either way I think after this it's time to put a pause on btc hardware purchase until the other asic mining companies are done shipping their gear. You can get 3 h-cards for 2.22 btc from megabigpower shop.  Done and done. Great tip! Thanks  REFUNDS@hashfast.com What is its hashrate, power consumption at full load, and what is the brand/make of the 1300watt PSU? Also do you accept escrow? And finally, what is your asking price? I did that too. I just want them to have a physical copy as well as is required by the terms of service agreement. Son of a bitch, and I just mailed them another refund request form (and supporting documents) to that address just yesterday. Previous to that I sent it to their San Francisco address (address on my original invoice) but like you I don't have much hope of that one actually making it into their hands. In the GTA yes, in the Toronto city core or periphery I'm not so sure. The lease costs will likely be high as might the electricity costs. What do you pay on average per kWh? Oh we believe you, however, for some of us the distance is a downside.  In Southwestern Ontario. If I find something suitable and you are willing to co-op with me we can definitely do that. Having more purchasing power will also allow us to get a higher quality space. Yeah no doubt when the landlord foots the bill. However be careful as many rental/lease agreement have clauses against abuse of this sort. Here I'm assuming you're referring to all-inclusive service which is typically the norm with apartments.  Yes indeed I am coming close to hitting that home miner limitation wall. I am in the process of looking for a commercial space to lease. Right now seeing how it's -19 degrees C outside heat extraction is not the issue, but come summer I won't be able to add any additional hashing power. As far as electricity costs for me it's 0.09 per kWh which is not bad, but damn 0.02 is amazing. Yeah I noticed that it works fine even though some of my blades show "xxxxxoxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx"  but to be honest I never caught it going back up to full "o"'s  but now that I know it's a firmware bug I'll keep an eye and see if it goes back to normal after some time. The latest firmware is also problematic as it puts too much strain on the control board - load is too high - and that causes the web interface to be really really sluggish. I hope they fix this in the future. ^^^I can't see the image the above user posted, but I'm guessing it's some sort of reference to the sexual preferences and proclivities of HashFast employees. I could be wrong though.Anyways, back on topic. I made the mistake of assuming that HashFast's mailing address on the original invoice is correct, and now I'm starting to worry it will bounce back. Can anyone confirm whether the 100 Bush Street, Suite 650 is the now most current and accurate mailing address?I've also e-mailed them my refund request, but something tells me they will simply ignore all refund requests asking for fair compensation. All requests from "customers" looking to bend over for them will surely be answered with prompt excitement. A lot of the people that say power consumption is not an issue are hosting their mining gear in some sort of data center type conditions. I'd say though that these are in the minority. 
Although that's nice of you, I for one would wait until you guys are desperate for sales (not anytime soon it appears) before buying any additional h-cards/gear.  Yeah I found the 180GH stand alone units to be stupidly simple to setup and very reliable once up and running. Bitfury units on the other hand (perhaps with the exception of v2.2 h-cards with the latest motherboard) are finicky and prone to errors and drops in hashrate. You have to spend a lot of time hand tuning the rigs and even then the cards could just mysteriously decide to crap out on you with SPI and MISO errors, etc. Anyways, the conclusion is that currently antminers offer better value for the money. If you want the absolute most power efficient though you still have no choice but to go with bitfury rigs. Thanks ninjarobot for the template  +1 Looks like tomorrow morning I have something to mail. Are you almost caught up on your backlog? I'm still waiting for the case I ordered a month or so ago. That's because Bitmain actually want your business, Bitfury and team do not. Solution is simple, buy Antminers. I'd recommend that you NOT enter any wire payment information. FailFast will likely use that as an excuse to pay you in USD. Put in your btc address and the TXID of your original payment.Also do NOT download the "download app" peddled by this file sharing site. It's likely a virus or spyware/adware as Luke-Jr mentioned. Are you modifying their refund request form or filling it out but putting the btc value instead of USD. I refuse to sing the refund form they sent as long as it contains the " at the exchange rate quoted by Bitstamp on the day HashFast provides such Bitcoins" clause. Where is sushi...he has gone MIA for me - hasn't replied to my PMs nor forum posts. I did not get a tracking # and I'm still NOT on the paid list on the first post....wtf?! Bro, do you even root? I agree. That is likely the ONLY winning strategy. It also carries less risk than investing in btc directly because you can quickly recoup your NRE costs. Anything beyond that is pure profit.  I guess I should have been more clear..I bet on _another_ wrong horse. So let's recap. Avalon batch 2 and 3 = bad call. Avalon batch 1 = good call, KNC = perhaps good call but seeing as how I paid in btc, probably never will pay off in btc terms so likely bad call. BFL = horrible call paid in btc once again will never break even ever in a million years. Lesson to be learned? Don't pay for hardware with BTC or  just don't buy mining hardware at all. It is likely that those who pre-ordered the first batch of bitmine's rig and paid with btc will also never ROI.So what's the winning strategy, probably do what you do and buy rigs and flip them.  Saw the Bitmine post. FML I bet on the wrong horse again  There goes 110 BTC down the fucking drain with this bullshit "company". Or you could remove the heatsink and clear all the existing thermal paste and reapply a proper amount of high quality brand thermal paste. I am another organizer for all hashfast customer e-mail addresses starting from 01 through CR. It is legit, but it seems as thanks for this I get this: I hope you do go ahead and sue them as they completely deserve it. The problem for many of us that would also like to sue them is the fact that any lawsuit has to be undertaken in the jurisdiction of California. As for your particular situation I would be willing to wager that you will _not_ receive  your rigs before midnight tomorrow. In their latest communication they essentially stated they will _start_ "kicking off shipments" in the next "few days". The word "few" is meant to inject vagueness so it could be two days it could be four, or it could be more. At this point I think they don't really care and are essentially taunting people to request a refund.  Dude, read back in the thread instead of pulling speculations out of your ass. That address was confirmed by the pool operator to belong to someone OTHER THAN hashfast. Sushi, I still don't see my name on the paid customers list.  Same here. I can provide proof. I have saved every e-mail communication from them.  Heh, how could we be so naive to expect anything else. To be honest though I did expect them to do this. 
Guaranteed solution: manually tune your chips and do not use the autotune feature (it's not that clever either way and you will be better able to tune the chips yourself) I hope to god they learned their lesson from the likes of Bitfury. I also hope it's not 600 per board cause that would be stupidly ridiculous. I am expecting 300W per board though. If you look at this picture you'll notice two 8pin PCIE connectors - one on each side of the board. https://hashfast.com/hashfast-announces-fastest-bitcoin-mining-chip-in-the-world/ click the first image and enlarge it to "full screen" I for one would ask for btc regardless. I have faith in the long term use and viability of bitcoin, thus the day to day vagaries of the btc/usd exchange rate is not as important. I think most people agree with me when I say that we bought these things to mine BTC for us, not USD.  If they do that they'd be breaking their own terms with Batch 1 customers. BTC amount calculated according to US$ value is not going to cut it. I and other batch 1 customers want their original btc amount. Anything less would be theft! The miners were paid for in btc expecting to mine btc and failure to deliver product as promised on time does not constitute grounds for giving us back 80% of what we gave them! I know for sure that I paid directly to their btc wallet and did not use bitpay or any payment processor. I have the e-mails to prove it, so, I'm just saying. This shit is not going to cut it I have 01 through cr . I even have apparenly one of their own employee's e-mail.  Hi Sushi. Can you add me to the first post list of customers who've paid; just for piece of mind. Thanks! Sad, but true. Let's hope that their batch 1 customers are honest people. Otherwise we will hear horror stories of how "someone stole my BabyJet".  I think FastFail should send out another e-mail apologizing for exposing the e-mail addresses of their batch1 customers. Of course they should once again use the To field to stay true to their fail and fail fast motto. I'll give them the benefit of a doubt and assume the lack of clarity in the language of that e-mail is due to the work of an over-caffeinated and sleep deprived mind.  Psssh..these guys are so cool they got a time machine. They will pull a Dr. Who on our asses and deliver our miners before we even decided to order them. Mind officially blown!  Indeed. For the low low price of only 10 BTC we will ship your miner tonight right out of our asses. You'll be hashing butcoins in no time!Edit: Way to expose private information FastFail! Well if that is the case that would explain why I got the e-mail so early. My name starts with an "A" - first name at least. Yeah I would expect them to use some sort of mailing list system - autoresponder etc.  I dunno, but I wish they were a bit more specific and careful with their wording:" and to begin bulk production and be on track to ship batch 1 orders December 31"  This makes it sound as if they will actually ship ON the date of Dec 31, and not before. Should I just assume they will ship early. I dunno, but making assumptions with hashfast is a dangerous game. Also no info regarding power consumption, chip efficiency;anything technically useful. I guess we will find out Dec 31...or will we   https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=344970.msg4119758#msg4119758 I installed that firmware on one of my antminers and upon first impression I think this newer firmware seems slower. I am thinking it puts a greater strain on the control board. Does anyone know what kind of CPU the control board uses? Is it a tp-link router clone? Ah, sorry I forgot you have v2.2 hcards. Yeah for those the best is to leave them at stock voltage but adjust the frequency in the miner config file. Try starting with a clock rate of 52.It could also be that your m-board is bad. Did you talk with Dave about getting it swapped?  Payment sent and a small tip coming your way sushi..thanks for getting back to me so promptly. Cheers! sushi, I'm not sure if you missed my post expressing my interest in purchashing one but if you did here is a reminder. Please send btc address to send payment to and the link to the google docs form. Hi Sushi. I'd like another one please. 
Ok, excellent. As for the $1900 customs value declaration wasn't that always the case? Sushi, when you get back please let me know if this batch comes with pci-e externder cables. I don't think I can source the proper extenders over the holiday season so if these don't come with them I'm going to pass on this batch. I'd like to get 1 though. Beans, I forgot to ask you, is your rig overclocked (ie pencil mod)? The units in this batch do not come with a PCIE power adapter (from screw type to pcie)? Umm, are the two broken capacitors at the end of the main board (the one that holds the control board with ethernet jack) ? It would be odd if we both have the exact same damage.  Isn't he losing hashrate by not having a reliable rig. I'd rather get another m-board and spread the cards around then have to put up with constant maintenance and/or failures. Got mine today, but sadly one of the blades is broken - two capacitors were broken off the board. Also the metal frame was badly warped and bent.  Here is what you need to do. Take out 4 cards. Run your full rigs with 12 cards MAX. The mix and matched full rigs are unstable. 16 card full rigs will eventually become glitchy due to SPI bugs.  Oh it's only going to get nuttier day by day.  By that token it should be priced at 7K. I have a feeling this is going to be like with Nov jupiters, no clear advantage to being earlier in the waiting list.@Searing, so you plan on selling your Jupiter for the price of a pre-order Neptune? It's a gamble but *shrug* who knows what will be. Pfff...MPP isn't going to make one damn difference. Now KNC is selling another batch of Neptunes   so our BJs don't stand a chance against the coming difficulty storm. *Sigh* maybe someday miners will realize that the only people getting rich are the hardware companies, not them. So keep on pumping money into their pockets folks. With HashFast it seems we totally pissed our money away. Hmm, yeah they can be finicky/flaky, but I'm wondering did you make sure the cards are not wobbling? If they are left freestanding in the slots and you got a powerful fan blowing on them they will sway and wobble like crazy and this can cause them to work themselves loose from their respective slots. If you don't have a case for them I suggest maybe securing them by some method. Some have even used tape on the top of the cards. Also pay close attention to the slot arrangement. Make sure you have the cards distributed as evenly as possible across the various banks. Place the worst performing card at the end of the card chain. Hmm, it seems their second batch Neptune are on sale for 9,995. I thought that price was strictly for previous customers! So first 9.5K then 12.5K and then back to 9.5K.   I wish the firmware would display the true hardware error rate so we don't have to run any calculations. So still no word on any possible price reductions?  Bitcoin asic companies should learn a lesson from the likes of Bitmain. Fund your chip development with your own money, and take order only when you have hardware ready to ship! Anything else is just getting a free loan from customers with little to no payback for the lender (ie your "customer" - I use that term in quotes as sucker is a more suitable word).@de_ixie: The legal system in USA works on the principle of he who has the most money wins.  I'd take a refund and the opportunity to "wait in line" again as I'd much rather pay 10 btc per unit than 50 btc which is likely to never be mined by these batch1 units. However this scenario is out there in fantasy land and there is no way they'd go for it. It's looking like they are just going to wait until the very last moment, ship the units a day before dec 31'st or precisely on dec 31'st and claim that this constitutes meeting their deadline - nevermind the fact that customers will have their units in hand only 3 to 4 days (if not longer) AFTER 31'st.edit: corrected wrong date That is not an official price. That 250 euro price was setup temporarily so a specific client could purchase them at that on time rate. Don't ask me why they did it that way, but the 250 euro price is not a realistic market rate. The one that is more realistic is the one reflected on Dave's site..the megabigpower one.  Well, c'mon guys, what do you expect. These systems were not engineered properly with that much power draw in mind. 620 watts is far too much to draw from just two 6pin pcie connectors for extended period of time. It will run fine for a short while as I've experienced when I melted my PSU's module plugs too. I now have the rig tuned to 500 GH and a power draw of 475watts. I'm not going any further than that as I don't feel like melting every damn PSU I have. This is with a V2 m-board which does NOT have the rig connectors so I can't use that to spread the load a bit.If you can, measure amperage on each of the PCIE 6pin cables and see how much is going and make sure you do not exceed the rated maximum for the wire gauge your psu uses. I've said this before, but I will say it again; I am shocked that they did not engineer the m-board with 3 or 4 separate 6pin PCIE connectors. We got him up and running..I discovered the source of his problem too..his home router does not do DNS forwarding, so while we were manually assigning the miner's WAN interface static IP assignments the miner could not reach the outside network because it could not resolve hostname - ie DNS was busted. So the trick was to instead of using the router's IP address in the DNS fields, I used google's public DNS servers, and tadaaaa all worked after. Kind of lame that a router would not do dns forwarding though. I fails to see any valid reason linksys would disable or omit that feature.
So they were setup to mine wirelessly then? The steps to make them work via cable connection are simple:1) Log into the web interface somehow2) Go to Network 3) Edit the "WAN" interface and switch the protocol from DHCP to Static IP4) Manually assign all the network settings5) Save and applyDone.  Indeed I can confirm that V3 boards are the most stable I've had. V1.2 are iffy. They're too flaky for my liking and require constant maintenance, but that's the price we pay for getting in early I guess. It should be fairly easy. Just ensure that he's on the same subnet as the antminer (white sticker on the control board tells you its default IP address). So in ubuntu he can go to the "network" tray applet at the top right of the screen (depending on whether he's using Unity or the classic Gnome based environment) and manually set the IP address of the LAN adapter to 192.168.2.x, subnet mask 255.255.255.0, etc. The network manager tray applet should look like two up and down arrows (1 up 1 down).He can also run the network manager app by typing "sudo network-manager" or "sudo network-manager-gnome"  Whoa, what the hell is going on then. That is supposed to happen only when the power draw is excessive. Perhaps the gauge of the wires is too low (ie 20 AWG instead of 18 or lower)? Nice. Apparently these have a built in temp sensor that auto adjusts the fan's speed.  That's likely cause ssh and remote access has been disabled on that interface. Oddly enough the WAN interface in the firmware is actually the ethernet interface physically and the LAN in the firmware is the wi-fi. Not sure why they did that. Initially when I was trying to setup my first unit this threw me off and I ended up manually setting an IP on the wrong interface so surprise surprise when I was not able to reach the unit at the newly assigned IP. Check on "System" and then "Administration" to make sure ssh is enabled for all interfaces. Hmm, odd. Did you overclock them?  Oh yeah, I got mine hashing away as I type...All your dreams of a refund have now been officially crushed...trololol.. Ah, ok. Well, it's fun to speculate once in a while. I hope you guys lower the price just a tiny bit more so I can grab a few v1.2 h-cards and _not_ lose money on them. I don't think you understood what I was trying to say. I was saying that you want to buy the h-cards at prices that _nobody_ will give to you - ie too low. Get it? What the heck is going on with the forum.  Wow, are you serious?! Shit, are these made of adamantium or something. These are just simple single bearings, not the dual bearings kind, no?I'm going to look for some too, but even on ebay I'm having a hard time finding the 4 pin connector kind. Most seem to be 5 pin.  I may do the same in the summer if they need additional cooling. I'm having a hard time finding retailers who sell Sanyo Denki fans in Canada; I wonder why.   Not good. Never heard of the units _killing_ PSUs. I guess these are armyantminers. As far as the bent back plate, yeah that thing is really thin and prone to bending. One of my units came with the fan grill all pushed and bent in. As you can guess I did not spot it right away and when I powered the unit the fan made a loud grinding noise as it was stopped dead in its  track by the bent grill. A pair of pliers did the trick and all is well now. I think it would've been nice to make the frame a bit thicker though so it does not bend so easily. I don't think it would've added that much to the shipping weight.When you say killed the PSUs how exactly did it happen - sparks? Melted power cables? Double LOL to the power of 10..I guess he hasn't seen what MBP (MegaBigPrice) is selling them for lately... I suspect they're upgrading their mining farm to something better and they're offloading the old gen stuff on all you dear customers. Bet you anything these are used or have been used in their mining farm. 50 btc per unit? Take it and go ...although I don't think you're really serious about it. So how many jiggawatts will one babyjet consume? Will this turn into another furnace replacement. I just got rid of my avalons dammit, I don't want any more nuclear furnaces!  You want to replace the main fan with a silent one? I'd be careful cause most silent fans simply cannot push the CFM rate required to properly cool the miner. I intend to leave the main PWM controlled fan on and put a more standard PC case fan at the back sucking air. I'd say 80 CFM should be enough to give the main fan a little bit of help. In case anyone wants to know, this is the stock fan. Made by NMB:Uploaded with ImageShack.us It already came with the latest firmware so there was nothing newer to update to.
I did some further troubleshooting today and disconnected the fully working blade and made the faulty one primary as sushi suggested and the same thing happens. I tried a different power supply - that did not help either. I did not test the voltage as I was a bit chicken on that front. To test that the unit has to be on I presume so I was worried that I'd short circuit something and end up frying the other working module as well or the control board. I noticed some oily residue on the back of the board (where the chips are) so I cleaned that up but that clearly had no bearing on the problem. As far as the heatsink it seems like it's pretty tightly held on. I saw no obvious assembly issues or broken capacitors or anything such as that. So I think I will just RMA it and be done with it. Sushi gave me an RMA address that is located in USA so no shipping to China! Yay! Once I get approval from sushi it's off to UPS or FedEX I go.I am just thankful this is the only dead blade out of all the units that I ordered.  Congrats on selling all of them once again. If you do another group buy I think I will go in for another one - my last one before the coming difficulty storm. It's going to get really rough. I'm hoping that bitmain might lower the price just a tiny bit. I mentioned the brand model wattage before..It's an OCZ EliteXstream 1000W, 1000 watts single 12v rail.  Hmm, well I'm going to the hosting location today and I'll bring my multimeter with me. I'm going to note down what you said about the voltage test points.  sushi, check your PM. I requested to have Bitmain send me a replacement blade. Thanks. Ok, well, I guess I found the source of the problem - the left side (aka blade #2) on that unit is bad. I had the unit on by itself on the same PSU as the fully working unit. Yes I did disconnect the other unit entirely. The faulty unit was all by its lonesome. Left the miner cool for a few minutes, powered it on - the same xxxxx on the second module. I tried powering just the faulty blade alone, but I guess the first blade needs to be one as it seems the controller board is fed through it so the unit will not power on fully without the "master" blade. ASIC# says 16 for the faulty blade, so half of the chips are not functional, although if you go by counting x's and o's more than half are throwing errors or non functional.xxxxxoxo xoxoxoxo xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxSwapping the PSU at this stage would be a pointless exercise. I will be asking Sushi to talk with bitmain to see if they can send me a replacement blade.Thanks to all those who've come up with suggestions.  In my case one of the blades has a bag full of Os, but the second has a 60% empty bag lol. So maybe the PSU hasn't got the juice to feed the second blade fully. The other unit being powered by the same PSU is working perfectly; lots of Os This OCZ PSU I'm using is supposed to have a 80A 12V rail.  Sushi, is there a way to identify and differentiate between the two blades. For example, which one is chain one and which one is chain two. Are the blades labelled or is there some logic followed like for example chain one being the left blade and 2 being the right..etc I'm definitely going to try that. First I will try powering the entire unit on it's own PSU. That seems to me like the easiest most logical next step. I'll get back to you either by the end of today or tomorrow. I'll try to find the cause today as this is pretty time sensitive.  hehehe..hey I remember this! You know what, I'd like to bid on it too and if I don't win it I'll gladly act as the escrow. Will you ship _only_ to the UK and EU?Also if you don't want to ship to north america would you make an exception and part with two h-boards ?  Only if it's less than what bitmain is charging, has no issues, and with escrow, otherwise I don't see the point.  Thanks. I hope so too. As for return I'm glad to see Bitmain taking care of their customers.  I'd hope it's physically fine. I'd like to avoid the time waste of a RMA process, although if it has to come to that I'd go for it as I paid for 180 GH and I expect to get at least that. I PM'ed sushi. I bet he is sleeping now - the poor guy is overworked - so I shall have to wait it out.I'll see if I can swing by the place where I'm hosting this miner and place it on it's own dedicated PSU. That may do the trick - or so I hope. Yeah a press release don't mean shit. Any bum can put one out. I want to see a ton of unbiased customers reporting having received their product. I'd like to see video and picture evidence.  Heheh..the thread that never ends....Yeah definitely a full btc refund would be welcome by most. One can get a lot of hashing power for that amount now. A btc refund for them must be a nightmare scenario though and I'm sure they will do everything possible to avoid it. It's Dec 20. Time is ticking. Full delivery before Dec 31'st. That would be a Christmas miracle indeed. root@antMiner:/etc/config# cat asic-freqpackage 'cgminer'config 'asic-freq' 'default'        #option 'freq_value'      '0780'        #400M        #option 'freq_value'    '4d81'  #350M        #option 'chip_freq'     '350'        option 'timeout'        '40'        #option 'freq_value'    '4c81'  #325M        #option 'chip_freq'     '325'        option 'freq_value'     '4d81'  #350M        option 'chip_freq'      '350'        #option 'freq_value'    '0580'  #300M        #option 'chip_freq'     '300'        #option 'freq_value'    '0981'  #250M        #option 'chip_freq'     '250'        #option 'freq_value'    '4f02'  #190M        #option 'chip_freq'     '190'root@antMiner:/etc/config# Should I change " option 'timeout'        '40' " to something else perhaps? It's at 40 now, goxed in the thread suggested 36 if you set the clock to 375. I want to avoid overclocking the unit just yet for warranty purposes, so I'm looking for some suggestions besides just bumping the clock higher. Here is the weird thing, on the web front end it says the clockrate is 350 MHz, but if I ssh into the box and vi /etc/config/cgminer it says the following:config cgminer 'default'        option chip_frequency '282'        option miner_count '24'        option api_allow 'W:127.0.0.1'        option more_options '--quiet'        option target '60'        option overheat '70'BUT why would that be an issue cause the second miner has the SAME config. Errr...duh, nevermind. I see that /etc/config/asic-config is where it stores the actual chip frequency config table. There is says 350. PSU: OCZ EliteXstrem 1000W Rails: Single rail. Cables: 4 pci-e 6pin connectors, 2 per unit. This is not a modular PSU so I have no chance of somehow running the unit off of the same PSU connector. I made sure the pci-e leads do not seem to originate from the same PSU strand but it's not really all that easy to tell. The unit is hosted with a family member so sadly I have to wait until I can do the turning it off and letting it cool trick.I think though that either putting the unit on it's own dedicated PSU will fix it, and if that does not then it's clearly a fault with the miner itself. Now half the chips on the second blade are dead:216350036xxxxxoxo xoxoxoxo xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxedit: this is after a power cycle Hmm, I'm using an OCZ EliteXtream 1000W unit which should be a fairly top end PSU. But I think your idea about trying a different PSU is a good one. I am thinking placing this unit on it's own dedicated PSU and see if that makes a difference. I have another exact same PSU that I will try. If that fails I will have to try a completely different one.
How did you fix yours? Not that I think this makes a diference but this miner is running on the same PSU as another one. It's a 1000W psu. Each blade has it's own dedicated 6pin PCIE cable. 232350037xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxshit..all x's on the second blade. *sigh* here I was hoping I'd get lucky and get perfect working miners. Here is what worries me. All of a sudden the hashrate dropped to 89 GH. This makes me think one of the blades is faulty. I tried rebooting it 2 min ago; still at 89 GH. This IMHO justifies a warranty claim. I haven't power cycled it as I'm at work but I will try that later on.  I checked on the poolside and it's definitely lower than the other miners..~150 gh.sushi, any ideas what I can do? I have one unit that seems to be underperforming. After leaving it to mine for 30+ minutes the AVG hashrate is 155 to 160:See screenshot below:Uploaded with ImageShack.usUsing the formula posted by giletto it came out to 0.54. Can someone just double check my math please in case I did something wrong. If 0.54% is correct then I'm wondering why the miner reports the average as being lower than what the other units report. Also why so many HW when the other units have a significantly less amount. All units have the latest firmware as according to the kernel log:Linux version 3.10.12 (xxl@ubuntu) (gcc version 4.6.4 (OpenWrt/Linaro GCC 4.6-2013.05 r38031) ) #7 Thu Dec 12 12:53:57 CST 2013 Cool stuff. Glad to hear you got it working. Happy Hashing!Mailing address sent via PM reply. Thanks Cheers! What?! With escrow you increase your price? Why? You will send at end of year.? What's stopping you from sending sooner than that, the monster under your bed? You mean the fried module. Open the thing up. Then power it up once opened and look for smoke coming from one of the modules. I bet you anything that it's not the PSU but one of your modules is fried. Fine out which one and then disconnect the ribbon data cable and power cable. Power it back up and mine away  Bitpay eh...well I for one paid 100% via BTC directly to a btc address that was given to me by one of HashFast's staff. I expect nothing but 100% unadulterated btc back  The pressure is on.... stolen coins eh..I guess I would know a thing or two about that..but it never occurred to me this method of laundering it..clever..technically they can launder stolen coins at cex.io as well....it's not like they check or care where the coins come from.also what's this I hear about principal objection to using cex.io..have they done something fishy?        ...oh god I nearly cried laughing... Miners shipped. Ok, now I get it. You shoul've been a bit more clear in your first post. You paid over 160 for some OTHER miners not a KNC Jupiter. Oh man you really opened yourself up for ridicule with that asking price. You know people here will troll you endlessly. loooool....hold on while I collect myself from the floor cause you just blew me to pieces..you paid 160 btc..*cough* "a few months ago"?  If you're not full of shit you got massively ripped off. A first batch unit should've cost around ~10 btc at the time when it was first made available. BTC/USD exchange rate was pretty high at the time. Did you by any chance mean to say you paid 16 BTC for it, not 160 btc? And if you're asking 31 btc now at today's exchange rate that should be around $16,000, which is what I suspect you _may_ have paid "a few months ago" . Tytus is too busy enjoying his hookers and blow to care  lol Son of a bitch, I'm going to be stuck with a pile of babyjets up to the ceiling and I'll STILL not make back my original purchase price in btc. *Sigh* Quickly someone go burn their facility down so they can't ship out and hence forced to refund everyone..kidddiiiiing.. Hmm, yeah ooops, forgot about that. It uses a hybrid proof of work/proof of stake system which makes it too different from bitcoin to be piggybacked on to it like all the other clonecoins. Anyways, I'm gonna drop this subject as it seems from a sha-256 perspective btc and nmc should be enough. IXC should die in a fire like i0coin. 
Will they just give you a Sierra case if you ask them for it at cost? Or is this something they did just for you on a one-time basis? cedivad and Jutarul thank you both. These will come in handy when I experience the first sdcard failure. Well, maybe for you guys that are adding additional hashrate to their farms it may not make sense at 4.25 but for someone who is simply swapping hashrate with that from more power efficient hardware (like these) it makes perfect sense. I already a liability that was not fully paid off (BFL hardware, avalon batch 2) so I'm just carrying the "debt" sort of speak. Hoping sushi wakes up soon so I can put in another order. Can you point me to a HOW-TO on this subject? (ie NFS based root fs) Is that prevalent? I read somewhere that it's due to the way people restart/shutdown their systems. @ninjarobot - is  minepeon somehow inherently better at this, does it use the file system less? As far as I'm aware none of these custom linux distros were designed for an embedded environment and hence make normal use of the file system. Not true. Look at bitfury's web interface, avalon (arguably an even weaker processor inside the tplink routers), custom pi mining firmwares, etcAs far as cgminer being terminal based that's not a limitation as it has an API that can export all the necessary stats and info a gui might require. Like I said I really don't care if it comes with a gui option or not, but some more novice miners may. Thanks for confirming that for us - or for me as I apparently I was the only one who didn't know this. One quick question though, does the rasp  pi image come with a fancy web gui as well ? Not that It's needed, but I'm just curious to know.  Yeah I guess you're right. But I'm wondering what you think about PPC (aka peercoin). Useless?  If they could match bitmain's prices I'd order. As it stands it's still too expensive. If anyone wants to sell two v1.2 h-cards at a reasonable price give me a shout.  I'd give him 0.60 per board for two h-cards, but this is of course not the correct section.  lol I love how the 10 or more price is HIGHER than the single unit price.. thanks for the info..I shall wait until I see a PM from sushi. Sold to KCminer. Damn that was quick. Thanks once again. K, thanks for the info. I guess I shall find out.  Really?! I must be out of the loop as I though they were sending just the units and it was up to us to provide the host to manage them. Sounds like we have a deal . Why did I even bother to start this thread. Please put me down for another 1 @  4.20 (previous customer discount)Thanks! So far KCmining has the highest offer. It looks like he will likely take them. I am just waiting on my antminer to come and once that does I am closing this sale.KCmining, you're up for quick payment?  It would suck if these shipped and we had no mining software to run them with. My RaspberryPi is ready for them. lol, oh hey, it's my old friend  welcome to the party...
Well no kidding, that's why I'm asking 1.41 PER SINGLE. C'mon guys, read before you whine about prices  They're 3.57 btc on the BFL website for ONE.  lol, really, how so? *edit* yeah sorry I had the word bid in there. The word bid can have multiple meanings and it does not always have to coincide with an auction, don'cha know  For sale: 3 BFL Singles SC 60. They perform at 180 GH average.No PSU includes. You will have to power them with a regular ATX PSU. Then again who would want the crappy BFL bricks anyways? 80 Plus Gold PSU (or better) is the way to go my friends. Location: Ontario, CanadaShipping: Buyer pays shippingMy minimum acceptable offer is 4.25 btc for all 3.  Wohoo! Consider me in for another 1. On the contrary, I did indeed order, but I don't care if you believe me or not! And who are you to tell me whether it's better that I do or do not comment?  Any chance of introducing other merged mining coins, kinda like ghash.io is doing?  Pfff..dunno where you pulled that weight figure, but one unit is apparently 3.80 kg Hmm, well, for the record BFL got away with it, HF will likely too. It takes a rare kind of breed to actually do something. HF just have to wait it out, meanwhile their "creative pickaxing" (to borrow a phrase from Death&Taxes) will have paid off.  These things will weight 44 kg!?! Really? Oh god my back will not be pleased. I just carried 6 Avalon units yesterday to the post office. Here is one way they can save their skins - give EVERY batch 1 customer free 6 month hosting! Tadaaaa...no worries about shipping delays and hence no breaking of the ToS. I haven't been following your travails with HF, but are you seriously starting legal proceedings against them? You may have more people to your side soon. Class action lawsuit for the win - hopefully! lol In that case they would be robbing you of a possible upgrade path - not that it means shit since an extra 400+ GH isn't going to do diddly squat when upgrade boards get shipped (after or during batch4). Either way you will get screwed somehow! (don't forget the lube) Yep, and if you ordered the upgrade kit it does you no good as you'll get it after batch 4, so I said screw it and opted not to give them any more of my money. Way to reward the first risk takers! What can I say, the wolf cares not what the sheep thinks at dinner time! Correction: resistance is _lower_ lower resistance more voltage..goes from 1.20 ohm to 1.03 or lower - one h-card went as low as 0.99 ohms..These are of course K ohm..1.20K. You get my picture. +1I wonder if we'll ever see a bitcoin asic manufacturer ever adopt this mentality. It seems they all just do the minimum possible or worse. The device is not on when measuring the resistance. Because these blades sit in a backplane parallel to each other at close quarters, it is damn near impossible to measure electricals while it's running, unless of course you have just one board or a few boards active and there is ample space between the boards. I measured the ohm on the R02F resistor while the board was out of the rig and completely powered off. This is the kind of design you need for a massive yet more cost effective mining farm. If had a bunch of bitfury chip reels guess what I'd be doing....Congrats to intro and team for innovative board designs. What is the whole point of this exercise? If you want to rent/lease hashing power why not do it from CEX. See below: They have a ton of hashrate you can rent. https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=373914.0
Holy shit, 22 btc?! I bet those that paid 10 btc a piece feel pretty lucky right now! Yeah it makes no sense to me either. I would expect as some of the carbon falls off essentially what should happen is seeing as how there are fewer carbon chains there the resistance should go UP and thus the cards should begin to slow down in hashing performance as the voltage drops. I guess there must be some other factor that I am not aware of. Maybe the extra heat is causing some of the solder around the resistor to change shape and perhaps causing more contact or some voodoo like that?Anyways, I just hope that these babyjets don't start melting my PSU cables like the bitfury units.  Hmm, not sure why anyone would want to buy your units other than I guess local pickup?There will be another batch announced soon. One in the middle? Hmm, won't your setup result in conflicting air currents? Maybe a picture would better help me visualize your setup. *hint* Umm, also can you let us know what fans you added? Just any regular PC fans or did you go for something more hardcore? The fan is PWM controlled, so the only way to change the fan speed would be from within the miner's firmware/web interface via cgminer arguments. The default fan profiles are probably fine, but I'd still like to have a second fan to help out the first one. In the summer ramping up the fan speed will be a must - at least for me as I'm not hosting the miners in a damn freezer as some of you seem to be doing On a different note, I got tracking confirmation #'s so I'm  Also it seems they shipped pretty much the entire order list as two of my orders where near the end of the line (250+) and the tracking info page shows a total that includes even these more recent orders.Way the go sushi and the antminer team  You guys rock! Too much thermalpaste is not a good thing. If the miner runs too hot you/us may have to re-paste it. On a different note, what do you guys think of adding a second fan to the miners? I'm guessing the main fan is one of those crazy 150 cfm server fans so adding an slightly weaker fan to help it out a bit should be OK.  w00t w00t.. Thanks for confirming that for me. I thought it was all in my head  lol I too am using HB as recommended by a guide here on the forum. I have a wide variety of pencils available so I guess next time I'll try something harder. The problem may be getting a H2 or harder to actually remain or stuck on the resistor.  But like I said I bet you did not make the mistake of running BOTH 6pin connectors off of the same main PSU 8pin PCIE feeder (talking about the modular plugs on the PSU itself) Essentially it's a splitter that converts 8pin to TWO 6pin. That is what I was using and that's a big no no. Check your total power usage and feel to see how hot the cables feel at the PSU end. That is where it will most likely melt the plastic around the pins. I also observed a funny phenomenon where the system slowly overclocks itself. Essentially the resistance on the h-cards at the R02 resistor lowers itself with time. Don't ask me how this happens, but it may be somehow the way I pencil modded them? I dunno, either way I'm hoping that it will remain stable for now. Anyways, wrong thread for this discussion.  Pardon my ignorance if this has been mentioned, but what exact corsair case are they going to ship babyjet units in?  Yeah, well the issue is that the bitfury team did not anticipate that people would overclock the fuck out of them and thus pushing power draw into the stratosphere. One of my bitfury rigs is drawing 470 watts from TWO seprate 6 pin PCIE connectors. Previous to that I mistakenly ran two 6pins connectors from the same main PSU feeder jack and guess what, the plastic around the connector melted. It was pretty much close to a complete meltdown. At the time the unit was pushing 528 gh so power draw must have been over 500 watts for sure. I can't for the life of me understand why they did not use either 3 separate 6 pin or 3 8pin just to have some headroom cause they should've expected people were going to overclock the units as soon as they found out how. Oh and I should mention that the PSU that this happend to was a Corsair AX860 which is likely made by Seasonic. I don't know the gauge of the wire they use but if I had to guess I'd say it 18 AWG. The point that I'm trying to get a cross here is that over-engineering something is a good thing when you can do it without an unreasonable increase in cost. Also, damn this thread grows like weeds! Right, me too. So I guess they don't update the first post orders list until they get tracking numbers? Or is it that they change the status to SHIPPED as soon as they ship it. Either way I see your orders are 100 and 101 and I'm 181-183, so our orders should be in the 208 that were shipped recently. All units have been shipped today.  So I guess today being the 16'th that means that units will start shipping out, no? Hey, just wanted to let you know that I sold all my avalon miners, but I'm sure you will find other people to sell you theirs. I can put you in contact with a forum member that might have a lot of them. Update: Thank you all for your offers. I have however sold all of them. 6 went to one person and 2 to another.  Sorry, the buyer via PM has matched your bid of 1.8 no escrow and he told me he will send payment in the next hour or so. Either way like I said I really need to get going and sleep.  I'll be back in 8 hours - sleep time.  I can ship Monday, just that I have two people that bid for TWO units. One bid is via PM by a buyer who wishes to remain anonymous. He bid 1.7, while another bidder here bid 1.8 but I'm inclined to take the lower offer as that buyer is willing to trust me and therefore expedite the transaction.  So far you have the highest bid. Although I'd prefer someone's bid that does not ask for escrow as this only lengthens the selling process and I'm in a bid of rush to get some btc. 
Ordered two more units. Please check PM.Thanks! I am going to lock this thread. Moderators please close it.I have decided to sell my Avalon miners so I won't be needing any replacement modules. And so ends my bittersweet adventure with Avalon hardware. Where you located?  Update: 6 Avalons are practically sold - just waiting on shipment and once that's done deal is concluded.What is left are two Batch 3 units with only two working modules. Someone made a bid of 0.75 per unit. Anyone want to go a tiny bit higher, maybe 0.82? (1 month it should ROI) Nice. Can you please post it on pastebin. You guys think it's likely that they _won't_ deliver by the end of Dec? Do you have a copy of their original ToS? They can say anything they want and it would not mean shit unless those particular terms are what the buyer agreed to _at the time of purchase_.  They can easily go back on their word - see Avalon, BFL, etc. Well ofcourse, they'd be stupid to refund in BTC although I would not mind it  Oh how I regret buying these things. There is _no_ mining hardware that is more valuable than btc "in hand" This is starting to look like a game for suckers. Wait, what? You forget that most people paid 50 btc per unit back when they were taking pre-orders. No way in frozen hell that a unit will mine 50 btc in it's entire lifetime. So no, a refund would be the better option if they failed to deliver.  Thank you all for your posts. I will do my best to reply ASAP. I gotta get some sleep now. Let's see if he goes for the whole lot at the mentioned price. If not I may be able to break the lot in pieces and sell you one. That is a fair deal. I bet you anything you'll be able to revive the dead modules. I also might be able to get some for you or put you in contact with someone that was planning on selling me two modules. But on my own I am not able to fix the broken blades. Let me know if this is a dealbreaker for you.PM me your address so I can figure out shipping costs. *I'm going to sleep now guys, but I'll try to reply to any new posts or PMs early in the morning - about 8 hours from now* How the heck did the KNC miner kill the PSU? Is this common? Item is out of stock ...Hmm I think I will just buy it from cryptocables. Make me an offer above 1 btc and we shall see.  6 of them are hashing at normal rates - ie ~71 GH NOT overclocked. If you push them to 325 and dare I say 350 (if you can cool them well enough) they will do 80+ and even 110. The other 2 have 1 broken hashing blade each so they hash at roughly 47 to 50 GH. Although I bet you anything someone can revive those modules as most likely it's either due to a dead capacitor - I never bothered to dismantle the thing and find out as any downtime with these things is not good. btw, what would you swap them with?  Nothing will make a profit these days it seems.  Yeah I completely understand and I agree that it's way overpriced. Ohwell, I guess we shall have to wait until Dave or the market comes back to reality.  Someone posted proof that the latest shipment comes with 6pin pcie jacks wired already so that's good news   Sorry, 6 pin to 2 x 8? Not sure if that makes sense. You mean a 8 pin to 6+2 pin?I wonder if there is any way of knowing if the miners I just ordered will come with pci-e connectors. I guess I'm going to have to ask sushi. It would save me from being caught with having no power cables or with cables that I did not need to buy.Thanks for the info though! 
They're all 3 blade units with 850 watt PSUs so they can be upgraded to 4 blades. Anyone else want to go in on a group buy? If anyone wants I can organize one for anyone in Canada.  Hey, did you use a 4 pin PCIE cable extender or 6 pin?  Someone offered him 13  and...I'm thinking of offering 13.5  if he is willing to close the deal fast.  Hmm, not sure if it would be worth the effort to drive the heavy beasts over to your hosting facility in Michigan. First off I do not have any vehicle that could handle all the units at once, and second it could pose some problems at the border I would think. So i'd prefer to just sell them. I started a for sale thread in the computer hardware subforum so I think I'll just sell them one by one on a first come basis preferably to someone who can pick them up or someone in Canada. The purpose of this topic is to ascertain the market value of my Avalon mining gear. I have 8 of these that I've acquired over time but unfortunately if I wan't to add any additional hashing power I cannot without swapping these with more power efficient gear. My plan is to replace their hashing power with Antminer gear. These are a mix of batch 2 and batch 3 (4 of them are batch 3). However, I should mention that two hashing blades are dead out of all the 4 batch 3 units. I am in the process of finding a seller to replace the dead cards.All these miners have NOT been overclocked whatsoever (funny that that two of the blades died anyways even if they were babied). All hash currently at ~71GH (except of course the two module ones which are 24 gh less).I would also be open to a hardware swap. I'd accept any units that are MORE power efficient than these. So, back to the value discussion. What would you give for these units?Location disclosure: I'm located in Canada - Ontario to be precise.UPDATE: 6 Units have been sold. The two left are the 2 working modules units. They has at about 50 GH per unit.UPDATE: ALL UNITS HAVE BEEN SOLD! That's pretty much what that bid was meant for  Realistically if I did not believe that Cointerra and HashFast were going to ship soon I'd say 13 to 15 is a good price to pay. 6 btc with escrow. Anyways, I'm out of this thread. Clearly the OP is no longer interested in selling.  Did this arrangement fall through? I haven't heard back from you. Any still left? 1.6? then. I'm located right across from Detroit so if you want to have someone pick them up that can be arranged. Sorry FuzzyBear, I'm in Canada, so unless you want to fly over here pickup is not a realistic scenario. I can provide you with pictures of one of my units as a sample. I'd honestly like to get 1.8 btc per unit so I can replace the entire hashing power of 5 with 2 antminers which are far more power efficient. I'm also wondering where exactly are you located. Shipping these is not going to be fun, but it's doable.  They are very robust and require nearly no maintenance (except maybe a dust cleaning once in a while if you are in a very dusty environment). They consume 650 watts at 120V running at 300 MHz which outputs ~71GH. You can overclock them to 350 and perhaps higher if you can cool them low enough. Potentially overclocked and with a bigger PSU you can run them at 110 GH. These are standalone units so they do not require any PC or other device to run CGminer or other mining software to mine. They have a builtin tp-link router that runs a custom firmware with cgminer built in. They are fully accessible via a web interface like any standard router. For more details google "Avalon Wiki" Out of curiosity what would you offer per unit for Avalon batch 2 units hashing currently at 71 GH never overclocked.  lol, this is ironic, cause I got shit from someone when I did not pay attention to the minimum bid rule, so if you're going to want to place a legitimate bid I'm afraid it has to be 14.50...As it stands my 14 btc bid is WITH the PSU as it says in the first post. Oh I see. I was not aware of that. Just to let you know I'm in Canada, so I hope you have no problems with shipping up north. You sure you're not confusing this with Bitmine.ch's delay for Dec orders?And @ LuisBCoin, there is no way to buy a babyjet in december. The only way is to buy some one else's very early pre-order from the first batch. I thought you already sold this unit.I'll offer 13 btc.
I'll offer 14 btc. You potentially interested in Avalon hardware? (a mix of batch 2 and batch 3 design) Ouch, that is expensive. I already have a unit in the first batch so for me paying $6K extra does not make sense. Good luck with the auction. How much for 10 ? No shipping to your neighbors to the north? loool...yeah I actually did. I technically won his current(?) auction but I doubt he will honor it. At the very least he could start it again with a clear end time and allow everyone to bid again. Yeah I guess you're right as the 1x will fit into the first spacing/hole on the 16x pcie slot.  Indeed, name thy price peddler!  Hmm, I'd go in but I only need 2 cards. I have 6 empty slots on the m-board but as far as I'm aware anything beyond 12 and the SPI chain errors can introduce instability into the rig. So for mixing an matching cards 12 h-cards in one rig is the max suggested. For full rigs it does not matter as they verified that all the cards work together before shipping.I also have one card that is under-performing (17 GH) due to quite a few dead chips on it, so I may want to replace it. Thus I could go in for 3 cards with you, but we'd still need 2 more assuming you take 5.  Even at the discount rate these don't make financial sense. What a shame, I really wanted to top off two m-boards that I have. klondike_bar, which h-cards version are you interested in? I wonder if we're allowed to mix and match the type as long as the total ends up being at or over 10. Where exactly? I would suggest buying a brand new one. This way you know it's been unused and you have a guaranteed warranty. Use pricematching sites to find the best deal. You going to restart the auction, or? So, do you mind me asking what price you'd like per unit. I just want to get a feel for what you consider desirable. I'd be interested in a mix of 1x to 16x (powered) and 16x to 16x (powered). Yeah, also given the inflated price offered by Dave I am thinking current h-card owners may try to flip them so good luck getting a good deal on them. Dave from megabigpower has quite a few in stock, but they're expensive. If you buy 10 or more you'll get a discount. Considering  you have no track record, I'd only buy one with escrow. Who is going to be the first guinea pig? My advice, buy some coins and one or two miners just so you can get a taste of the heaven and hell of being a miner. Then come back in a year and tell me which was the better investment - direct btc or mining gear  I'm guessing that your hosting location is also in the Stockholm region, no? 
He will. He has overpaid in the past, he will do it again.  I will bid 7 btc, considering that the next diff adjustment is going to hurt real badly.  Congrats.  You got a very high price for it.  Seller must have been abducted by aliens.Soon he'll be back and offer to sell us a quantum computing based miner.  Bitfury chips are actually more efficient than KNC, so not fair to call them power hungry. BFL on the other hand are power hungry.  650 at 850 watts?  This forum is the wild west my friend. You'll just as easily be crapped on as praised. Don't take it personal, but some people here will play reverse psychology in order to get you to drive down your price. However, having said that I found that for the most part people here know how to use earnings calculators so you'll receive pretty much reasonable offers (with the exception of deernutz, he's just nuts with his 4 btc offer lol)I too am tempted to put my bid in the hat, but I am starting to think that these units are a losing bet as soon more hashing power will hit the network and I'd be lucky to get my btc back from it. Next diff adjustment it might make 10 btc per month, the next probably 7 or worse. So if someone gives you anything beyond 15 btc for this they've got bigger balls than brains. Good luck to your sale nonetheless. Ok, cool. Your DC is in Sweden, or? You mean like buying bitcoins directly  That is worthwhile. The mining companies are just feasting on the greed of the would be miners at this point. It's a sellers market 1000x over. Damn I'd get one but January shipment, hmm, not too good. At this point you may as well give your money to KNC; at least you'll have a chance to get 3 TH without paying $119880 for it. I forgot to ask one thing; how much power does the unit suck up at full load? (on average) Current highest bid is 9.5 btc, you gotta do better than that I'm afraid.  What are the hosting costs? Indeed it would. So what's the holdup? Why don't you have it in hand yet if you offered his asking price?  Sorry my bad. 11.50  then Would you be willing to just sell the hosted jupiter? Good thing I have a boatload of those dummy plugs from the GPU mining days. Funny how I'm going back to GPUs. that means the previous bidder's 7.5 is the highest, I am tempted to offer 7.6...*thinking* *thinking*...... Shaaweeet   Now all we have to do is hope we ROI. 
11.2 rofl..oh dear god! Truman you crazy nutty German.  I think the average joe miner still has some life left in him, but the trend seems to be towards centralized big mining farms. In the end it's the ASIC manufacturers that will dominate the mining scene. As always he with greater resources can more easily get more resources. Bitcoin was never meant to be egalitarian.Definitely nice talking to you as well.  Are you willing to sell just the h-boards ?  Oh oh, Truman is on the attack. Alle Ihre bitcoin Hardware gehört zu mir! Yeah but the thing is it's not the board that's the problem for the most part. From the way I understood things it has to do with the design of the PCIe extender. Well, actually it could be that some cheaper or lower quality boards do not support the swapping functionality or whatever the case may be and thus there is no problem. What's worrying is that a lot of the quality boards one would reasonably consider for a mining rig do have this problem with these 1x to 16x extenders.But without some uber geek on the thread to shine the light I guess I'd have to buy and find out. What goes bump in the night...a thread does ! Worry not, someone will come along and provide the supply. There is money to be made even at lower prices. I can provide you with a white pegasus, but due to the laws of supply and demand it will cost you 1 million bitcoins, both items are equally ephemeral  Yeah bro, people on ebay be like "Shut up and TAKE MY MONEY NOW!!" Nice. Power and cooling are #1 IMHO. In the winter you can take advantage of the cold outside air to cool the beasts, and in the summer you may have to run the hardware a bit hotter, but most chips can run hot without harm. What I'm saying is that even if you can keep the average ambient temp to 24c or 25 you should still be ok. No need to go crazy and push it down to 18 or 19, or 20 as some people require or do in a more data center type of scenario. The key is to minimize costs as eventually mining will be a slicing margins type of game. Hey even if it looks a bit ghetto, as long as it works and it's secure go for it But as far as offering hosting for other people I would recommend not doing that on a big scale. It's a support nightmare. Miners are 10x more anal about any downtime or issues. Any downtime and they are literally losing money. It's not like home internet where if it goes down for a few hours or 1 day you're stuck with forum or facebook withdrawal symptoms. Also if you do host for other people even on a small scale be careful what hardware you accept. Some hardware is just inherently more unstable or finicky - perfect example of this is bitfury gear. If someone has to physically handle the hardware ask yourself do you really want to do that at 3'o'clock in the morning.  He's referring to market timing. Most people are shit at timing the market (don't blame them, even the wall-street pros are the same), so if you don't get shaken out of the market during the mini crashes that eventually occur you will end up making profit _IF_ you hold on to your coins. In the end if you got big balls you could just use dollar cost averaging and buy and hold. Look at when price went to almost below $1. If you bought then knowing full well that the price could've tanked even lower you could be a multi millionaire today. The overall trend for btc seems to be UP and most miners would've made a bigger return had they not bought hardware. The issue is that most miners are cash poor so they did not have a lot of capital in fiat to put into mining hardware, so they were forced to pay for that hardware with btc. This is kind of like being bullish on gold and wanting to invest in gold mining companies but since you have no cash you sell all your jewelry or gold coins and bars to buy gold stocks in the hope of getting more physical gold later on.  There is also something called price gouging. And you should not call _us_ naive. Naive are the people that accept and pay the ebay price. Nay, naive is perhaps not the word; foolish is a better one. 7.2 7.1 6.1 5 btc, escrow required. 5 btc I'm thinking of purchasing a few extenders from you. However first I'd like to put on a slightly technical question out there. I read on a different thread that some motherboards require shorting of the pins on these extenders when using the 1x to 16x kind, otherwise the mobo will not detect the card. From the gist of the thread it seems this is due to the design of the extenders themselves - something to do with a pin that should not be there due to it messing the hotswap capability of PCIe. So my question is, has anyone had any issues with the 1x to 16x extenders on their motherboard. Have you had to try any funky tricks like shorting pins on the extenders themselves to get the card to be recognized (once again when using JUST the 1x to 16x). If the owner of the building will let you punch a few holes through the concrete blocks you can put in one or more of those portable air conditioning units. If you don't mind me asking how big is your facility (square feet) and how much you paying to rent/lease it (I'm assuming it's lease as it seems at least form it's tough to find someone that will merely rent you such industrial type of locations). You might be able to get by even in the summer if you had massive airflow. For that you will need a way to exhaust all that hot air at a rapid rate in order to prevent the air from stagnating and the heat from building up. Cheers! Not surprised this has happened as there will eventually come a fool knocking. However, it's good to see that since he announced the availability of new stock only 1 v2.2 card sold. It shows that the hashing power fever has subsided a bit.
5 1x to 16x still available? Probably, but it will cost you a million dollars.  I am shocked how many people pay for hardware with coins and later on make less but due to the value of btc rising they feel that somehow they've made a profit.  It is good news, however I ran out of room to expand. I am in a mad search to find some place to rent to build a hosting facility.  Maybe Dave's availability counter is broken, cause I don't see the quantity available changing from 1000 at all. What's wrong with you fools, buy the boards now!!  Is our hashing power back up to normal? If any of you guys are located in North America and want to buy bitfury hardware at usurious rates go to Dave's site now, hurry up and give him all your coins! You are right, a bad deal no matter which way you slice it. I was just pasting the results of the alloscomp bitcoin calculator. Bear in mind that it shows the earnings for the current diff period and their estimated next diff rise, but it is all totally speculative and no way you can rely on their estimate. I know, but I'm not looking to rip off some fool on ebay, I want to mine with them. I just want one at a reasonable price to have as a sort of nice bitcoin toy without wasting money by overpaying. Indeed, go get ripped off  Next diff adjustment (eta 2.5 days) you can expect to earn $405 per month (at the current btc price 688 which is likely to go lower still). If you pay with btc you _may_ break even in 3 months.  There are better deal out there, even if this other hardware consumes more electricity. 11 btc for 280 GH? Why in the hell would I do that when I can get a Jupiter for just a few coins more and get 550 to 650?! The site is broken. When you go to checkout it lists the price as $0 and you cannot pay. Also $999 per h-card?! Get real!Let's see here, spend $7992 for 8 h-cards get ~280 GH??!  You're better off waiting until the ASIC miner dust has settled a bit. Then I suppose you can buy whatever the most powerful hasher is at the time but NOT with a pre-order. Get it second hand or from a producer who has in stock. wow, that paper you linked to is some heavy reading; it will take me some time to look into it, but on the face of it improving the bitcoin protocol is welcome in my eyes. As always getting the majority of users and especially miners to go along with the proposed changes is a different thing. As long as bitcoin uses the SHA-256 algorithm then existing ASIC miners will be fine for the foreseeable future. Nothing short of something nuts like quantum computers will jeopardize the reign of the ASIC chip, but I do agree that we will experience more gold rushes. We've just witnessed one recently when btc price was over $1000. I saw people bid ridiculous prices for any miners they can get their hands on. But going back to your point about not buying into the early batch, yeah that's something I'm guilty of too. I foolishly paid 16K Euro for a Aug kit. At the time that was like 89 to 90 btc - I think. Either way probably my full kit will never ROI in btc terms. The lesson I've learned is that mining for profit and actually reaching a profit is not that easy. The small guy is better off just buying btc and that's it. Mining should be a hobby for most people, not a business because pure and simple it will be a _LOSING_ business for the majority of people. The ones that will make money twice over are the ASIC companies who had their chip development costs subsidized by YOU ALL. To add insult to injury they then turn that hardware you paid for and use it to drive up the difficulty. So you essentially pay for the hardware twice - it's like a hidden tax. In the end it may have been more fair if they just borrowed the capital to design and develop the chip, then mined privately.  As always, a celebrity knows best. Listen to Mr. Banks.  Buyer received the gear and everything was to his satisfaction. Funds in escrow released to seller. This concludes this transaction. Good luck to both of you! +1 at what starsoccer9 said...I might be interested in them especially since you offer hosting as well. 
Take it and run. This is a very good offer.  Way way overpriced, but a neat toy for the miner who can afford to toss some satoshi your way just to have a "trinket"  lol, I wasn't making an offer, I was just mentioning the price that it was last sold at at newegg which was $99..remember the link you posted. So if you can return it for 180 then do it, cause most likely there are better deals out there. Nobody should care what it's at in USD terms because you do NOT accept USD. You want someone to take the currency risk? This hardware should be judged on how much BTC it cane mine and that's it, nothing more.  For how much dinero, $99? Why doesn't anyone say what I think is at the back of a lot of people's minds.."why did I buy this ridiculously expensive hardware when I could have bought BTC and actually make a profit!" It was expensive back then and it is expensive now and it will always be expensive because there is always a sucker who is willing to overpay. It's really as simple as that. The ones who really laugh all the way to the bank are the ASIC producers, so all the little guys please give it a rest with the mining fever and just go out there and either buy btc or start a btc business. It would do a lot more good for the currency than for you to continually fill the pockets of hardware companies.And to all the fools who think that ROI in BTC terms does not matter cause it "don't pay the bills" please look up opportunity cost.  Well they told me the exact opposite.."Regarding your question about changing your order, we're afraid that is not possible. We cannot change the account name or shipping details in a paid order." Has to be plugged in continually via an ethernet cable. If you're really geeky you could setup a raspberry pi compatible wi-fi card and use that instead of the ethernet interface.  216 shares still left in GB5? (is that information up-to-date) I just hope you realize that KNC won't let a customer change the shipping address or the name on the account, so you'll have to suffer shipping delays. The question is would those delays (between the time the actual customer gets it and re-ships it to you) be worth it given your offer price. You might be better off just buying more at the market price (from the knc website) to make up for whatever perceived loss of "privileged spot" for not being early in the shipping queue.  This kit is due to make 6.0 btc per month at the next difficulty adjustment which is only 706 blocks away. I'd offer 6.6 as a result.  And most importantly GPUs have resale value outside the world of cryptocurrencies. Try selling your $10K ASIC miner if bitcoin tanks. 7.1 is cheap for a PRE-ORDER?!  Moderators: Please close/move/delete this thread.  The idea is not bad as there are tons of shares of bitcoin miners that were sold or are still being sold here on the forum. However, the question with this as with them is one of trust and reputation. There are also questions of what type of environment the rigs will be hosted in, the price you'll get for the hardware, the uptime, how quickly you can respond to failures and resolve them, etc. In other words if you're going to start what is essentially an IT business please outline your business plan.  Umm, then why not be an adult about it and tell us. I promise my feelings won't be hurt   Panic sell! lol j/kThe coins can also be distributed as a generate transaction - ie freshly mined coins. Ckolivas or someone who is more intimate with the inner workings of btc may be better able to explain it. Hmm, now that sounds like a very reasonable explanation. I was under the impression that they mined for me on their own pool not Eligius; and yes I did give them my btc address. Ok, that explains it. I just wasn't aware of them using Eligius.  There is no way in hell this box uses Avalon chips and achieves 1.5 TH at 1800watts or whatever the case may be. The machine you linked to is using their own 28nm chips.As for offers, I dunno, it's tough to bid on pre-orders cause one never knows if they indeed are going to meet their schedule. You said you paid 9 btc, so I presume that you will not entertain offers below that price? Well, I think I for one would be better off looking elsewhere if the seller does not respond soon. 
Which "reputable company" would this be, and why can't you tell us in your post?  Hey everyone. I'm wondering if there is anyone else out there that can give me some clues as to whom the IP address that mined this block belongs to:https://blockchain.info/block-index/444547https://blockchain.info/tx/c031d953b7e414c8128de238b5f9583086f9864d6d2c341dccc0c050d74b27e8tree view:https://blockchain.info/tree/100996453Essentially what happened is I noticed a mined transaction type in my btc wallet, but I do not remember placing my receiving address in any pool or place that could've mined that block. As you can see there are multiple outputs.I am suspecting KNCMiner, but I could be totally wrong.  Isn't this auction supposed to be done already? What's goin'on? These are BFL Singles he's referring to. Picture proof would be nice though. Congratulations to both the buyer and the seller. The escrow process is beginning. I will make another post when the transaction has been successfully complete to the satisfaction of both parties.  hehehe..7.3 penny pinching technique for the win...or so I hope  What the heck, a month long "auction"? Come back with a 7 day auction max if you want serious bids. 12 btc. Oooo..nice a fellow Canadian selling a Jupiter. How much and escrow allowed? 7.1 You've edited the first post and changed the auction end date to Dec 30, 2013?! wtf! jlol, true, I guess there is not much sense in doubling down at this point.  Well, as a previous person said, it was a good run. Thanks for everything Gigavps! Now it's time to move to a different pool.I hope you keep the back-end running long enough for all the current blocks to confirm and then you can clear our balances out.Best of luck to you all. So you're shutting down the pool? May I ask why? Hmm, what if we use a portion of our profits (agreed upon by users) to purchase a KNC Jupiter unit?  It's ok, thanks for trying though! I think I may have found someone willing to sell me a complete 3 module unit so that should nicely replace the missing hashing power. Just a tip but "complete units" in the title is misleading a bit. It leads one to believe upon first sight that it's a COMPLETE unit which means it INCLUDES chips. Not to mention I heard it sounds like a jet engine at full blast - so this is definitely a data center equipment not a bedroom miner. I am not sure, but if I had to guess I'd say no. I think though what is dead is just some or one capacitor, as when it failed smoke came out from the top of the blade so likely either one of the capacitors or the entire sub-board (the avalon blade is made up of smaller segments) is dead, but definitely something near the top side of the blade. 5.7
Let's face it, you bet on the wrong horse and lost. Tis sad, but I hope you manage to sell this failed "cash cow" that BFL hath wrought. 20 btc is too much though and nobody will buy at that price. Maybe something like 12 to 14 btc? 12 is a tiny bit over what this unit would earn in 1 month. hehehehe..tell me about it..3 btc I believe is the price for the aluminum encased unit. Most expensive 2 factor authentication system I've ever bought! But I'm keeping mine as in the end it's hard to put a price on this kind of security. How much you want for yours? I'm guessing 1 btc.  13 Perform black magic rituals with them? I dunno to be honest, probably nothing other than just keep them. I plan to bring it to some electronics repair shop in the lucky chance that it's just a blown capacitor or something repairable. If it's a burnt chip or something similar to the stories I've heard in the avalon tech support thread then I would have no clue how that can be repaired. lol I know that  It looks like you did not read completely my first post. I don't want to buy directly from Avalon at their price. At 1 btc it's not worth it as for that I might be able to find far more hashing power and probably with smaller power consumption.  Yeah I realize my wording is misleading, but I  meant bidding as in "publicly putting out offers", and you're just nitpicking  you nitpicker you! lol  Anyways, no way I'm willing to pay him 10K for this so if he isn't flexible on price then I'm outta here. Yay, now we can all go back to mining like bosses  . Thanks giga. I guess I should've said "BY the time these puppies..." - hashfast, cointerra, bitmine, others might start delivering hardware far before KNC. Damn, bitcoin mining fever is in full effect. When these puppies come online the network difficulty is going to get savagely whipped up again.  Shit, I posted this in the wrong section. Mod can you please move it to the "Computer Hardware" section of the marketplace. Thanks. So I take it all the Neptunes pre-order spots are gone (at least for now) as I don't see them listed on the product page (I am logged in)? I'm looking for two reasonably priced replacement Avalon 23 GH blades. Two from my batch 3 unit died (smoke and glory) for some reason and the ones on the avalon store are overpriced in my opinion so I'm hoping someone can hook me up with a better deal.  But do you understand how it's not fair to the other bidders when you close an auction early and not even allow them to compete? I would suggest next time you post your stuff for sale in the "computer hardware" section - ie non auction.  5.5 It's back but the site's stats are dead.  Yep, the pool pooped its pants apparently.  3.5 btc to start..happy bidding everyone. Shame nobody plans to build Avalon batc 1,2,and 3 compatible board but with 55nm chips. 5.1 The Mafia is into bitcoins now? : j/k, anyways, congrats..free bump fer ya.
Another person who does not know how auctions work.  Ok, but I do hope you realize that 14 gh is not a lot and it's due to earn just 0.30 btc per month.  Ohwell, sadly this seems to be the case. Also what are the chances of us getting additional bitfury hardware? Slim? So, are you accepting my offer or not? I won't wait forever  So what's the deal here, am I staring at another failed auction. *sigh* Timer would be useful. My latest bid 4.7 Right now I am using two seprate 6pin connectors and the total system draw iw 408 to 418 watts at the wall. I am hoping this is safe. The boards are overclocked but only slightly. I could push them higher - and they were - but once again the power draw would melt the wires. I am not sure what solution would work to give the boards more power. I forget if the v2.3 m-board has any screw type power connectors. I know the new style m-boards have both though.I guess I should mention that I'm powering the rig with a Corsair AX860. 4.5 True, but by a very slim margin. Also don't expect consistent 60 gh performance from these.  2 btc?! wow, this is just nuts guys. Do you realize that BFL has units in stock for "immediate delivery" according to their website - and for the same price you guys are willing to pay here. ok, I'll take the shares, but I'd like more if you have any available.  I'd be willing to throw some btc your way to be used towards the purchase of a Neptune unit. I too have a KNC account and could order some if RoboCoder runs into issues (I'm located in Canada). However, at the moment I don't have the proper facilities to host them (working on that) so shipping address would be put to RoboCoder's address.The only thing is we need to hurry to get in our order early.  3.9 What's next, instead of the miners you'll send us a bomb? lool. So you're selling your shares in the KNC Saturn only, not the ones in Neptune. To escrow or not to escrow, that is the question...that you must ask yourself, and finally let _us_ know. The fever has struck here as well! Let me reach for the bottle of chill pills and dispense generously.  Would you accept 0.15 to 0.18?  1.7 3.7
*sigh* I'm so tired of this PM BS. Why don't people post their bids in the thread so others are at least given a chance to compete.  I don't think you quite understand how escrow works. You get your money as soon as the escrow agent releases the funds. Typically the agent will release it once he has proof that the item has been shipped. You also want to make sure you select a reputable escrow agent who is an disinterested party - meaning that he won't take sides. You have no reputation on the forum so I would strongly suggest offering escrow if you wish to sell your boards. If you accepted escrow I would bid too, and so would others. I'd say each unit is worth about 1 to 1.5 btc.      There is no way I'm paying him escort fees! Escrow on the other hand would end up being far cheaper. Whereabouts are you physically located? Do you have any details of your mining operation you can share?  Whereabouts are you physically located? Do you have any details of your mining operation you can share? (thread perhaps) 1 3.5 0.85 2100 watts per unit if the W/GH figure is accurate; it could end up being slightly higher or lower. Either way they are _not_ "pretty darned efficient". There are other ASIC mining companies that claim to have lower power consumption figures. A perfect example of efficiency is the bitfury chips. They are more efficient on a 55nm manufacturing process than the current 28nm chips. If bitfury were to use 20nm or even 28nm I bet you anything they'd have the most efficient chips of the whole bunch.  And who said there is a 10 limit per customer? Hmm. Did your crazy order actually go through? If so congratulations you now need your own personal power station/nuclear reactor to power them   Where did you get your screw connector from? I would too. I don't mind the total hashing power but I'd like it distributed among many mining units so I can litter the miners various places.  Oh noooes! It's Truman again   Everyone give up, you're not going to win this auction, so let him have it. auction fail... I would not mind hosting it with KNC but I'm not sure whether they want to do that still otherwise the hosting option would be available during purchase.  I personally would prefer many more weaker units than one monster unit that requires specialized power circuits and other electrical engineering black magic.  Will they require a 20amp or more 220v connection, or? Any details you can pull from the KNC engineers would be helpful.  I may have an early pre-order to sell. This all depends on whether KNC will release info or specs about power consumption or whether hosting will be made available. This happened to me as well. I made the mistake of going from 8pin PCI-E to dual 6 pin on the same modular PSU cable. I now have two separate PCI-E power connectors but I still worry it may cause melting in the future. The system draws 418 watts on average now. Tip for you guys, make sure if you overclock the boards that you a) run separate PCIe cables from your PSU b) use the thickest gauge PCI-E cables possible c) if possible run an additional 12v to the screw type power connectors on the m-board.Speaking of which does anyone know where I can buy a pci-e 6 pin (or even molex) to the screw type connectors? (ie plus and negative 12v)I personally think they should've used 2 x 8 pin PCIe jacks on the m-board. They knew people are going to try to overclock these and thus power consumption would be noticeably higher.
9.6 6 btc with escrow though. No way! I though they would be powered by unicorn tears    Well yeah that's one option, but there is no way they're going to have just one PSU. If the system was designed to use two PSUs then that would work as I could easily spread the load across two 120v circuits or hook them up to a 20 amp 120v circuit.Anways, I sent a support ticket to KNC so maybe they will be gracious enough to toss some clues our way in regards to how these monsters will be powered. Does anyone have any details regarding power consumption. The genesis block calculator says expected power usage per unit to be 2100 watts. I am afraid for me that's not going to work. To be honest I was expecting something that would work on a residential 120v circuit. They also do not offer any hosting yet unfortunately. If anyone is still selling shares, PM me. 6 btc if you allow escrow with an escrow agent of my choosing (likely John K or MXRider) Well gee thanks OP. You could've mentioned that in the first post - ie set a reserve. Here I am thinking I was going to get a good deal   lool funny you should mention that cause I paid 1 btc per h-board, but that was back when btc was at like 530 to 630'ish.:/ Well gentlemen I think the smart thing to do is wait this mad run for hashing power out and buy hardware when everyone else is broke :p A milliooooon dollaaaars...nah just kidding.. $7800.55  I'd hit you up on that offer if I had any extra h-cards. I actually need h-cards not m-boards. Man I wish these were in stock still as I'd like to max out the latest pc-style m-board - shame for it to be sitting there with only two cards  Damn, the market price of these things went up like crazy. 12 btc is $9756 ($813/btc)!! That's twice what they sold for.  $7600.. That's likey cause some (probably a LOT of if you're getting that low hash rate) of the bitfury chips are either a) "bad" - hash but hash at a significantly reduced rate b) dead - ie dead completely.I have bitfury h-cards and like everyone else a few of the chips of many boards are just dead - refuse to hash no matter what no matter what voltage they are given. However, even though it might technically not be cryptx's fault the chips are bad he should to the right thing and refund you the difference in lost hashing power. I'll match that and raise you $200 7.4K  Probably the same as it is now - $5,999 No, this is not an auction. Auctions have an END TIME; this does not. This is a bait thread while you wait patiently for progressively bigger idiots with more money than brains to come by and bid up your shiny metal boxes. Just end this already by accepting that guy's 40btc bid or move this "auction" thread to the computer hardware section where it rightfully belongs.Enjoy your free bump, and as always, have a nice day! 7.1K 6.9K Wow, then I'm glad I did not win. Truman, congratulations and best of luck to you. Welcome to the miners club. Your membership card will be in the mail 
Shill bidder. Shady stuff going on here perhaps.  True, until the btc price made everyone scamble for additional hashing power. They were overpriced then they are overpriced now. The only reason I'd be willing to pay 2.x is to replace my power sucking heat producing Avalons - which most likely I'll sell to cover some of cost of these miners. I have heard that cryptx provides no warranty for these so I'm a bit concerned about that. Not even a 30 day RMA period in case the boards contain a defect? Dammit I gotta get some sleep and the auction ends in 3 hours. Ohwell, I guess my last bid will be 2.15 x 8 ..if I win I win if I lose I lose (most likely to the deep pocketed Truman hehe) 8 x 2.10  Damn you really want these don't ya  lol 6.7 K  I don't doubt your seriousness. However, I do hope you've done some calculations beforehand - unless you are intent on getting these by any means necessary. -8 C outside 22.3 C inside (where the magic happens)  Got any Intel or Samsung SSDs? 8 x 1.7cryptx, are you considering truman's bid? $6500 ?  8 x 1.6 8 x 1.5 Same here, but I'm looking for v.12 h-cards and v2.3 h-cards. OP, I suggest you contact BFSB as they may have some spare m-boards around. 8x1.3 Err I meant to type 8 x 0.9 not 8@0.9 as that would imply 0.9 for all 8 units.Sorry. 8@0.9 What is your asking price for that KNC Saturn?  Hi everyone. I'm looking to buy 2 bitfury v1.2 h-cards from the October batch and 8 of the new PCI style h-cards. So 10 h-cards in total.Here is a picture of what the cards should look like:The older style boards have vrms in the middle section where the chips are located. Now as for the new style h-cards they look like these:Thanks swimmer63 for the pic.I can offer $500 per card regardless of the revision number. Payment will be via BTC at the current average btc/usd exchange rate.If you have more h-cards cards to offer than I am offering to buy I will take them, but I would need an m-board to go along with them as well (don't have any extra or spare ones and they're all sold out everywhere). Just keep the miners and mine with them. Don't waste your time here on the forum as you won't find people who are willing to overpay. 
0.90 btc for all. No miner is interested in "what if" wishful thinking. Can you demonstrate that this kit reached 800 GH? Also where did you read/saw that any bitfury kit is capable of reaching 800 GH? Tell you what, I'll offer 13 BTC for the kit. I'll take a chance on whether or not it will overclock nicely or not (some cards have dead chips or just generally underperform so reaching astronomical hash rates is not always guaranteed). Whoa, you want $17K for this?!!?  So you're essentially trying to recover your Aug kit cost 3 months down the line. Nice try!  This kit will mine 12.37 btc per month at the current difficulty; and this is assuming the kit can be overclocked to reach 500 GH. At 400 bare minimum GH it will produce 9.9 btc. So I'd say if I made an offer it would be in that range. True enough, but the idea is to be able to mount them _inside_ the avalon case. I wonder if one could string some of these HEX16B boards in a row (horizontally and essentially laid on its side so the heatsink is facing the flow of the avalon fan). Or just make a stack and turn it sideways and mount several stacks inside the avalon case.  Not very good at all considering that for that power consumption you can have 500+ GH with bitfury chips. What I wish someone would do is build a clone of the Avalon blade but with bitfury chips. Naturally there would be considerable technical challenges with this (such as the fact that bitfury chips use a SPI bus, etc) but it would be a shame to waste the avalon chassis.  Transaction completed successfully.  boards sold to me pending escrow. PM replied. Well, good evening to you too Sir, and to be honest your boards will make at best 3 btc per month at the current difficulty and 2.60 or less the next time difficulty readjusts. You're either better off mining with them until they die, or accept a lower offer. Best I can do is 3.5 to 4 btc for all 4. I'll take them all if you're interested, but not at 1.25. I'll give you 3 btc for ALL (including the heatsinks). 2 BTC? What are you smoking?! Have you seen the exchange rate recently? Who in their right mind would pay $1000 for this? This is far too expensive. One can buy batches of bags of hundreds of heatsinks (the aluminum ones) for around $40 on ebay. Well dude, I would've sent payment had we agreed on the sale of the case disassembled and the use of an escrow. I was waiting for your reply.  Really?! I thought you were going to sell them to me as I was the first one to offer to buy them after you mentioned you have only 7 left.   I'll take the remaining 7 boards. I'd also like to have your Sportwood case if you are up for it. Yep, that is quite true. It seems a lot of ASIC miner purchases are driven by irrational exuberance; to paraphrase Alan Greenspan.  Guys, you can complain about the price as long as you want, but he is clearly finding suckers to buy them . Did power consumption go down as well? Speaking of which what does each unit consume (if you're able to tell)? Today at 11:29:48 PMEND DATE AND TIME:Friday, November 15, 2013 4:30 p.m too late  auction over.
2 @ 3.0 just in case someone tries again. 2 @ 2.90 2 @ 2.60 http://mining.thegenesisblock.com/Just a tip. Use it  Ok, it looks like sveetsnelda is flush with cash   , so I bid 2 for 2.40...  I thought you sold those. Anyways, what's your thread? (I'm curious to know your asking price) rofl..2 @ 2.30184046 2 @ 2.20 meeowww!   2 @ 2.10 Alright then, I shall bid 2.0 btc for both. 2@1.70 Will you take 1.55 for both? I could probably do 21 to 22 btc for both.  I like your UAV; that shit is straight up badass as you say. As for this router, can it be used as a traditional wired router as well? (assuming one gets a usb ethernet adapter)  A generous offer indeed...or he can take my 10 btc. Anyone here have any V1.2 h-cards they'd be willing to sell? (ie the ones that work with v2.3 m-boards NOT the new PCI connector style m-boards). Open air cases are nice, but personally I'd prefer if these modules were a drop-in replacement for existing Avalon modules. The Avalon cases are a pretty solid design (with the exception of the top lid screws) so IMHO it would be a shame if us existing Avalon owners could no longer use them. Ngzhang, are you guys going to produce your own modules, or are you going to abandon the backwards compatibility idea? Wait, you have two of them, or are you just double posting to attract attention?! I too would love to grab some of these, but prices are indeed high. At current diff they'd make 1.49 btc per month, and this is assuming the boards hash at 50GH which 90% sure they won't (at least not constantly). What hardware will be delivering this hashing power? HashFast? Bitmine? ....
Or 100 Trillion Zimbabwe dollars  These are nice, but I'm not sure why anyone would want to buy them when they can use regular computer PSUs that are far more efficient and will likely last longer and run cooler. But good luck with the auction nonetheless. What's the power draw for all of them combined. Also I presume that you have regular heatsinks on them or do they use the watercooling kit? Thanks for your excellent overclocking guide  I shall attempt to use the power of the pencil today. Wish me luck! I too can confirm that. I have a v3 mboard installed in one of your cases and it all fits just fine.  Yep, I'd buy some for $300 to $330 if there were any still left. The new gen h-boards are really nice btw; they hash at 38GH stock. Wait until they lower the price..$400 is a bit pricey..but if you can find someone willing to sell all the best of luck to you. Who here is selling their shares at a reasonable price.... Where you at? Ontario by any chance? (I'm in Southwestern Ontario). 4 btc final offer. Dave, any idea when you'll get a phone number setup. I'd like to call you guys with a somewhat urgent matter.  anyone home? 1.50  This is still available?  I had the same thing happen with two of my batch 3 units. Unfortunately there is nothing you can do to fix this unless you can isolate specifically what part on the PCB died and replace it. This would require some skills that not everyone posses. If it's a blown capacitor it might be a lot easier to fix.I am hoping that the Avalon team would introduce Avalon modules with their new 55nm chips so I can just swap the old cards with new ones, but who knows if and when this will happen.   3.25 btc for all I can give you 0.10 per share. Your 52 shares are set to make just 7.78 btc at the current difficulty. You're asking a total of 20 BTC which is out of this world unrealistic. Would you take $100? You're probably putting them on bitfury based miners  So if you don't mind me asking, what did the last guy pay for one bag?I would guess these would fit just fine on bitfury h-cards and leave plenty of space between cards. Would I be wrong to assume that? I can personally vouch for MXRider. I've had several business dealings with him and he's a reliable and trustworthy guy. Good luck with the sale!
.50 Item received as expected - brand new and in original packaging as described. Thanks Voogru  Would you take 0.80 shipped to Canada? Will there be a price drop on h-cards? These are looking mighty overpriced given the current difficulty. These come with or without PSUs? Also do you ship to Canada? So you're essentially selling 35 GH for 6 btc? Meh, without escrow this is not a good deal. User is a newbie on the forum with no rep. Caveat Emptor.Oh, and btw, for those who do not know this kit would make 0.98 btc per month (at the current difficulty) - about $200.  Take it and run. This unit will not make 2.5 btc anytime soon. Is it common for the modules on the batch 3 units (the slimmer - as in width) to die? I just had a second module die, this time on a different miner. It's the same nonsense as before - smoke and sparks. Either the caps can't stand extensive heat or they're just poor quality. Has anyone had something similar happen and the Avalon guys sent replacement parts?  At that price I'd be willing to buy some too, but the fact is that no-one is selling them to begin with and if they are they are asking far more than what is required for the board to even come close to ROI.IMHO these h-boards should sell for sub $250 (hint Dave, punin, bitfury....) Ohwell. He can take his sale to where the suckers live - ebay.Good luck! Wait, you want over $9000 for one?   Payment sent. I also PM'ed you my address and TXID. Bitstamp exchange is ok too. So the total price would be $189.60. I'll take it. I'll take a chance and go without escrow. Which exchange rate are you using? If the mtgox rate then 0.80 btc is a pretty good price and I'd be interested in picking it up. Three questions though:1) Do you do escrow2) Do you ship to Canada?3) Where are you located (ie where is it being shipped from)Thanks. There is no way he is going to sell at a loss. He paid $8000 for the kit. If he paid via BTC then he's looking to get 52 btc at the current mtgox price just to break even. Having said that this kit will make 18 btc per month.Having said that a 25 to 30 btc price is good if he had no other option.OP: can you please answer my question about power consumption?  Sadly it is indeed a money pit. But it's reeely nice  Those addicted to hashing power will buy it. How much power does the entire kit consume? Are you willing to sell just the h-card(s)? I agree on the voltmod. I would like to see them hashing ASAP. We are losing time and BTC, and now with KNCMiner shipping units we're about to see difficulty skyrocket again. As the saying goes "time is of the essence"....
Ooops, yes I did. This is not a real auction then. Move on folks, nothing to see here. How about a timer ? Or let us know when you plan to end the auction. what is your asking price? PM me link and price plz. Thanks  ah okay  Yeah, I bet Yifu and gang are laughing all the way to the bank. Congrats to all of us for being suckers and giving them a 200+ btc present. The reality is that we won't get any compensation ever.  What a bunch of BS this is. After screwing almost everyone (except batch1) over they come up with this "exclusive" auction nonsense with TradeHill. I was going to get upgraded modules for my avalon units but after seeing this there is no way I am depositing btc with tradehill just to have the "privilege' of bidding on their most likely overpriced and poorly supported hardware.  ok, 9 btc it is  I'll take it. This is a v 2.2 board no? Do you guys know what exchange rate Dave's shop uses if one pays via btc? Is it the mtgox rate or bitstamp?  Make sure the cable is ok by swapping it. It could also mean that perhaps the port on your switch/router is flaky. But it could in the end also mean the ethernet interface on the tp-link router is about to crap out. They shouldn't even bother to send to send trade-in units as they are almost worthless at this point. What I think they should do is pay everyone that sent out their fpga units the dollar value of the units in btc terms.  Could you not perhaps wire both PSU's to the same switch. I see. Thanks for the info. When I decommission it (if I don't sell it by then) I'll have a look at it and see if I can fix it by replacing the capacitor (if it's burnt). I bid 12 btc You're probably right. The original PSU works just fine with the third module disabled, so it's likely that just a part of that module is damaged. When I get a chance I will take it apart and inspect the module. It would suck if it's the backplane that's damanged as two modules connect to one backplane. I must admit I'm not a big fan of the batch3 design. As of now the unit is hashing fine with two modules and with the original PSU in place.I'm thinking of selling the unit. I am getting tired of babysitting these units. If anyone wants to make me an offer for the unit (bear in mind that at the moment only two modules are officially functioning) please PM me. No, I did not have two PSU's at the same time. I never suggested that. I just had one PSU at a time. The original PSU works with the third module disabled so I doubt it was the PSU that caused the problem. Anyone here good at troubleshooting or reviving a possibly dead hashing card? I had the "red light" issue with a batch 3 unit and while I disconnected the power supply to replace it I found out my replacement power supply was missing a second EPS 12v connect (ie CPU connector) so I plugged in a power supply from a batch 2 unit. When I tried to start it up the typical giving up the ghost smoke came out of the the third card - not a lot of smoke but it was noticeable. The unit of course refused to power on. With the third module disconnected the unit powers up just fine. It even power up just fine with it's original PSU. Could I have killed it trying to swap the power supply or was it most likely already dead (due to the red light warning) before I tried to mess with it?If anyone had this happen to their batch 3 unit I'm wondering if you can tell me what the exact cause was. Was it blown capacitor(s)? I looked at the exposed side of the board and no obvious burn marks or dead caps are visible. The smoke appeared to have come from the top of the backplane near where the power connector is, but from underneath. Sent you a PM.  I was tempted to bid, but with the crazy hike in difficulty I'd be lucky to break even. I have a day 1 pre-order just like you with hosting and I think it was a bad deal. If KNC miss their promised delivery date we're all pretty much screwed. So if you can get a refund do it now. Nobody is going to give you 125 btc for this. Well, good luck with that. 
What is your starting asking price? Keep dreaming. I understand like $9K or 8K but  14,000 for one!? It should be 14,000 for BOTH! 139 for both. https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=296407.0This guy is selling two.  loool..f'ing great..and here I am sitting on 24 shares... Congratulations bro, but NOW your unit is almost worthless. Yay for Avalon fail!   Any word on when/if you'll implement merged mining support? I'm wondering if your tech crew would be (for a cost of course) be willing to perform upgrades on mining hardware. What I have in mind is say for example if the Avalon teams introduces 55nm mining blades for the Avalon platform, would your team swap out the old blades?  Holy shit, that's a lot! Well, now I understand your asking price. Thanks for clarifying. Good luck with your auction!  You are asking an unrealistic price for just an m-board. Heck even if you include the price of the Pi it does not even come close to being a realistic price. You are better off keeping it and buying h-cards for it.  Hmm, so $10 difference between v1 assembled and v2 assembled.  you want 60 btc per unit, right? Ah ok. I totally missed that. Thanks for the info.On a different note, how much do you anticipate your v2 case will cost? Hey Rich, can you hook me up with one of those metal plates to secure the PSU in place. I have a V1 case. I might be interested in a V2 case once I score another 25 G kit. hmm at 15 that's $2100, which is a bit steep considering the kit is $1300 brand new. I'll have to think about it, but I'd probably go for 11 btc shipped. Escrow with MXRider if he agrees to it. So what is happening lately, are people starting to receive their trade-in units? Refunds being processed perhaps? This kit has an m-board with a 2.2 version number, no?  Congrats. Yeah, I've heard many people got extra boards too. You'll probably get more than 25 GH total out of it even if one board is not hashing at full speed. Kind of sucks that some boards have dead/bad chips but overall I'd say you came out on top. Let us know if you are still interested in selling the kit. Also let us know what the new total hashrate is  Any update on this? Did you get the unit? Yes. I may come back if I have a change of heart and you still haven't sold them. I'm kind of torn between buying shared bitfury hosting (like these) or actual bitfury hardware that I'll manage myself.
What's your asking price?Usually it's the seller that asks and buyer bids. Yeah, what's going on here people. Is it the delayed delivery. I have a feeling that it's the failure to deliver 120 GH, 110 instead  bummer. In light of this I think I will stick with my existing shares and stop buying additional ones.  Probably means that you only have to swap the chips and the miner will operate in the same fashion as the existing Gen 1 110 nm miners. I am curious to see what they will be charging for new 55nm avalons, but more so I'd like to see what they want for replacement modules. I hope they would consider giving a generous discount to existing loyal customers who helped fund their 55nm chip - yes we sure did you owe us big time (especially batch 3 and trade-in customers who are like to NEVER see ROI with existing 110 nm miners). I'm looking forward to hearing some specs on power consumption.On a sidenote, is it difficult to swap the modules? I think they mainly just screwed to the case via the baseplate. I presume that we can reuse the same ribbon data cables too. Nope, not in the auction section . Ok, so you're a tough bargain . K, give me a day or two if you don't mind to dig up some coins and I'll take them at 1.20. Yeah but is upgradeability worth that of a premium. Why not spend the money you would otherwise spend on this upgradeability feature that's so coveted on additional h-cards. And brand new it is/was $1300. That at current mtgox rate is 9.77. Even if you pay a $1000 premium for in hand hardware that's still 17 btc, not 22 btc, so I don't know where you got this "brand new is 22 btc" from. Anyways, good luck seller, may you expediently find a sucker to buy it at 22 btc. 15 btc maybe? 13 BTC shipped to Canada. I'll take all 5 at 1.19 if you're willing.  Take 36 and run. It's not going to make that much in a month, so it will take maybe 2 to 3 months to pay for itself. Hmm yeah   what is that like $300 per board or something. Even at this stage if you have several trade in units it would still be better to get avalon miners instead of the btc or $ equivalent of the trade-in credit. Now on the other hand if you already paid them you would be better off getting your btc refund back and invest in more power efficient hardware (ie bitfury, knc, etc).  Guys at this rate you'd be lucky to get your money back in btc terms. Most of you sadly will never reach break-even  What a disaster.  Meh, screw this. This seller does not respond to posts, no mention of his username in the shareholders registry = probably shady/scammer seller. damn I missed this one too..wish I was living on the forum as some of you guys lol... 1.28 per share. I don't see your username in the shareholders list. Also 1.70 is a tad bit too much. I could do 1.25. Oh hi! You're the guy that bid against me on oaxaca's auction ..The rising difficulty has made it a bigger risk at even 1.45/share..time think about this for a bit, but I'm definitely interested in bidding. Are you a bit flexible on the share price?As an example I just bought some shares a few days ago for 1.25/share. I'd definitely go for 1.25 a share if you would be willing. Thank you and best of luck to you as well!  BTC sent. Check you PM inbox for transaction ID details. Pidobir has been included in my reply.  lol ooops..I meant 12.50 12.60 !
I bid 11.63 btc for all 10 shares. Ah ok, hope you had fun!   Yeah I knew KNC was going to self-mine though. I don't think it's a big deal as long as they don't over-compete with their customers and as long as they publicly state what hashing rate they will launch on the network (and give us a way of keeping track of it - signing blocks, publishing pool info, etc). Avalon also said they will not mine with their equipment (or should I say OUR equipment) but they still did. I have a suspicion that every manufacturer self-mines to some extent and some are better than others at hiding it. The temptation to do this is very strong. It is unethical if you specifically said you will not mine on the main net with your own hardware, but who is going to really police them?As for not buying KNC, lol, it's a bit too late for that. Hopefully it will pan out and not turn into another Avalon/BFL affair cause if that happens I might just go crazy.Ok, so anyone else besides me and Bogart got tracking info yet? greaterninja? You've been taken care of? Hmm, I find it odd that the package hasn't moved. When I got sent my batch 3 unit it was moving even on a Saturday or Sunday. That is sad, but very much true I can only hope these will pay for themselves in BTC terms (69 btc for me). We shall see. Miner has been sold. Edit: Moderators, feel free to move this thread. I have some good news guys. I almost can't believe it   but I got an e-mail from the Avalon store that a new note with tracking info has been added to my account! Even though it took forever kudos to the Avalon team for at least doing the right thing in the end. Yifu/Avalon team, if I hurt your feelings with my angry outbursts, I'm sorry. I hope you can see thing from my (and many others) point of view. I hope to see everyone else's trade-in units shipped soon. I was the seller in the above transaction mentioned by  abdullahadam and I'm here to vouch for ninjaboon. +1 for a smooth escrow transaction. Funds are confirmed received. I hope the price of Oct h-boards goes down.  I'm not sure if this has already been asked (if so please just ignore my post and my apologies in advance) but with 07-23-13 firmware (latest on the avalon wiki page) I noticed the HW rate is higher than the "Accepted" shares. For example with 4 day uptime I get HW=137438 Accepted=66266This is with cgminer 3.3.1 which is the stock cgminer that comes with 07-23. The miner seems to be hashing fine and as far as I can tell there is no degradation in performance at the pool level. So it must be something with the way cgminer 3.3.1 does things I suppose. I should mention that I use the --avalon-auto flag and it hovers typically around the 340 to 350 MHz mark. Temp is never above 50C for Temp3, Temp2 is 50, Temp1 is 27. Thank you HorseRider. I hope the Avalon team reads that and feels shame.  So Foofighter did you read my post? Have you tried them with an adjacent board and not just standalone? Yep, well said. I don't give a shit anymore. I just want him to refund the 69 BTC I sent him/them, and they can fuck off. Not keeping your word is a sign of having a lowly character (ie lack of) and I don't care what excuses he comes up with. 卑微的人的性格Bēiwéi de rén dì xìnggéThere are some crazy mofos out there and hopefully he doesn't get his ass shot for some stupid chips. So Yifu, hurry with the refunds, I got other manufacturers that want/deserve my business more. For $1450 it's not such a bad deal, so I'd definitely be interested.  Yeah the duty fees are ridiculous. I am interested in this. Can you PM me with your asking price. I am also located in Canada (Ontario) so I don't think it would be a big deal for KNC to change the shipping address or maybe you can give me access to your account and I'd change it after.  I would buy some if you can tell me for sure that their height does not interfere in any way with an adjacent h-board (for example when using a starter kit with multiple h-boards).  I don't think we would even want them now. With that btc we can get something better - like maybe a KNC group buy shares, or who knows what else. The point is they already broke their promise on several accounts, and now doing it to us again is essentially theft.  rofl..keep dreaming   Damn, looks like you've been screwed over even more than me  Anyone else here that actually paid them?
Would you be willing to lower the share price a tad bit - given the recent rise in btc/usd exchange rate. Also do you think it will be a problem that the group buy/hoster is Spanish. Do you think he's be able to competently communicate with us English speakers? Are these shares sold? Rofl   Thank man, you made me laugh. That postal code you forgot to censor is enough for someone to locate you. (I realize these are going to hosting) Just saying. I see that v2 of the m-board is different than the previous one in regards to mounting the raspberry pi. Do you think it will be necessary to move the PSU to the opposite side and if so how easy it for us to do this on our own. I presume the case comes assembled with the PSU mount point on the left, no? Yeah as much as it pains me to say this I think we're never going to see the trade-in units, and if we do it will be at a point where they'll be worthless.  PM received. As I mentioned I am in the process of arranging escrow with a Canadian buyer, but if he backs out the next in line is ste0024 who has the highest offer thus far. For sure that must be it. I see a Honda on the street as well - could be Yifu's car or maybe by now he traded it in for a Mercedes S class with his newfound Avalon riches. That white van is probably FBI, CIA, or Chinese Mafia, etc. Ok, joking aside I doubt he lives at that address now, but if anyone is in Brooklyn and can verify.  Hold on, let me go into the future and get you a 400 GH kit and come back and deliver it to you. Will you pay 3x the retail price? :p lol (time machines are expensive to run!) I'm a bit more than disappointed. I sent them 60+ btc and got nothing to show for it. Had I known I would've spend those btc elsewhere.  lol I hope people are not even the least bit surprised by this. These butterflies are not worth $4K with Feb delivery. Josh should change his text to: "If you order now, I would not expect you to take delivery of your unit until sometime in February 2015."   Tentatively sold to a fellow Canadian. Price is now 50 BTC.As always offers are accepted via PM as well. Has anyone sued the Avalon team yet?  Price lowered to 55 btc. Hi everyone. I have for sale a Batch 1 Avalon miner in excellent condition. It has not been overclocked beyond 300 MHz and thus is currently pushing ~71 GH/s, but with better cooling and a beefier PSU I'm sure it can do more. This unit has the stock Antec 650 Watt PSU that came with many of the Batch 1 units. Unit will come packaged in the same box that it came in.I'm located in Canada so I would prefer if someone from Canada bought it as it would be much simpler and cheaper from a shipping point of view, but I am willing to ship internationally as well - buyer will have to pay actual shipping costs. I think DHL might be the best option for international shipping as I found them to be very fast (but filling out the paperwork is a nightmare so I'd like to avoid shipping internationally).If you're located in Ontario that would be ideal as shipping time would be essentially overnight and you can start mining right away. I realize that with the current difficulty it would be unfair to ask anything beyond 60 to 65 BTC, so my starting asking price will be 60 BTC.-edit- Price is now 55 btc!*fine print: There is nothing wrong with the miner, however I did not put all the screws back on the case as the process is such a nightmare and I do not want to drop the screws in the case. I only opened the case up to dust it out a bit once in a while. As for firmware it is currently running the 20130519 build as that is my favorite firmware at the moment due to its remarkable stability. Unit will be wiped of all its settings and reset to factory default when you get it so bear that mind (ip will be reset to 192.168.0.100 as is default). Unit comes with wi-fi antenna but I recommend NOT using wi-fi if possible but if you want I will ship out the antenna as well. However I will be keeping some of screws and wrench as I need it for the time being. I will make sure you have enough screws to fully close the lid if you'd like (not necessary in my opinion as two is enough to hold it reasonably tight).Anyways, I'll accept all offers either here or via PM. Escrow is an option but I wold prefer not to use it as I'd like the funds right away and not be subject to the btc/usd exchange rate risk. I believe I am trustworthy and I am not out to screw over anyone (I have bought and sold stuff from other forum members and they can vouch for me). If escrow is chosen I would prefer to use John K and you pay his escrow fee.  I wonder in which parallel universe the trade-ins "are being processed".... I am usually a calm and pretty laid-back guy but this is seriously testing my fucking patience! (pardon my french) Yifu (and the rest of the Avalon team), why you gotta treat your loyal customers like shit? Either send our units soon before they are totally worthless or send us back our Icarus/Lacellot units. For those of us who were foolish enough to pay you right away,how about you refund us? Do you think it's fair that all of us paid $250+ to ship you the FPGA units right away thinking you'd promptly deliver on your promises only so that you can turn around and screw us with delays and lack of communication? If you were in our shoes would you want to be treated this way? If you have any honor you'd do right by your loyal customers (who funded your little adventure), otherwise you're really nothing more than just an amateurish douchebag who can't act like an adult and take responsibility for the consequences of your actions. If you want us to fuck off at the very least have the balls to tell us and then promptly return our property (icarus boards or btc payed to you) and we can all go our own separate ways. Many of us are loyal to your team but you are trampling over whatever respect and loyalty we have for you. You are not the hottest flavor of the month anymore so stop acting like you're too important to talk to us.  How is the case production going? How far are you into your order queue? Btw, what shipping company are you using? I hope to god it's not UPS as they rape us with customs brokerage fees over here in Canada. 
That better not happen or else Silicon Valley will burn that day! I am sick and tired of ASIC producers mining with customer hardware. Isn't it enough that we bankrolled them?  Is anyone else's order showing "on-hold" even though hashfast confirmed that the payment was successful? (this was when they had a broken checkout process and had to accept payments manually) I e-mailed one of their reps 3 times already asking for an update, but no answer. Anyone know when the order status will be updated to something more calming like "processing" or "we're off to Hawaii with y0 money f00l!" - anything more informative. Right here:http://www.robotshop.com/productinfo.aspx?pc=RB-Cyt-101&lang=en-US Nice looking miners, but sadly at that price you'll never break even, let alone turn a profit.http://mining.thegenesisblock.com/a/714fcdf0fc http://qkme.me/3vigyz I agree. But if they can't even reply to our support tickets what makes you think they will even get around to giving us a refund or return our FPGA boards. Has everyone that requested a batch3 refund received their funds back? Last I heard they were slow to process batch 3 refunds too. On a side note, you can't buy bitfury h-boards for August delivery anymore but you're still better off buying even Oct delivery units than waiting for our trade-in units to arrive.  Hey, at least you didn't actually pay them yet! I guess they're going to wait and ship them when they know these miners will never reach ROI.  "Being Processed since last 31 days 15 hrs" Oh wow, this sucks. I just went through the thread and it does not look pretty. The poor guy (GB initiator) needs to take some time off, go on a vacation, anything other than add the additional stress of dealing with bitcoin mining hardware and share owners. I am afraid I"m going to have to withdraw my bid.    lol, what, no other bidders? Ohwell  ok, let's get this party started..10 BTC for the win  Well, then good luck to you Sir. At 80 you're asking way too much. I can get a Jupiter unit for that price. Also one can get an Avalon unit in hand NOW for that price (not saying that an Avalon unit right now is a good deal but you get my point).I think though if you aren't willing to sell it for less than 80 then you shouldn't have posted in the auction section as this is NOT a true auction. If I bid 50 you will just cancel the auction at any point. At least modify the OP to say that you have a RESERVE price of 80. Thanks pidobir. Now let's hope metabank delivers soon  Time is of the essence - especially with the coming difficulty storm.P.S. I bought deathmul's shares (5). I PM'ed you about it as well. Not sure if you two read my reply yet though. Hey James, I'm wondering why the "rewards" section counter does not reset once payout has been reached and payout processed by pool staff. Would it not make more sense to have separate the current earnings after payout from the grand total? Exactly! Or at least a counteroffer. I PM'ed you with an offer. You haven't responded! Also I forgot to ask, but are you willing to do escrow? lool..yeah, ohwell..congratulations to both of us then.  lol shit I was out having a beer and forgot about this otherwise I would've outbid them  at 95 btc it is..75 to 80 is a more reasonable price..
Also any chance of letting this one go for a bit less than 50? Hey can you ask KNC if they would allow the purchaser to upgrade the unit to a Jupiter? 24 @ 1.41 24 @ 1.3 24 @ 1.05 I just noticed the "I am alive" post by Yifu here in the custom hardware subsection, and in it he mentions that we should expect some news soon. I hope he addresses us trade-in customers as well.  lol hey can you let me know if he agrees to shipping out the unit.. Ok, thanks I shall PM him right away. Do you know him/trust him by any chance?  I'll bid 1 btc @ 24. However I'd like the miner shipped to me. Do you think you can ask pidobir if he is willing to do that even though you agreed to have it hosted with him.  Hi. I'd like one as a novelty item (doubt it would every pay for itself..yadda yadda) so how much for shipping to Canada? 25 days since I opened a support ticket..no reply...no fucks are being given..awesome!I have a feeling some of you have been waiting longer  Hmm, just got word from KNC that this scenario is not possible so the only way to do it is to wait until you have the units in hand and ship them out to the buyer.  Yep, they are. They've probably been resold into the dev board market. Also they're probably mining with our 17 btc avalon units too. But I honestly doubt they have them built. The more realistic scenario is that our units will come after all of the batch 3 units have been shipped out. I'd be interested in 4 @ 85 each with the condition that total control of the pre-order account be turned over to me. I'd like to have them hosted with KNC and/or gain ownership. I presume KNC is ok with this? There is no way that is happening. How about he surprises us with at least shipping or old 110nm units   Lol, why? What's your beef with this pool? Did this pool run over your dog or call your girlfriend fat? Honestly, IMHO you should've sent it via DHL. My trade in units got there in about 2 to 3 days. Plus they have excellent tracking and someone has to sign for the package so nobody can use the excuse that they did not receive it. But in the end it just may not make a difference as the bottleneck seems to be the rate at which they can produce units and/or deal with support issues, not receiving trade-in units. I finally got a chance to install it. This whole time I was mining with a Raspberry Pi attached to it and while it worked ok minepeon kept on constantly halting - well I should not blame minepeon it was more like the cgminer 3.3.1 version it came with. So anyways, after installing it this router works flawlessly. Order with confidence. I intend to get another one so I have a backup in case any of the other ones fails for whatever reason. Are you sure about that? The cases were designed to be stackable. Also air is not likely to pass through unless you are actively pushing air against the underside of the case.I agree though that aluminium is the ideal metal to use.  Dammit, c'mon Avalon team, at least confirm that you got our payment so we know if you got the coins or we sent them into the ether. 
Wow, 25 cents per kWh. That's some expensive power they got there. When difficulty pushes even these against the profitability wall they will have to be relocated to some place where power costs are at or below $0.10 kWh Hi everyone. I am interested in acquiring a 1-500 batch Jupiter (or I guess a Saturn unit will be ok too) miner. I would prefer to host the unit with KnC so as silly as this may seem I'd like to have the original owner ship the unit back to KnC after delivery. According to KnC:"we can help you IF you and the seller have addresses (billing and physical) in the same country ORNeither of you has addresses inside the European Union. "You can PM me your offers or post them here.  Yeah, they are too busy shipping out Batch 3 to give a hoot about trade-ins.  Can you list out the mechanics of how this transaction would work? I presume that you're expecting payment up front, no? "Hi because of various reasons we are not facilitating the transfer of ownership for any orders at this time. " - knc support  I'd like to avoid using server PSUs as they're a) not so easy to find b) more expensive typicallyHow wide is the case in the above picture? Nope, that is all you need.  How wide would an enclosed case be? Could it be made in a standard 19" rackmount width? Although I agree with and share your sentiment, my "c'est la vie" remark was meant to refer to the reality that there is nothing we can do about the situation as it is out of our control. We can vent and bitch all we want but that's about it as far as our powers go so far. We can however show our displeasure and vote with our wallets next time around. We have more choices now than we did before. My hope is that in the interest of public relations the Avalon team do something to quell the anger of their trade-in customers. How can they do this? I leave that up to them, but I can suggest some suggestions:1) Ship trade-in units at the same time as batch 3 units (least they can do considering the broken promise of preferential treatment for their loyal customers - ie trade in clients)2) Ship trade-in customers units that are compatible with their proposed 55nm hashing modules so we have an upgrade path without having to buy whole new base units.3) Process and confirm trade-in customer e-mails and payments faster Guys I think things should start moving soon. I got notice that my batch3 unit has shipped so I presume that once they take care of batch 3 they will start with the trade-in customers. Shame that trade-in did not receive the priority they were promised, but what can you do; c'est la vie. Yeah this is a bit disappointingly managed. There is no end time, no minimum bid increment, etc. At anything above $4K though I think I am out as I don't think it would be likely that it would pay off for itself. One might better off buying a 400 Ghs unit from their competitor. I'm not sure why people here are so eager to pay so much for mining gear - same with avalon units. Thank you for confirming DeadTerra. I've e-mail KNC to ask them if they can make an exception and transfer ownership. Very nice of you to offer, but I would be interested in retaining ownership of the unit and not joining a mining co-op/business. I guess I should e-mail KnC to ask them if they have changed their minds regarding transferring ownership of full units. Btw, can you PM me your price (out of curiosity) for your suggested arrangement? Well that's a bummer. So what's to stop the account owner from changing the address back once the buyer pays? Also what if the buyer wants to have the unit hosted with KnC. Meh, this is not wroth the hassle then.  This is NOT the same as transferring pre-orders before. This is an already paid for order and not simply an unpaid spot in the line. I don't see why they can't move the order from one account to another.  I would be interested in this if you can get KnC to transfer ownership. I would not want it shipped, but instead hosted by KnC (their "Stockholm Pickup" option). Is this possible? $4000 $3850 Ta da duuuummmmm...  $3600  Hey before you take that offer you may want to look at this:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=258251.0
I'll start this off at $3330.46   I've PM'ed you with my zip code. I think though I will try a local source and if I can't find something equally powerful I'll give you a second shout, but could you give me a more price quote with the zip code I sent you. I'd be interested in the 6 inch 450 CFM fan, but do you think it would be economical to ship it to Canada (Ontario)? Would you accept $4K per unit. Also escrow with John K? I'd take care of shipping costs (as this would be international). Welcome to the club. Now your mission in life is to get all the bitcoins. The last one standing with all of them wins.  How useless that they expire in 30 days. The least they could've done is NOT let them expire so we can use them towards their next gen miners - if there ever will be such a thing. 4 BTC is a pretty good price so if I were you I'd take it. The new owner may not ever break even on this investment but who knows he could have other purposes for it? From my understanding BFL had firmware that allows it to do other stuff like medical imaging processing and other scientific number crunching.  $800 offer. That would put the break even period at 2 months - but judging by the difficulty rise it might be 3 or 4.  If BFL still had their trade-in program I would so buy these.Have you thought about just selling them on ebay as FPGA dev boards? They don't have many I/O options but someone could find some use for them. Excellent work! The price is very reasonable considering this is an all-aluminum case. How much do you think the case would weigh in total? Also do you think having the fans attached to the case structure only by two screw per fan would result in undue vibration in the fans (this would be more pronounced if we use very high speed fans)?I forgot to ask you but are you located in the United States? I was surprised too. But as you say, whatever. In other news, it appears the Avalon store website is experiencing some technical difficulties. Just 2 minutes ago I decided to do my usual F5 ritual (to check to see if the order status has changed at all) and I got a "server error" with the following error code: 500.  Trade in program is closed as far as I know. Wait, one of your 1U servers costs more than $16,000?! Are your servers also money printing machines?  Would you accept $5K? Yep, you are right. It uses the GPIO connector/header.  Don't worry, you're not alone. No doubt it says that for all of us who actually got the e-mail and paid them. I bet (and I've said this before) that they will have to manually validate and process the payments. So for the time being I guess all we can do is wait - something we should be all too familiar with.  Overclocking on these boards cannot simply be "enabled" There is no magical toggle or switch. You have to physically modify the boards. Future revisions may have overclocking capability but as far as I'm aware the first batch will not be overclockable. lol keep on dreaming   We're not going to get 4 module units that's for 100% sure. Did not ask. It is going to be a 3 module unit with PSU.  This may seem paranoid, but I would suggest removing the "Bitfury 400GH Miner" marking from the case. If you're going to host this with a third party then you may not want to advertise to the world its intended function/purpose.
Does it say "trade-in on hold" or not? (in the order details page) Do you have any idea when you'll have a finalized design? Also how much would you sell each case for? I opened a support ticket too. It seemed like a good idea. At the very least they will have a "formal" notification of the problem that we are all experiencing. If I had to guess I'd say that payments are confirmed manually and they just did not get around to it. I paid, but no confirmation either via e-mail from someone or from the store. It still shows as "trade in on hold".  Well you did apply a good strategy IMHO - spreading your risks. Hopefully KNC works out to make up for BFL's failures.  Don't worry bro, you'll make that $1500 back within 10 days (with 1 miner). That kind of quick return should be borderline illegal  ASICMiner is probably the only group that can do that. Other than that you'll have to wait until AMD or Intel or some other major gpu/cpu producer gets in the game until your dream of on time delivery comes true. Note to AMD and Intel, get in the btc market, we have people who are willing to pay 5 to 10x the market value for your future miner! Cool. Consider me your future customer  But it IS at batch 2 pricing. Guys, I fail to see why you're not understanding what I'm saying. I guess I will repeat myself once again for the last time. So here it goes. Even if it shows the high pricing both on the main orders page and when you view the details of a specific order it does NOT mean that you are required to pay that price. On the details page it should say something like:"Order updates:1.Friday 12th of July 2013, 03:15amplease pay 17.4 x 1 bitcoins to..."Now on the other hand if you're saying that you don't have anything that says "order updates" and it just shows a high price in btc then there is something else going on. Most likely Yifu hasn't gotten around to updating your order.  I think we are all a bit "foo" as you say, because this whole game is pretty much a gamble as we never know 100% sure when we will have hardware in hand. I think the safest strategy for long term success is to not place your eggs in one basket. Spread out your risks and spread them wide. Also do not get overly attached or fall in love with one hardware provider.  Well as long as you see the order then it's all good. Click on the VIEW button and it should tell you the price you should pay and also give you a BTC address to send the payment to. As far as the 78 BTC, that's an error. What is happening is the store is using the current batch 3 pricing  (75 BTC). Disregard it. Just click on the VIEW button and it will show you the true price which should be 17.4 per unit. Give it time. Yifu said he said he sent out 50% of the e-mails. Read this:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=140974.msg2711325#msg2711325Conclusion: please be patient guys... True, it seems like the Bitfury team was a few steps ahead of the KNCMiner team. From what I heard the bitfury ASIC has been in development for the past 8 to 9 months or something like that. If KNC pull it off and deliver by the end of Sept I'll be impressed. In regard to power consumption one would think that KNC's chips would be more power efficient as they use a smaller manufacturing process (28nm) but (and someone can correct me if I'm wrong) from what I know the KNC chips are not designed the same as the bitfury chips - possible FPGA hardcopy.  You mean it says "Trade-in-on-hold" So is mine, but if you click on VIEW (the view button) it should give you a payment address. You should also have received an e-mail that says "a new note has been added..." which will also ask you to pay 17.4 x (x) - x being the number of units you have - to a unique btc address (just for your order).  Quick question for you. I just finished paying for my order and it's already got 6 confirmations. So my question is, does the order status page get updated automatically or does someone have to manually go in there and confirm that payment has been received? Hmm, yeah I saw that, but after all it's Oct delivery. If I'm going to be taking the additional risk associated with Oct delivery I may as well jump in for the full 400G kit or get a KnCMiner Jupiter (slightly cheaper) - the additional hashing power will be necessary come Oct for sure.  Excellent work. I am quite impressed by the quality (judging by the pictures alone) of your work. I'm wondering though if you would be willing to design a custom case for the Bitfury ASIC mining rigs? See this thread for dimensions on each component: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=250249.msg2674063#msg2674063 Dave any chance of getting any more of those 25G August kits or are they all sold out permanently ? Sorry to hear that. I guess you'll have to wait a bit while Yifu gets around to looking at your issue. But, look on the bright side, the ball is rolling and we should be getting our "money printing machines" soon.  Did you guys make sure to include your contact info (e-mail address associated with your store account) when you sent in the fpgas?
Hmm, odd. Try logging out and logging back in (clear your cookies/cache as well). If that does not help then I'm not sure you can do much besides wait for a response from the Avalon support team (ticket). My fpga trade-in package was signed for on April 22.  I dunno, but if I had to guess I'd say that we won't be sending in anything. The existing Avalon modules have no other purpose other than BTC mining so unlike FPGAs there is no resale market available for them outside the bitcoin community. Probably what will happen is they will look at our store account history.I have a feeling that by the time they roll out the 55nm tech the existing 110nm modules will no longer be profitable anyways, so those who wish to stay in the game would have to reinvest and get the new modules. This game should go on for a while until we finally reach the pinnacle of chip design which will likely be 22nm or below.  I see the order in my store account and I just got the e-mail a while ago at 11:15 pm EST. I am in the process of paying it. So all is well! Thank you for everything BitSyncom While I got your attention I'm wondering if you can let us know if your team will institute a similar trade-in program when you'll move to 55nm tech. I don't think we can expect a similar scenario as with trading FGPAs but will we get perhaps a small discount when purchasing 55nm modules (assuming of course the new modules will be backwards compatible and we can just swap them). Hmm, I just logged into my store account and saw an order for the trade-in! Wohoo. I don't know why there is an error in the pricing, but if you click on view order it should show the proper pricing.The price is 17.4 BTC per unit, which equates to $1600 as of right now  (price is at $92) Yeh, this should make up for the 75 BTC price we paid with batch 3. What I wonder though is if they will have a trade-in program when they move to 55nm chips. My guess is no, but who knows. What order status you talking about? As far as I know there is no orders for the trade-in program until after they send you a purchase link and you complete that purchase. I guess I should checkout my store account maybe there is a surprise waiting for me. Hmm, if this was one of those 1-500 orders I would so buy it in a second. Speaking of which if anyone has one give me a shout.  (from the Avalon newsletter)Has anyone received any e-mails regarding their trade-in units?  Oh boy, get ready for a MASSIVE increase in difficulty. FPGA and GPU miners will be surely forced to shutdown now.  Willing to do escrow through John K? Also nice to see that you're doing a falling auction, but you may want to put this in the auction section and set an end timer.  Sure. I took the lazy way out and installed a linux distro called MinePeon (https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=137934.0). As you can tell by it's name it was designed for mining. But you can get any Raspberry Pi compatible (read ARM compatible) linux distro working just as well. As long as you can compile cgminer or bfgminer (with the necessary prerequisite usb libs, etc) you should be good to go.  Just got the router today. I haven't had a chance to install it yet, but when I do I'll report back. ASIC vendors should really do something to stop this practice. It should be simple, if you cannot pay within 7 to 15 business days, you lose your spot and that's it.  Hmm, that would bring the ROI period to 3.5 months. From that point on it's only downhill as far as earnings. But look at it this way at 200 mil difficulty an avalon unit will make just 0.18 btc per day.  It actually happened to me. The reality is that the TPLINK routers in these things are not 100% perfect and some of them will have some minor failures and defects. So, in the rare event that this happens to you I STRONGLY suggest you get yourself a Raspberry Pi as a backup mining device.  Do you guys think it's worth getting an Oct 400 gh kit? It looks like by then KNC will likely deliver and BFL will continue to pump out ASICS so difficulty may make it impossible to pay this kit off.  You sure about that? Are you referring to the 25 GH/s Oct starter kits? Hmm, you could be right. The EU shop (BFSB) still has Aug stock as far as I know, but for some of us it's hard to go that route. Regarding the shipping the way I understood things is that shipping will commence roughly by the end of August. Shipping will be sequential - ie based on the order date. I don't think it's realistically possible to ship ALL units at once.  Dave, any ideas when you'll be adding more 25 Gh/s August Kits in stock? Also do you have a time frame as to when you'll accept BTC payments? Ah ok. I shall ask punin about it.
Ok, so I take it that's where the ring terminal to molex-jr cables come in to play (included in the kit). So the kit will have everything necessary to power the rig , or will we have to splice our own power cables, etc. Are these the Molex JR cables: http://www.digikey.com/us/en/ph/Molex/MiniFitJr.html  What type of power connector does master board use? (6 pin PCIE?) Also I presume that each h-card is powered from the master card, no? Hmm, interesting. I'm curious to know more about this escrow service you mention. Can you post more details here? (maybe ask the guy who told you about it some more details, or a link or etc) Thank you intron. That image was actually very helpful! For your own 100TH operation how do you intend to mount the h-boards?  20mm seems like a very reasonable recommendation. I'll probably end up doing 35 to 40mm spacing (not including heatsinks). As for temperatures, I guess I'll have to use an IR temp sensor (the temp "guns") or maybe attach some temperature probes to the back of the PCB. But with enough airflow everything should be alright.  Excellent. Thanks for the info! That's what I shall do (attach a heatsink on the back). As to what size and type I'll have to see. I'm thinking something like this might be perfect: http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16835708009But when you say the main ASIC area has been left free of components you mean the center of the PCB and on the outside area there are various leads and components, no?I'm also wondering what you think is the recommended spacing between hashing boards. Given that each board only produces 20 to 40 W of heat it should be theoretically ok to have the hashing boards spaced together tightly. I don't think this is mentioned anywhere but are there any temp sensors on the boards? And if so I assume it will be visible in the mining software.  Well here is a free bump for you. I just wanted to say that even though your asking price is great the no escrow is a deal breaker. It is a bit unfair to ask your customer to take on the risk not just of you running away with the money and not delivering, but also to wait for the single. Double the risk. Maybe you'll change your mind maybe not. Either way best of luck to you! I could use two more of the ATX power switches as well. I prefer the ones with the plastic rocker switch not the metal whatever type switch you call that  +1 On a different note (not addressed do you specifically Foofighter):If anyone is thinking about making custom casing for these with proper cooling (120mm, 140mm, or above fans) I'd be interested in buying two or more. I'm also wondering if it would be ok to attach a small heatsink to each chip (with those thermal pads with glue on them - like VGA and north/southbridge coolers)? Would this help with cooling or is most of the heat dissipated through the PCB itself? Hmm, that could be a problem for some of us. What about support? Relying on a custom piece of software that (many of us) will have no clue how to fix when it goes wrong is not a good thing. At least with cgminer or bfgminer there is some limited community support. Also if ckolivas and the cgminer team get their own starter kit they would be able to develop and optimize the software for the hardware. Would it not be better to focus purely on hardware and let someone (like ckolivas and other miner developers) else work on the software (essentially for a free dev board)? 10 btc for everything, right? Those are the connectors you normally connect to a PC's motherboard to power the CPU - ie 8pin CPU connector. Your power supply should come with at least one! It is possible that your PSU is old enough that it was produced before manufacturers adopted the 12VEPS standard (which by the way is a server environment standard).Oh also, a lot of motherboards come with a 4+4 connectors. You just join the two and they become 8 pin. Edit: oops..did not notice ebereon's post. Just follow the link he posted and it will clear things up for sure. Plus and play but you're going to have to ghetto rig your own case or mounting solution. I am hoping someone would offer a nice rackmount case design (kind of like ASICMiner's) soon. Have you considered selling water cooling kits?  You are talking about different people here. Bitfury provides the chips, the OP is the reseller/distributor.  Hmm, yeah   it is a big gamble and a lot of trust had to be placed in the vendor. What really is getting tiresome for me is having to constantly reinvest btc in hardware just to keep up with everyone else and the rising difficulty. It seems the mining game is slowly morphing in a game best left played by those with spare cash and/or deep pockets. Another thing working against us (as far as purchasing this unit) is the low btc/eur price. 18K EUR is a lot of btc now :/ Damn. Yep, it's a lot of moolah, dough, bones, etc, but theoretically it should pay for itself in a month unless the unfortunate happens and when you get it difficulty goes to the moon - or before you get it. Also if they do make their August delivery you would have 400 Gh/s before KnCMiner delivers their units.  Not true. Full kit is available for August delivery too.  Do you have a EU corporation with a valid EU VAT ID?  2700 / 20 = 135
How about you sell them when you get them? Right now nobody is going to bite for such a new pre-order. Too much risk. Why can't you post your asking price in the thread? What is the big secret? Ok, can you PM me with your asking price? Who is this lucko guy and do you have a link to his thread (if any)? It might mean the ethernet interface on the router is flaky or dead. Try a crossover cable directly to the unit. Also try a different computer. If the same on multiple systems then yeah there could be something wrong with it. There is a way to access via serial but it would involve soldering your own serial cable to the board. There is a howto on the openwrt wiki or somewhere. If all else fails you could temporarily hook up the unit to your PC/mini pc, etc. Just remember to remove the J1 jumper before you plug in the USB cord to any device as it backfeed power (how the system powers the router). By the way I found a guy here on the forum that is selling modified (in the same fashion as the avalon unit's tp-link router) tp-link routers. What is your starting asking price? They all stop in Cincinnati as far as I can tell. DHL has a shipping hub there. Hmm, since they no longer offer a 30 Gh/s miner I presume that you'll get a 25 Gh/s unit plus a 5 GH/s jalapeno, no? Is there more details necessary to build a clone board? I'm curious as this might be a good use for those chip credits. Has anyone opened an Avalon support ticket asking how quickly they can offer a refund and actually received a response? True, they could turn into another BFL story.  give it the "-reindex  " flag....and if that don't work the middle finger..j/k Congrats! I'm telling you man, there is magic in them darn boxes!Happy hashing! Careful there, that's bad advice. He has to remove the J1 jumper before doing that. Remember the FPGA control board back feed power on the usb cable and I'm sure his computer's USB ports will not appreciate 5V coming back at it.  Update: I managed to find a guy on the forum that sells these things. His name is Kartaiv. I should receive the unit next week and once I do I'll report on how the transaction went. So if you're stuck in a similar predicament as me you may want to give him a shout.  I guess so. KnC said they expect September to be the shipping month for first 500  batch. Later customer October.  Whaaaaattt....  Where did he announce this? You sure it was 1 Petahash? It sure would be nice, but you know what else is nicer, putting that $5K plus into KncMiner. 60 vs 400 Gh/s hmm, let's see now. Maybe you forgot to checkmark the "keep settings" when you flashed to 05-19? If so it reverts to default settings which as another poster mentioned is IP address 192.168.0.100. The firmware update did complete successfully though, right? I hope it did not take a long time and you power cycled the unit like I did, cause if you did I'm afraid you may have bricked the TP-LINK router. Don't mean to scare you though.It could be the PSU as well. Go for a high quality unit with at least 800 watts and one single 12V rail. Edit: I forgot to mention, can you try to ping your avalon unit so see if there is any packet loss happening. If so replace the ethernet cord first. If persists, perhaps the port on your router/switch is bad. If problem persists then maybe the tp-link router's ethernet port is flaky. You could try mining with it directly attached to a computer or raspberry pi if you're into having some fun. Careful though as you have to remove the J1 jumper on the control board (fgpa control board) if you plan to connect it directly to a computer/other device.  At least give 05-19 firmware a try first before anything. Then the next step I would look into is the fuse issue. Batch 2 units shipped after a certain date should already have that fuse removed (check the wiki). Hmm, 750 watt eh. I only opened one of my units and it comes with a 850 watt PSU with some Chinese characters on the side but I think it's still an Enermax unit. I am tempted to swap all the power supplies with Corsair AX860 as I don't intend to overclock or to expand to 4 modules (existing power setup won't handle it and definitely not the cooling). One of my PSUs is running hotter than the rest but that may be due to it's placement but who knows it may be a slightly weaker one.  After a recent firmware update and cgminer 3.1.1 my pi has been rock solid! Lovin it. 
Did you try 05-19 firmware. I remember I too tried the latest (at least latest on the wiki) and it completely borked the unit where it stopped hashing after 1 min (this was on Batch 1 unit but that should not matter).Another thing you can look into is the F1 or F2 fuse issue (if your unit was early batch 2). Sorry I can't give you specifics which fuse it is as the avalon wiki is offline at the moment, but I do remember that if you do have the fuse in place you need to disable it. Feature request: have separate hashing and payout groups you can add/remove workers to.This is very useful if you got a unit hosted at a friend/family's place or data center and you want to know for sure how much the unit earns per month (or whatever time period) so you can calculate what fees to pay or earnings to share. AFAIK no other pool has this capability.  Not sure if anyone asked you this, but did you disable the wi-fi on your unit yet? This can cause the symptoms you describe. It happened to me.  There is a guy on the forum that is selling modified tp-link routers (same ones in the avalon units). His name is Kartaiv. You can give that a try if you want to build an integrated system again. I found myself in a similar situation and while mining via an attached Raspberry Pi I did get a few lockup situations. As far as I  understand things this is due to the cgminer software or something with the raspberry pi. I'm more inclined to think it's a combination of the cgminer version 3.2.2 (used in minepeon) and the flaky usb interface all pi's have. As far as the capacitors if they are snapped off you definitely want to replace them. What I do is steal capacitors off old motherboards.  Yes you can, but when you look to your order you have your old address, that you have in account when you place the order.[/quote]This makes a lot more sense to me as they originally said they will not allow people to alter their pre-order address.  Modified with the 64 MB RAM hack and the backfeed power off the USB port hack? You sure? I see plenty of standard WR703N routers but they're not suitable for our needs. I'm in the process of buying some from a forum member deal is almost done. If anyone else needs some get in touch with Kartaiv. I'll let you all know how the transaction went once it's completed. I think I've reached the limits of my current power setup with these Amp vampires so I am tempted to sell my batch 3 unit. Anyone here in Canada that may want to take over my spot. If you can offer me a little bit over the pre-order price I'd be happy. @ ILikeToMineI though they would not allow changing the address on a pre-order. You mean you changed the address on the entire store account, not just on one specific order, right? Hi everyone. I am in need of a modified TP-LINK TL-WR703N router. This would have to be either an original Avalon TL-WR703N or a off-the-shelf modified version. It would have to have 64 MB RAM. For now I'd like one but if you have more I could always use a backup. If anyone has this please post here your asking price.Thank you. Do you still offer this service. I'd be interested in picking up 1 modified WR703N ready for use with Avalon miner. I'd also be interested in getting another one later on if the first unit you send works (I'd keep it as a backup).Please respond ASAP.  36 btc?Your a bit further down the line, but hey better than a 2013 order. Easily. First you obviously need to run an ethernet cord from the Avalon box to your ethernet switch/router. Setup your laptop/computer IP address to 192.168.0.101 or anything in the 192.168.0.x range. Next open http://192.168.0.100. Now assuming that you already have gotten further than the initial setup and are actively using the unit now but via wi-fi, then go to "Network" then "Interfaces" and edit the "LAN" interface. There you can give it a static IP assignment - ie 192.168.1.x subnetmask 255.255.255.0, default geteway 192.168.1.1, primary DNS 192.168.1.1, etc etc I get the feeling that you won't accept anything below your fixed price, or am I mistaken. If yes then perhaps it would be best to open a thread in the auction section and let us bid. 41 BTC escrow via John K.  2 @ 8 BTC a piece. Escrow. I pay for shipping to Canada. Pool is still closed? two words: irrational exuberance  30 BTC (anything below is not really a fair deal)...Escrow by John K.  Here is a cheaper place to buy the AFB1212SHE:http://www.sidewindercomputers.com/deaf12suhisp.html It's sad that these are so overpriced as I wish I could buy one but I don't think these will ever reach ROI. Neat toy though!  This is a 2013 batch so who knows when you'll actually receive the units and if they will still make ROI by then. If this was an early 2012 order it would've been a good deal.
Ok, gotcha. I shall patiently await a newer firmware from Xiangfu. Thanks for all the great work you do!  Latest version of the firmware 06-07 produces a LOT of HW errors. For example, 102 accepted shares 62 HW errors. It also oddly stops hashing intermittently.  I am guessing cgminer is crashing or something as the monitor script revives it and it resumes hashing but still with the unusually high error rate. 0519 has been rock solid for me so I flashed back to that version.I'm running it at 300 if that has any bearing on anything. Anyone else noticing this or is it just my unit? I should also mention that I did not clear the settings before flashing to 06-07 (I told it to remember settings). You have my respect for a wise decision. Cheers! You do, but yours are from 2013, so perhaps you should mention that?   9 BTC if you are willing to do escrow. Bear in mind that you have to wait until you get it and then ship it out to whoever buys it. I'd prefer to use John K as the escrow agent.  Wait what?! You already paid for your trade in? I'm confused. I thought that they were going to send each person that sent their fpga units in separate store purchase links to cover the trade-in fees. How have you already paid for this?  Give us an idea what you expect to get per unit (interested in an Avalon unit). Yep, you were right, the FPGA trade-in program is done. I did not get a chance to talk to a real person but that's the message I got from their automated voice system. When I pressed 0 to speak with a representative I got a busy tone so I guess the reps are mighty busy even at 9:10 AM EST.  How much for just the usb stick miners?  My bad. I see now. Ok, thanks. Sad that it's a 2013 order, which means having to wait a LONG long long time to receive the units, but nonetheless I wish you good luck with your sale! yochdog said it was extended until July 1. I will call BFL in the morning to verify.  Ooops. I'm sorry I did not see the "US bidders only" part. Not willing to reconsider? (I'm not that far away from US ..just a bit above you.. 1 @ 5 BTC For how much? A million dollars?  Too rich for my blood. I graciously bow out of the auction. Good luck! You gotta provide a bit more details than this. When did you pre-order these. What is your pre-order #. Screenshot proof. Also how will you ship them once you receive them as you can't change the shipping address. Will you take escrow? These kinds of questions = need answering The one without the PSU?Correct me if I'm wrong but isn't having the power adapter a requirement of the trade-in program? lol my bad..It was late when I asked that question and it seems I had the impression that I was living in the future. So it's today or never then..hmm..tempting I'm wondering when will the site be open again for another wave of pre-orders? The DX Large looks pretty damn sexy!  $8200 on the ebay auction so far. nice  
I would be nice if people posted their offers here in the thread. It makes it easier for others to compete and actually is true to the auction style of selling. Excellent. I'd go for escrow via John and DHL shipping (only cause I have no idea how much it would cost with UPS but I think DHL is cheaper). Ok, cool. Thanks for clarifying.Unfortunately I am nowhere near Brussels otherwise I'd more than be glad to come by and see it hashing away. So just to clarify, I'm the current highest bidder with $4500 USD $5100 Btw, can you clarify if you're willing to ship to Canada?Happy bidding everyone. I was referring to the reserve price on the ebay auction. I bid 4K on it (ebay auction). Oh, by the way, I forgot to ask if you'd be willing to ship it over the Atlantic (probably best via DHL)?  Would you be willing to disclose your reserve price..just so we have an idea of what you consider to be a favorable price for you. Hasn't the payment window been closed June 10 though? So even if someone could sell you one I don't think you can still get in the 1-500 queue. Heck if it was still possible I too would be interested in a Saturn unit. At this point I have totally given up on receiving the trade in units promptly. I would be happy if at LEAST they honor their promise and offer us the original batch 2 price ($1500 per unit).  Hmm, my bad. Did the previous person bid 2 btc for 2 pre-orders or 1? I only need 1, so I guess I'm not sure what to bid. 1 btc perhaps? What is your starting auction price? I shall get this going by bidding 2.5 BTC for the remaining Jupiter 1-500 spot. ok thanks. 1.10 btc.... What is your asking price? I'm not sure what value to place on this.  Out of curiosity how will this work? You first make the purchase and then we send the money to KNC's btc address. Is there any way KNCminer can send us some sort of buy it link so we can place the order info ourselves (for privacy)? It might be worth asking them as it seems there are a few people selling pre-order spots. Damn, you just had to remind me of that (exchange rate when BFL offered...).  True. They did say they will give trade-in customers shipping priority over batch 2 - and we all know how that went down. At this point I think we are pretty much at the mercy of their arbitrary rules. If I was in their shoes I would've delayed batch two shipments by a few days and took care of the trade-in customers first.  Ohwell, what can you do now. Dealing with customs is a nightmare. Now let's look on the bright side, if the Avalon team pull through and deliver the trade-in units soon everyone will recover the expensive import fees within a couple of days  Ok, something is not right then. I did not have to pay any duties. I declared a value of $60 and said it was RMA computer board (I specified it was for repair). Wow, sorry to hear that. That definitely sucks. However you should NOT have paid any duties as this is a RMA, not an export product. Did you make sure to declare it as such? Even if it was an export product $390 in import duties means you declared a really high value on the shipment.  Hmm these delays make me regret paying DHL for expedited shipping (over $150!). Hopefully they'll start ramping up production and ship these trade-in units cause I sense a lot of anger in the air here. If I can order minimum 1 or 2 I'd be in. I realize these will probably never pay themselves off so I think of them more as a novelty item and thus I thinking buying minimum 5 (as on other group buys) is a bit risky.
Any chance that in the next batch you'll allow Canadians to enter in with 1 order? Nice. I too grabbed a AX860 (not the i version as I don't need the fancy pants control feature) but have yet to put it into action - will do so when batch delivers...sometime this year hopefully   I must also correct my statement there. At 300 the system consumes 625 to 630 watts at 120v. I finnally got around to putting a "kill-a-watt" type power meter on my unit and that what it says. Keeping in mind that the batch 1 units came with Antec 650 Watt units, I am quite amazed my unit's PSU has lasted this lost at what is pretty much almost 100% capacity. I was thinking of getting two of these: http://www.sidewindercomputers.com/deaf12suhisp.htmlIt's the Delta AFB1212SHEI wonder if 150 CFM is enough though. I do believe the existing fans might have a tad bit lower CFM rating. Umm this page: https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Avalon ?I don't see any mention of fan specs on there. If my memory serves me correctly I saw one of the Avalon team members mention that they used Delta fans in batch 1 Avalon units. Perhaps this thread helps:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=155872.0I do believe the fan replacement he referenced is made by Delta, but I could be wrong.I guess I will have to wait until I get another avalon miner somehow to take the existing unit apart and find out the exact model number. Hopefully the fans won't die before I get the chance lol. Hmm, johny, you sure that's the original fan? I thought the original fans were made by Delta. Kind of like this:http://www.amazon.com/Delta-AFC1212DE-120mm-Dell-Y4574/dp/B0099TTAIG/ref=pd_sim_sbs_pc_3 Does anyone know the precise model number of the fans the Avalon units have in them stock or a possibly good replacement for them?  It all depends on the power supply. If the power supply has APFC (Active Power Factor Correction) it is highly recommended to use a UPS that outputs pure sine wave AC.I believe that PFC power supplies should use true sine wave UPSs. The reason for this is that PFC power supplies require a much faster changeover time when the battery kicks in, and that due to the design of stepped sine wave UPSs, they were not always fast enough to satisfy the power supply. This could lead to the PSU shutting down when the battery tried to kick in. A stepped sine wave UPS wouldn't "damage" the PSU, but that it simply might not work, and that if it DID work, it might not "always" work. It all depends on the specific power supply. The UPS shutting down has happened to me when using a non sine wave UPS with a APFC power supply.Most PSUs that you'd want to buy these days will have APFC. The problem that I see here (and this has been discussed in another thread I believe) is that it takes a LOT of juice to keep an Avalon running so you're going to need a beefy UPS and even so most reasonably priced UPSs (1440VA) that you can attach to a 15 amp circuit are only going to be capable of keeping it alive for maybe a few minutes at full load (even less if you run it clocked at 300). IMHO it's worth while to have a least one on a UPS so that if there is a brief blackout at least one unit is mining and you're not losing _as much_ money (in lost revenue). Now as for what UPS to choose. Personally I recommend the APC SmartUPS series. I've been using them for a long time and they are very reliable units. The SmartUPS series output pure sine wave by the way. Are you running the miners at 300? If so this PSU might not be able to take such high level of load for a long time (at 300 the power consumption should be close to 710 to 720 watts...possibly less if your psu is 80+ platinum). It is also possible that your PSUs were in a "bad batch" (assuming you bought them from the same place all at once)I got a Corsair AX860 but I've yet to install it. From what I read these are good PSUs.  More like ~14 BTC per unit at the current exchange rate. I really wish the exchange rate stayed at the 140 level But yeah it is a good deal and I think loyal customers deserve it. They took a chance and put their trust in the Avalon team and they should be rewarded for it when possible. Unhappy? This seems like another example of people being sour that they weren't part of the "early adopter" crowd. Well as far as I understood things batch 2 and 3 are separate from trade-ins. So if you're a trade in customer then you are going to be expected to trade in those boards for NEW units that supposedly will be given higher shipping priority. Many of us did not wait for the trade in program and just went ahead and ordered units in batch 2. I do not think the trade-in discount will apply to batch 2. Whether they will allow full price orders (ie batch 2) to convert is another question. Personally I do NOT want to be given a discount on an existing order. I want the $200 discount per Icarus board to apply to NEW units for which I will pay the remaining difference ($1299) in BTC at the given exchange rate at the time I receive the invoice.Some snippets from this thread that might shed some light:"BitSyncom has stated a few times that trade-ins are not subject to batch limitations and will be given priority shipping order" -coretechsand furthermore:"A week before batch #2 is ready to ship, we will make an announcement to those who wish to trade-in their last generation units to sent in their units, once we receive the units a custom order will be made for you to pay the difference depending on what you have trade-in, remember 1 trade-in discount/coupon is allowed per 1 Avalon unit. For clarification the shipping priority is as such:" - BitSyncom I think the above quote vindicates my perspective on things. I am expecting them to send me a custom order and to pay the difference at the batch 2 price level.  btw Xiangfu and the rest of the team (I believe Aseras deserves some thanks as well!) I must congratulate you on a job well done with the latest firmware. It is rock solid! I've had 6 days of uptime so far - something I was not able to achieve with previous firmware revisions. Any plans to upgrade to cgminer 3.0.1? Is it worthwhile? Any updates on this. When will a prototype be ready ? Summer is coming and I have a feeling it's going to be a scorcher even here in the south of Canada.  Hmm, the lack of feedback from the Avalon team is disappointing to say the least. They received numerous trade in board yet they did not even bother to at least confirm that they received them or to let us know if/when we can pay the difference :/ Any of you still having issues getting them delivered?  Hmm, how many holidays do Chinese have  It seems like they got it pretty good. 1 Month long new year, 3 day holiday...etc etc Perhaps, but mine is holding up remarkably well. 300 MHz clock speed and current uptime has been 6 days..woohoo!  You are right. It's just that sometimes customs messes up and they levy a duty fee on RMA items. Perfect example is the fact that some of the senders here got charged duty fees. Now, perhaps that was because they did not properly label the package or properly complete the waybill/commercial invoice. Yep I sent it via DHL, and I declared a value of $65. Determining an a value for these things is a bit tricky. Perhaps I grossly undervalued them. Every SECOND is precious with your new toy. Hope he shipped it via worm hole teleportation express. IMHO this auction was waaay overpriced. And to think people bitched that Batch 3 Avalon units were expensive. You can be sure that none of them bough these "Erupters". Same here. Just delivered (and signed for) today. Package was shipped from Canada. Also no customs issues at all.  What value did you declare Raize? The reason I'm asking is that perhaps below a certain amount no duty is imposed (I thought it was below $100 but I could be wrong). "Clearance processing complete at HONG KONG - HONG KONG"Mine says the above..however I suppose that package could still be refused by the receiver if they ask for duty fees.Who is the gentleman from China that was forwarding duty fees to the receiver? Could I call upon your services if the package gets refused/held up? (BTC tip)
So essentially what you folks are telling me is that $150 just went down the drain cause DHL can't get their shit together and collect duty fees from us?What a nightmare.  Didn't you get their newsletter?! They said to start shipping the old fpga boards in NOW - address is in the newsletter. Do you want me to paste it here? Code:   [Elapsed] => 32527   [MHS av] => 71271.75   [Found Blocks] => 0   [Getworks] => 1204   [Accepted] => 16934   [Rejected] => 52   [Hardware Errors] => 554   [Utility] => 31.24   [Discarded] => 2227   [Stale] => 0   [Get Failures] => 0   [Local Work] => 596178   [Remote Failures] => 0   [Network Blocks] => 69   [Total MH] => 2318234367.2799   [Work Utility] => 995.65   [Difficulty Accepted] => 541888.00000000   [Difficulty Rejected] => 1664.00000000   [Difficulty Stale] => 0.00000000   [Best Share] => 774866Temp 22 and 44Running at 300Stats are based on a 9 hr running session.  Anyone would happen to know what is the quickest/cheapest method to ship TO China from Canada? I was thinking of using FedEx EMS or UPS. Any thoughts?Edit: Scratch that. I see that Raize (thanks!) has already answered my question. I shall use DHL. Eleuthria, any chance that you might publish estimates of the pool "luck" rate somewhere on the site (maybe the pool stats page might be a good place)??  They will send us details either via e-mail or via newsletter. Let's give them a bit more time.  Yeah...umm...there is an issue with the FPGA controller board. I heard on the grapevine that they are working on a firmware workaround for it. Stay tuned to this thread.Btw, what was your uptime before the lockup? Hold on here. Are you complaining that the Avalon mining unit is unstable as well? How so? If this is an issue you are having please post in the Avalon users thread. Holy nerd rage about the btc price does not belong in the custom hardware section. I do believe there is a speculation thread/section. You can vent there Happy mining! Yeah sorry I forgot to mention to try connecting via Ethernet first. I assumed he would know that though. If that fails he can always reset the system to factory defaults: http://wiki.openwrt.org/toh/tp-link/tl-wr703nBut I'd recommend trying a straight Ethernet connection before messing with the reset button. Go to the network tab. It's all there. Edit the WLAN interface and give it a different IP otherwise you are going to continue to have IP conflicts. You mean two months, right? Yep that should be possible to do. However I hear that the dev crew are labouring to come up with with a workaround for the control board issues.  Thanks for the info Aseras! So far I think my stats look good.  Well, although I agree that the recent appreciate might have been fueled by speculators I also believe that the "crash" would not have occured had it not been for the technical failings of Mtgox. BTC really needs more competition in this domain. I really wish we had  in BTC land the equivalent of ECN trading networks like in the forex industry. I believe Mark from MTgox posted an explanation on their facebook account.  Code:Elapsed MHSav FoundBlocks Getworks Accepted Rejected HW Utility Discarded Stale GetFailures LocalWork RemoteFailures NetworkBlocks TotalMH WU DiffA DiffR DiffS BestShare21h 37m 6s 71194.26 0 2826 20155 79 1315 15.54 [b]5278[/b] 0 0 1424864 0 152 5.540791e+09 994.59 1289920 5056 0 631843Bold text are the numbers that seem odd to me. Discarded 5278?!  Hmm. HW 1315. It's mainly the discarded that I'm worried about. Could this be due to the pool or the avalon firmware?I'm running 4-10. lol does this mean that batch 2 will be delayed?   Ah whatever, at this point I'll just go with the flow and stop bumping this thread. Hey if I waited more than a year for my magical BFL fan box powered by fairy dust I can wait another week or two...or....  Yep I agree completely with him. The only reason I guess I even considered getting a few USPs is paranoia. Maybe hosting these at a data center is the best solution (if you have multiple as that would justify the potentially high monthly cost).  Bear in mind that router board (which runs the cgminer software and management front end) is NOT the control board. What I mean by the control board is the Spart6 FPGA board that takes the instructions from the cgminer software running on the router board and coverts that to work batches for the ASICS. The control board is the one with all the "IDE like" cables running out of it and to the individual hashing modules. The control board does not respond to ping requests because it is not accessible via any network protocols as it's attached to the router board via USB. The router board responds to ping request and I'd imagine it would also respond to ping request even if the mining software is not running or in some sort of locked up or crashed state. If the router's OS was completely down or broken then yes it would not respond to ping requests. The power control devices - dataprobe - are of limited use in this scenario. They are still useful for when you want to quickly power cycle the machine for whatever reason. It would be neat if they made a 2 socket version of the iBoot-G2. The reason for 2 is that ideally you'd want 2 Avalon units per 15 Amp circuit. The one with multiple power sockets has only 1 power in cable. Edit: Ooops..seems there is a iBoot-G2+ which allows you to control up to 3 power outlets. Neat!  In my instance the zombie state was caused by a power outage - essentially a brownout. Power cycling the machine fixed that issue. I haven't ran into the zombie state being caused by firmware issues. However I am now running 4-10 which supposedly fixed this issue. So far I'm really happy with 4-10. I'm keeping a close eye on the HW errors and rejected shares to see if it has improved relative to previous firmware, but just by a quick glance (without doing any calculations) it seem that it has.  True, but more than often it's not about just the power going out but the quality of the power coming in. You can get some pretty shitty current sometimes, but a good power supply should compensate for this most of the times. As always, don't cheap out on the PSU (if you intend to replace the stock units).
Well I think the main problem with putting a UPS behind these things is that they're absolute power consumption monsters and it takes one beefy ass UPS to feed them for a reasonable amount of time - enough to last the average blackout. I was thinking of getting some 1440 or 1500VA units. Haven't pulled the trigger yet though. Where did galambo and Death & Taxes discuss this? Careful there with UPSs that do not give sine wave output. APFC power supplies will trip their power protection circuitry and not work when fed with approximate sine wave (sawtooth) output. I recommend the SmartUPS series or something that puts out pure sine wave. Also in regards to the avalon unit coming back online from a power outage, sometimes that does not happen. Rarely what could happen is the unit will be left in a zombie like state because the control board did not initialize properly. For me this happened once when there was a brownout. Oh, and for the record UPSs do NOT have stronger surge absorption capabilities than a good surge protector (varies of course on the quality of your surge protector). Hook the UPS up to a strong surge suppressor. Do NOT hook up a surge protector to a UPS.  Aseras, question for you. What percentage of HW errors would you consider to be "OK" while running at 300 MHz. I get close to 8% at the moment. With 03-25 I got pretty much the same. Admittedly it has been only 1hr and 20 min since I flashed to 04-10 so maybe I need a longer sampling period? Correctomundo. You could theoretically build your own. The control board is a FPGA board essentially with I/O options (unlike dedicated fpga miners).  I was going to say the same thing. I'm curious to know what has been changed/fixed/updated in this latest firmware. A "CHANGELOG" file in the testing folder would be really nice. Well hopefully the basement can deal with the extra heat being pumped into it. Remember the heat has to go somewhere. If you got multiple units then you have a LOT of heat to deal with. But I'm sure you realize this. promises.... Well, if you checkout the trade-in program thread (same section) they said they will honor batch 2 prices for trade in customers. They further said they people who keep their promises. Read into it what you will.  80 GH/s for $2800 is still pretty damn good. Shame the project fell through the cracks.I wonder how much it would've taken to complete the project.  I see, so you like to play doctor with it. You dirty man   lool Well he can wait until he receives it and ship it to a buyer...the waiting might take forever though lol.  Very nice. I just finally pulled the trigger on a AX860 (80 Plus Platinum rated) so hopefully that will work out ok. Just a word of caution to those of you who are thinking of replacing the PSU, watch out and make sure the length of the PSU is not over 7 inches. A decent 800+ watt unit should be around 6 to 6.3".  Let's not be so mean about it. Changing and IP is an easy task. Go to Network and Sharing Center, change adapter settings, right click on local area connection go to properties, select IPv5 and click properties and voila. In windows XP it's network connections right click on local area connection, TCP/IP, blah blah... You don't necessarily _have_ to water cool it but of course if you do you will get better heat transfer than air cooling and that means you might be able to push the chips even further or if you live in a hot climate ensure cooler chip temps at stock clock rates. Both. I typically just keep an eye on the cgminer status page via http, and also if I notice that cgminer has been running for a short time I hop on over to ssh and see if the actual system rebooted. Typically it's just cgminer acting up and having to be restarted.  You might as well keep the orders for yourself. Nobody will buy them now since your order is very very recent (last month) and will likely be shipped last (if at all). That would suck. Mining centralization is not a good thing at all.  Either that or someone is price trolling you... True, but higher VA units are not so easy to setup in a residential type of situation. I don't want to wire 30 amp (or heavier) circuits for a UPS. The electrical work alone will be expensive, and so will the UPS itself ($5000 to $10,000). There are other factors too that make it a challenge to engineer a adequate 100% uptime solution for these units in a RESIDENTIAL situation. A 1500VA unit is enough to ride the usual power flickers that happen. Here in my area we have reliable power and the worst that typically happens is brownouts. One solution would be to keep another miner at a family member that you trust. This way if you have an extended outtage at your home location you at least aren't losing out as much in daily earnings.Ideally you'd want to host these in a data center, but that's a whole other discussion. Would you trust someone else with your miner?  In my case it appears the hashrate does not bounce around. It's usually staying in the 68 to 74 GH/s range. My Average is 71. I'm running 03-25 firmware. Ambient temps are between 15 to 17 C. So far I'm happy with the overclock but my main concern now is how much longer can the PSU hold under this heavy stress. But I already said many times on this thread and others that I plan to swap out that overworked antec 650 unit. 
Well I took the plunge and clocked it at 300 a few minutes ago. Hashrate went up to 74G for a bit..average is 71G. Not sure for how long it will remain stable at this clock rate or if the PSU can handle it. If the Antec unit is just 650 running it at 300 mhz is probably running the PSU at 100% load. I really need to get a 850w PSU. For best results, he needs one of these: None of those variables can be accurately predicted. Your guess is as good as anyone's and in the end it will still remain an educated gamble. Wow $29K. What a crazy return on your $7 K investment.  I'm currently on 0.07 so for now I wouldn't be interested but 0.02 is really good and no doubt once the network is dominated by ASIC miners then kw/h rate will become very important. Maybe then I shall give you a shout if you still have room. Good luck! You are clogging up the internets like this :p lol j/k  Google translate for the win: not enough money to take another No but can buy Russian bride. I see. Yeah we wouldn't want some bears chewing on our ASIC miners. So what is the average Kw/H cost in your area? Really? I thought the gloves were some sort of sex toy.  Hmm, yeah that's the crucial question. Will they honor the Batch 1 or Batch 2 price for trade in clients. I don't know if it makes economic sense for them to honor the price now. Also batch3 customers would bitch and moan about how unfair it is that trade-in customers get such a huge discount. But what batch 3 customers must  realize is that batch 1 and 2 customers paid a LOT more in BTC terms than they did.If they honored batch 1 or batch 2 prices I can tell you for sure that I'd be more than willing to pay that price  It's not a lot. We're talking 100+ MB for several days worth of mining. I recently restarted my miner otherwise I would've given you some hard stats.  LOL    loool...Well, I think you did all you could, and the ball is in the Avalon team's court. I hope you do get your grubby paddy paws all over them.  2 Dollah..final offer   But umm, why sell bro? You'll make your money back and then some. Hmm :/ Yeah I see your point now. Did you by any chance take a screenshot when you placed the order. At the very least you could shove that in their faces if they fail to deliver due to errors in their stored information, etc. Eh? Anyone saved the pics? I'm curious to see what "my" machine looks like  Oh wow OMG I had a riot of a laugh at that. Maybe North Korea should buy some BFL units. Think of the mega-tonnes of explosive power they would wield!!! Yes I do. There are far too many variables that come into play which can result in unreliability when it comes to wireless connectivity. So to sum up my opinions:1) Mine with a stratum capable pool which has servers as close as possible to you (low latency)2) Connect the miners via a wired connection to your home network3) Ensure that you do not saturate the upstream of your internet connection. Even though the startum protocol is by FAR less bandwidth intense it is still a good idea to give it some room to breathe.4) If you really want to get crazy setup QoS (quality of service) rules on your router to give higher priority to traffic coming and going on the typical bitcoin/stratum ports (like some gamers do with their games).On a sidenote I would also recommend putting your router, dsl/cable modem, and ethernet switch (if you have one) on a UPS (battery backup). This should avoid damage from brownouts and other typical power fluctuations. Believe it or not some routers tend to lose their flash rom settings due to spikes in voltage and other electrical phenomenon. I doubt you'd want to come home and realize that your spiffy new money printing machine (aka Avalon) has been idle for 12 hours because your router crapped its pants and lost its mind. Uptime is the name of the game here.  Quite the clusterfuck that was. Well, then I guess you and he should be all set as long as walletbit has the proper personal info (shipping address).
Doesn't Washingston State have cheaper power anyways? I mean all those rivers and hydro dams gotta be good for something.  What about your purchase receipt? Don't you have one of those. For sure your shipping address is listed there or SHOULD be. If you did not get a receipt then you indeed have a problem. Contact the Avalon team about if you do not have a receipt. You could also check your spam filters/folder just in case the e-mail got trapped there. Any flavor will do. What determines which distro is best is your proficiency with it. There are some libs that are necessary for mining with these fpga units, so whichever distro makes it easier for you to install the prerequisite software is the one that might be best. I hear Ubuntu is really easy  They will indeed. Careful they are fully armed with heavy equipment. They might toss some old GPUs your way and hurt you badly. lol Probably not. That's why I think the trade in program is pretty much pointless at this point. One would've been better off just buying into batch1 and batch2 with BTC instead of waiting for this trade in program that never comes.  These are very good recommendations and I can definitely attest to the solidity of the Corsair AX (and even the HX series) series PSU. I also have a Silverstone 1250 Watt unit (Strider) and I'm wondering what you think of those.I am thinking of picking up the Seasonic P-860 or it's sister Corsair AX860 depending on which is cheaper. Hmm, a quick newegg search shows that the AX860 (not the AX860i) is by far cheaper. Which do you think would be the better choice given that the AX860i is made by Flextronics instead of Seasonic. True, but the sensors could be just ambient air temp sensors - meaning they just sense the temp in a given area, and not exactly on or near the ASIC die itself. Maybe someone can correct me if I'm wrong but I do believe the Avalon ASICS will shutdown if they get too hot. Now I doubt that each chip has a thermal sensor in it but at the very least they might have a thermal sensor somewhere on the ASIC PCBs or somewhere around. It would be pretty silly if they went through all the trouble of designing bitcoin mining ASICS and built no thermal protection in the system whatsoever. After all these are money printing machines, no? I have a feeling the reason it stopped was because the power supply could not handle it. I would recommend not using getwork with this miner, stratum is IMHO the only way to go. It takes quite a lot to feed this monster and pools are not up to the task. There is the option of mining solo with it via your own locally hosted pool daemon, but you still need a beefy server to keep it well fed with getwork requests. I'm sure all the more technical users will explain all the nuances if you'd care to find out. Hmm yes indeed results may vary, but I think play it safe and keep it a 282. 300 may be necessary when competition for hashing power gets really tough, but for now I'm thankful I got 67 GH/s which is something I would have never dreamed of or thought I could achieve back in the GPU mining days. I very much doubt it will have cron job support, but hopefully with it being a newer spec router it might be more reliable. Look into doing a wireless survey to see what channels are currently the most used (and therefore congested) in your area and change the router and your wireless client(s) to use the least occupied/congested channel. This will ensure greater signal stability. Let us know how the new router goes.Good luck! When will this firmware be released and available in the "testing" folder? Hmm, odd. Everything seems ok. One thing tthat _might_ help is to make sure you do not have additional cooling fans outside the case blowing in. Leave the cooling setup as it came. This was a recommendation by ngzhang and I believe it is also mentioned in the official wiki. You could also try opening the thing up and disconnecting and make sure everything is connected solidly and reconnect it if not.  Are you running the latest firmware? And this happens no matter what clock rate the chips are running at? What do the temps say? Are the fans spinning at above 1000 rpm and can you feel the air flowing? Hmm extra 50 watts for 300. I guess that will for sure overwhelm the Antec 650 watt PSU if one runs at 120v. I don't think I will try this until I slap on a 850 watt or 7500 watt Gold or Platinum rated PSU. lol I'm in the same situation. I think a good investment would be to put it on a UPS. I got my eyes on a 1500VA unit - should be more than enough juice to keep it mining during brief power outages. Shouldn't it be over 9000?   Someone else mentioned on a different thread (can't remember which one) that if you set the clock to 300 the hashrate bounces all over the place from 60 to 80 GH/s. Can anyone else confirm this wild fluctuation in hashing rate and what would be the average hashrate for an Avalon clocked at 300? Good point. I was curious about running it at 300 (not a huge "overclock" over 282) but I don't want to chance it. I'd also think that power consumption will naturally go up and that poor Antec 650 PSU is pretty much almost overloaded. If I had watercooling blocks for the Avalon units and a beefier PSU then I'd feel more comfortable upping the clock rate.
I would imagine it all depends on where the package is destined to go. I bet they have multiple sorting facilities/hubs. For me it says "Arrived at Sort Facility CINCINNATI HUB - USA" So it's hitting USA first. I do not know if they even have a sorting hub in Canada. Oh sorry, yes I did misunderstand your question. Yes I can see the progress of the package. Hope this helps in some way. Ouch. I feel your pain. I too am in a house with a similar age (a tad bit older actually) but I was lucky that a lot of the walls were renovated and they're now drywall based which is way way better. I guess one solution would be to run ethernet along the baseboard. It's fairly stealthy if done right. To cheer you up, be thankful you're not living in a Faraday cage!  Well, like I said, I did not have the tracking # until AFTER I got the unit, so I wasn't able to follow the package on its journey. Have you tried to contact the Avalon team, check your spam folder, call DHL or Loomis Express( the company which will deliver your unit!). 3 days. Yep, you do have a valid point. Then again he did not provide that much info to work with. He did not say what network he is currently using (ie 192.168.1.x or 192.168.0.x)The key is for him to change the Avalon's IP address information to fit into his existing network.  To be honest, troubleshooting wireless reliability and intermittent connectivity issues is quite a bitch. Usually the first thing you'd want to look at is the quality of your router.  Cheap routers usually have weak radios and poor performing antennas. The other culprit is of course physical obstacles. Does your house have plaster walls? If so this will affect the strength of the wireless signal. Where you place your router and also where you locate the wireless clients (wireless devices) also matters. If you absolutely must have it connected wirelessly then there are several things you can do:1) Get a better router. A router that supports the 802.11n wireless standard is the idea. Also if the router has multiple antennas as is typical with the MIMO capable routers then that's even better. 2) If your router supports it remove it's antenna and swap it with a more sensitive one, but typically this has limited effectiveness as often it's not the router's receive sensitivity that is the issue. In some custom router firmwares you can modify the power at which the router's radios transmit at. Most likely if you're using a off-the-shelf router then this is not possible unless you want to mess around with flashing it with a custom firmware like dd-wrt, openwrt, tomato, etc. 3) Install a bigger and more sensitive antenna on your avalon miner. I'm not sure what the dBi rating is for the one it comes with but if you wanted to go all crazy on the wireless setup you can get one of those super sensitive 20 dBi parabolic dish antennas. Kind of extreme though.4) Another option is to install a wireless repeater half way in between the avalon unit and your router. A wireless repeater will receive your router's wi-fi signal and then amplify it and rebroadcast it. A wireless repeater is akin to a bridge as it bridges the signal distance gap. 5) Also check your router to see what channel it is trasmitting on. Often if you have a lot of other wireless routers in your area and if some or a number of them happen to be using the same wireless channel as your router then they'll sort of step on each other's toes. So what you can do is change the wireless transmit channel. One neat utility that I like to use for this purpose is called "inSSIDer" Hopefully some of these tips help, but once again it is my opinion that if you can find a means to run a cable, do it. You'll have less to worry about. Ok, so you want to log into the Avalon unit wirelessly? Meaning you want it to be wirelessly connected to your home network? If so manually assign the WWAN interface (in the network tab) the IP address 192.168.1.100 , set the subnet mask to 255.255.255.0 and the default gateway to 192.168.1.1 (which I'm assuming is the IP address of your router). DNS server can be set to 192.168.1.1 (once again the IP address of your router which acts as a DNS forwarder).If you do this make sure you remove any IP settings from the Avalon's LAN interface that way you don't get any IP conflicts (which you would get if you give both interfaces the same IP).If you can I'd recommend connecting your Avalon miner to your home network via an Ethernet cable as it's a far more reliable connection.  At first I thought I did not, but apparently ngzhang e-mailed me the DHL tracking number but sadly it ended up being flagged by gmail as spam (go figure) so I did not notice it until much much longer after. So those of you who are waiting please check your spam boxes and mail filters..you just may have something from the avalon team. Check the firewall rules - yes the router has iptables rules set. It may be programmed to ignore ssh/telnet connection on the wireless interface. Change it's IP address so it's on the same subnet as the rest of your home network. Example if you're using the 192.168.1.x subnet give the avalon unit an ip address between 1 and 255..ie 192.168.1.111 or something. To change the avalon's ip address go to the "Network" tab in its admin web interface. Thanks for confirming that. I was worried that I was the only one with this. I will wait for a newer firmware revision which hopefully will fix this. I'd also like to add that I found 03/25 to be more stable than 03/21. Hmm, something odd here. After applying the 03/25 firmware I noticed that the fan RPMs are stuck at 1800 for FAN2 and 1920 for FAN3. Has anyone else experienced this? I'm assuming this is a firmware bug. I've been looking into this PSU and I'm wondering how much you paid for it. The cheapest I've been able to find it here in Canada is $259. If anyone knows a better deal I'd appreciate the notice.  In regards to your post about the firmware update process I found out that it doesn't hurt to just go ahead and update the firmware while the unit is still mining. That's what I did when updating to 03/25 and I ran into no problems whatsoever. I did not even wipe the settings. The machine is running stable on 03/25. I've had one restart but that was cgminer restarting NOT the Avalon unit itself. The cgminer-monitor script did its job.Now as for the power supply post, I do believe it is an Antec EA-650: http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16817371044 What do you guys think of this idea. How about cutting a window on the side of the Avalon case and mounting the PSU internally with its intake fan facing the outside. This way the PSU draws in cool air instead of warm air from within the Avalon's case. Would there be any problems with this idea? Hmm,, crap, that EarthWatts PSU is dual rail. Time to hunt down a replacement single rail unit. Although now that I think about it some more maybe the number of rails does not matter as the power distribution board could just, well, distribute the load evenly. The PSU is running at almost full power anyways so both rails should have equal load, at least theoretically. What do you guys think?Also putting the miner on a UPS is a big priority for me as well and it should for you guys as well - at least have one on a UPS.Thanks for the info Big Time Coin.  That's what I intend to do later on when I stack more units (get some pliers and nicely tighten everything down), but when I first got it I was in a rush to get it up and running as soon as possible. I hope you can understand my reasoning. Also have you considered a modular power supply. That's what I am thinking of doing late on - remove the Antec PSU and put in a Corsair or Seasonic or Silverstone 100% modular PSU. That should help the airflow a bit given that there won't be any more cable clutter.  Air escaped on the sides either way (the holes!). Screwing down the top lid on only 4 locations is IMHO a tight enough seal. Successfully tightening the rest is an exercise in frustration.  Careful with the TX series from Corsair. There are two models out (perhaps 3 by now) The original was NOT single rail. The V2 is. So if you're going to get one of these make sure it's not the older multiple rail design ones. I would recommend the AX or HX series from Corsair. AX is 80 Plus Platinum while HX is 80 Plus Gold.
My suggestion, don't bother putting on all the "screws." Two at each corner (top and bottom if looking straight on) will suffice. Also I would mention the keyword "pincers"  I'll just post that once again so it sinks in....Now a question for you guys. Would the Delta EFB series be ideal due to the increased air pressure 3 blade design? I'm thinking of the Delta EFB1212SHE. 141.96 CFM @ 3700 RPM 52.5 dBA. They didn't at first. They only did after the first wave of thefts happened. Reactive instead of proactive. But I think we are getting waaay off-topic here.  How about equity in BFL? If they built everything using our money we are akin to shareholders anyways. Just a wild thought. That's a very scary thought. With all the recent attention BTC has been getting based around the "ASIC gold rush" it would be pretty crazy if some dude at customs know that there is an Avalon in the box.  Ooops..disregard my previous post. Hmm, the joys of DDoS'in. Haterz be hatin' on y0 pool homeboy..that's fer shure   Or perhaps DDoS'ed? I'm just wondering. When you upgraded to the NEXT firmware did you stop the cgminer process or no. I would assume one has to stop all system activity.  Those of you in Canada waiting should be aware that you will NOT get advance notice nor a tracking number. Also most likely if you call DHL Canada or US they won't be of any use. Shipment in Canada will be delivered by Loomis Express. The package will just show up. No advance notice. Is the two node server on a UPS? I presume you are _not_ mining at btcguild then. Maybe you can try a different pool for a bit and see if it makes a difference. Also make sure you set your vardiff to 32 or 64 (if it's possible to do so at your pool) and do not use getwork pool servers, go for stratum. The other possibility is that your avalon has a buggy controller or the tplink router is flaky. PSU could be wonky too. If you have a spare PSU you can try swapping it. I see. Well thanks for the service you provided. If there was a way of automating this I would offer the same service.Happy hashing to you all! lool..welcome to the club. Someone recommended pincers. I did not have any on hand so I had to struggle. I felt like a caveman trying to figure out how to turn on a computer. I wish they included screws with longer threads so the washers would be mounted with the pit or groove area downwards instead of it grabbing on to the top lip of the case lid. I'm surprised that the modules came loose. What did DHL do, try to play football with it?Anyways, overall it's a well put together system.  Looks like there are still units available for purchase. I definitely agree. A more affordable and less power hungry unit would be awesome. It would spread out ownership and hashing power and thus help to decentralize hashing power.  You think? Hmm, I dunno. I think that it won't make that much of a difference yet. It might way way into the future when this thing is pushing the borders of profitability, but by then we would either have upgraded to something more power efficient or stopped mining altogether (heaven forbid).What would be a better "upgrade" is powering them with 220v You plan to design your own Avalon clone? Are you located in North America by any chance? You need to change your laptop's/desktop's/computer's/quantum magical computing device's IP address to ensure that you are on the same SUBNET. If you happen to be using a router that already uses the 192.168.0.x network then yeah you're fine you need not change anything. The Avalon units come with a hardcoded IP address. It will NOT get an IP address from your router! I suppose they could've made things easier - well maybe - if they had the unit automatically get it's network config via DHCP but then you'd hear people complain that they can't find the IP address of the avalon unit, etc.  Hmm, well I guess I must have a lucky unit as mine has been mining for "4d 11h 19m 24s" no restarts no interruptions. Props to btcguild for awesome stability too. Do you have it running on a power feed that has a lot of EMI or brief but frequent "micro" brownouts? There must be some cause for the restarts you experience every 12 hours. Is it really that precisely occurring? Do you have proper cooling for these. These are going to output a LOT of heat.  Yes mine came with PSU. As far as I'm aware we were never given an option in batch 1 to order without PSU. And no there were no problems with customs. The PSU it came with is an Antec unit. I am thinking of buying a modular PSU for it later on as it will help with airflow in the case a bit. 
It's hashing quite nicely. 3 days of uptime with the latest (not NEXT) firmware so it's all good   I do believe there is someone here on the forum who bought like 50 of them and plans to resell the modules.  Please close this unnecessary thread. See my reply here:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=156323.msg1682638#msg1682638 You will most likely be able to use them as long as they support the Stratum mining protocol. As for the 50miner software the Avalon unit is self contained and does need you to run any other software to make it hash. It already hashes using cgminer which is built in. Now for a more technical answer if you don't mind. Avalon Asic is essentially a TP-Link router running a custom linux router firmware called dd-wrt with the popular cgminer mining software loaded on to it. The tp-link router board is what runs the mining software. This router is inside the avalon case. The unit is manageable via a web interface like you may be used with home routers. You really should read this:https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Avalon Do you have the facilities to host this many avalons? Can you tell us a bit more where you'll be hosting them? (Home, office, data center, etc)? Nope. That's not it. They declare a much much LOWER value than the purchase amount, but shhhhh let's keep that a secret..mmmkaaay?   We would not want the big bad greedy government to fleece us.  Very good question. So what's the answer? Are you ok with escrow or not? Is that really the DHL van that delivered your unit or just some random occurence ? If the first then congrats!   Go for it. You'll get unit. They are real. The only thing that should really be holding people back is the uncertainty regarding how long it will take to break even once you do get the batch 3 unit. PM Sent. Holy crap, 10K for a pre-order. Nice one dude.  Congrats to those of you who snatched a unit or units. It will be interesting to see when these ship out or whether BFL will end up shipping.  Congrats! Make sure you stroke it gently - I hear it hashes better that way lool I second that notion. Would you consider lowering your price? Batch 3 price is now 75 BTC That's my guess as well (not utilizing PWM). I'm of course referring to the blue LED fan which is the one that cools the far left (power supply) section of the system.  Yep, good point. This is a tad bit below what we paid for batch 1 units.  "Update cgminer-monitor, fix [Accept] give null at the first few seconds of cgminer startFix a typo on /usr/bin/cgminer-monitor, which make it cannot restart cgminer when no Accept"I understood that mention to mean that they fixed it, but to be honest I did not look at the code in the "NEXT" firmware. There is a mention on how to fix the cgminer-monitor script for those that updated to 2013/03/21Code:sed -i 's/ $B / "$B" /' /usr/bin/cgminer-monitor Hmm, so I guess that is indeed the fix. The latest testing firmware includes this fix:http://downloads.qi-hardware.com/people/xiangfu/avalon/next-testing/I think I shall wait until it's officially released out of the testing phase before updating. For now I've noticed no restarts.
Nice! You just made a whopping profit! $1200 into $10633. The wall-street goons are jealous  That wiki has been moved to:https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Avalon Hmm, interesting. Mine does not report any info for Fan 1. Either it is not connected to a PWM sensor on purpose or not (meaning it fell out during shipment - not likely but possible?) But in regards to the throttling up and down I noticed that on my unit as well. It will once in a while spin up the fans and after a bit spin down. When I saw this I thought it was normal because it could be just trying to maintain a certain temperature target. It also could be reaching a peak hashing rate and thus produce more heat and thus it's just trying to cool itself. Then again all of this could be just a bug *shrug* Ok, I'd like to hear from BitSyncom as to which is the proper content to have in the cron job. At the moment I have this:Code:#!/bin/sh# This file is for cron jobC=`pidof cgminer | wc -w`if [ "$C" != "1" ]; then        /etc/init.d/cgminer stop        /etc/init.d/cgminer start        exit 0;fiA=`cat /tmp/cm.log`B=`cgminer-api  | grep "^   \[Accepted\]"`echo $B > /tmp/cm.logif [ "$A" == "$B" ]; then        /etc/init.d/cgminer stop        /etc/init.d/cgminer start        exit 0;fiIs the code Mills00013 posted what we should have?  Ok, that is odd. As far as I am aware the latest firmware is supposed to fix this issue. Perhaps there is something peculiar to your unit alone that causes the bug to still manifest itself.Also did you make sure you're really running the latest firmware - 3/21/2013.Ssh into the box and go into /etcand then run: "cat avalon_version"it should read:20130321cgminer-7c1428aluci-46afd4aopenwrt-package-10ee304Mine is still going, 1 day 18 hrs 22 min I don't think this should make any difference but I have mine set to Failover mode. It will mine on btcguild and if that fails it will switch over to a backup pool. BTCguild with vardiff setting at 32 (I debated increasing it to 64 but I don't think it will make that huge of a difference). How often does this happen? I too am using the latest firmware but for me it's stable. 1 day and 13 hours uptime.    Oh sick burn on BFL! Yeah but all that wait will be worthwhile because the BFL chips are powered by magic! They will be able to hash all the bitcoins! Now back to the serious business of bitcoins, I'd say that they deserve the break.  No Sir I shall not. Now try to imagine how many Avalons 25K BTC could buy. The bad news with batch 2 is that the Avalon team said they need a break before they start working on or shipping it (batch 2 units). Hmm  yeah I heard they don't like to be bothered by such silly things as answering e-mails. I'm kidding of course as I have no expereince with their customer serivice, but yeah I think you should get yours next week. Btw guys if you're on btcguild join the Canadian team  This way we can be good at something else other than hockey .. I will disinfect it, and afterwards burn candles and incense to cleanse the area of my unworthy presence. All hail Lord Avalon who bringeth the hashing goodness. lool Maybe someone hacked this guy's ebay account, but still I would expect the scammer to have loftier goals (ie higher price. Is there any way to force the fans to spin at a constant RPM (say max). I noticed that they spool up and down. I realize there is a valid reason for using PWM control but might it not be bad for the motors to constantly change their rotation? (wear out the bearings?) Is this legit? *Rubs chin*.... Thank you.order # 200000333not sure if that's one of the very first or not...order was placed Oct 12 2012I did have to pay $50.91 to DHL, well specifically to Loomis Express as they were the company that did the actual delivery. I believe DHL hands off all packages intended for Canada to Loomis Express. No, nobody called me before delivery. They just showed up. Unfortunately I was not home when they attempted the first delivery so I had to go and pick it up myself from one of their local warehouses which belonged to yet another company (Medex Shipping or something like that). Quite a hassle but hey in the end it's worth it. For batch 2 I chose EMS.  Excellent. That will make for one very practical setup - just stack all your units on top of each other. There might be minor differences in temps as the one at the bottom will draw in relatively cooler air, but the differences should be minor.By the way BitSyncom, I must say I like the case design and appreciate the fact that it's solid aluminium - it is very sexy in an raw industrial design sort of way Now excuse me while I go and rub my hands all over it... I forgot to mention earlier but I just received my batch 1 Avalon yesterday. So chalk one up for Canada.  I forgot to mention but I received my batch 1 Avalon yesterday. So add one for Canada.  Do you know where I can read more about their ingenious stacking system?  I thought of that but unfortunately I have no pincers on hand. I managed to get two in at each corner so it's stable. I guess if I want to be screwing around with the insides more often I will have to get pincers.
When did you place this order? I could be wrong but this looks like a very recent order. I think I've asked this before and perhaps someone else has as well, but BitSyncom do you think you'll allow those of us who went ahead and purchased batch 1 and batch 2 units to trade in their Icarus/Lancelot boards for credit in the form of BTC or a faster delivery for our orders that haven't shipped yet?  I would be shocked if you managed to put it back on without dropping those support screws/washers many many times.  You know what's not well designed..the mechanism for holding the top case cover on.  Well, if it makes you feel any better the amount of BTC it will earn in its very first DAY of operation will pay for the duty fees 10x over. Batch 1 and Batch 2 customers are sitting pretty either way. Not so sure about batch 3 though. It all depends on how much new hashing power is added to the network.  Yep, I favor EMS as well. When they shipped me my Icarus miners I had to pay no customs fees  (big brother if you're watching not to worry you get plenty of taxes from me) lol I very much doubt it. They would have to be fully working units. What is broken ? One thing that I recommend you check is the fuses. I had a broken Icarus that has a dead fuse.  Ah, thanks for the info. I was not aware of that. "Montréal, Québec and Toronto, Ontario, June 27, 2011  TransForce Inc. (TransForce or theCompany) (TSX: TFI) and DHL Express (Canada) Ltd (DHL Express Canada) jointly announced today theformal closing of their previously announced agreement whereby TransForce, a North American leaderin the transportation industry, has purchased the assets of DHL Express Canadas domestic business andwill be operated through a newly established subsidiary, Loomis Express. With the closure of thetransaction, Loomis Express and DHL Express Canada will begin operating as two separate companies,providing a completely integrated domestic and international suite of innovative and stronglycompetitive logistics and shipping services.Under the strategic alliance, Loomis Express will focus on providing expanded domestic operations inthe Canadian package and courier sector, allowing DHL Express Canada to leverage its core strength andfocus exclusively on the Canadian international shipping segment."I wonder if they'll still use DHL for batch 2 or whether they found an alternative.  lol failsauce their part...I wonder why DHL doesn't have a Canadian presence. Are there some protectionist regulations preventing them or? Hmm, did some googling and found this:http://www.thefreelibrary.com/DHL+Worldwide+Express+Purchases+Mayne+Group+Canada,+Inc.,+%60Loomis,'+a...-a093760923So I presume your experience was due to them probably not being done with integrating the two companies.If I get a delivery notice and I miss the shipment I intend to bring cash as I don't feel like being hassled by a collections agency. I wonder how many Canadians there are in batch 1. By the way guys, I don't think you will get any notification of shipment from DHL. I called them up and found out that once packages make it into Canada they are handed to some company called "Loomis Express" So the package will come from Loomis Express. So basically what I'm saying is that you have no way of finding out IF you are due to receive it BEFORE they actually make the delivery attempt.Hmm, now that I think of it I would've preferred (and paid) if they sued FedEx or UPS or some other bigger shipping company.  I am starting to wonder the same thing myself. I am surprised to see nobody from Canada has come forward saying they got theirs. I think you should just keep on mining with them until they are no longer profitable. You won't get all that much for them now. Also the fact that they lack the typical boatload of I/O options found on full development board means they have limited use as a dev board, so once again their market value beyond bitcoin mining (or perhaps alt coin mining?) is limited. Just my 2 cents. In the end it's up to you what you do with them. Good luck with your auction! Posting this for the public record. I don't know how but I somehow managed to kill this board as I took it out of the mining cluster. All I did was shut it down, yank the power and usb cables and take it off the "motherboard risers/spacers" and put in an anti-static bag. I assumed that the board was working so I shipped it to PsychoticBoy. Unfortunately I had wasted his time as when it got there it was non functional. I promptly refunded his 12 BTC and he sent the board back. He can confirm that I refunded him.So now I guess I'm left with a dead board. Or maybe it's fixable? I am not an electrical engineer and I do not have the proper gear to test it out fully so if anyone wants the board let me know. In light of that has anyone else had one of these Icarus boards fails on them, and if so what was the cause? What is the most common way for these to die? Static? Blown VRMs? Although having our ASIC miners sooner will result in a quicker ROI since they promised both trade-in credit and priority in the shipping queue I think they should honor both.  I sent them an e-mail to the "info @...." address. Dunno if or when they will reply. I'm not expecting a reply soon given that they're busy with batch 2 orders, but it would be nice if they clarified their position here on this thread or somewhere on the forum. I don't think it would be all that hard to offer credit to those of us that got into batch 2 in spite of having existing fpga hardware to trade in. It's quite simple.Anyways, let's await a response from the Avalon folks. 160'ish still in stock..get'em while they're hot...lol cause you know when you get em they'll run hot  Hmm, crap, too late. I went ahead and just bought into batch 2 at full price. I suppose that disqualifies me from receiving the trade in credit.  Well, looks like the trade-in plan did not materialize yet again. Batch 2 went ok this time but we did not get notified to trade in our old fpga boards.  I'm assuming that one can manually alter the fan profile in cgminer's config file. Have you tried this already?  Hmm, yeah but where are the batch 1 units?!?
This is nuts. Without confirmation that Batch 1 Avalons are in the hands of miners purchasing from batch 2 is quite a risk. Throw in the chance that BFL might ship and this is plain gambling.  So, is it cranking out them hashes and making you all the bitcoinzzzz ? Thanks    I wonder if your July order is likely to be in the first batch of shipments.  Let the race to the bottom begin. The real winners in this game will be the very first Avalon miners and ASICMiner share owners - and also jgarzik cause he's the only person currently confirmed to have an Avalon miner in use.  That is very good news. *playing the Jeopardy waiting music*.....now all that remains is to see the mining beast at my doorstep.  Actually now that it looks like BFL is less of a scam and more than 80 to 90% likely to deliver somewhat on time I guess it does not make as much sense for someone to sell their pre-order unless they are a) desperate for quick cash or b) looking to make a substantial profit or c) looking to recover their high price paid for the pre-order back in June/July when the BTC price was low. The idea was that whoever buy your pre-order is taking on the risk that BFL will not deliver but now that's not likely to be as big of a risk. As they say timing is everything. One big problem I see is how do you properly value an unknown quantity such as the amount of BTC one is expected to earn. Taking into account a 30 BTC / week earning potential the 200 BTC offering seems more realistic. I'll have to think about this some more. No doubt you would  but if I understand things correctly due to the 1/3 shipping policy I don't think there would be that great an advantage to being first in line. So in that light I think a more reasonable price range would be in the $1299 to $2000 range or maybe a little bit more than $2K. Hi everyone. I'm looking to buy 1 BFL Single SC pre-order. The earlier the order the better. I haven't decided yet but I may also accept the "little" single SC or jalapeno but preference goes to the normal 60 GH/s Single SC.I'd prefer US or Canadian sellers as this should minimize shipping costs. Also I would like to use escrow with a designated escrow agent to be mutually agreed upon. Please PM me or post here your offers (ie your asking price). If I agree to it I will PM you and we will get the ball rolling. Payment will of course be in BTC only.  You want an UPS that can handle 4 of those Avalon monsters at once? Then "APC Matrix 5000VA/5KVA UPS" is the way to go. Or you could just buy 4 separate 1400VA UPSs.  If you want a rackmount solution then you want something like this: APC SmartUPS 1400VA ((SU1400RMXL3U).  Anyways, back on topic. BitSyncom can you please provide us with a status update. When will the trade-in option be made available again? A rough time frame would be very helpful. No I have not given up. It's not BTC's fault for my misfortune. board has been shipped as of 5 minutes ago.... Payment is confirmed. He shall have Icarus bitcoin hashing goodness in 2 weeks or a bit more (going via Canada Post eh!). Update: tentatively sold to PsychoticBoy...if he changes his mind I will re-open the bidding process but for now the board is his. Wow that's some crazy shit. This world is full of scumbags though so to minimize risk it would be best to conduct this exchange in a public coffee shop (when there a lot of people) and also to bring a friend or two.  Let the waiting game begin...... Hi Raize. Thanks for the info. I guess all should be ok then. I for one subscribed to their mailing list. Also many of us bought ngzhang's Icarus boards and I'm sure Yifu has access to (or can ask for access) to ngzhang's previous customers list. But if they want some sort of proof beyond that I'm not sure what would satisfy them. You mean batch 2, right? Batch 1 was the first pre-order batch that is currently shipping or has been shipped to customers. I think the Avalon team should allow all their previous customer to get credit towards a new Avalon system regardless if Batch 2 is closed to regular full-price purchase orders. I don't think it will make that much of a difference for them as I have a feeling that they have by far more NEW customers than previous ones trying to exchange their old fpga boards. I dunno, I just hope they won't screw us over by not providing ample notification before opening the doors to the website where we can get credit towards new Avalon units. What I would do if I was them is give 2 to 4 day early noticed via e-mail and then allow for a 48 hour window for people to place their orders. I'd also open the order window on the weekend when more people are likely to have spare time. The 2 to 4 day early notice gives people ample time to purchase BTC if they need to do so.  Any chance you guys will get into the ASIC market?
Are you going to notify your current and past clients or are you just going to pick a random date and time out the clouds??!  *Sigh* Geeks/Engineers make horrible sales people or business managers. Now what, I guess we have to wait for batch 3. Or BFL?There may be some hope for those of you who have existing boards to offer for their trade-in program.  So far I have one person who bid 12 BTC and another who most likely bid the full $299 price but I am trying to figure out shipping arrangements and he hasn't decided yet to commit to buying it. Thus so far the 12 BTC stands as the highest bid. Are you serious, they opened the sales page without any prior notice or notification to mailing list subscribers?!! WTF!!!  Hi everyone. I have perfectly functional Icarus FPGA mining board for sale. As you may or may not know you can trade these in and get $299 credit towards the purchase of the new 'Avalon' ASIC mining systems. So I am selling it for their trade in value. The item will be shipped from within Canada. Payment will of course be in BTC at whatever the BTC/USD exchange rate is at the time of sale (mtgox price).PM me if interested. Transaction would go something like this:1) Buyer shows up2) Seller shows up3) Both exchange handshakes and oddly suspicious looks4) Buyer demands to see the hardware5) Seller presents hardware6) Seller gets a baseball bat to the head when he least suspects it7) "Buyer" and accomplice walk away Profit!  /trolling You know what would be neat. If he allowed us to trade in Icarus boards for additional modules.  Sold yet?Also are you willing to ship to Canada? Hey Slush, I think something broke. I'm getting massive rejected shares. Pretty much all of them are getting rejected. Other pools work fine, so it's just your pool. I'm mining on stratum. I already tried restarting the mining proxy (running version 1.1.1) but that did not help.Edit: Hmm, looks like it's working again. Temporary hiccup? Hmm, well, I'm running the same firmware version as you now (latest as of today) and I still get the comm errors. So now I think the next item down the troubleshooting list is to try a new USB hub. I'll drop by my local BestBuy and see if I can get one of those Belkin hubs from the Raspberry Pi official hardware supported list. Thanks for the info Scott! Can you post what firmware version you're running.  I managed to find out what USB Hub I'm using (it's not branded with anything so it's one of those generic types). lsusb shows the following:Bus 001 Device 004: ID 1a40:0201 Terminus Technology Inc. FE 2.1 7-port HubBus 001 Device 005: ID 1a40:0101 Terminus Technology Inc. 4-Port HUBHas anyone else had success using the Pi reliably with this usb hub?The reason I'm asking is that perhaps this usb hub is problematic or backfeeding power to the Pi therefore causing instability and possible long term damage to the Pi.I checked out the Raspberry Pi Verified Peripherals page but the hub is not mentioned there.http://elinux.org/RPi_VerifiedPeripherals#Working_USB_Hubs Well, after about an hour or so I started getting "comms error" from one of my BFL Singles. So fail once again. I ran rpi-update once again (after removing the .rpi-firmware folder). Let's see if that helps. I should mention that rpi-update DID work and that I noticed a newer firmware revision # and uname -a shows a newer date  (Tue Jan 1). Cross my fingers and hope it will help in some way.  Ok, so I've made both of those changes 2 min ago and rebooted. Let's see how long it will remain stable for. I will report my results here.Edit: I should also mention that I now have the Pi sitting in front of a fan that blows across my fpga miners as well. I don't know if this will help in any way but I hear that the Pi can run pretty hot (50 C and up?) so keeping it cooler should be at least good for it. Hell who knows it might even make it more stable. If that is the case I think getting one of those heatsink kits for it would be a good idea. Hmm, yeah quite disappointing . I think in the end the best solution would be a mini-ITX case with an Intel ATOM CPU and some el'cheapo case. Time to hunt my local classifieds for one. Oh, btw if any of you have this for sale and are willing to ship it to me (Ontario Canada) please let me know.  Well, I got it run once and it now using the latest firmware, but that did not help at all with the stability issues. So maybe this weekend I will play around with it and try your suggestion.  I'm going to give that a try. Have you had to do this too? (ie are you having stability issues?)The main question here is can I get the Pi to mine reliably without ANY reboots or hangs?  Neat! If it is more stable than the Pi then I'm all for it.Thanks for letting me know about it. I guess it's not available for purchase yet, but at $46 it could be worth the wait. Well time to stop using it at least temporarily until I figure out the cause. It could be the power adapter or the usb hub. Never had any problems with the usb hub though. I still suspect the actual Pi itself. I'm going to see if I can RMA it. Well, bummer, system rebooted even with bfgminer 2.10.2 after 9 hours of uptime 
Have you had any "comm" errors with your current setup. I've been having some woes with cgminer with multiple bfl singles. You can find some more details here: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=128789.60So far I've been forced to switch to bfgminer 2.10.2. Not sure if this will work reliably for the long term, so I too may be forced to go the netbook route or some sort of atom/mini itx type of solution. lol https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=123146.new;boardseen#new*facepalm* should've waited/did some more research before buying one of these things expressly for miner management purposes.  4 Icarus boards and 3 BFL singles. All connected to a 10 port USB (powered) hub. USB Hub is one of those generic ones you find everywhere - got it off of ebay: Code:http://i.ebayimg.com/00/s/NjAwWDYwMA==/$(KGrHqN,!h0FBI9ToPqkBQVurqwerg~~60_3.JPGRaspberry Pi is not doing anything else other than managing the fpga miners. No keyboard or mouse is attached to the Pi. USB hub is connected to the lower usb port (bottom one).I'm running bfgminer with the following argument (all pretty standard from what I'm aware):bfgminer -c /home/btc/cgminer.conf -S /dev/ttyUSB0 -S /dev/ttyUSB1 -S /dev/ttyUSB2 -S /dev/ttyUSB3 -S /dev/ttyUSB4 -S /dev/ttyUSB5 -S /dev/ttyUSB6cgminer's Bitforce driver is based on bfgminer's, except they've added a bunch of bugs. I could try it next, but as long as bfgminer works, I don't see a point...[/quote]Surprisingly bfgminer 2.10.2 has been running for 8 hours now without any issues. Lol maybe I should just leave it alone. Still I'm really curious to at least know with a reasonable amount of certainty what was causing these instability issues for me. Hmm, if you say there are bugs in cgminer's bitforce driver that could explain the comm errors me and the OP have been getting. However 2.9.4 causing a system reboot (or causing a system even like large cpu load or something that is causing this mining distro's watchdog daemon to reboot the system) is bizzare. I would be nice if someone else can verify my experience. Perhaps the OP will give 2.9.4 a try and see if the same thing happens for him.  Hmm, odd. I wonder why this happens only for me (as far as I know). 5 hours with 2.10.2 running without any problems...I will monitor this further. Luke do you think that the fact that I have both Icarus and Bitforce miners is somehow relevant? Could you also try cgminer 2.10.4 to see if you get any Comm errors from one of your Bitforce singles? That definitely happens for me with the latest cgminer build - the whole reason that caused me to look for an alternative to see if the same thing happens (ie to bfgminer). I suppose I could. I'd have to take it out of its case and stop using it for mining for a bit, so it's a tiny bit of an inconvenience, but do you suppose you could learn something from that? Do you need _my_ pi pic or what exactly do you think you'll ascertain from a closeup pic? Damage to components? 2.9.7 takes about 2 hours to cause a system reboot. Digging though /var/log/messages shows this:Dec 30 06:46:22 raspberrypi kernel: [18946.081057] smsc95xx 1-1.1:1.0: eth0: Error reading MII_DATADec 30 06:46:22 raspberrypi kernel: [20868.008194] smsc95xx 1-1.1:1.0: eth0: Failed to read register index 0x00000$Dec 30 07:36:23 raspberrypi kernel: [20868.008221] smsc95xx 1-1.1:1.0: eth0: Error reading MII_DATADec 30 07:36:23 raspberrypi kernel: [23869.190094] smsc95xx 1-1.1:1.0: eth0: Failed to read register index 0x00000$Dec 30 07:36:23 raspberrypi kernel: [23869.190144] smsc95xx 1-1.1:1.0: eth0: Error reading MII_ACCESSDec 30 09:53:58 raspberrypi kernel: [23869.190163] smsc95xx 1-1.1:1.0: eth0: Timed out reading MII reg 01Dec 30 09:53:58 raspberrypi kernel: [32124.183193] smsc95xx 1-1.1:1.0: eth0: Failed to read register index 0x00000$Dec 30 11:30:46 raspberrypi kernel: [32124.183223] smsc95xx 1-1.1:1.0: eth0: Error reading MII_DATADec 30 11:30:46 raspberrypi kernel: [37932.079567] smsc95xx 1-1.1:1.0: eth0: Failed to read register index 0x00000$Dec 30 12:21:33 raspberrypi kernel: [37932.079597] smsc95xx 1-1.1:1.0: eth0: Error reading MII_DATADec 30 12:21:33 raspberrypi kernel: [40979.609688] smsc95xx 1-1.1:1.0: eth0: Failed to write register index 0x0000$Dec 30 14:23:10 raspberrypi shutdown[10330]: shutting down for system rebootDec 30 14:23:20 raspberrypi kernel: [40979.609716] smsc95xx 1-1.1:1.0: eth0: Error writing MII_ADDR2.10.2 is now what I'm running (I kept on switching between the two to see which one would result in the most stable results...so far cgminer bfgminer (both version) has caused issues. The thread starter also reported having COM errors with his BFL units with cgminer (latest build).  Linux raspberrypi 3.6.11+ #346 PREEMPT Fri Dec 28 00:50:33 GMT 2012 armv6l GNU/Linuxthis is what I have...exactly like yours...root@raspberrypi:/opt/vc/bin# ./vcgencmd versionDec 28 2012 11:22:54 Copyright (c) 2012 Broadcomversion 359904 (release)So I guess we are both running the latest everything (firmware and OS)There was some mention somewhere on the net of putting "dwc_otg.fiq_fix_enable=1" in /boot/cmdline.txt I did not try this yet as supposedly now this is turned on by default? As to if this is only in certain kernel version or whatnot I'm not sure.My cmdline.txt file has this though "dwc_otg.lpm_enable=0" which was there by default...but no mention of dwc_otg.fiq_fix"reference for this: http://raspberrypi.stackexchange.com/questions/1886/what-kernel-parameters-are-available-for-fixing-usb-problems Well that's the thing. I am of course using a powered usb hub, and it gave me no troubles when connected to a windows box. One thing that I noticed is that the pi powered itself up when I plugged in the usb hub to it so it's drawing from the usb hub (as it should/can) but I still have the power brick plugged in on the pi as well. Should I shutdown the pi and power it up with it's own power brick first and THEN connect the USB hub? Does this order make any difference? I have doubts whether it will resolve the flaky usb issues but it's worth a try, no? Is anyone else having difficulties with the reliability of using a raspberry pi with cgminer (and bfgminer) to manage fpga miners (in my case bitforce and icarus). I've found that cgminer 2.10.4 gives out comm errors on bitforce miners (at random). Bfgminer has problems as well outlined in this thread: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=128789.msg1426976#msg1426976The main point here is that I believe there is either some bug with cgminer (kinda doubt this) or some major problem with the raspberry itself (possibly USB driver issue? etc) or the wheezy debian distro. I'm using the distro put together by the OP on the thread I pasted above. I'm sure someone else is also using a pi to manage their fpga miners, so I ask has anyone managed to get it to run reliably without any errors, restarts, etc.?I've updated the firmware via rpi-update and updated the distro with apt-get update & apt-get upgrade & apt-get dist-upgrade. Problem with 2.10.4 of cgminer still persists.  Here is what I found. With cgminer 2.10.4 the comm error shows up. With bfgminer 2.9.4 it works but I believe the system is restarting so it's causing a system crash. bfgminer 2.10.1 is misreporting the hash rate for the bfl singles (at random)It might be time to give up and go back to windows with cgminer + mpbm (modular python bitcoin miner). Quite disappointing really  Or maybe find a low power x86 solution (atom board or something similar) Ok, so on to try bfgminer I go. If this fails too then it's "screw you raspberry pi" for me. I have a feeling that bfgminer won't help either as this seems like a raspberry pi issue (yes I did update the firmware). Shit it's still doing it..This sucks.. root@raspberrypi:/opt/vc/bin# ./vcgencmd versionDec 28 2012 11:22:54 Copyright (c) 2012 Broadcomversion 359904 (release)latest firmware running..let's hope this fixes it..Some tips for you folks that are thinking of doing the same thing. First the rpi-update script passes a bunch of command argument (git, etc) with the --quiet flag. If you want to know what it's doing edit the script (rpi-update is a bash script) and remove the "--quiet" flags. sudo apt-get updatesudo apt-get upgrade -ysudo sync && sudo shutdown -r nowsudo wget http://goo.gl/1BOfJ -O /usr/bin/rpi-update && sudo chmod +x /usr/bin/rpi-updateIf you get an error message regarding certificatessudo apt-get install ca-certificatesand then rerun rpi-update  root@raspberrypi:/opt/vc/bin# ./vcgencmd versionNov 22 2012 18:12:01 Copyright (c) 2012 Broadcomversion 352766 (release)I'm not sure if this is relevant but could someone else run that command and tell me what firmware version you've got?I'm running rpi-update right now..taking a long ass time..read somewhere that it could take up to 20 min..Maybe that will fix this issue.. Hmm check this out:https://github.com/luke-jr/bfgminer/issues/105This bug was reported with bfgminer a while back....I think this may be an issue with the raspberry pi itself and not the mining software or the OS. [2012-12-30 02:18:05] BFL2: Comms error [2012-12-30 02:18:06] Accepted 5a03aed4 Diff 2/2 ICA 0 [2012-12-30 02:18:10] BFL2: Comms error [2012-12-30 02:18:12] Accepted 74c98fce Diff 2/2 ICA 0 [2012-12-30 02:18:15] BFL2: Comms error [2012-12-30 02:18:20] BFL2: Comms error [2012-12-30 02:18:25] Accepted 6222264c Diff 2/2 ICA 2 [2012-12-30 02:18:26] BFL2: Comms error [2012-12-30 02:18:27] Accepted 61a22b72 Diff 2/2 ICA 2 [2012-12-30 02:18:27] Accepted 6d4d902e Diff 2/2 BFL 0 [2012-12-30 02:18:31] BFL2: Comms error [2012-12-30 02:18:36] BFL2: Comms error [2012-12-30 02:18:38] Accepted 58f98beb Diff 2/2 ICA 1 [2012-12-30 02:18:41] BFL2: Comms error [2012-12-30 02:18:43] Accepted 6a42c394 Diff 2/2 BFL 0problem still persists This time it occurred with a different single.. lol $350? Man it's really tough the value this one as supposedly Avalon is coming next month and how much could one mine during that time? Out of curiosity, would you be willing to ship to USA/Canada? RoboCoder has a point, but I doubt you'd be willing to sell them for somewhere around their trade-in value.  Ok, well, operation was successful and I'm now running cgminer 2.10.4 (previous 2.10.3). Time to detach the screen and see if the problem manifests itself again. Hopefully not 
Hmmm, ok I'll give it a try but I thought the current image is running the latest build.Also I don't think this issue manifests itself right away or with regularity. I've been running it for 4+ hours and no comm errors and I did not update cgminer yet. Either way I'm running the update script. Let's see how it goes.. I think this is happening only when you log into the btc account and then detach from the screen session. I was logged into the session (ie I saw the cgminer terminal output) and it did not happen the whole time. I just screen'ed out of the session and I will wait and see if one of the fpga miners craps out again. I have a very strong feeling it will as this seems to me the only common pattern.  Well this sucks. The comm error from one of the singles happened again. I guess it takes a hour or two before this manifests itself. [2012-12-29 12:54:58] Accepted 12a670c7 Diff 13/2 BFL 2 [2012-12-29 12:55:00] BFL0: Comms error [2012-12-29 12:55:05] BFL0: Comms errorAnyone else have any clue as to what is going on?The fpgas are connected to a powered USB hub.  Any news/update regarding how much power the final product will consume? Scammer? For how much? What is your asking price? Well I got it going just today. The only issue is that it seems to me that something is flaky. I'm getting communications errors from one of the BFL singles. Closing cgminer forcibly and waiting for the watchdog script to restart it seems to work...as to how long it will work until it poops out again I'm not sure - I guess I'll have to keep an eye on it and see. I don't think it's caused by the Single throttling as normally if that was the case eventually the single would come back online once it's done rebooting - that and the temp is not even high at all (44 C) Is this project still being worked on or has it been abandoned? Any chance of updating the software to support the stratum mining protocol and any of the recent advancements in bitcoin mining - perhaps even support for ASIC miners? (granted being ASIC ready means supporting a mining protocol like stratum or getblocktemplate - luke's idea) Just thought I'd mention that the link on the first post still points to the old image. Use this link until the author updates it or you can just copy the URL and copy and paste it in a new broker window/tab (ie don't just click on it)http://rapidshare.com/files/3214579155/2012.12.22%20-%20debian%20wheezy%20configured%20-%20public.zip Awesome. Thanks crazydownloaded!  My Pi just shipped today. I can't wait to put that little thing to work.I think I will go with a 8 gb or 16 gb sd card too. 16 GB ones are like $15 CDN here. That's easy enough to do  Any chance you can upload the core image files (meaning the 650 mb modified debian iso) so we can make our own smaller IMG file? Or perhaps release a smaller img file for 8 gb or 4 gb SD cards? (or smaller). Ok, nevermind my idea with using a windows ISo reader program. Apparently I was seeing just the boot partition. Now that I think about it makes sense. Should've realized that sooner. As someone said: "The boot partition IS readable by Windows, the others are not"So the only way to resize it would be to mount the image and then copy all the stuff of it and into a new image. I'll see what I can do in that regard, but I may take the lazy way out and just get a 16 gb SD card. They're not that expensive anyways. Jeez, I dunno why I kept on saying CF. I meant SD card. Here is a list of SD cards known to work with the pi:http://elinux.org/RPi_VerifiedPeripherals#SD_cards Ok, so I think I have found a way to resize this using UltraISO. I went to "Actions" and chose Change image format (or F9). Sized it up as 2GB. Now as to whether it will work or not I'll have to see once I get the board and a CF card. Perhaps you can try it out and let me know if it works? hehehe..well such is life..shit breaks...hope you get it fixed soon. Until then Slush here I come. What the heck is going on with the pool? Stratum poxy not connecting, website unavailable...makes me wonder for how long it's been down.  Hmm, I downloaded the image and it's slightly bigger than 8 GB. This will definitely need to be resized.  Hmm this may help:But having said that I have a feeling we're going to need to use a bigger CF card than 8 gb unless the author releases a smaller image or we resize the image. I am most likely going to look into resizing the image as I don't see the point of buying a 8 GB CF card or bigger for a 622 mb image. A el cheapo 2 GB card should do once the image is resized (I can't for the life of me find 1 GB cards these days) That would be really neat. However, if I understand things correctly you don't have to modify anything relating to wallet info in this mining distro. You just have to change the cgminer.conf to reflect your chosen mining pool info (or solo if that's your thing).If nobody else beats me to it I think what I shall do is when I get my raspberry pi (shipped today) I will write a guide on how to get this distro working and post it here or on pastebin.  Very neat project.I just bought a raspberry pi a few minutes ago for this very purpose. My scenario is a bit different though. I have a few Icarus boards as well so I'm wondering if you've compiled cgminer with support for all FPGA mining boards not just specifically BFL Singles. Also what is the default LAN IP address you've built into the image? 192.168.1.x or ?
Thanks for the prompt reply Michael. I look forward to seeing the new reward structure in place. You said you will turn it on Monday, no? Eleuthria, I'm not sure if this was talked about earlier in the thread, but I'm wondering if you plan to share TX fees with miners, much like Slush is doing. What is your asking price? Or are you simply accepting offers (ie people bidding) EMS is my preference as well... Is this for the whole cluster or just one (ie 31 btc per board)? For how much? Does anyone know why using both BFL singles and Icarus FPGA miners with MPBM does not work? Is there some special trick that has to be done? Oddly even when I go to add a worker the bfl single worker does not even show up even though it appears the appropriate modules are there in the modules directory. I tried even the latest github build, no go. Eventually I gave up and used bfgminer for the singles and mpbm for the icarus boards.  10 BTC per board I asume  otherwise..lol Sell them on ebay as development boards. You're going to have a hard time selling them here now that everyone is in a mad ASIC miner phase.  Well I've never had that issue before so that's why I was surprised to see it. If it happened before the mining software did not report it. I'm using MPBM by the way. Not sure if this is a "proper miner" in your eyes or not. I hope that you will allow people to send in multiple Icarus boards and trade them in for an Avalon rig otherwise those Icarus boards are going to be expensive paperweights once ASIC miners hit the blockchain. Granted one can perhaps sell them FPGA developers but realistically they aren't as suitable for that purpose than some of the other boards out there due to the lack of massive I/O options. *shrug* I dunno, I guess we'll have to wait for you to draft your trade-in detail later then. hmm, actually it appears that upgrading to a newer version of the stratum mining proxy software has fixed the issue. So not a mining software limitation. So, a note to all of you who are using stratum make sure you use 0.9.0 or newer. What is up with this: "Share 66c3c28a (difficulty 3.46254) didn't meet difficulty 4.00000"Update: Hmm..definitely an issue with your pool. This does not happen on Slush's pool for example. lol   I agree. Hopefully you will surprise us in a good way  Keep up the good work.Also when you get the chance can you please clarify if you'd be willing to accept multiple Icarus boards for the trade-in program. Well some sort of war must continue, be it price or performance. Welcome to the free market.  Is there something going on with the pool? I'm getting tons of connections timeouts. Another pool that I mine at works just fine. Not sure if the problem is on my end of the pool's.EDIT: Hmm...may have been a network hiccup on my end. Nevermind then. Yeh I feel your pain. I'm waiting for the client to download the blockchain now. I've always been a bit disappointed with the speed (or lack thereof) at which the client downloads the blockchain. I'd assume that we're ok as long as our order has been placed. It would be silly if they cancelled the order just because we did not pay at the very instance we finished the checkout process. Yep 4. Well, congratulations to all those of you who got an order through! Hopefully we won't get screwed by ASIC miner sellers when/if they start testing their boards on the main network.  Well I'm sure they will double check orders that haven't been confirmed for X period of time - after all they have your e-mail address and I'm sure they'll bug you to complete your payment. I think it's reasonable to at least allow people an hour or two after order (max) to pay via btc and maybe a day or two via wire transfer..maybe 3..it all varies from bank to bank.On a different note it seems there are 6 left and they haven't disappeared yet. I expected all to be sold out by now.EDIT:  Ooops..5 left. I guess there is no site glitch.  I don't think there is a hard time limit. It's the fact that your order went through that guarantees you a spot - also that fact that you're given an order id #. Typically it takes a while to confirm your payment anyways so once it's confirmed you're all set. 
entirely possible..only 6 left... Well it is active  woohoo..go in this time around. dammit..that's it time to pre-order from the link in your signature...:p site will crash in 2 min :p ..lol hopefully not lol..let me think about that a bit more and if so I would agree to the bet :pMy guess is that a lot of people are banking on them being able to surprise us and deliver.  You still haven't answered my question about discount. Given that BFL is now 60 GHs like Avalon but they claim to be able to deliver before you.  Hey ngzhang since BFL has announced that their single will also perform at 60 GH/s any chance of lowering the price a bit to have a competitive edge over them?  Welcome to the party. Please grab a drink and have a seat    I don't see any reason why the standalone version could not be powered by a standard PSU. As long as the voltage and amperage match it should be ok.  The keyword there is _saw_. It seems to  have disappeared after I refreshed the page. Granted I waited a few hours to refresh the page (just did it 2 minutes ago) lol love how my 24 hour earnings shows "3,458,047.50000000" ...now if only it was true   Ngzhang, any chance of allowing Icarus/Lancelot owners to trade in multiple (old) mining boards per 60/gs ring?  Yeah oddly people still want these, but it might not make sense if BFL delivers on the ASIC miners in Oct. Could one really mine enough BTC to make worthwhile the markup price most sellers are asking. I think he means those that clicked the subscribe button on his site.  Awesome! Hook us up. Already signed up to the mailing list. At least I hope that part of the website works :p lool It would be quite sad to not receive a notice and miss it again. Personally if I was running this I do one Avalon device per customer for the first pre-order batch and just sequentially do pre-order batches until they're all sold out.  Crap and while I slept they all disappeared. Bummer. Sorry folks. I should've said poclbm HAS support and cgminer WILL SOON have support as eleuthria said in a previous post.  Nice to see that poclbm and cgminer have native support. I'm waiting on phoenix next and MPBM (fpgas). However I've got a little bit over 5 machines so I suppose it would be more efficient to have one central proxy for all the miners, but the bandwidth cost would be negligible even on the most basic dsl or cable connection. What was it that each stratum connection consumes, something like 10 kB/minute?  Thanks for the clarification and keep up the great work. So far I'm loving the improved accepted % of the new stratum mining protocol. One thing that would be cool is if we could run just one mining proxy for multiple pools - ie if the mining proxy had some sort of config file or could bind to multiple ports on the machine running the software.  I second that..tits or GTFO   
The CAD will do just fine. CAD is a commodity currency as the previous poster said and Canada has a LOT of natural resources to sell - especially oil and natural gas (more than USA) so I think if the USD tanks CAD will be fine but it will hurt our exports massively if the CAD does not also fall in value or remains strong relative to the dollar. I would think that the Bank of Canada will be very tempted to devalue the CAD just to protect the export sector which is VERY much dependent on the US. The other option (a more viable one) is for Canada to develop trade agreements and export more to other parts of the world. We are far too dependent on the US for our economic success. Not sure if this has been asked before, but with the new beta STRATUM mining protocol do we still mine on the namecoin blockchain as well? I don't see any rewards  for NMC. What Rev is the Single? 1 2 or  3? Ah ok. Thanks for the info. I'm thinking I will pass on this deal and get the new ASIC board from cablepair.  True, these fpga boards are great. The icarus boards are nice too - perhaps a bit better as they can be more easily repurposed in case bitcoin folds.The only concern that I have is the possibility that BFL will deliver in Oct on their ASIC promise. If they do just one ASIC single is enough to decimate this entire x6500 rig   I'm not sure how many yet, but I'm located in Windsor - Ontario. I'm just a tiny bit closer to him. Can you tell me roughly how much it would cost to ship to Canada - the province of Ontario to be specific. Throw in some tubs of K-Y Jelly and you've got yourself a deal! lol... I've reseated the heatsink before so I'd be comfortable with the operation, but the price is a bit steep for a potentially damaged Single. 50 to 60 BTC sounds more reasonable. Also what are the temps on this single? Well, apparently the board has a usb 3.0 hub so technically you should be able to connect all usb 3.0 devices through it (of course not high powered devices that consume beyond what the usb power spec). If you look at the abck of it it does have two usb connector cables - one blue one standard (ie one is usb 3.0 one is 2.0)Also it seems that you can't get this board with any other MX switches other than MX Red. I dunno why, cause MX Brown switches are good for gaming too - the only different is they offer a tactile bump - ie feedback, unlike the linear MX Red switches. Also some games may prefer the more solid and heavy MX Black switches. Damn, did not know Gigabyte is into the mechanical keyboard market. I guess this is all the rage these days. I like the board for it's large handrest/wristrest but it would be nice if it had two USB ports like my existing Xarmor U9BLS. I think for now I'm going to stick to my current keyboard. I'm done with the whole mech keyboard phase. Cherry MX reds are pretty good for gaming but I'm not sure if many of you would like how light they are and the lack of any tactile feedback (ie they're linear). Personally I found that MX Browns suit me best.edit: my bad, it looks like it does have 2 usb ports, nice!!  http://www.maxkeyboard.com/mechanical-keyboard.htmlor Das Keyboard. But those are not backlit. There are tons of backlit keyboard out there though. Maybe the best place to trade is on the geekhack forum? Hmm, yeah, I can see why that would be super important in this scenario.  https://www.bitmit.net/en/q/?q=bfl+singlequite a few... Hey guys, these Jalapeno gadgets can they be set to mine 24/7 - ie not just to keep coffee warm. Anyone have a clue as to what they will look like? Ah I see. Thanks for clearing that up. Is that a typo (1000TH/s)? I would assume yes and that you meant to say 1000 MH/s. So that's $0.14 per Megahash? If so that would be ridiculously cool and I would love to be your first customer/beta tester, slave, lol, etc  Can we expect that you'll release this before BFL comes out with their ASIC miner? Yeah I think many will dump their GPUs precisely when ASIC miners start shipping. That's what I plan to do unless I can figure out another use for the several 5870s I still have. I also have a few Icarus fpga miners but those I think I'll have a much harder time selling, so it would be neat if someone released a distributed.net or Folding@home or Seti@home bitstream for them - basically anything to repurpose them away from mining when mining with them is no longer worthwhile.  Hey BFL guys, can you give us an idea of how the jalapeno miners will look like? Fire up mspaint or gimp  
Not willing to ship to your friendly neighbors from up North? Hey, we supply you with all that nice petrol that powers your SUV(s)!  Think about that for a second and think kindly of us lol Actually this miner would consume the entire energy output of a G class star per day, but who cares, think of all the bitcoins you'll have!! OMG!! Stored in my genetic code if I could :p.. This is a breakthrough in the mining market! I am in the process of liquidating all my assets and giving all my money to you. Soon, it shall be delivered to you in a black suitcase by a ex-KGB agent. Please do not make fun of his sunglasses, he really does not like that and is likely to murder you on the spot if he feels insulted. My goal is to travel back in time to the very first minute Satoshi release the bitcoin concept and fire up a few Radeon 5970s and spank that blockchain like the naughty girl she is. I don't think there is much point in selling them right now. Just mine with them until they are no longer profitable. Nobody is going to pay $400 or more for these now and I doubt you'd want to sell them at far far below purchase price - especially if you don't have them paid off yet. Dammit Garr you're making me jelly But wasn't OgNasty claiming first spot ? That's kind of poetic justice there. Congrats. You'll be making the BTC mining network your bitch for a few..hmm..days? Time to lower the price? I mean how much are people willing to pay for this "flexibility" and how long will the payoff period be when a similarly priced unit outputs 47 x the hashing power. Password cracking for hire?  Yeah you're definitely right. So we basically have no way of knowing our place in line unless BFL tells us. In that case I guess I better order a Jalapeno stick as well  Hot & Spicy Hashes 4 Me  Jesus Christ 1695 people pre-ordered. Makes me wonder if it's even worth it for the people at the end of the line. Difficulty is going to be pushed to the Moon by these first 1000 something owners.Edit: wait a second, these order # could be random and definitely no sequential..I'm behind another guy who clearly ordered BEFORE me. It's definitely a gamble. On the pre-order page BFL say they expect the SC singles to be ready by October but who knows. In the meantime I think we should all just mine as much as we can before the full difficulty skyrocketing force of the new ASIC miners is felt. If BFL falters somehow one thing is for sure, the current sellers of the current generation Singles would've made a smart decision.  Damn, this price keeps on rising   Hmm, maybe we should just wait for the BFL pre-order page to go live  You know, the SC Singles that will make these so called "old singles" worth $35  (price of a "coffee warmer") Anyways, good luck with the sale! Would you be able to ship quickly, and if so how much would it cost to ship to Canada (ontario region)?  I'd offer $650 for one.  lol I'd pay $550 but I doubt anyone out there would sell them at this price range.  Are these sold already? 6 MHs? Not a typo? Same here..came out to $160 CAD.  Hmm, I wonder if you'll have a hard time selling these now that BFL is releasing ASIC miners. Who knows when they will actually come out but I'm curious if anyone is holding off on fpga miners because of their (BFL's) announcement. Good luck with the sale though!
Congrats! It was a nice rig and it deserves to be put to production - make itself be proud it's doing something worthwhile instead of collecting dust  840 Mhash still at 40W total?  Are you located in the States? If so are you willing to ship to Canada? I can help you advertise your server to Canadians if you'd like. Also have you even considered selling this on ebay?  What would be a reasonable offer for this beast? $2K?  Where where where   Edit...found it   Very nice indeed! Cablez are you still doing cables ? Pfff..casings..who needs'em   Ship them out without them. Just ship them soon. Everyone will be happier. If you buy them directly from BFL (at $599 not counting shipping) you'll have all of them paid in 5.8 months. If you buy them from the seller you'll pay them off in 9.0 months. Btw, it's 6.9 BTC per day. I guess one can gamble on the exchange rate increasing to make up for  the price premium :p Yeh, I understand exactly what you mean. In this case at least these singles can be re-purposed, ASIC miners cannot. I hope you sell them quickly! You're a cool guy to deal with and I can vouch for you.  Why not trade them in for BFL's new ASIC miners ?  It's a pity it takes 11 months to pay off some of these fpga miners off.  Definitely a beautiful board, and I love the cooling solution! I'm curious though if the rest of the people that pre-ordered are going to get an e-mail telling them to pay up or what exactly is going to happen?  Room temp 27CSingle 1: 47.50Single 2: 51.20 I suppose there is no chance of giving us a clue as to what this new ASIC based Single will cost?  Sure,  I'll do that next week as I'm moving the cooler running single to a different location. Then I'll be able to run the hotter (the one that I had to originally downclock) single all by itself using the 825 firmware. Update:Hmm, well I flashed the formerly throttling unit back up to the stock 832 firmware and the previous issue with rejected jobs and shares disappeared..it seems running these things at differing hashrates (asynchronously) is not such a good idea. This could be an issue with the mining software, but I don't know for sure at this point. I don't know if anyone else is having this issue but one of my singles is showing odd performance metrics. The Accepted Shared, Cancelled Shares, Accepted jobs, etc are all heavily disproportionate when compared to the first one. This is BFL Single 2 that is doing this. I've attached a screenshot.Any help is greatly appreciated!Maybe I need to tune the pool settings a bit? I'm mining with btc guild. As you can see the first single is doing ok.I've downclocked the second single as it was throttling but the slightly lower speed (825 mhs) does not explain the odd performance - or at least it should not. Thanks for the info  Their CFM rating is lower than the stock Single one. I am thinking if one is going to put these somewhere far away a higher CFM fan would be better. I found 68 CFM fans with a noise signature of 43 dBA which is a tad bit higher than the stock Rev 3 fan (32). The question is can the fan header on the Single handle the extra current draw. Is the cooling performance noticeably improved going from 45 CFM to 68 CFM.  Am I the only one that can't get this miner to detect the bitforce singles? I should mention that I did install the FTDI drivers, but I did _not_ reboot yet. Both miners work fine in MPBM though. Nobody knows the specs for the bfl fan? The fan that came with one of my singles is making a annoying buzzing noise so I was thinking of replacing it with something more powerful and perhaps quiet.
Where would that be? Next to a nuclear reactor? Seriously that is pretty damn low!  yeah definitely love the audio track..mind sharing the name of the song/artist, or was it self produced? Are these boards Rev1, 2 or 3? Very nice. Looking for a used e3000 right now. This will make a sweet miner manager for the BFL singles. Does the cgminer 2.4.1 also have icarus support? I don't think they are _useless_ but "older generation" (a more appropriate term would be "older revision" or something like that) boards will get discounted typically. If there are certain physical changes to the new Lancelot board that make it more desirable than Icarus in spite of perhaps being bitstream compatible then no doubt miners would want the newer board and people selling Icarus boards will have to accept a lower price. It's the way the free market works.  Hmm, yeah, it's a bit hard to value the Icarus boards now that the new Lancelot boards are about to be released. Also may I ask why you are selling them? Looking to replace them with BFL Singles?  How much and are you willing to accept bitcoins? Just as a side note lowering the log level to 350 did the trick for me - ie the web interface no longer crashes..3 days and still going (before it would crash after after day or less) Or MPBM  Since MPBM already has good Icarus support I'd imagine this board should work pretty much the same if you use the Icarus bitstream. Thanks for your help fizzisist  Yes that's what I was doing. I've had the log level set to the default 500. I dialed it down to 300 now. I like to keep the window open just to keep an eye on the invalid shares percentage and overall hashrate. But I guess it's not absolutely necessary that I keep it open 24/7.Is there any docs anywhere that explains the differences between the various log levels. I see that 300 displays only accepted shares unlike 500 which displays a lot more detail. Is anyone else having an issue with the latest git mpbm version whereby the web management interface freezes after some time. The only solution is to close the browser and restart. This happens with Chrome. With Firefox the web interface looks all messed up - overlapping text..etc. 750W...it says right on them   torpedoed... You won't save much  - Maybe $160 - 200?  Out of curiosity what is the absolute highest hashrate you've gotten out of these units? Now if someone was to build a waterblock for the babies we could push them to the edge   That seller is smoking some serious chronic. If he asked for a more reasonable price I'm sure it would be sold in the blink of an eye. Sadly no direct bitcoin payments. I suggested to them that they sign-up for a bit-pay account. Thanks for clarifying that. I was not aware this setup was bough with investors funds, but in light of that I can totally understand your move. Compatibility issues can be tricky to solve and I agree sometimes it is not worth the headache.Hopefully the new owner won't experience any issues. Anyways, congrats on the sale and I hope you find a suitable alternative? (BFL maybe? Lacelot?) You can bet your ass I'm subscribed. 
Hmm, you had enough funds to buy 17 of these at $464 a piece but don't have enough to buy a new PSU? Try replacing the PSU. Also I'm wondering what type/make/brand of USB hub you're using. Do you have pics of all the hardware involved or any more details? I got the cables Mr Cablez built for me yesterday and I just wanted to publicly thank him for an excellent job. If any of you are in doubt as to whether you should be dealing with him; don't Thanks once again! Nice job ngzhang. Those who got in on batch 4 are lucky. Hey I'm wondering though when you're going to release details regarding your next project. Are you moving towards a quad FPGA setup? Nice P_Shep..I'm glad to finally see someone using the revision 3 BFL Singles. That means they're finally cranking up production. I take it you went in early on in the waiting queue. Hmm, it would be really cool if you released a Windows binary of cgminer with builtin Icarus support. Last time I tried the latest windows build it failed to work in spite of some people saying that supposedly icarus support is now enabled. TheSeven, any ideas when we can expect a non beta release?  Hmm, I see. I never bothered to mess with its BIOS, but in retrospect I should've instead of trusting Sapphire. But in the end I wanted to replace it with a BFL Single so I'm happy and you're happy, and we're all happy. All is well in the world for now That's a nice power savings  btw  I wish this forum had some feedback or reputation system... Well, most will give you this info in the manual. Hmm, let's see if I can find a reasonably priced 80plug gold PSU with single 12v rail... Damn that pretty bad. A good 80Plus Gold PSU should serve me well then and save a few $ in electricity costs. I'm wondering, do you guys recommend a PSU with a single 12V rail for powering fpga boards or it doesn't matter. I saw a good deal on a Antec HCP-750 modular 80 Plus Gold PSU but it has 4 12V rails, which IMHO should still be ok as I can put each group of fpgas on a separate rail, but I just wanted to get the opinion of you folks first. I have a somewhat unrelated question that I'm hoping some of you already know the answer to. I'd like to know what the efficiency rating is on the power adapters sold with the x6500, icarus and BFL Single fpga boards. How much more efficient is it to use say a 80Plus Gold PSU versus the power bricks sold with these mining boards? Ah ok, no problem. I guess I'll have to wait until ngzhang releases Lacelot - or maybe someone here sells his Icarus. Is there room for one more board?  You're welcome...give me a PM or post here when you get the card.  Excellent! Thanks ngzhang  I am on the new thread. https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=74397.0 Oh shoot, you're right, the x6500 uses a 2.1/5.5 connector.Well I'd like to run 4 at the moment (4 x 20 watt). Later on I'll ask you to build a cable to power two bitforce singles. Let me send you a PM. lol, sorry likuidxd :p...DILLIGAF check your PM box, I sent you the tracking #. Hmm, I'm surprised no FPGA board designer has bought this. This should hash really well! So for 4 Icarus FPGA boards 1 8-pin PCIE connector should be enough. Could you build me a cable that maxes out one 8-pin PCIE plug so I have some room for future expansion. Since the dual fpga Icarus boards are no longer sold I figure I'd use  the rev3 x6500 boards instead and I also presume that those should work just fine as they switched to using 12v instead of 5v. hehehe  yeah that's what that baby was born to do! 
Excellent. Thanks. I've confirmed receipt of payment. The card will be shipped today in the morning (around 9:30'ish am EST). Let me know when you get it and please do put it through some extensive testing. The card is still under the manufacturer's warranty period. The card was bought locally 3/26/2011. However Sapphire's warranty terms are disappointing. It looks like only the original purchaser can RMA the card. "RMA/WarrantySapphire VGA products carry a 2 year warranty with all enquires carried out through your initial place of purchase. This can only be carried out by the original purchaser Please contact your Dealer/Reseller for Warranty / RMA service. They will require proof of purchase which includes the original invoice/documentation. Product Warranty will not be valid even if returned after purchased for the following cases:-Products that are defaced or physically damaged and modified by customer.-Products that become non-functional due to customer improper use.-Products that cannot be verified as Sapphire products.-Products that do not have a matching serial number between the product and the original receipt.-Products not sold from our official distributors or resellers.GPU or ASIC device (VGA) is sensitive to thermal (heat) issue. The heat sink or fan is designed to meet the requirements for reliability of the product and the warranty is rendered invalid if the product is dismantled or the heat sink or cooler fan are removed as this may causes damage to the GPU or ASIC device . Non-compliance will cause the warranty of the product to be void and repair will be at the users cost.Currently Sapphire does not directly provide any warranty extensions. Please contact your reseller or distributor for any 3rd party warranty extensions that may be available through them. Any extensions provided by the reseller are independent of Sapphire. All replacement product may include new, reworked or refurbished product and parts.Any repaired, replaced or exchanged products will be covered for the remaining period of the original warranty.Sapphire reserves the right to change this policy without advance notice. General Card Specifications can vary due to component availability.NB: Warranty may vary from Country/Region and the customer must verify directly with the Sapphire Authorised Dealer/Reseller from where the product was purchased..For any overseas return on RMA outside their normal warranty with their local supplier, the local RMA centre will apply a basic administration fee to cover the logistics return of the RMA items back and forth from Hong Kong."  I dunno if it came with any power splitters though - just a few dongles (dvi, etc) and a crossfire bridge. The card takes 2 8-pin PCIE power connectors.Check your PM box.  Yep, I shall do that. I take it also that you don't need the accessories that came with the board? If not I will ship it in the same box the RMA came in (it will have a lot of foam around it). It's yours  Let me confirm the shipping cost first thing today in the morning - shouldn't be more than $25 or $32 or somewhere around that range. If this is the case it's all yours.  Ontario, Canada.I can declare a lower value for the card if it helps as well. Hi everyone. I'm offering for sale a Sapphire Radeon HD 5970 card. This card has never been used. Let me explain. The previous 5970 (same make and model as the one I'm selling) was faulty (was blue screening under load) so I RMA'ed it and Sapphire send back this one. For more details on this card you can see this link:http://www.sapphiretech.com/presentation/product/?cid=1&gid=3&sgid=645&pid=345&psn=&lid=1&leg=0For high resolutions pictures of the card look here:http://prohardver.hu/dl/cnt/2010-07/62948/picz/sapp_front1.jpghttp://prohardver.hu/dl/cnt/2010-07/62948/picz/sapp_front2.jpghttp://prohardver.hu/dl/cnt/2010-07/62948/picz/sapp_back1.jpghttp://prohardver.hu/dl/cnt/2010-07/62948/picz/sapp_back2.jpgThis card is factory overclocked and runs with each core at 850 MHz. The triple-fan cooling solution Sapphire implemented is really good at keeping this beast nice and cool even at full load. The card never got above 68C at full load even after weeks of mining. Overall I would say this would make a great gaming/part-time mining card. Asking price $350 USD equivalent in BTC. I am open to bargaining of course. I will ship anywhere in the world as long as you pay the shipping costs. If you have any questions please feel free to ask. -edit-- SOLD!!! Well this idea hit a brick wall  I  was really hoping to get a board for the reduced price. Ohwell.  Nice hubs. I wonder if they make a 10 port version of the hub in that pic. Next time I need a hub I'll give you a try. I just bought a 10 port hub from some dude on ebay for around $8 but I'd rather support a fellow bitcoiner.Good luck with your business. One suggestion though, you may not want to post in this thread next time as I think the mods would consider this as advertising. Anyone know where I can get a Windows binary of cgminer that has support for the Icarus FPGA board activated? I'm not 100% sure if the stock binary on the first post actually has Icarus support activated. I tried to use it and it did not work - did not detect the FPGAs. Just curious to know if you have any idea when the new MPBM will come out of testing and at least into main branch. That doesn't apply for me as this time I'm only buying one, but I'd imagine those who ordered more than 1 would like them all at once. Thanks for the info. I intend to build a similar tower of FPGA power.  chungenhung             USA          2 boardsWandering Albatross   ?              ?Raize                         ?              ?tucenaber                  ?              ?antirack                     ?              ?allinvain                    Canada      1af_newbie                  Canada      ?Energizer                   Belarus      6 boardskudos to ngzhang for offering free shipping to US and CDN!!  120mm or 140mm fans?  Cool, a fellow Canadian. Yes they definitely work as advertised. I have some. Just got another one today. They are very well built and are useful for more than just mining. It should. It's a FPGA product, therefore it belongs here. I am willing to do the same here in Canada.  Thanks ngzhang for putting together an awesome fpga board (Icarus)!!  I can't wait to see what your next project will be. Enjoy your time off - you deserve it! Cheers! Master. I tried testing but it did not display any average or total hash rate stats. It seemed as if it was mining with all boards but it wasn't really.  Hmm, I see. It would be nice if there was a Canadian here on the forum who already received his/her BFL Single. AFAIK there aren't any yet.
If you looks at the driver version info you'll see that the 1.5.0 package contains a newer version number. Kind of confusing.  So I'm wondering if anyone has tried 1.5.2 and noticed any difference.For me MPBM still screws up the stats once in a while (negative hash rate, negative efficiency, unrealistic efficiency and hash rate, etc) plus I get a long string of timeouts when trying to retrieve work from the pool server (btcguild). Not sure if this is related to the pl2303 driver though. I have doubts. When did you order it, and was it exactly 4 to 6 weeks or more? I do hope that the import/brokerage taxes are included in the shipping as otherwise we'd have to pay the 6% import tax and I'm pretty sure the government would want their usual 13% HST as well on top of that. DILIGAF is probably right - ie we'll have to pay HST and the brokerage fees.  Any word on when we can expect to see them on cablesaurus, and what cooler they'll offer as stock (the zalman one?)? The answer to that question is a resounding NO. Well, at least not for me, but I'm not such a big baller so I only ordered a few. Care to give us some clues  ? I think the ideal solution to reduce core temps would be to look for a heatpipe cooling solution. I'm not sure if there is a small enough heatpipe solution out there, but maybe you can get one custom built? Also some sort of heatsinking on the underside of the board at the fpga core would be ideal. But it's a shame that the lx150 doesn't have a metal heat spreader on it as the way I see it the major limitation to better cooling is the plastic top.  Damn, I did not know there was that much juice in them car batteries. Since you seem to know a bit about this already would truck batteries be better?  An ASIC board can be yours for the low low price of $30,000. It even includes lifetime membership in the international "hardcore miners" club. And if that's not enough, you'll get a shiny new silk cloth with which to clean your precious ASIC rig. All joking aside there is no true ASIC board AFAIK, but there is a sASIC project being worked on by a bunch of canucks from Vancouver. If they can resist the temptation to smoke up maybe just maybe you'll see a finished product   No but they're really slow to deliver. I think they would've been better off keeping their mouth shut and not announce their product until they were capable of meeting all orders without 4 to 6 week delays. That and they also should not have dropped speculative performance hints. At least that's what I would've done if I was in their shoes. Now that the trolls have been banished to their cruddy underground lairs and you've basked in the radiant glow of pure "I told you so" how about you close the thread  You know (and granted I'm no expert) I've always wondered why don't fpga mining board designers just find the cheapest FPGA chip and slap a whole bunch of them on a PCB and cluster them. For example put 8 Cyclone IV chips on one board and get 600 Mh/s But the problem may be getting them cheap enough without the need to buy them in massive bulk quantities...to quote a website: "The EP4CE6 and EP4CGX15: Starts at $3 and $6 for 250K pieces"Anyone got $750,000 lying around? I don't think it's quite that strong to actually case heat increase due to pressure/air friction. I think it's better for channeling air across the heatsink instead of blowing it about. However having said that I think you still need some airflow across the rest of the PCB - especially the underside of it. Ideally I'd like to have a giant heatsink on the underside of the PCB as well   and with a bit of airflow across both the top and the underside of the PCB (as well as the fpga heatsink of course) I think this board can run at 200 MHz with 0% errors and even in a mildly hot climate.  Hope you can deliver. The price is definitely competitive.  Maybe something like this would be ideal: http://www.silverstonetek.com/product.php?pid=257&area=en I'd like to see a UPS capable of sustaining a serious mining farm during a blackout. It would have like 50 car batteries lol :p. Imagine an electrical fire or some other mishap then! rofl Depends on how much power you can realistically draw for "free". With GPUs you can pay them off much quicker and typically get a higher MHs/$ ratio BUT the increasing difficulty might hit you sooner than it would a FPGA miner for example. Then again you have free power so I don't think you'd care. There would be a point where it might not make sense to keep the ovens (gpus) running for say a meager BTC per day reward and there will also be a point where you can't expand much more given the power limitations that are imposed on you (depending on your location).If I was you I'd buy cheap ass GPUS as many of them as I could and use a portion of the profits to slowly invest in FPGAs. Investing in FPGA is a long term investment in the future of bitcoin because it will take you at least 9 to 10 months to pay them off (just with the earnings they make) Hi Cablepair. I'm glad to hear that they're legit and that you've received your single, but I'm curious how long did it take from the moment you pre-ordered to the moment it arrived at your door. I'd like to buy one for shitz and giggles (although I prefer Icarus and X6500 due to their greater power efficiency) but I have doubts that it will be worthwhile to wait 6 weeks to get one. Hopefully it pans out cause I for sure would buy 10+ minimum.  Cool. Thanks for confirming that. Time to hit up newegg  The only thing is that I'm not sure if the icarus boards would work with hd trays ad they aren't following the 3.5" format. X6500 and ztex board would work though. Have you decided on what cooling solution to offer with the rev boards? 
Sorry you're right, I did not double check before I spoke  You're right. I for one would buy some. For large fpga farms using a 80 Plus Gold power supply (or better Platinum rated - but more expensive) is the way to go.  Indeed! Very elegant idea. I'd like to try it with Icarus boards. Anyone know where he possibly bought this hdd enclosure? I've been hunting on newegg but can't seem to find something similar. I'm guessing that it was taken from a case though.Edit: Hmm, I found something similar : http://www.newegg.ca/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16816111045I still think the one in the picture looks bigger though, but I could be wrong. Whoa, hold on a second.  You have 4 5970s and you already damaged two of them because of an inadequate power setup?!?! Dude, do yourself a favor and get a decend power supply ~ 1000W and up!!! Stop killing the 5970s -it's a crime and you should be arrested  lol Wow ngzhang, that's pure geek heaven there (Icarus towers)!!!  On a different note, is anyone selling premade ATX power supply leads to power these boards? (ie with the correct 2.1 x 5.5 mm barrel connector). I saw a guide on ztex's site but it would be more convenient to buy some instead of spending hours making them.  Thank you for clearing that up for me. That settles it for me, I will leave things as they are. I typically see 0.1% invalids which IMHO is _good_ . So is there a consensus that setting jobinterval to 11.3 results in the _best_ performance for the Icarus board? What's the name of that PSU?  I like that idea. Maybe that will help bolster them and (hopefully) increase their value. Hmm, ok I shall do that. Today it seems to have worked on the very first refresh try. Typically this issue happens when I leave the tab (website) idle for a while and don't refresh it. It basically happened every single time I would refresh the page after a period of inactivity. A second try would successfully reload the page. But I just found it weird how the page load error occurred on such a regular basis. I've been thinking a bit since I made my previous post, and I've decided to go the same route - ie to use regular 12V case fans. The question that I have for you folks is what kind of airflow is recommended (as in CFM rating) for these fans? I intend to use 120mm fans. I've been thinking of getting some el cheapo 52 CFM (3 in total stacked on top of eachother). The second option is to go for a 85 CFM one (this one: http://www.newegg.ca/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16835130018&nm_mc=OTC-sho6b0tCA&cm_mmc=OTC-sho6b0tCA-_-Case+Fans-_-CoolMax-_-35130018) It's a bit louder and I do not necessarily need the blue LED lighting, but it's one of the cheapest high'ish CFM fan that I've found on local online retailers. I've been doing some digging on ebay and apparently 120-220V fans aren't all that cheap. So one possibly solution is to power normal 12VDC case fans with wall-wart power adapters. The advantage of that approach is that the 12V case fans consume far less power. Granted if one is going to do this without using a standard PC power supply there will be some wire cutting/splicing involved. If anyone knows where to find some cheap 120V AC fans please share the info. By cheap I mean below $20 (which seems to be the average price for some of the more decent units) What do you think is a more power efficient solution? How many watts does each fan consume?I'm thinking of using these:http://ncix.com/products/?sku=44834&vpn=AF0007&manufacture=Thermaltake Hey, antirack, are those 80mm fans or 90mm? (the look like 80 to me). I'm looking to do something similar and I'm not sure what type of fans I want to use. I am thinking either 3 120mm thermaltake USB powered fans or 3 80 to 120mm 110-120V AC fans.  Any reason why once in a whle I get this error when trying to refresh my stats page:This webpage is not availableThe webpage at https://www.btcguild.com/my_account.php might be temporarily down or it may have moved permanently to a new web address. Don't worry, we understand you for the most part. Lol..dogshit. Well, I think it's hard to master the language if you don't use it on a nearly daily basis.  Awesome nelisky! Thanks for your contribution. Even though I do not have a ztex board I can definitely appreciate your working on support for it.  It sure has...http://www.bitcoinwatch.com/ Not necessarily. How about powering the FPGA miners with solar power! Free mining  Horaaaay! Where are you guys finding those long metal stand-offs? I'd like to build a similar setup.As for the backside of the PCB running hot, I think I have an idea. I was thinking one can attach some sort of mesh 2 cm or more underneath the PCB and put a fan there  Then you just repeat for the next one and voila - cool Icarus backside. That could be a bug in the miner. MPBM has some weird bugs. For example if a long string of failed connections to the pool happen the hashrate and efficiency can go in negative territory.
Whoa. I am extremely surprised. That is some pretty bad latency there ngzhang.  Wow, that's just wrong. By farang do they mean a white dude or any person without Thai nationality? On a different note: Ngzhang, do you have any extra boards? I am contemplating upgrading my pre-order :p Thanks antirack! Hmm, 300ms is pretty bad. How much better is btcguild? For me btcguild is the lowest latency pool. Slush is in the 120ms mark. There is no local pool or regional pool where you're located? Cool, I want to grab one or two singles as well, but I worry that they won't deliver on their promises (shipping delays, excuses, etc). If you get yours give me a shout on IRC or here, and let me know. I will feel more comfortable handing over money to them then.  Good luck with the sale cablepair! I would so totally jump on this deal if I did not have in mind exactly what you have (migrating to FPGA). I love the 5870s and they make great mining cards, and if one can get them for $180 or below then it's a good deal. Maybe just keep them and use the btc they generate to replace them piece by piece with FPGAs. So until you can match the hashing power of the whole GPU farm with FPGA miners just keep the GPU farm  Just an idea to consider. Thanks for vouching for me cablepair   Would you be willing to do escrow? Payment in BTC.  Hi. Where did you get that enclosure, and what is it exactly, a hdd enclosure? (model number, etc) I'd like to get one too.Edit: oops, did not realize someone that someone already asked the same question. Sorry for the redundancy. Maybe you missed his reply as well though.Thanks. Congrats. And thanks for the tip  btc address is: 12c8Yd8P1YpTRdRDMwnvqLbTqEcymnvC67As far as python 3.2 for sure you had to do that because you were using 3.2. Ngzhang recommends 2.7 AFAIK - that's what I'm using at the moment. Those numbers are good so far, but you need a longer running time to gain some useful data. Keep an eye for a high percentage of invalid shares. A higher number of invalid shares typically indicates overheating. I don't think you should have a problem with the stock Icarus cooling solution unless you run the board in a cramped hot area, or a very hot geographical location. Another tip for you, try using a pool that has the lowest latency/ping time from your location.  Did you install the PL303 driver? here: http://www.prolific.com.tw/eng/downloads.asp?id=31Also you made sure you install the python modules such as serial,jsonrpc,curses. All available in ngzhang's github package:https://github.com/ngzhang/Icarusgit it now :p Well I will be displeased if I do not get the board that I pre-ordered lol :p Check your e-mails. Hint: I ordered form a gmail address that has my forum handle in it - ie "allinvain" .I really hope I don't miss out on this batch.  I see. I think I fall into the "small order" category. I did send you a formal pre-order request a while back and you responded as having received and confirmed it. The main question here is if someone writes you an e-mail with a pre-order request or wants to get in on a batch I presume you actually write/store their info/request, no? lol  otherwise having to go through e-mails will result in lost orders and lost customers. I'm not questioning your organizational skills, I just am curious to know _what_ they're like  That's a very good question. ngzhang, you never answered that question.Hmm, that was quick! I presume you live in China. And as far as I know the Icarus does not have a termal sensor on it so no temperature monitoring. I don't think any of the FPGA miners (except perhaps BFL) have temp monitoring. lol I hope I did not jinx it!  All fixed now   I dunno if slush fixed the invalid blocks manually or whether he's got some script that does additional checks (besides the use of block explorer), but either way it's all good.Also I must say I am quite happy to see our luck level so high recently. This nicely makes up for that period of bad luck we've had a week or two ago. I know, and I'm not mad at him. I just wish that he did NOT have to do manual verification. What is going on with the block explorer sites because no doubt the issue is with them.  Does anyone know what the heck is wrong with block explorer? Downtime upon downtime.  Again... 7 invalid blocks in a row..c'mon!  Sweet     24% is crazy high. Let me guess you live somewhere in Europe? I hope someday we will live in a world where there will be free trade not just for big multinational corporations but for us regular people. 
It was a lower value - as it should be. No custom fees - once again as it should be.  Setup a VPN/proxy on whatever open port you have to work with. Have the proxy forward requests to the pool server. I'm sure with a few IPTABLES or other firewall or networking tricks you can get around it. Or maybe mine via the Tor network ? The issue you were having with PoolServerJ on mine1, I'm curious to know if it's also been fixed on the other pool servers. I switched to mine2 when mine1 was having random connection issues and I'm still on mine2. Should I move? Shocking as in the low average hash rate? Also the efficiency is pretty junk.  Have you looked into ecoinpool?  Yep, you are correct. I immediately switched over to mine2. I'm staying away from mine3 for a reason I'm sure you can think of :p. Pool is down!!! mine1.btcguild.com to be specific. I was going to make the same post lool   Yeah, congrats slush!  I think you may have forgotten to properly name the file because the download link points to guiminer-20110823.exe not guiminer-20120219.exe . Edit: Actually I see now that you just linked to the wrong one. Here is the correct link:https://github.com/downloads/Kiv/poclbm/guiminer-20120219.exe Definitely blockexplorer. It's down at the moment.  As far as I can tell it only happens when the pool I'm mining on has major connection issues or is down. Either it's not really that big of a deal - a quick restart of the miner fixes it. But I'm glad to hear you're rewriting the module/miner. Cool, but does it have the same thermal dissipation cpacity as the previous one or more? I'm also wondering if the new Icarus boards will run at a higher clock rate. According to digikey this new fan has a CFM rating of 11.0. And you did not answer my question in regards to the stands :p So..umm, any idea where I might find them? I found shorter ones, but none so long as the ones in your picture. Very nice, I can't wait!  Hey you think you can sell me those metal stands as well? I'd like to eventually stack mine just like you Edit: Also is it me or is the stock fan bigger now? Thanks for that explanation. Btw, the issues I've been having earlier have sort of "died down" - maybe ceased altogether. But before it stabilized something happened that caused the miner to report efficiency as negative and the  average hashrate also as negative.  wtf..how come efficiency is showing as being negative!! looool. I'm pushing an average of -3716 MHs. Hmm, maybe this can be addressed in the next version of the miner, but it seems after connection/get work issues the miner reports ridiculous hash rates and low efficiency levels. Right now it says my average is 4244 MHs with 9.0% efficiency - I wish!! (I'm running a single Icarus board)Maybe it should reset it's average/stats after a series of connection problems?  Damn, I totally forgot about namecoins..after all btcguild IS a merged mining pool. Silly me. whoa..my miner reported 10 new blocks (long poll) in a period of about 10 seconds. If that's accurate, then the pool got crazy lucky!!  Congrats! This is the bitcoin mining equivalent of losing your virginity :p Maybe cause I'm FPGA mining? I'll keep an eye on it overnight, hopefully your network changes squashed this problem.
To be honest I'm not sure. It could very well be how you describe it. I am using a alpha miner (MPBM 0.0.4) so perhaps I ran into a bug or two. But what I'm not too happy about (besides the connection issues) is the high percentage of stale shares (1.4% when it used to be below 0.8%). I guess I'll have to wait a while for the pool to stabilize. Why not linux  ok I spoke too soon..errors are back. Oddly enough it rejected two of my shares with "unknown reason"...U sure you're not being DDoS'ed?    yeah dunno what could be going on, but I'm back on mine3 (was on deepbit temp) and everything is back to normal.  The website works fine for me. Possible DNS issue then? It seems to be sporadic (I'm talking about the mining servers) as once in a while it would accept shares, then it would follow by a series of 10 to 20 connections errors, and then accept 3 shares or some random number. Maybe another DDoS?"Pool Speed      841.36 GH/sec   "miners dropping like flies... U sure that's only two? I count 4 blocks as invalid.  What the heck is going on with the pool servers. I'm getting tons and tons of connection errors. Error while requesting job from BTCGuild: timed out.52% of all job requests failed!  Did anyone order an extra long round with a side of frustration (supersized)??6+ hours yet again. Damn you variance!  I wish GOD would create Half Life 3, maybe then it will actually become a reality. But this may explain it: https://i.imgur.com/bUUke.pngNow for something more on-topic. Does anyone know if the current price on their website is here to stay or if they will raise it as soon as they smell the money?  lol, yeah, well we shall see what happens. Either way I like the fact that your board is more power efficient. If indeed they raise the price after "launch" then your (and the other lx150 based boards) boards still have an advantage in my eyes. lol crap..I wonder to what price. Meh, then I see no point in buying one. If the price is say twice that of an Icarus board with twice (and a bit more) hashing power yet with 4 x the power consumption then why not buy two Icarus boards instead.  I wonder if the existing fpga board sellers are going to lower their prices now that you can get twice the hashing power for the same price with the Bitforce singles. Inaba just got his BFL single so it looks like they were for real. So it's either $599 for 823 MHs or $560 for 386 MHs. Even though the power consumption is higher with the BFL singles I think most people are going to go with the higher hashrate choice. They should be but mine3 for me wasn't. I'm now on mine1 to see how it goes.  Batch 3 boards are coming soon  ? Hmm, well, I tried switching my fpga miner to deepbit and so far I've noticed no failed connect attempts when the miner asks for work. There is still are a few rejected jobs even with deepbit but no connection issues. I'm using MPBM v0.0.4alpha btw. I'd expect to have more issues with deepbit as it's further away (ie more hops, higher latency, etc) but :\ I dunno. As I type this I noticed a few failed connections so maybe in the end it's pretty much the same with all pools - ie it's the fact that I'm mining with an fpga that is causing these issues, or my internet is just shit. Anyways, my brief visit to the Deep Bit is over; back to the Guild I go. Failed job requests jumped to 46 - 5.0% of all total job requests so far.  Wow what a nice improvement. Perhaps there is something odd with the proxy/load balancer as when connecting directly work units are being dished out with amazing speed. UPDATE: after restarting the miner 5 min ago a few failed job requests occured (5) in total (3.0% of total), but I guess it is normal to have a few of them once in a while, no? (network issues, etc)Update: 10 failed job requests  I noticed an unsually high number of failed job requests this morning. Were you doing something with the servers 5 - 10 min ago? Do you have this in the list of modules to be loaded section:import worker.theseven.icarusand then in the list of workers section, this:# Icarus worker  { \    # Worker module    "type": worker.theseven.icarus.IcarusWorker, \    # Worker module parameters, in this case serial port name (default: /dev/ttyS0)    "port": "COM3", \  }, \Just remember to change the port variable to your particular one (ie COMx, or /dev/ttyUSBx)
Hmm, wasn't the old dns entry supposed to forward to the new? (ie proxy) Either way I just restarted the miner. Right off the bat I'm noticing far quicker response from your server  I think they're more sensitive to latency than gpus. It may have something to do with the way they hash. I chose BTC guild specifically because of the proximity of their servers to me.  I think it was the pool as it has now stabilized. The efficiency is slowly climbing back up too. Average hashrate is also dropping to a more realistic figure. As for latency it's kind of funny cause I chose to use BTC Guild specifically due to the low ping and low number of hops from me to their server. I'll keep an eye on it and see how it goes. Props to you for coding a neat miner.   Is it me or is the pool a bit wonky recently (perhaps due to the server move). Screenshot attached:Uploaded with ImageShack.usNotice the massive number of share upload and job request errors. I'd really like to know if this is due to my mining software or the pool. It seems it's sporadic. It sometimes goes pretty bad..checkout all the red lol:Uploaded with ImageShack.us Uploaded with ImageShack.usTheSeven, I'm wondering if you can tell me if the "failed job requests" , "Share upload retries" and "Efficiency" stats are within normal ranges. I know the failed job requests and share upload retries varies from person to person, but shouldn't the efficiency be higher? For a while it was at 98%. What does the efficiency level refer to? But but but...it's all relative. You still make the same in the end regardless of what the pool hashrate is, it's just the rate at which the earnings come in that varies. It's a psychological thing. Personally I prefer a moderately high hashrate so variance is not so cruel. But after seeing 14+ hour blocks I can see why so many miners snowball into the deep bit... Excellent reply. Thanks. I intend to setup more than one, but first I'm waiting for Mr. ngzhang to deliver another fpga board. Right now I have 1 Icarus board mining with your miner. I must admit I'm a big sucker for colored terminals and I find watching the miner's output the equivalent of "seeing into the matrix"  In regards to this: "priority": 30, \I take it the higher the number the higher the priority. And if so what is a recommended priority setting. I'm testing with BTC Guild for example, and I just kept the stock config's 30 level priority. This might be too high?? Could this explain failed job requests? Wohoo..got it working. Just a note for those on Win 7 x64. First download and install curses mython module from here:http://www.lfd.uci.edu/~gohlke/pythonlibs/#cursesOn a different note, what percent stale shares are you folks seeing? Wohoo..got it working. Just a note for those on Win 7 x64. First download and install curses mython module from here:http://www.lfd.uci.edu/~gohlke/pythonlibs/#cursesOn a different note, what percent stale shares are you folks seeing?Edit: Whoops, replied to wrong thread. But still relevant. I meant to reply to the Icarus thread. Oh dang, I forgot about long polling! That alone is worth upgrading for.  Well, I will give it a try when it moves to the beta or full release stage. But for the record I've been running your miner for a month now without any problems whatsoever.  Are you suggesting that MPBM is just as stable as your miner python script?  I wonder why doesn't Tycho implement MM? Does he have something against NMC? Yeah tell me about it..7 hours   That has got to be the longest round evah! :p Just to clarify before someone panics, I'm sure ngzhang meant to say that "it has NEVER happened yet" or hasn't happened yet. Grammar Syntax Nazi on the attack  lol Will the batch 3 boards run at a higher clockrate?  Is that when we can expect Batch 3 to go out..or two weeks after that? 
Have you checked out ebay? There are quite a few replacement fans out there. I found some for my 5870s.If you don't have or don't want to use paypal give me a PM and I can act as a buying proxy for you (I did this for someone on the #bitcoin IRC chan a while back without any issues). I just learned that I won't be able to put a reference cooler on the XFX card has a board that is a bit shorter than the reference design. So what I did was I swapped the cards around - put the XFX one with the non reference cooler below the card with the reference cooler. I then set the fan speed of the top card a bit higher than what I had it set to before (it's now at 65% whereas before it was at 55%) and  then I set the fan speed of the XFX card to 70%. So far I'm getting the following temps:Adapter 0 - ATI Radeon HD 5800 Series            Sensor 0: Temperature - 63.00 CAdapter 1 - ATI Radeon HD 5800 Series            Sensor 0: Temperature - 65.00 CThe XFX card is Adapter 1. It's running by 9-10 degrees cooler than it was before when it was the top card. Note: I have two 120mm fans in the front of the case drawing air, but admittedly there is a mess of wires (PCIe cables) and 1 HD in the way, but that should not obstruct airflow _THAT_ much. Bottom line is in my opinion the XFX non reference cooler is worst. It is quieter but cooling performance wise it is by far worse than the reference turbine based cooler. Yeah I could do that but since the XFX fan is located in the middle I think what would end up happening is one side (right side) would end up much hotter cause of the way the turbine works (especially without a shroud). Yes I want to buy one. I may as well give it a try. If for some mysterious reason the PCB is different than the reference design then I may be out a few coins. I did a Google image search and the HD-587X-ZNFC is apparently a reference design VERSION 2.0. The version 1.0 reference cooler should work with some minor modifications (like cutting holes in the intake vents at the back to fit the PCIe power sockets (the v2.0 has them on the end of the card, version 1.0 has them at the top).I'm located in Canada. I'll PM you in max 1 hour...gotta get home. I just recently purchased an XFX 5870 with the non-reference cooler, and I'm not liking the temp that it runs at when its placed in a system with another 5870. It runs at 73 C but a card with the reference cooler in a similar dual card mining rig runs at 63C tops - and that's overclocked to 900 MHz. So, my question is this: Does anyone have a reference ATI 5870 cooler to sell me? Edit: Hmm..I read somewhere that the non reference XFX HD-587X-ZNFC board is a bit shorter than the one with the reference cooler. Does anyone else have this card as well? Any solution to upgrade the cooling solution to one that exhausts out the back? I don't intend to power the boards with current from the DIMM slots though. I just want to seat them or secure them in place. What are the "80pin TE 1734037 and 1734099 connectors" used for if you don't mind me asking? What I'd like to do is mount these boards vertically on a backplane and have some 120 or 140mm high airflow fans blowing from on them. I am thinking slightly angling the fans would be ideal so the backside and the frontside of the board gets direct airflow instead of the air "channeling" or running past it. Angling them would create some turbulence though, so I'm not sure. Can anybody here that is more of an expert at DIY solutions give me some ideas as to how I'd create this setup? Can I use one of the DDR3 memory slots that ngzhang sells and glue or attach them to a sheet of aluminium or sheet steel? Is the 168 pin memory slot connector on the board actually functional (ie the pins are wired to receive data and power)? On another note does anyone know if there is some aftermarket solution out there for what I'm trying to accomplish to spare me the hassle of doing the job myself and possibly making a mess of it? Excellent! Glad it's working for you now. Welcome to the FPGA party Yeah I used com6 only as an example. The com port you need to use can be determined by going into the device manager and looking under the Ports section. "PL-2303 USB to Serial Bridge (for HX, TA, EA chip versions)" so yeah you're right there is no _specific PL-2303HX file but that generic zip file contains support for it and other versions as well. It's funny you mention that cause I actually liked it when it quit if I sent it Ctrl+C. For the longest time that was like sending it a BREAK signal. Now the new way to send it a break signal is Ctrl-\  Checkout the first post on this thread. Or you can follow my quickly slapped together guide...Step 1: Download and install the USB_UART driver, it's PL2303HXD:http://www.prolific.com.tw/eng/downloads.asp?id=31*note: you may have to reboot your machine after the installation of this driver*Step 2: Download and install python 2.7http://python.org/getit/ Step 3: Install the serial / jsonrpc / curses libs into the python27/Lib folder. Typically python should be installed in C:\Python27. I've uploaded all the python libs (zip format). Here is the link:http://www.mediafire.com/?4r79856dlccv6n33: Go to where you stored your miner (ngzhang's) and edit the MINER.BAT (don't just run the miner.py!). The miner.bat file should look something like this:start c:\python27\python.exe miner.py -u http://bitcoinsuperstar:supersecretpassword@btcguild.com:8332 -s com64: Once you've made sure you have the proper info for your chosen mining pool programmed into that batch file (miner.bat) just double click it and enjoy your uber fpga hashing rig. At this point it is safe to crack open a beer and chug it down with deep satisfaction  Job well done! Thanks for the info  I guess I have to hit ebay for a kit.  hm ok nevermind I think the issues were caused (believe it or not) by the bitcoin client most likely overloading my home dsl connection both downloading the blockchain and maintaining connections (76+) to the network. Once I closed the client everything was back to normal. Ummm, I think you forgot to either change the version number or did not upload the 1.7.4 source yet cause when I dl the latest git tarball it still says 1.7.3..just thought I'd let ya know :p What's with the connection problems today slush? Server issues? Daemon reboot?21/01/2012 17:18:31] Result: 85b67ad4 rejected[21/01/2012 17:18:45] Warning: work queue empty, miner is idle[21/01/2012 17:18:53] Result: e7dc0e3d rejected[21/01/2012 17:19:10] LP: New work pushed[21/01/2012 17:19:15] Disconnected from server[21/01/2012 17:19:20] Warning: work queue empty, miner is idle[21/01/2012 17:19:36] Result: 91450389 rejected[21/01/2012 17:19:58] Result: 5256c7df rejected[21/01/2012 17:20:20] Result: 7e3975d6 rejected[21/01/2012 17:20:42] Result: 59c31a98 accepted[21/01/2012 17:20:43] Result: 0b6fe5fc accepted[21/01/2012 17:20:43] Connected to server[21/01/2012 17:20:43] Currently on block: 163270[21/01/2012 17:20:44] Result: d47f8530 accepted[21/01/2012 17:20:51] Result: eae38684 accepted[21/01/2012 17:21:12] Result: 451256be accepted[21/01/2012 17:21:19] Result: 5242f60a accepted[21/01/2012 17:21:27] Result: 1109877c accepted[21/01/2012 17:21:41] Result: 74605c87 accepted[21/01/2012 17:21:53] Result: 29e32b79 accepted[21/01/2012 17:22:05] Result: 48982211 accepted[21/01/2012 17:22:28] Result: 5d581f47 accepted[21/01/2012 17:22:37] Result: 267e7209 accepted[21/01/2012 17:23:00] Result: a1b93dd7 rejected[21/01/2012 17:23:08] Result: b1175713 accepted[21/01/2012 17:23:08] Result: d9c34e14 accepted[21/01/2012 17:23:24] Result: f1574a06 accepted[21/01/2012 17:23:29] Result: faba6153 accepted[21/01/2012 17:23:34] Result: a82188e4 rejected[21/01/2012 17:23:38] Warning: work queue empty, miner is idle[21/01/2012 17:24:01] Result: b6216921 accepted[21/01/2012 17:24:02] Result: 3982401d accepted[21/01/2012 17:24:07] Result: 31f033c6 accepted[21/01/2012 17:24:20] Result: 8598509a rejected               [21/01/2012 17:24:32] Warning: work queue empty, miner is idle Just to clarify to load a different bitstream we need the Xilinx platform cable, right? In other words it can't be loaded via USB like say the x6500 boards. That is not normal. I am also running the miner (temporarily) on a Windows 7 box with also a Core i7 (920) CPU and I notice no cpu usage from the python process. What version of python are you running? I'm using the recommended 2.7.2 (64 bit) Excellent. Thanks for the info. So far it seems the board is not running hot at all, but then again I've had it mining for only 2 hours. I may still replace it with the ball bearing version of the same fan (for longer lifespan and peace of mind). Just wanted to thank ngzhang for the excellent support. With a bit of assistance from him I was able to get the board mining.  Hmm I see. Well to me noise is no issue so I think I will replace the single 4 cm fan with 2 x 2.5 cm ones if I can find them somewhere. By the way if anyone is wondering the USB to Serial chipset on the board is a Prolific PL2303 which can be found here:http://www.prolific.com.tw/eng/downloads.asp?id=31This is necessary on Windows XP (and perhaps older) machines. I'm not sure about windows 7, but apparently the windows action center actually located the proper manufacturer and it even gives you a link to follow to download the drivers. Needless to say I did not actually install it on a windows 7 machine yet. update: did some checking and apparently the link to the proper usb driver is located in the README file for the Tcl miner but not for the python beta miner.Now the next challenge is getting the miner.py program to actually work. Do I need a specific version of python or any will do? JSON-RPC addon perhaps?I know for linux this will be a lot easier but it would be cool if there was a guide for windows out there.  For now I think I shall see if I can get the Tcl version working at least. Does the single fan on the 2'nd batch Icarus board provide adequate cooling to the fpgas? (compared to the dual fan solution)edit: Also is the current fan sleeve or ball bearing?
Well, instead of just stern warnings how about some general recommended guidelines that we can follow when looking for a cooling solution? What do you consider adequate, and what is a "dinky fan" to you? How about making a version of the board with mounting holes so we can attach northbridge coolers (heatsink + fan) or maybe something bigger. Maybe come up with an optional cooling solution for your fpga that customers can purchase - this way they can rest assured that the fpga board will be cooled properly at 180 Mhz. So you are saying that the beta ver bitstream would be 100% stable on all -3 devices or are you saying that only SOME -2 devices will work 100% stable with this  beta version bitstream?Personally I would take my chances loading the bitstream on the Icarus board if it meant the reward would be consistent 400 MH/s performance.  Damn! 451 peak!  I wonder if there is a way to increase the average speed (ie shorten the gap between the peak and the minimum). 400 Mh/s average would be really sweet to have.  Hmm, ok, next thing to try would be a different mining program. If you get the same issue then it must be the pool or somehow your internet connection. Does this happen on all your miners (if you have more than 1)?Oh I forgot to mention did you also try 1.7.0?From what I can gather in this thread: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=6458.new;topicseen#newIt seems this has something to do with PyOpenCL.  Ah that explains it. There is some bug in the latest phoenix version when running with that kernel (checkout the phoenix thread for details). I would suggest going back to phatk2 to see if it makes a difference. What version of phoenix are you running? I used to have the same problem as you until I upgraded to 1.7.3. Also do you have a manually set "ask rate" (in the phoenix command line argument) ? Nope it's not doing that anymore. With 1.7.0 I used to get TONS and tons disconnects and "worker is idle.." errors with your pool. I just never noticed how bad it was because I had the phoenix processed hidden behind "screen". But with 1.7.3 there are no disconnects whatsoever (watched it for 30 minutes straight...none, and the reject rate is super low) . Conclusion: I love phoenix )))!!  Btw, I forgot one thing. I'm not located in the U.S so I guess that rules out that whole "including shipping" part of the deal. I'd be willing to pay for shipping if it isn't to extreme. PM me if you're still interested in selling it. I can pay via BTC or paypal.wallet.dat, thanks for doing a bit of due diligence  ^^^^^^^^  +1I wish it was as easy as setting up a .com or any other such domains. If only BIND and other dns servers would jump on board and include support for NMC even as an optional feature available during compile. Would you sell it for 20 BTC shipped?  quick tip (maybe you know this already) but find the pool with the lowest latency to you (ping test it). It will help improve your hashrate.  Holy crap! The GPU gods hath well endowed ye!My guess is those are 5870's .. I like your approach eldentyrell. Speaking of which I asked you on the thread if you were still thinking of selling your boards, but you never replied. Have you decided that it's not really worth your time marketing your boards?Sorry btw for the cross-thread pollution. I'm with you on that one. The valuation is dog shit low. I just don't care about them anymore...just let them pile up in my NMC wallet. Now if only mtgox opened a NMC exchange I think it would really help it out a bit. I'm not just referring to NMC <---> BTC but also USD <---> NMC woohooo...now I can finally get my *precious* namecoins.. Really? Is this due to high manufacturing costs of board with more than 1 FPGA? Or? When you say daughter - mother architecture you mean to say that you'll have one mother board and several expansion slots (aka daughter boards) into which one can plug several (how many?) daughter boards? I would really like to see a nice fpga cluster geared solution - a nicely done backplane with several (10+) spots to plug in daughterboards that will each have either 1 or 2 fpga per daughterboard  Hmm, I'm a bit concerned about this: http://en.qi-hardware.com/wiki/File:Icarus_Soldering.capacitance_problem.JPG I wonder if the same thing could happen with the 10 port usb hub cablesaurus sells. Anyone using those? Yep, just remember that with 11.11 you're going to see 100% cpu utilization again :p. My solution is to upgrade to Linux  Damn, I will have to make sure I never run more than one monitoring app. At the moment only 1 of my miners is windows based, and on it I use GPU-Z and only one instance. But man what a horrible bug to run into! I wonder how far back this bug was discovered.
Oh snap..major trolololol  Well played Sir.  What version of MSI Afterburner were you using? Is this issue something that can be fixed with software (ie MSI is aware of it)?  That may be the case, but there is always the hope that someone else will come up with the same design but who would be willing to share it . As they say, hope dies last.   Just a personal preference, lack of belief in the future of bitcoin, or is power too expensive for you now?  Nice - 241 MHs per core would be really sweet. For me at least that means I can replace a 5870 (overclocked modestly to 900 MHz) with one of these boards   That would be nice. Pretty soon these poor little fpgas will start feeling the heat. Makes me wonder if there is a limit to how far you can drive up the clock. Even 166 is pushing it, no?Same here. I'd also like to see a tri or quad fpga board, and if possible a lower board price, but I know that's difficult given the fact that the Spartan 6's arent' exactly cheap. Hey fizzisist, any chance of getting the hashrate up to ~400 MH like ngzhang's Icarus board? Technically speaking isn't your board supposed to be 20% faster due to the higher -3 fpga speed grade? Also a standard heatsink + fan cooling solution (optional during purchase) would be really cool. It doesn't have to be crazy or anything just enough to keep the fpga chips running cool at the highest clock currently available (166 if I'm not mistaken).  Ah ok, I understand. Excellent  The more MH/s the better.  How much it would cost for a 10GH cluster? PM you? I presume that the second batch will come with the new "beta" core preloaded, no?  Sorry if this has been mentioned already somewhere, but how can we ensure we get in the next pre-order? E-mail you or PM? Do you have a btc address to send the first deposit to, etc? Awesome..looking forward to that. If you can get the cost down to $1/Mhash or lower that would be really good news. Just to be clear you mean it will be priced lower than the existing dual fpga board yet be more powerful? - ie cheaper than $569 Nice! Can't wait for that  But I'm also wondering if you have a timeline set for an even more powerful board? That may be the case, but I prefer to have no cpu usage so I'm sticking with 11.12. - at least on windows based miners.  Wow, thank god! It's about time!I too can also confirm that mining on win 7 64 bit with a radeon 5970 with crossfire enabled works without 100% per core cpu usage. I take it that's why the confirmed and unconfirmed reward is staying the same in spite of several rounds passing - same for NMC. *Sigh* pool is down again  ...back to the deepest bit I go... Btw thanks slush for getting the pool back up! I'm curious though if you plan to process the NMC payouts. No doubt it's not ECC memory, but even so I guess you can get by without ECC, no? What shocked me though was the price disparity. States side a server like that would cost you several hundred dollars. Heck a core i7 860 with 4 GB costs you over $140/month - and this is the best deal I found. Update: It's official at the 49 euro price the memory is non ECC. To get ECC RAM  you have to go with their EX6 package.
I just hope that slush's current web host doesn't back down on their promise and closes his account when a big DDoS attack comes - and it will come. I looked at hetzner's site and I could not believe they're offering servers with 16 GB of RAM for just 49 Euros.  I see. Thanks for the info. I guess as long as the provider has a reliable network then that's all that matters - especially if you're apt at managing the server infrastructure (as many of you pool operators no doubt are).  I wonder what made you choose OVH. Did they give you a really good deal on dedicated servers? Have you ever considered rackspace? I hear they're pretty well regarded in the managed hosting industry. Nah, most likely something pooped out on slush's server - ie hardware related.  Hey slush, I know that we can use either api or api2, but is there a "preferred" api server to use or it all comes down to our choice. I've been using the api2 one for the longest time, partly because at the time when I switched you were getting DDoS'ed like hell and partly because it's the default in guiminer.  Wow this round is ridiculously long. The gods of odds are certainly against us on this one. It's a margin call. This is how the big boys play.  welcome back online slush   my miners are now once again yours to command! :p lool slush I hope you come back! Your pool was the first pool I mined for and I've been using your pool ever since even though many times I could've moved to pools that offer 0% fees. If it's something along the lines of p2pool that would be super cool. Wishing you the best! Awesome! Thanks  I'm going to give it a whirl and if it works reliably it's bye bye mining pools for me. *Sigh* These stupid DDoS attacks are getting on my nerves. I wish there was some way to distribute (ie P2P) a mining network.  Looks like them DDoS'ing sons of bitches are persistent - attack is still ongoing. I've had to move my miners elsewhere for the time being. Hope you come back online soon slush. Best of luck to us all! Yeah that's a very good idea, one which I will have to implement - I've become complacent I guess as slush's pool has been stable for a long long time now.  So I guess the only thing we can do is wait and hope that the attacker(s) get bored and move on. I wish there was some way to strike back at this assholes. I'm thinking a nice miner plugin that will trigger each miner to DDoS the known IPs of the attacker(s). lol, ok maybe that's not realistic but it's so damn frustrating when this happens. I have a feeling this attack will continue for a while. Slush, is there no way to filter out all other non registered IP connections? Ie allow connections only from pool miners based on their last known IP address - most people don't refresh their IP often.  I've been regularly watching the Bitcoin Show and I noticed that TradeHill is no longer advertised on that show - MtGox replaced them (outbid them perhaps?) . I'm just wondering what may be going on. Should we be worried? Has Tradehill had a falling out with the people behind that show?    Today my total reward (unconfirmed + confirmed) actually went down! I thought this was not possible. Slush, did you recalculate round rewards or something?  I would so buy one or two but $440 is a bit too much to invest in 100 Mhash. It would take a seriously long time to earn back that original investment. I just picked up a 5870 for $180 and that nets me 393 Mhash/s , so 3x the amount this board does at a more reasonable cost. According to my calculations it would take  23.66 months to pay for this board - assuming btc prices stay at ~10.98. Yeh lol..meh I'm tired of these forks..time to go back to good'ol'bitcoin   The one and only, the first. So I take it guiminer with poclbm is still the best to use for this pool?
I see. Thanks! From the looks of it i0coins are pretty much the same price as ixcoins.  IMHO the starting difficulty should've been set higher. As it was some big miner probably has 90% of all the i0coins ...It's kind of hard now to duplicate the organic growth bitcoins had given that there is so much GPU hashing power out there. btw guys, what the current difficulty (I don't have the client in daemon mode nor a working linux install so sorry if I'm asking here)...? Jesus finally the difficulty went up enough that the reject rate is down to around the 10% mark..in the beginning it was like 80 to 90% f'ing crazy! Guys this has nothing to do with your GPUs or whatever, it's this way due to the crazy low difficulty rate and the insane amount of hashing power poured into this fork early on. In other words the block generation time is so low that you can't get a valid share in. Once difficulty rises a bit you will see fewer stale shares. Did you check the cables? You know it could always be the cables...wiggle them a bit.. http://i0.btcguild.com/how_to_connect.php ...til..we'll all be staring at this again: I think i0coin is going to be super l33t and not even release a win32 client .... All these damn bitcoin forks... How do you know that the next fork will not fork you again!?!  lol..pssh...whoever stole that used them to buy IXCoins.. Where? Up the bum? Only replace the word bitcoin with I0Coin...  Hmm I see your point. I cannot be sure I was connected before the end of the round. My net connection may have dropped before the end. I usually get 0.06 to 0.08 per round. For that 0.01 round I submitted 3094337 shares. I dunno I just figured even if my net connection dropped before the round end shouldn't the total round reward be a tad bit higher? Umm, this seems odd to me. The round lasted nearly 2 hours and all I got was 0.01??? In previous rounds of the nearly the same length the reward was 2 to 3 times that much.1:59:54   3094337   0.01812518 I wonder if Vladimir put his billion trillion gazzilion hashes into the ixcoin network yet. If he got into it early like BitcoinExpress he would be a ixcoin billionaire so freaking easily - he'd then have to change his profile tag line  lolWait until they reach 0.50 btc then sell...profit! Your wallet is NOT on an irc channel. It's the method it uses to bootstrap itself on to the network. Bitcoin does the same, but it also uses a DNS based scheme.  Honestly I am totally surprised this hasn't happened already. A while back I read a bunch of threads about "inflatcoin" and other such ideas for modifying bitcoin. Why haven't these people forked bitcoin already to have their ideas implemented. Maybe some of these ideas are not so easy to code. What ixcoin did is totally silly easy to code - just change the name and the block reward. 
If I knew how to code I'd do it myself too. I think it would be a good idea to have many flavors out there and let the market's natural selection mechanisms work on them. Eventually the superior one shall survive. Speculators. They think/hope that ixcoin will skyrocket in value like bitcoin did and they do not wish to be left out of the price bubble party. That's all there is to it - at least for the time being.  Honestly I'm not sure what it is, but it is what it is. If I had to guess I'd say that many of these people are huge pricks because they know that they won't incur any consequences. In other forums people who are pricks are usually warned or threatened with some sort of punishment if they spew vitriol towards other members, but that is not the case here. I get the impression that the moderators/admins share a "let anything go" attitude and I'm sure that I guess in a odd way ties in with the anarchistic nature of bitcoin in some way. In a sense this lack of moderation perhaps makes it seem as if this forum has a higher concentration of these types of people. Anyways, how about we get back to the subject at hand and move on.... Now why would I be envious? And your reply makes you look like you have no moral compass. I guess it's perfectly fine with you if he profits from a scam - you'd want in on it no doubt. Nah, no hurt feelings bro. It sounds like you're not even trying to cover up how much a prick you are. Now where the other members of the asshole brigade - TraderTimm I'm looking at you Honestly if I had to say one negative thing about bitcoin, it would be that its community has an unusually high concentration of conspiratorial, selfish, greedy, rude, arrogant, and disrespectful fucks. Wow, just wow. I guess that's what people care about these days, the almighty $ and screwing each other. No offence Starlightbreaker, but that statement makes you look like a major douchebag. Ha, nice try troll. No it would not make me feel better. Unlike you I do not enjoy laughing at other people's misery and misfortune. But keep on pattying yourself on the back for being so "smart" All I was saying is that sooner or later people will buy ixcoins with REAL money instead of bitcoins and some will lose just like as with bitcoins. But I guess you were too dumb to read between the lines and discern what I was saying. Quickly, sell them ALL before their value goes down the gutter!!!!  Heh, then I guess your forum nickname is pretty fitting eh  I admire your honesty. You get extra + from me for that. Many here will not admit that to themselves let alone to the rest of the world. Honestly I kind of wish ixcoin started with a ridiculously high difficulty and work in reverse to squash such profiteers. It would've been an interesting experiment, and I hope someone releases another fork with a so called "egalitarian" mechanism built in. Congrats on becoming an ixcoin equivalent of the federal reserve. Now can you please start offering loans in ixcoins ? C'mon generate some economic activity with that huge stash!  Yep, we will have 21 different flavors of the cryptocurrency idea - vanilla, chocolate, cherry? Pick your flavor today.Yeah really I don't see why everyone is throwing such a hissy fit. I thought this community believed in the whole "let the free market do its thing" idea, no? Let it be. The superior system will come out on top. Bitcoin has the first mover advantage, and at this point without unique and better features I don't see ixcoin subplanting bitcoin any time soon. The most likely scenarios are:1) it will die a slow death2) it will die a quick death - blaze of crypto glory if you will3) it will find a niche as the "sidekick" to bitcoin and some value or use will be assigned to it by the marketPersonally I'm disappointed that the creator of ixcoin released it without bothering to make one slight improvement over bitcoin. I really expected at least an encrypted wallet by default, or a better UI design than the ugly-ass 1960's design the stock bitcoin client currently has. Also copying the entire bitcoin website verbatim and just swapping "bitcoin" for "ixcoin" is pretty lame.I can come up with many other complaints, but I don't think it will make one damn difference as the system is already out there as it is. Some of the core properties cannot be changed without a major upheaval from the existing userbase. But like I said, the thing is already out in the wild so let's wait and see how it fares.  Don't you worry, people will lose "real" money with ixcoins too..soon. Just you wait now.  Heh...pool hashrate is dropping Pool Hash rate (MHash/second)   78407Someone with a lot of hashing muscle is calling it quits, or going solo. Pump and dump? Time to watch the exchange to see what price does.Edit: ok, strike that..it seems the hash rate is oscillating wildly...I'm sure you guys can think of several scenarios as to why this is happening. Not necessarily. They can just create another testnet equivalent and invite people to mine it like crazy. I think with ixcoin it was a few people endowed with a lot of hashing power that raped the network initially. I remember seeing one dude put in like 23 Ghashes into it right when it was launched. But yeah I agree it would've been neat to have a node record network stats and whatnot and see what we can learn from a super rapid adoption rate.Ixcoin breaking the ice sort of speak makes me wonder if we'll start seeing a lot more "mee too" forks.  Dang, and the mining capacity keeps on increasing...Pool Hash rate (MHash/second)   84649.9Hey at the very least this will take some pressure off the bitcoin miners  A difficulty DECREASE is very much welcome for a change. You should fork a chain that has a reverse difficulty curve  This way there is no early adopter envy. Also this way the more people use them and join the network, the more coins will be produced. Just a wild thought. 4096run ixcoind -daemonand thenrun ixcoind getdifficulty  I fail to see how the project development section is a proper place for this thread. Unpleasant thread? I'm sorry, but are we engaging in self-censorship now? Anyways, screw this. I figured I would share here any info that I find in regards to the hack and/or other useful tools (like the C program I posted) but I see now that my contribution is not wanted plus it seems all I get here is vitriol. So this is my last contribution to the thread. I really don't give a shit what you all think anymore.  Umm, on gbyte's site the script is offered for twice that price. It's ok for you to resell it? Ah, sorry Steve. I totally misread that. Thanks and take care. Signature:Donation : 1KPTdMb6p7H3YCwsyFqrEmKGmsHqe1Q3jgFollow me in twitter @aaronbarrTaken from a forum member's profile page.
Umm, sarcasm a little thick eh? But thanks for the well wishes. Wish you well as well ...bye No, really, you can just screw off with your high and mighty attitude, really, please do. You give the bitcoin community a bad name and you provide nothing of value to this thread. Be gone troll! Actually it does matter to me if bitcoins go to zero because I believe in them more than YOU. You are just an opportunist who got in late and you're sour about it. I'm willing to bet you barely have more than a handful of coins. And if you do, you are most likely liquidating them as I type.For your information I am not getting donations. I got 3 donations but that's it. I never asked for donations, and I do not care if I do get any either way. The only thing that will make me happy is if I recover a portion (unlikely all at this point) of my stolen property or if the thief is caught and brought to some sort of justice. But maybe concepts of justice elude you. In your mind probably the law of the jungle reigns, no? You have shown nothing but animosity and unfounded accusations.  99% of them were stolen. So yes I still have some plus what I'm continuing to mine. Is this your twisted form of consoling me? That's like someone stealing $499 from your wallet and someone comes around and says "cheer up buddy, you still have $1"  Ha! You again. I really wish I sold them, but that is sadly not the case.  0a760799bf...   Block 140113 (2011-08-08 14:40:32)   0.0245   Received: Address   1PGt4anpbt2Kzh254M33xNpJ75L6gNw3SPI just received 49% of the balance I had at MBC. You guys figure we've hit a support level yet?  I am getting similar issues with Symantec Antivirus. It flags bitcoin-miner.exe as a Trojan.Gen. Someone in my thread theorized that this is due to a botnet/trojan downloading this binary and using it to mine, which on the face of it seems like a reasonable explanation.  I see. That makes sense. Thanks for the info! Oh crap..seems Symantec Antivirus just identified bitcoin-miner.exe as a Trojan.Gen. Son of a ****....that _may_ have been the method of attack used to steal my btc. This is the same .exe file I had on my previous Win 7 install before I formatted and reinstalled. Also this file was not flagged by Norton at the time. I'm wondering is anyone here adept with hex editor or some way of analyzing the binary? I'd be willing to zip it up and send it to you.P.S. for those of you who do not know bitcoin-miner.exe is UFASoft's SSE2 miner.  You're definitely right, the nature of bitcoin makes it easy to launder funds. I'd certainly like to demo your tracker program  Good luck with it!  Honestly anything is better than what we have now - which is NOTHING. Nobody is going to take BTC seriously if the currency is seen as being super risky - in the sense that there is no recourse against theft. What you described can be useful as long as the reputation and rating system is robust and secure. To be honest I'm surprised nobody has created any such service. It would be fine for me if it was for profit. I for one would gladly pay a percentage of the funds recovered if I can have them back. There could be a LOT of money in it for any company/organization who sets this up. Another thing that could be useful would be a website that does in a more professional, detailed and graphical manner the same thing my C program does - track bitcoins. Once again I and no doubt many people would pay for this service. So my point is that there is a lot of opportunity for bitcoin security entrepreneurs. But sadly I get the impression that those who are intimately familiar with computer security and far more busy figuring out ways to STEAL bitcoins instead of how to legitimately EARN them. I could be over-reacting here and may be wrong on this wide generalization, but anyways, thanks for sharing your ideas mrb! I would join a big pool. Solo mining is not worth it unless you have a crazy hashrate. Also if I was just starting out I would invest whatever time is necessary to setup a linux box just to store coins I would mine. I'd also like to say that if any of you can come up with an improved version of that C program I shared please by all means feel free to do so. I'd also like to thank a guy that goes by the IRC handle of vegard for creating this program. I am sure he would have no problems with modifications to his program. But I'd kindly ask that if you improve it/modify it that you'd share it with the bitcoin community in the same spirit that I/vegard have done.Take care everyone! Yep, sadly no. The bitcoin community has been plagued by thieves lately but I sincerely hope this only makes us stronger/smarter/more secure. Just for shitz'n'giggles I updated the btc tracking data. Everything including the program I used to track the coins can be found at the link below (hope you find it useful somehow):http://allinvain.4shared.com Thanks guys for vindicating and proving my point.  I hope he releases this tool, cause I'd like to use it to find out as much details as possible about a bitcoin theft I was the victim of in June. I'd be surprised if it really works to be honest, but you never know. I wonder if they do this for non US Citizens as well.  All valid points. I'd venture to say that we should not trust any e-wallet service AT ALL with ANY amount of BTC if:a) The owners/principals do not expose their true identify (verified by third party)b) They do no expose their business address or do not have a physical addressc) Do not have an insurance scheme against possible theft/fraudd) Do not have two factor authentication availablee) Do not store the majority of non active funds offlinef) <insert any other crazy paranoid "feel safe" idea here>Btw, Bruce, my condolences for your loss  I wish you the best of luck with all your current and future ventures; be they BTC related or not. Jesus christ 3 people had more than 4K and 1 a bit less. That is heart breaking (trust me I know how that feels). As big of a fool as I was for getting my wallet stolen I never trusted mybitcoin from the beginning and I cannot imagine any possible reason to trust any e-wallet service with large sums of practically 100% anonymous e-currency. It is so damn tempting for the person acting as the custodian of your bitcoins to just walk away with them, and I guess the mybitcoin guy has succumbed to that temptation.Also my sincere regrets and condolences goes out to Bruce Wagner and Ed from onlyonetv dot com for their loss. I hope this further drive the point home that bitcoin security is a serious business - not trolling 
True enough, and that's what I was saying in one of my previous posts. But keep in mind that you are still exposing your visual identity (ie your face) to the shop keeper. In that sense it is not 100% anonymous. You'd be surprised how good some people's memory can be. I think it's a bad idea that the gold shops you frequent don't ask for id - ie money laundering. The gist of my argument is that it is a lot easier to leave no traces in the digital world than in the physical world - hence anything do in "real life" carries the risk of compromising your "anonymity"  Clever marketing..to get your thread noticed in this busy forum you have to resort to bait and switch tactics  You can still get scammed with gold too. But usually if you stay within the gold chain of integrity (Gold bars from the "good delivery list" )..anyways google "gold chain of integrity".. And I suppose you do? How do you draw that judgement based on my statement is beyond me. When you buy gold you typically have to provide some real world proof of id or some info about you (assuming you did not fake it) gets left behind at the merchant or point of purchase. With bitcoin what info info about you is stored? Your e-mail address? Your IP? Get real man, bitcoin IS anonymous.  Sort of...someone can perhaps trace where you bought to gold from (assuming you're holding it in physical form and not stored with some storage provider or in "paper form") but it would be pretty damn hard to find out where you may have hidden your gold stash. If you buy gold from coin shops with cash and assuming they don't video tape everything then you're 100% anonymous. I'd say that bitcoin can be far more anonymous than gold. I'm going to have to take the side of Big Time Coin on this one...I challenge anyone to find out who is behind the following address: http://blockexplorer.com/address/1C7tbiXExkyXfZLyCBNZYH24VDC5JryVXKThat's a chunk of my 25K bitcoinsI can track these damn things in perpetuity, but what good is that going to do me?  So you wish it to be 100% anonymous? Or? Thanks for fixing it slush. It seems all is well now.  2011-07-26 15:30:59: Listener for "Slush 2 OpenCL": 26/07/2011 15:30:59, Problems communicating with bitcoin RPC 0 22011-07-26 15:32:15: Listener for "Slush 2 OpenCL": 26/07/2011 15:32:15, Unhandled exception Failed to submit share2011-07-26 15:44:51: Listener for "Slush 2 OpenCL": 26/07/2011 15:44:51, Unhandled exception Failed to submit share2011-07-26 15:50:21: Listener for "Slush 1 OpenCL": 26/07/2011 15:50:21, Unhandled exception Failed to submit share2011-07-26 16:06:19: Listener for "Slush 2 OpenCL": 26/07/2011 16:06:19, Unhandled exception Failed to submit share2011-07-26 16:14:19: Listener for "Slush 1 OpenCL": 26/07/2011 16:14:19, Unhandled exception Failed to submit share2011-07-26 16:21:15: Listener for "Slush 2 OpenCL": 26/07/2011 16:21:15, Unhandled exception Failed to submit shareSlush, you on this? Yeah   Not sure what else I can really say. Best of luck with your mining! I don't think that is related to the theft, but I read on that thread you opened that it wasn't 20K but more like 10K. It is possible and it was possible since I got in very very early when the difficulty was much smaller. No gigahashes necessary, only kilohashes. I'm able to track it to a certain degree, but the tool that I'm using needs to be ran on a regular basis and I haven't ran it recently (kind of given up on this thing). The problem for me is that I do not have the coding skills necessary to properly track the coins. I can run this tool that was built for me, but then again all that does is spew up a ton of addresses and transaction, but does not provide any other info. Do you know the address of where some of the coins came from?  I agree. There are numerous key infrastructures that btc does not have which almost every other standard currency does. As it stands BTC  = wild west of currencies. This is not to say that it won't change; I'm hoping it does.My biggest regret (besides me not moving the coins to a linux box) is not having the wallet.dat encrypted by default. I am almost 99% sure that the coins would not have been stolen had the file been encrypted.  Banks are supposed to because they have the means and are integrated into the monetary system, but merchants can't realistically be expected to have the equipment to check on a bill's serial #. In the bitcoin world we don't have the equivalent of banks - except maybe the major exchanges which sort of act as quasi banks - but it by far easier and cheaper to keep track of bitcoins. But like I've said so many times it doesn't really matter that much because you cannot enforce your claim to stolen bitcoins due to the fact that it's damn near impossible to attach a real identity to a bitcoin address.Honestly I would not expect that someone would hand them back 20 iterations from now. The best hope is that someone who gets them somehow almost freshly stolen (I can't think of a more technical term for this situation at the moment - maybe closer to the source is appropriate) notices that they're stolen and either a) refuses to do business with that person or b) receives the funds but in a sort of street justice  way does not send the money or whatever value was requested by the seller in exchange for the bitcoins, and then this person would proceed to hand over the bitcoins to some police authority or some organization or institution that can arbitrate the dispute. This would be easier if there was a site that would keep track of reported stolen btc. Think of how many people had their wallet.dat files stolen by trojans and such. It would be great if we can make the life of these parasite "hackers" just that much harder by everyone refusing to accept stolen property. Also I'm thinking some sort of free-market bitcoin court or legal structure would come in handy. If we want people to have trust in bitcoins I think there has to be some hope for the victim. As things stand if you somehow get robbed of your bitcoins you're pretty much fucked - pardon my french   I confirm the donation sent by phungus, and I thank him from the bottom of my heart. Confirmation of him actually sending the donation:1e61bfb878...   Block 135315 (2011-07-08 14:38:19)   0.5   Received: Address   1Q9dXNraKmiDrPoSXevAGV4mniZaFSj3XH1LrZdXTHbWYvPkzUfXCPK1bdWbZ2s7AggK1AdP1P4SP7du9zkLGTEk9XVYAWpEHi6qdo1LvzhjFT6zow41XTGr3f4QVnXPNMxB5q8R1LLtyyPHqm8Jt1Hr5Tsq4JApTmvmgKgfExorhttp://blockexplorer.com/t/29n6KoJmooAlso I'd like to thank the other person who donated 0.01 btc. I forgot your name (I'm really sorry) but if you'd like to make yourself known here please do so. Thanks to all. Hmm, that may be because BTCGUILD has no fees. Slush has 2% fees.  It does have that option. I used the so called "least secure" option of a zero pass on a 100 gb HD and it took 2 hours max. Some of the erase options dban offers are insane.  Slush I must congratulate you on the pool's recent performance. Ever since you recovered from that ddos attack the pool has been remarkably stable and reliable. It was stable before too but recently I noticed absolutely no disconnects or downtime whatsoever.Just noticed this post about upgrading to phoenix 1.5 - almost done upgrading all my miners. It may help btw to post a notice at the top of the members page or on the site for the people that do not visit this thread. Here is an utility that I recommend people use to "nuke" their HD:http://www.dban.org/It is free software btw. 
Would you just kindly FUCK OFF!! I'm tired of you trolling me on every post that I make you ignorant asshole! Sorry to hear about your loss nakowa. I hope you did not loose too much. Please notify all the major exchanges about this so they can keep an eye on transactions flowing from those two addresses.  OP did you make any progress?  Dang. How about if when the bitcoin client boots up for the first time it gives you the option to print out a crypto pad. This is akin to a cheap form of two factor authentication. Each crypto pad is of course different. Oh crap, are you serious. Now they're going after forums related to btc. wtf.I hope none of you use the same password on there as on mtgox and other sensitive sites. Yes, well said. These wallet thefts are plain trivial to code for a hacker so that's why they are happening. Hmm, what if the layout changed every 5 seconds or some predetermined time. It would make it a pain in the ass to input your password but hey it's worth it.  I have some doubts that the namecoin client is at fault here. In my case I was using namecoin_win32.zip but was the official namecoin client from the namecoin website. Heaven forbid that actually containing an exploit. That would be quite shitty. Don't get me wrong here, I was not saying that there is security in the default bitcoin client. Read my statement a bit more carefully to gain the full meaning of what I was trying to say - albeit in a sarcastic tone. Internet banking is different and we can't fairly compare btc to that. With BTC YOU are your own bank. But then the virus would have to just wait longer until you type your password. I favor a "secure keypad" that you input your password via mouse clicks. Next question is how to trick viruses that may take screenshots? Hmm, even a warning saying "hey dummy, in case you haven't read the bitcoin.org page/faq your wallet.dat file where the private keys which control your bitcoin balance are stored is unencrypted and unprotected. We recommend that you do not store large sums of bitcoins in the windows client. Please visit so and so website for a how-to on securing your wallet" would suffice. Hmm, so basically when bitcoin goes big mainstream most of the users won't be using btc clients but rather be dealing with "bitcoin banks" of some sorts? I mean it looks to me that this is the only way to ensure 100% safety of your funds..well not really 100% because now you have to trust a third party. This is becoming more and more evident because the moment even 1 BTC gets stolen from grandma, you can be your BTC she'll never use them again. Yep you're right. Even if the client encrypted the wallet when not in use it eventually has to decrypt it when you want to spend from it. AT that moment it is vulnerable to key logger attack and to any nasty viruses that could are residing in memory (waiting for the opportunity to strike). Someone on a different thread (forget which one) suggested that the client implement a unix style permissions system. Maybe also running the client in it's own chroot (something equivalent in windows) would be a good idea. But in the end it's still quite hard to avoid all avenues of attack. My point is that still the more security measures you can implement the lower the odds that some unclever hacker is easily able to steal your coins.  Well said. IMHO this was a big faux paux on the part of Satoshi and the early devs. They should've foresaw the coming waves of thieves that would try anything to get their hands on a person's BTC. Let me just put it this way. BTC was a system designed by coders for coders. It was meant to be an interesting experiment. I don't think the "elders of bitcoin" foresaw that it would grow into what it is today. They were caught off-guard.  True :/ . But I think there can be such a case as within a reasonable doubt. I bet there are other people who've had the same thing happen to them but they're afraid to ever speak of it for they know that forum trolls will just plain ridicule them.There are thing that the OP can do however to be more convincing such as consult with an expert in BTC security or someone at one of the exchanges, send him the wallet.dat file, have it analyzed. Send the debug.log. Submit a theft report to the police and share that with a trusted member of the BTC community. But *shrug* in the end most will still yell "scammer" or 'liar" Ha! There are ways to mitigate the risks and make it a lot harder for a hacker to get at your BTC. The worst thing is to just leave it in plain sight sort of speak where any simple coder can just ftp or e-mail the wallet.dat file.  There is security in bitcoin, but it has to be YOU! Don't count on security by default...I've been thinking and I've come to the conclusion that Satoshi and the dev team should have never released a bitcoin client for windows!!!Then right now we'd all be a bunch of Linux geeks enjoying our geeky little currency and nobody would've had the opportunity to steal from us. Later on maybe once the security of the default client is vastly improved, then and only then release a windows version. Just my 2 cents. I don't think they really care about any sum. It all gents blamed on the victim. Tough love? Oh here we go..attack of the Linux nerds!OMG OMG the default bitcoin cleint's security sucks..OMG unencrypted wallet.dat is such a good idea!Anyways, this is the standard response most of you give...so yeah..moving on.
Yeah tell me about it. I've been kicking myself over not doing that. Really the only thing I should've been using windows for is gaming and running trading applications, the rest Linux can do almost anything Windows can now.The only thing that I suspect at this point is some virus. Also that namecoin binary seems interesting because I too ran a namecoin binary two days before I got hacked. I wonder...hmm...Before you format make a vmware image (or whatever other imaging program you prefer) of your running system - for forensic analysis. Get in touch with the major exchanges and report your coins stolen. They will need some hardcore proof but if there is even the slightest chance of gaining them back I'd say it's worth it. Damn, this sucks, another one. I too had Win 7 without SP1 on there.I'm wondering, were you also running RDP or VNC services? VNC for example could've been cracked if you had an easy to guess password. Try running a bunch of online virus scaners like bitdefender, f-secure online scan, eset online scan, panda activescan...Run spybot, malwarebytes..and last but not least combofix in case you may have a rootkit. Either way dude I strongly recommend you format, reinstall get yourself a legit copy of Win 7 if you don't already have it and update to SP1. Also if you are inclined to learn a bit about linux setup a dedicated linux box to store your bitcoins on. At the very least run a Linux install in Vmware or something. har har..laught it up, but if you bothered to actually read my post you'd understand that I was saying what I would do if I had that much in hindsigh of the experience I've went through. Obviously I would not repeat that mistake.  For that you'll have to look to Dukascopy's JForex trading application - it's 100% Java based so it will run on any machine with a Java VM. Guys my theory regarding "legitimate" users finding their coins in that list I published is the following (I could be wrong):What I believe happened is that the thief tried to sell all my coins on MTGox and something happened that freaked the hacker out and he withdrew all the bitcoins to another address. As far I know the coins that were withdrawn were not necessarily the "same" coins he deposited, so he tainted the blockchain that way. Either that or he did this on purpose.  True, but time carries risk. @SgtSpike, that could be true..but in that case it will turn into a game of who can hold out the longest / resist the urge to sell. Honestly if I had 300K I'd sell half and keep the other in a paper wallet and just forget about it for several years. It's a pretty big gamble but it could pay off huge in the end - assuming that you don't need to sell BTC to survive or sustain your lifestyle. Maybe you can sell easy to understand guides and/or custom software so regular Joes can do this? Just a suggestion. Someone sees as all as a bunch of suckers, and is just trying to cash out. That is all. Nothing else to see. Move along. No CIA or FBI master plan here. Just the usual business of people trying to screw other people over. Such is the way of the world. Agreed. If that was to happen it would mean that BTC is recognized legally as a currency. At the very least if they were recognized as a money substitute it would be better than being the equivalent of monopoly money (under the law). Id like to hear from some lawyer type as to what legal standing BTC currently has. Is it a commodity? etc... Tug of war. The disgruntled bitcoiners will dump them like hot potatoes, while the true believers will see this as an opportunity to "buy in cheaply" and as such price will swing wildly until everyone calms down and some sort of equilibrium is reached. If new blood comes in then price will start to crawl back up. If more bad news comes around the weak of heart will be scrambling to dump their coins. Will someone buy them? Perhaps. I hope the true believers don't run out of money. Either way if shit hits the fan someone is going to be left holding the bag. Are the days of 10,000 BTC pizzas coming back? I would doubt it. What exactly will happen? Nobody knows. Far wilder than the wild west. At least in the wild west if someone fucked with you, you at least had a face to shoot at. Go git them bitcoins boys! Heeeyaaaaw! They should have the shape of a cloud of probability and be defined by the Schrödinger equation. The end of bitcoin (assuming such an eventuality)....You think he can cash out that gigantic stash in case of a panick!? He's going down with the ship and there isn't one damn thing he can do about it. The big holders know that at least for now they're sort of stuck. They have to be long term bitcoin bulls. They can't sell out any time soon that is for sure. But let's not think such negative thoughts. "nothing but an encrypted file on your computer"No way, really??!  ....</sarcasm>The best advice that they can give is this. If you want to use bitcoins you gotta become a unix geek. Sorry grandma but bitcoin is just not ready for you yet.  Nope, you sure don't. One mistake and your're fucked. But your only hope is that for the long term the amount you lose to fraudulent activity is far far smaller than the money you actually make. Law of averages and statistics will tear you a new one from time to time. Of course, because the future of bitcoin lies with pornographers and drug dealers...hooraaaah! Well then that kind of goes against the whole "bitcoin is supposed to be cheaper" than paypal or whatever the heck. If people are going to price in high risk BTC will become a high risk currency and thus be more expensive to transact with - for the long term. I see. OK, thanks for the info. That's probably what I'll do..dump my btc and move on..declare that as a capital gain and pay taxes like a good subservient of the government..Heh..yeah it should be fun to try to figure out how much I paid in electricity to generate them...time to dig out the old power bills.  Hmm, good question. I wish I could answer it. This is a legal grey area here. Should we treat BTC as a stock or some other asset that gets taxed only when converted into USD. Or is me mining 25K back then an income stream even though I never converted it into so called "real money" (ie money recognized by the government or belonging to the government).The way I intended to treat it (had I still controlled that 25K BTC) is as a capital gain. If I sold some of those bitcoins I would've reported my profits as income. Granted where I live I would've been taxed like hell. Any tax experts here? How should I treat this 25K BTC loss; tax write-off? Doubt that would fly with the tax man.  That's where you're wrong. BTC IS money - it's just that it is a different type of money. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Money
now open: l33t k1tt3h h4x0r sk001! Dunno guys, but keep in mind that namecoins aren't "money". There is a bunch of namecoin threads so I first suggest you look at those. Open sourcing is a good idea IMHO. At least this way whoever has the inclination can either improve the code or start using it. With a bunch more escrow sites out there eventually the free market will sort the good from the bad. Still though in a way it won't be the same. The main reason why I considered using ClearCoin is because it was operated by you Gavin. I was thinking, maybe you can pass it on to another trusted member of the bitcoin community? Maybe one of the forum admins or another one of the dev crew?  Or get AMD to fix this issue lol I see..that explains why the OP hasn't attempted to defend himself.At least you guys managed to find out who he is.  Nice work dude! I can't wait for the final release! I take that you still need to install a linux distro on the machine or are you going to build your own custom distro for this purpose? Any chance of this being integrated into LinuxCoin? Yep I entirely agree with your sentiment. It seems bitcoins rampant popularity growth might be the very thing that hurt it the most. A slow and gradual adoption curve would've been ideal. This way it would've given more time for entrepreneurs to get in and build a solid economic base. But I think we are straying off-topic here so I shall leave it at that.@OP...could you post IP logs perhaps? Anything? @the rest of you.....so the general consensus is that this claim is false?  No but you surely outshine them all. I christen you SuperTroll!  He's not serious of course. He's just being an asshole troll as usual.  Umm, just wanted to clarify here...is that really what you wanted to say or did you mean the opposite. Lol..it has inceptionary trolls (trolls within trolls within trolls).Thankfully I just bought a few crates of this stuff (with BTC  ) :Uploaded with ImageShack.us Is there nobody who would consider taking the mantle sort of speak? Also I'm curious do you have a certain sell price for the site?  Yes, hopefully the trolls will back off at least a little bit.  Yep..I'm willing to bet some BTC that he already cashed out a decent chunk of that. Tis all wild speculation, but I salute him for managing to carry the torch till the end.  Rob. P, please be patient..it will come. A trusted member of the community has my wallet.dat and a copy of my relevant docs (police report, etc). He told me he will make an official statement soon. I would love to see an ignore function.  where is the anti-troll spray when you need it... Schadenfreude....look it up. It's hard, trust me. But I am still thankful I  have a regular job, I still have a roof over my head, and food on the table. I am not 100% broke but this loss has taken a huge emotional toll on me and severely limited my financial possibilities. Thanks for the kind words, you Sir are truly a gentleman.I wish you the best of luck! True, chargebacks are not possible with BTC. Either the thief or the person who happens to have received the stolen funds. Or also the point where he tries to sell the BTC.
I've lost my belief in humanity reading all your inane posts. Reason bitcoin may fail = people like you.. Hmm yeah thanks bro :/.....Saude... Do you think it likely that jester is hacking bitcoiners for uncle sam?  25K stolen on June 13'th 2011 at around 12:00pm...all sent to: 1KPTdMb6p7H3YCwsyFqrEmKGmsHqe1Q3jgThen laundered like hell...I'm keeping track of them though and so can you:http://folk.uio.no/vegardno/allinvain-transactions.txthttp://folk.uio.no/vegardno/allinvain-addresses.txthttp://folk.uio.no/vegardno/allinvain-transactions-addresses.txtThe info above the transactions at the bottom are the newest...at the top the earliest. Screenshots:http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=16457.msg215996#msg215996I've talked to several people and many are working on a bitcoin stolen funds tracking service of some sorts. first post updated with transaction tracking links... trust nobody is the modus operandi in the bitcoin world... Here do some research:http://folk.uio.no/vegardno/allinvain-transactions.txthttp://folk.uio.no/vegardno/allinvain-addresses.txthttp://folk.uio.no/vegardno/allinvain-transactions-addresses.txtThis is where my original 25K funds went..pretty much sloshed around I'd say. You are absolutely right. Those clock cycled are wasted! What sucks is that this issue has been known for a long time yet there is no fix yet. Someone clearly doesn't give a shit at AMD. Thanks  SMTB1963. Yeah, we all gotta do what we gotta do. I don't think I can stoop to their level and engage in violent actions though. We must pity thieves, for they are cowards.  The only problem here is that you have to rely on the individual's own good morals since there is no way to attach some real identity behind a bitcoin address. This gives people more confidence to do the wrong thing and just say "screw you"... I know that I can't realistically expect to receive the stolen funds from people who've received them in exchange for fair value. I'm not forcing anyone to. It should be up to them. All I can do is provide the evidence, and they can make the decision.  400,000 BTC can buy a boat load of coders... I don't know what world you live in, but in the real world what you're saying there is not how things work. Consult with a lawyer. Second stop using politically charged words to worm your way around the moral and ethical issues involved. It seems your idea of liberty is "let me do whatever the fuck I want" Your teenage grade libertarian-ism is downright revolting. If you really believe what you espouse you'd know that theft is the violation of property rights and the upholding of one's property rights and the non-violence initiation principle is the core of the libertarian political philosophy. Changing multiple hands does not launder the immorality of the original transaction. It could be or it could be someone who doesn't like him trying to frame him.  Hmm, yeah too bad he was posting while behind Torr.  Hi everyone. I have a brief update. I have a way to keep track of the transactions through the blockchain:http://folk.uio.no/vegardno/allinvain-transactions.txthttp://folk.uio.no/vegardno/allinvain-addresses.txthttp://folk.uio.no/vegardno/allinvain-transactions-addresses.txtI'm hoping to soon have an open source script that will check for you if you've unknowingly accepted stolen funds.Those links continually update with the most recent transactions at the bottom and the earliest at the top, so you can refresh to get the latest. No there is no link. If there was I'd be in a way happy because it means I can recover the funds. Bitcins is a geek's currency. Geeks don't care for usability, marketability, media friendliness, or lay people. You gotta understand the geek mentality to understand bitcoin and other geek creations. Of course. I'm his cousin. And I'm also related to you as well. You just have to dig back very very very far back in history.  Yes I know you're going to believe only what you want. But please people at least don't misrepresent, misinform, and misquote me. 
No, last time I read the guy had it offline and backed up in multiple locations...Still though if the value of btc crashes to 0 he's still screwed... Your Sir fail at reading. 3.90 btc were hacked from my account with slush's pool. At the time I assumed that slush's pool got compromised and I proceeded to reach slush on IRC. He said he was busy with dealing with a DDoS attack and that he'd look into it. Little did I know that the next day before 12:00pm EST the hacker drained by ACTUAL WALLET.I should clarify that by my slush's pool being hacked I mean that the payout address was changed and the minimum payout set to 0.01 or something low.  Don't be surprised. Mt.Gox is the bitcoin equivalent of a liked social institution -everyone has a stake in it and they are going to protect it. But when something like this happens to an individual they're going to say "tough luck.." Double standards are everywhere. It's human nature.  Looool....  Dude I gotta hand it to you, you're hilarious, crazy, but still hilarious  Plz disregard my previous post and the one about lulzsec. I found this:http://oo.thebanzaieffect.com/2011/06/lulzsec-downs-cias-public-site-appears-to-be-subject-of-framing-attempt/ That's what I use too, but I'd like a version for linux. Not sure if they'd ever come up with one. I guess Truecrypt is the way to go in Unix land. My bad, I must've missed that. Can you point me to the proper thread or location where this was debunked?  You Sir have some serious issues. If you can't see one possible reason why I'd post and did not even bother to read and attempt to comprehent my post then it would be better if you did not make such wild and unfounded accusations. If the mods checked they'd see we have different IPs. No you can't really believe "this' because you only believe what you want to. Facts and simple logical explanations elude you. Occam's razor is a foreign concept to you.  All I gotta say is this:http://pastebin.com/88nGp508permit me to quote:"BitCoin donations: 1KPTdMb6p7H3YCwsyFqrEmKGmsHqe1Q3jg" Might not be his fault:http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=19343.0 Just curious, would you still recommend 7-zip even for linux or is GNU PGP a better choice?  Anyone read this?http://pastebin.com/88nGp508RC: irc.lulzco.org (channel #LulzSec | port 6697 for SSL)    BitCoin donations: 1KPTdMb6p7H3YCwsyFqrEmKGmsHqe1Q3jg    Twitter: @LulzSec    Contact us: 614-LULZSECNotice that bitcoin donation address..hmm.. Did you find anything useful? Since you haven't posted I presume no, or you must've forgotten? Easy way to alleviate the problem, not solve it. Set an affinity for each instance of poclbm.exe you find in task manager. Have patience man. That's fine. I don't care at the moment whether you believe me. Right now I am busy working on figuring how I got compromised and who did it. No, no worries. I am not taking it personal. You have every right to remain critical. The evidence will come in due time. Yes it amazed me too now how lax I was. Trust me you don't need to say it. I know it very well how big of a screw up it was on my part. I'm slowly starting to accept the loss. I don't know what will come out of it to be honest. As far as giving up on bitcoin, I don't know really. I still have a bit of hope left, that maybe just maybe I can recover at least a portion of my loss. We shall see. Yes I can see you're tenacious, and that's a good virtue to have!  I do, but it's not for you.  Holliday, I think you should just give up. It seems some people can't even read what you're typing or have severe comprehension problems.  If indeed LulzSec are friends of bitcoin I want them to know that I will make a huge donation to their cause(s) if they would help me recover the funds. I'd be their biggest friend for sure then. I don't think them stealing from other bitcoin  users attacks the value of their own assets. They know that due to the nature of bitcoin it would be damn near impossible to get caught. As long as they can find a few users to target per month it's essentially free money for them. Whoever "they" are they pretty much hit the jackpot when they came across my wallet -somehow (I've yet to determine how). And even if they would affect the value of their assets, they're just going to find willing pawns and launder the bitcoins and eventually cash them out and laugh all the way to the bank. Now I am not saying LulzSec did this. Fact is that we don't know. That Anonakomis guy bragged about it so he's the likely suspect at this point. 
Nice. So this would be like each bitcoin user having the ability of banks to track marked bills. Well if you can convince the head developers to implement this feature.Another neat feature that just popped in my head as I was driving today was if there was a way to divide a wallet into several chunks WITHOUT sending the money through the bitcoin network. What this means is the wallet.dat would get divided into however many pieces you want. So for example one could splice a chunk of your mail wallet from a machine that is totally offline..copy it to usb drive, move it to a another secure machine and copy it over, and proceed to send payments from that machine. This way the offline machine would never have to be connected to the internet - ever. I've suggested this to Gavin. This person supposedly is:http://twitter.com/#!/anonakomisHe then proceeds to deny it as a joke. Someone mentioned on another post that the address the stolen 25K BTC went to was  donation address for either lulzsec or for this guy's group (Anon)It's so easy on the net to manufacture misinformation that one begins to think it is hopeless to think anyone will ever find out the truth. 0...I bought some VGA dummy plugs though and donated bitcoins to friends to get them started.  Quite extreme but this is something I may use myself..I'm sure you know by now why. Time to print this.Thanks! I too support that idea. It is an excellent idea. It works along the same lines as PayPal secure key.  That's not Gavin Anderson..you should change the thread title... Hmm..I see. As long as this method is totally voluntary and withing the "free market" ideology of the bitcoin system some people will find it useful. I'd like to think that we are moral enough that we would not accept payments from known criminals or accept "tainted" coins. But when it comes to something as personal as money all bets are off.  I know, now that I see what has come of this (me opening this thread) I shouldn't even bothered. Some people came forward with offers to help me (and I'm working with them now - you know who you are and I greatly appreciate the help from the bottom of my heart) and that's why originally I started this thread. I had this naive notion that the bitcoin community would rally around me and help me locate the thief...I did offer to pay anyone who can help me recover the funds.  True. I had the client running with the generate function ever since I heard about bitcoins.  I will and I am..going through standard channels is a slow and laborious process. I'm afraid by the time I even get somewhere the thieves would've sold all the BTC and I'll be pretty much screwed. I did not/do not own a mega farm. Didn't anyone read that I was one of the very first miners? It was much easier to generate coins back then. My current "farm" is comprised of several 5870 cards.  Nothing fancy.  Sorry for not responding. As you can see this thread has grown by leaps and bounds and I'm having a hard time keeping up with it. I like the idea of a database of stolen coins. This service can be provided at a cost so whoever is running it can still make some money to maintain it. However I don't think this modification will ever be accepted into the official client. My feelings are that bitcoin will not change at a core level at all.  I do not want fame, I just want to find whoever it is that stole them and bring them to justice, and if I can regain my foothold in the bitcoin economy great, if not I'll have to think hard about whether this is all worth it for me...what can I really do next? Can I still start a bitcoin business, no, because nobody would trust me. One momentary slipup and one's reputation is ruined. There are no second chances when it comes to irreversible currencies.I think the most rational thing to do is to focus on making money the usual way - work, invest in crap, and pray that the financial system does not collapse. I don't know really. I'm not yet decided what role bitcoin will play in my life from this point on. I'm still mining, but hmm, I know that I'll never ever make close to what I had stolen in a lifetime mining.  I don't have time to deal with your bullshit. If I had to respond to every idiotic comment some people leave on this forum regarding what happened to me I'd be here 24/7. This will be my last post on this thread.  has anyone suspected the mining programs..anyone audited them yet? Pardon my ignorance, but slush's pool would be vulnerable too? Is this something bitcoin platform wide..ie with the API's ? Holy shit I can't believe the laziness. It's in the thread!!! Hold on..let me paste it here:http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=16457.msg215996#msg215996 Yeah or 1.5 houses and 1.2 cars ...fuck! wow..just wow..you people have issues..this is a perfect example of what is so messed up with frequent forum posters..they suspect some grand conspiracies...This post is pure garbage..@JackRabiit - it was a tad bit more than 25K...did you see the screenshot??! I don't know why they did not take the whole amount. My only guess is that they had this wallet from when I had just 25K in there. I moved a portion fo the total 26K funds to the address belonging to bitcoinexpress site I was trying to develop..and then later on I moved the remaining funds back into my windows wallet..so they most likely did not have the new keys..Stop looking for stupid childish conspiracies..there aren't any. @Clipse - I came here hoping that someone from the exchanges or one of the developers would notice and help me figure out a way to track the funds..reading the chain block and keeping an eye on the funds is beyond me. I needed someone to write some sort of automated tool. I could not solve this on my own sadly. That's why I posted here. I regret doing so now seeing as how all I've noticed is people attacking me and accusing me.@bitrebel - while your conspiracy theories may be valid for something else in this case they're big fail..nothing of what you assert is true. Not even one bit. Let me just say that I forgive you in advance when eventually I will be vindicated. P.S Yes they were mined almost since the start. Also I registered on the forum but did not join the discussion because at the time I was not sure about bitcoin's future and I guess I wasn't all that serious about it. I did not wish to join the discussions also because I had nothing to contribute. Later on when difficulty increased I decided to get into mining, and hence I joined the discussions. If you notice before this event most of my posts were in the mining section of the forum.  What? self centered, egocentric? How so? I am just reporting what happened. I already got some help as a result of it, and that is what I was going for. Frankly I don't care for your arrogant comments any more. Also I don't care if you don't believe my story. I'm sorry to say this, but some of you here are just plain assholes..no other way to put it.
I did...no response from slush... Not true. In a true and functional anarchistic social structure there would be free market dispute arbitrators and other free market institutions and organizations designed to deal with the problem of justice. What idea of anarchy is law of the jungle. I'm sorry to say but that is scaling back civilization. If using bitcoins means that I have to accept that type of social structure, then I say "screw bitcoins." Fine, let the moderators lock the thread then. See how well that would play out. How is this the worst thing that can happen to bitcoin. Why are we treating bitcoin like a cult object?  Hold on a second. Are you trying to say that anarchists are ok with theft, that they condone the violation of other people's property rights? I'm curious to know what to you constitutes an "anarchist" Are you thinking of anarchists in the navie "break store windows, and cause general havoc" sense? I'm not taking this lightly. You have a way of reading my mind that I do not know of?  I don't care if it drops to a 1:1 ratio. They are still my bitcoins and I have a strong emotional attachment to them - by far more than a newcomer to btc would.This an issue about the morality of it, not just the value of the btc. Theft is wrong under all circumstances, and I owe it to myself to bring the thieves to justice. That is how a civilized society works, no?  Hmm...perhaps..I've still got a glimmer of hope somewhere deep within the recesses of my distraught soul. I have no idea what they'll do with it, but I believe I made the statement somewhere that I would let them have a portion of the funds if they are kind enough to refund me. This way I don't have to get the law involved and they don't have to go to jail. I'd be willing to literally pay for my mistake. But  I dunno I don't have much faith in this scenario ever playing out.  Yeah they have no clue what BTC is and when I I tried to explain it to them they looked at me funny as if I came to them to report stolen monopoly money. The whole anonymity thing really killed it for them. They said something along the lines "So let me get this straight, you have no idea who may have taken it, where it when, how it happened, and what do you expect us to do?" I badly paraphrasing there but you get the picture.  Dude, you take yourself too seriously and have no sense of humor - Dude!I wasn't being serious in case you did not catch on - Dude! I guess my only hope is figuring out a way to gain a ridiculous amount of hashing power. You'd all be screaming "It's over 9000!!!"....Come to think of it I wish I had purchased some sort of bitcoin insurance.  I am shocked that you think that more BTC will be lost by people forgetting their passwords. More will be lost because they'll be stolen by clever hackers. The incentive is too great for them to not try their damn hardest to get your wallet file - encrypted or otherwise. It's just that encrypting it and using a strong password (heck write that password down and store it in a safe) would make it just that much of a bother for an UNSKILLED hacker. Don't underestimate human ingenuity when there is a huge cash prize at the end of the arduous journey. Wait and see until someone else with a large BTC balance that followed all the recommended security precautions gets his BTC stolen. Or wait until the criminal underworld hears about bitcoins - they'll not be afraid to use physical force to make you produce the BTC wallet.  Where did you hear that I traded them? Do people just make shit up?!I never traded or sold any of them. I kept them there until I felt the time was right to INVEST them back in the bitcoin economy by paying developers/coders in BTC to develop sites/services that I believed fellow members of the BTC community would find useful. One such idea I had was to build a ebay equivalent for BTC with all the features ebay currently has. I wanted all BTC payments to be processed through ClearCoin so Gavin would have a suitable income so he can focus 100% on the improvement of the bitcoin client/system. Upon forethought I should've been just like the majority of you and cashed out nearly everything the moment I saw btc price spike and be done with it. Sure it would've crashed the price like mad, but then you'd all be singing my praises of how wise I was to sell out and raise the middle finger to the bitcoin economy. I wonder when people will actually stop shuffling between USD and BTC and use BTC AS AN ACTUAL CURRENCY.  Sorry about that. I did not look at the blockchain. I want to but it seems the site is down.  I want the next version of bitcoin to have a way for the private keys to be stored on a microchip and that chip implanted in my brain. This way the only way someone could steal from me would be to kill me.  I'm making the following prediction: Bitcoin will evolve to become the only currency without a national government to back it up. It will be a duplicate of the existing financial system minus constant inflation. We will have major bitcoin banks and the majority of regular non uber-geek users will hold their balance with these institutions. The other portion of the userbase will be more than glad to perform an intricate dance of shuffling wallet.dat files around, moving funds from usb drive to usb drive, backing up in a gazillion locations, cause that is what geeks do - they enjoy overly complicated things which make them feel superior and smarter than the rest of the population. Meanwhile the average bitcoin user will give up the holy grail of decentralization in search of security.  I understand where you are coming from, but people have a tendency to "follow the herd." It also has to do with the fact that mtgox was the first major bitcoin exchange and has built for itself a good reputation, and it is this reputation that ensures a constant inflow of new clients. Good for them I say! But I do hope that some of the other smaller exchanges prove their trustworthiness and that eventually we'd have some reasonable market share distribution.  Worry not when there is money to be made new entrepreneurs will step on the scene and attempt to take a bit out of mtgox's pie. I'm sorry to hear about your loss. I hope you did not lose a large amount, and that you can quickly recover the funds. I'm sorry I hope you take no offence, but what are you talking about. How does me going to the media help me in any way? What are they going to do? Donate me some BTC out of pity? The only realistic way to pursue this is using the legal/justice system. I do not mind revealing my identity to the proper authorities.But thanks for the best wishes.  Why FBI? Because I believe the thief lives in the United States. RCMP does not have jurisdiction there.No TV or local media or whatever. I don't want nor require any press, media coverage, or attention. I do not believe any media coverage can be of any use.  yep..definitely better advice...next step ..the FBI..
Why do you assume that I have not?  How ironic..my misfortune is promoting bitcoin..... Or even if they do use so called 'strong password' they'll easily get cracked by a GPU based password cracking program. These days even 11 to 20 character length password aren't safe.  I appreciate the support. Don't worry though. I'll do my best not to let it get to me. That's probably not how they got it. Do you know anything about how dropbox operates?https://www.dropbox.com/help/27"All files stored on Dropbox servers are encrypted (AES-256)"Why don't you ask him how he did it:http://twitter.com/#!/Anonakomis I see. The old "hate the early miner" issue...so be it. Riiiiight...such wonderful advice. How easy for you to say.  I would accept "voluntary charity" from the hacker(s) who stole them... You're (probably unknowingly) spreading misinformation. I never put them on a work computer. It was my home PC. Sitting my damn house.  Of course! I never said otherwise. Why are people even thinking this? Can't people read what I'm typing.. Clearly he does not. He started this thread to mock me.  Yeah way back. This is a handle I used on IRC a long time back. And in case you are thinking, no I did not hang around in underground hacking channels or any such nonsense. And no, I did not carry my mirc install over to this system, and no I did no use mirc recently, and n I did not install any hacking tools..etc..etc Whatever people are reading into my handle, they should stop it.  One of the addresses to which some of my stolen btc went belongs to them. Someone else had their mtgox account hacked and btc sent to the very same address..There is a trail of crime here. This is a concerted attack on bitcoin users.  Relax man. I never asked for your bitcoins nor do I want them from you. I have no right to ask or to take them from you. I do have a right to reclaim them from whoever stole them. My private property rights do not end just because you or someone managed to take it without my permission or without proper compensation.This is NOT what is wrong with society. What IS wrong with society is people not respecting other people's property rights and thinking that as long as they can get away with it it makes it all ok.  I did, and I will..more than glad to! I also said that I'd be willing to fund a sort of bitcoin security foundation to pay for further enhancements to the security of the bitcoin system.  I have a pet theory that the Anon/LulzSec folks are hard at work screwing bitcoiners over...all for lulz no doubt!  Question is when shit hits the fan which would you rather hold, bitcoins or gold?So you know of an online store where you can buy gold coins with bitcons? Technically there is no reason why bitcoins (realistically only a portion of them) can't be backed by gold, but that would kill the whole decentralized thing bitcoin has going for itself.  True, never going to happen..but one can argue that this would be like stealing marked bill from a bank. If the police eventually find the criminals and they trace the money to them what you're saying is that it should not be returned to the rightful owner? Is there any morality or legal justice to dealing with bitcoins or should we just treat it as the financial equivalent of the wild west? I see that a lot of you come from a libertarian/anarchistic world view, so I am thinking that in your opinions the only thing that would be just would be the application of vigilante justice, no? Would you all be ok with me stealing them back? Not necessarily. There is always some uncertainty but one can indeed show strong proof. You need my wallet.dat file. I also have another wallet.dat file that shows me transferring 50 BTC to the main wallet file that got stolen. This would show proof of continuity. My control of the coins ends right when they were moved while I was sleeping to this address: 1KPTdMb6p7H3YCwsyFqrEmKGmsHqe1Q3jgThis address has some links to the computer underground - further proof that it was indeed not me moving them. 
As much as I wold be happy to receive the coins back I highly doubt this idea will EVER be implemented. The only way I see this being possible is somehow in cases such as this the rate of bitcoin inflation gets sped up and the person who had his coins stolen is given a special mining client which has an artificially lower difficulty rating that expires after a set amount of coins have been minted. This would be something that the rest of the miners would have to agree upon somehow. Maybe like a bitcoin court or something like a voting system.But then again like I said this is never going to happen.I should note that existing coins should not be invalidated or redistributed. I wonder if there is a way to work around malware infections. Can the bitcoin client run in some sort of protected memory space? I got an idea though. How about one of those secure cryptokeys features. Essentially you'd use your mouse to click on a virtual keyboard which is scrambled by client so each time you click on say on the keys of the virtual keyboard the input would correspond to a different output. This way even if the hacker screenshots your system they can't really get your secret password? Elaborate - yes Necessary - yes...unless we expect every future bitcoin user to not run the client on any M$ operating system? Windows 7 Ultimate I'm pretty sure if the exploit works on 2000 it will most likely work on Vista or Win 7. The wallet.dat should not be called wallet.dat and it should be stored in a random directory in the user's profile/home directory - preferrably a randomly generated name. The location of this directory with the randomly generated .dat file should be visible and known only to the bitcoin client. What I'm saying is the wallet.dat should be separated from the .bitcoin or "Bitcoin" directory. Not to mention the location should be stored encrypted in the bitcoin configuration file. Dont' be so confident. I was just like you. I thought I'd never be stupid enough to run any malware and I regularly scanned my computer for malware. Anyways, what I'm trying to say is you better be safe than sorry and never  get overly confident about security matters. Do what most people say which is to get a machine that is a dedicated bitcoin wallet.  Those infections appear only when I run an online antivirus scanner in IE. I think Symantec Antivirus is misreporting the scanner's virus  database as an actual infeciton in the system..in a sense it is..but it just doesn't know the difference.  Ok, let me clear things up. The machine is my home machine but at the time I made that post I was running some trading applications and I had some live trades going. I needed to keep an eye on them. So I guess you can refer to it as "work at home" machine..or something like that. Does anyone know what possible filename this infection may come under? Or anything that can help me locate the infection if it is still in the system? Or at least to figure out if I indeed had this trojan. Possible way (and most likely) way the coins were stolen:http://www.symantec.com/security_response/writeup.jsp?docid=2011-061615-3651-99&tabid=2 NOT work computer. HOME computer.  So far this is my only "real life" lead. I am in the process of trying to find this anonakomis guys to politely ask him to return the funds (minus a agreed upon thank you payment for returning the funds) before I get the federal and local authorities involved. If anyone has any valuable info that leads to the recuperation of the funds or info on this guy please get a hold of me. I am willing to pay for info from the recovered funds as soon as I know the funds are safe. It is just now that I'm this paranoid. I used to trust the bitcoin client and the various mining programs. Now I don't think I can trust anything bitcoin related except perhaps what I have no choice but to trust which is the official bitcoin client.  Phoenix:02----Guiminer:00----Poclbm:00----CpuMiner:00----Ufasoft:00----SseMiner:00----Other[please specify]:00Phoenix 1.48 with phatk opencl kernel. Hmm, this is a pretty good idea. I totally forgot about LinuxCoin. I could also boot into linuxcoin just to download the bitcoin client onto a trusted (new) usb stick.  Do you still have that PM. I'd like to know the link to that site. Can you PM it to me?  If you have any BTC beyond 10 on that machine do yourself a big favor and move them to a secure wallet running on Mac OS X or Linux right NOW!  Water has intrinsic value..food does...air... That's what I eventually will do - use a brand new usb stick on a machine that I feel reasonably sure that it's clean - maybe even from within a vmware image running on that clean machine. Funny you should say cause a lot of people are saying that physically printing the keys and storing them in a safe is a super secure method of protecting your balance. I worry about what if someone steals or breaks into the safe. I'd think an encrypted USB stick would be better - unless the encryption can be broken via brute force. Thus far it looks like I was hacked by the Anonymous group? That's a very good idea. It should be a bit cheaper than a dedicated custom build device, but I still think later on down the line we will see such "bitcoin wallets" appear on the scene.
If bitcoin becomes the future currency of the world you can bet retina scanners will become more common. That and you'll see a lot more people with eye patches. Ok, I am just joking around. I face a dillemma here. How do I get the bitcoin client into a non internet connected machine? This is assuming that you can never 100% trust the computer you're using to download the client. Along each step in the process of securing your bitcoins there is a small but every so slightly possible risk. Heck the client itself could be compromised. A hacker could break into the sourceforge servers and cleverly attach a payload into the official client. Guess how many people would not notice until it was too late.I think the safest and most paranoid idea I've head so far is to physically print your private keys. I am even tempted to print them on a freaking gold plate! What I thought of is an actual bitcoin wallet device. It would run a minimalistic version of the bitcoin client in firmware (naturally encrypted and password protected). All inputs would be via touch screen via the use of one of those secure keyboard apps. This device could be connected to the internet but only via a physical connection. And further it could only connect to the bitcoin network and have no other tcp/ip capabilities. The device should also be physically hardened. Also a "wallet backup" feature should be available and a simple usb port should be there as well.  Honestly I don't care about that. I would've had to pay taxes anyway if I cashed out. Which at the time I was stubborn and did not. Now that I think about it I should've just sold nearly all of them. Me and my big bitcoin business dreams..pff... Hmm, don't you think this will take away from the decentralized nature of the bitcoin monetary system? In the end this is what must happen in order for bitcoin to gain mainstream acceptance. You have to trust someone else other than your self, but that may be the price you have to pay. In that case it would be wise to spread out your bitcoin savings amongst several of these security experts and whatever bitcoin banks they will eventually operate. This is a crazy idea but we need some form of unique physical form of ID or way of signing your private keys - say retina scan.  I'm going to get in touch with the RCMP who I hope will co-ordinate with FBI, InterPol and all the other international police agencies that can get involved.  Yes, I used Symantec Antivirus and I regularly ran malwarebytes, spybot, bitdefender online scan, f-secure online scan, and eset online scan. I was behind a router's hardware firewall with only a few needed ports open.  I hope that someone still has this data file and is continually expanding it. You know what guys, if we expect the average joe to have to learn to become a security expert just to use bitcoin, then bitcoin is pretty much doomed. If not it will just remain an anarchistic/libertarian geek's version of paypal. Or it could just piss off the government who will use this as an excuse to go after the exchangers/users because of claims that stolen bitcoin funds could be used to fund terrorism.  I'd like to use that system for secure banking also, but hmm...guess that may not be a good idea. It would be nice if there was a portable version of the client that stores the wallet.dat file within it's own directory. This way say you can run the client from an encrypted USB drives like IronKey. Yep I had a bit more than that..not much more..the thief took 25,000.61 BTC. My only theory is that he had an earlier copy of my wallet? But still that does not make sense as I used the same payout address for all the funds I mined as for the very first address the client generated...soo technically he should've been able to get those funds as well. Maybe this was his way of showing me the middle finger..sort of like "here you go you stupid fuck..I left you something so you can buy yourself something.." I don't know, I am merely speculating and speculation does me no good. I was using phoenix 1.48 and I still am..(oh oh, should I dump it?) and before that I was using all the previous versions of phoenix, but all my miners are and were running phoenix pretty much for a long time. I also had guiminer running idle in the background for some time too - I would use it to ensure that my gpu's are being detected. I also had plans to maybe switch to it when it supported phoenix with the phatk kernel.Btw, I've been using the phatk kernel for some time now. I wish you the best of luck spyjai! You and I are in the same boat. I have a strong feeling the same hacker that stole my BTC also hacked you as well.  From now on I'm going to store them on a dedicated bitcoin wallet machine with linux on it. All ports except the bitcoin port will be blocked. It will be connected to the internet only for brief moments when receiving a transaction or when i want to move them to yet a different wallet..and it will always be connected via ethernet, never via wireless (don't trust wi-fi encryption). This thing with VMs is I read it's possible for the thief to mount the vmware drive and read the contents off the drive. So what you're saying though is to encrypt the entire linux HD with trucrypt? right? not just create a truecrypt image on the VM's HD. Oh wow, so I am starting to now think that my stolen funds were facilitated by a bitcoin community program/util. This is crazy insane, it's starting to look like a information warfare attempt on the bitcoin community - by targeting its users and selling their bitcoins. Free money for the thieves that's for sure! I'm thinking of contacting the RCMP. I'm not in the States to FBI can't help me. I really wish there was a site where one can declare stolen coins. I dunno...as you can imagine I'm quite in despair about the whole situation and the fact that there is so little I can do. no alternative bitcoin clients but mining software for sure ...I ran phoenix, guiminer, poclbm, cpu miner, ufasoft sse miner..I also gave namecoin a try on the same machine...Yes this could be cause whoever stole this sure knows BTC. It seems he's a pro at laundering btc.  Yeah. I will be vindicated in the end. I am a fool for losing my bitcoins, but I am no troll!  Oh wow. I hope this doesn't start a negative press storm against bitcoin. It does not deserve it.  I did contact the police, but do you honestly think they can do anything? The way the police operates means they cannot do anything in the even to of a cyber crime. The only reason I went to the police is to have some legal proof that I reported the theft.I talked to slush. I'm still waiting for him to possibly do something. The funny thing is that the day my pool account got broken into I told slush about it but he was busy at the time dealing with a DDoS attack. What I should've done was move the money the very first minute I discovered my pool account was hacked. Should'a would'a could'a.. I can do that. Do you think that would expose anything to the hacker? I'll have to consult first with someone who knows better than me. Can we finally for god's sake get a wallet encryption feature?! 
They're not manipulated images but I had a feeling some of you would think that. I can get slush and maybe a few others to corroborate me. In the end it doesn't matter any more. I'm going to step back from this forum for a bit. I'll keep an eye on the thread but not participate. There is nothing more that I can add to this so far. Sorry, I never mentioned ...but it has been mentioned by people in the thread..all you had to do was read the blockchain.It was 25K BTC.Well the rest could come from my other private keys? That 1J18 address is the one I used most frequently..I kept on reusing that on mining sites so I knew where my mining profits came from...Here is a screenshot:Uploaded with ImageShack.usand..and..Uploaded with ImageShack.usUploaded with ImageShack.usThe last screenshot is from my slush account..you can see the person changing my payout address..and the payout amounts match what you see in the screenshot..I dunno how much more I can show that this is indeed is my account...ohwell ok I'm out of here.. Well guys, I am taking a break from the forum. My fingers hurt from all this typing, and I got real life to deal with. Thanks for all those who have wished me the best. Cheers! Yep whoever did this ain't stupid...no doubt he reads this forum too, soooo...may have not been a good idea after all for me to shout it out loud to the world. He will do his best to find over the counter buyers for his BTC.I very much doubt whoever he sells them to will bother to track the history of the coins through the blocks... I know Bind, I know. Trust me this will be forever burned in my memory. And trust me I will even pay you some BTC JUST for that advice and for reiterating it (if by some miracle I can recover a portion of the funds at least..). Maybe then I'll know better.  Latest amount being moved:http://blockexplorer.com/address/1G65mXC4HctMNHN6MTpHsWi1A5zRungssLWhoever is doing this knows how to launder BTC that's for sure...follow the blockchain folks.. Yep well I'm not denying that this is not my fault. Come back to me when/if you get hacked and we'll see how easy it is for me to jump on my "I know best" horse and whip ya Hindsight is 20/20, no? Sure, I install something called "cpu miner" latest verision of guiminer ..I also tried to run namecoind as I was thinking of getting into mining namecoins...Other than that at the moment I can't remember installing any other windows programs or doing any updates. Yes that is really my fault. I am pretty sure that my computer was rooted, and could have been for a long time and now finally whoever controlls the root kit heard about bitcoin and decided the time is right. In the future I plan to get a separate box (laptop) with ubuntu linux on it and have that as my secure workstation. I am never trusting windows again or any god damn virus scanner. Well yeah, I log in from work to keep en eye on my forex trading platforms. Yes I guess I was specifically singled out unless there are others who haven't come out of the woodwork yet.  Indeed, the double edged sword of crypto-currency.Sucks that it's a case of my word against whoever..I wish I could show that I do not have control of that address. Eventually I will post a screenshot as proof at the very least that he money was moved. I am working on  few things to possibly found out who did it. Look, this person just sent 22K to a different address. This person is trying to launder the BTC.http://blockexplorer.com/address/12fe9xw9Pqcnm5AzUEMuneyRzZuxc7JDWQthen 2500 here:http://blockexplorer.com/address/165vfNnWshUzjoXFbrhBXyjERwvzqBAQDgThen he sent it further down to these addresses:14qcmPPdSoHacA2hTUViJXaHvaZT9riSV71FfUUkUpTKNyDhZ9CH7D3jkYCd5kZ9weSx I have faith that I will end up making that money back and much more. I am a fairly entrepreneurial type and I have other things lined up that may work out for me. Life is funny though, you never really know what may happen, but right now I just gotta figure out a way to deal with the pain of this loss. It's not like I lost 1 BTC - we're talking here a very large portion of the BTC economy in the hands of some crook somewhere. Thanks for your kind words though.  hahah..yeah I guess..I must be special in some supernatural way then...I chose that name cause at the time I was a bit more of a pessimistic thinker...that's all. All in vain is a play on words from a quote from the Bible...old testament..look it up..Solomon said it  I doubt it's meatspace. I sleep in a room right next to the computer room. Someone would have to crawl up the stairs and not wake me up to gain access to the computer.  Can't be that cause I was logged into the machine via RDP from work when the slush pool payout address got changed. I would've been disconnected from the session if someone tried to l go in locally.  No I have never downloaded anything related to bitcoin other than mining programs. Wow crap. Yeah that could be another possible attack vector. I never knew that they store previous versions. I though the file was gone forever.  oh what a noob I was.. Yes this is a sophisticated attack. The very first thing I did was try to load up blockexplorer.com to see where the money went. Guess what, conveniently the site was down. Tried from another machine, it was down there too.  Yep...that could be! I don't think I done 100 transactions. I did receive a bunch of payouts form my mining efforts. I bought some vga dummy plugs but that's about all I did with that balance. Like I said ealier on. at one point I did have the wallet.dat unencrypted on dropbox's servers..then I realized that I should not trust them and deleted the file..if that file doesn't get deleted permanently then hmm...I then stored the future wallet.dat files encrypted with AxCrypt on wuala first and then I found out about spideroak..so I copied the encrypted wallet.dat file there as well.  heheh..you believe what you want. This is a very old IRC handle that I've used for 10+ years. I got irc logs to prove it too ..going back 5+ years. Allinvain is a handle I use on various forums sort of like a "throw away" forum account or handle. Ironically I was thinking of registering as "bitcoinguru" but I guess I ain't much of a bitcoin guru now..oh god the irony is killing me.... Someone just posted that they got hacked and the funds got moved to the same address as I posted, so at this point I am operating under the assumption that this was not a meatspace attack. But I am looking at this side (meatspace) of thigs as well. Man I'm having trouble replying to all these posts, so please forgive me if I seem to reply slowly.
Yes if he is a stupid thief and tries to dump all 25,000 at once in one transaction. I doubt he'd do that though.  I agree. This is a very sophisticated attack on BTC users. Someone thinks we are a bunch of suckers. It could be mining programs as well. I did run phoenix, ufasoft's sse miner, poclbm and numerious other mining programs on the machine that had the wallet.dat file. I upgraded the official client twice I think. I was/am running 0.3.21Someone may wish to investigate the source code for all the mining programs - just to be on the safe side. I assure you it is legitimate. I have nothing to gain from this. In fact it may have been smarter to not even report it on the forum. But I figure I'd at least let everyone know about the hacker's address or to let them know that someone is out there with the know how to do this. I am not hte first and I will not be the last - mark my words. What would you consider sufficient proof that I indeed controlled this balance? Thank you Sir. I much appreciate your condolences. I would be glad to pay anyone a good chunk of those bitcoins to get them back. If you guys had any idea how much I believed in BTC. I can't believe I managed to control myself from selling them all. I could've and I thought about it when it was at $30. Then I waited and waited even when it hit $10. I remember watching the price like a hawk. My big hope was that I could use them to start some sort of viable BTC business that would not only grow the value of my existing coins but of everyone else's. Wow you sure? wow this is awesome - well sort of - that I have corroborating evidence that I am not the only victim and that this is some hacker for sure. I can now rule out my friends stealing from me. True, this would not have been a problem in a bank. Foolish of me to hoard them. I should've just sold half of the damn things. Lesson to me, lesson to the developers to do more to secure the wallet.dat file and the bitcoin balance.  What do you want? lol I doubt you can get it back honestly.  I did encrypt the wallet.dat file on 4 different locations - 3 online and 1 offline (USB stick). But that doesn't mean shit if the original bitcoin file is still on my PC unencrypted. It was stupid of me to trust my security that much. I should have spread the money around as many wallets as possible and also on a computer NOT running windows. Yes yes I know it's all very easy for you guys to criticize.  I never said I can't turn off the computer. I said I can't turn it off at this very moment. I have to backup whatever important stuff I have left on it. I store in encrypted format password to some banking and other info. At this point I have to assume all that is compromised and eventually I have to go through the laborious task of changing everything! There are many things on my to do list. I am not a troll.  I'm looking into this as well. The thing is this happened at 12:00 in the afternoon when I was sleeping with all my doors locked. I would've noticed if someone physically had access to my computer. Also maybe someone stole the wallet earlier? I have to serious do some searching into who was at my place over the last month. No it's my home computer. I use it to run online forums and other important stuff, plus it's trading forex right now and I had a trade going which I'm not sure if it closed successfullythe wallets were encrypted on all websites...I only had it once unecrypted on dropbox but then I deleted it when I read that their employees could read the files possibly.the only unencrypted wallet was on my home computer... Please don't remind me . That  25K BTC could've done a lot of good for the BTC community when I eventually would spend it on BTC related projects - which I had in mind to do. For example I wanted to set up the BTC equivalent of ebay, which I believe is one of the things that the BTC community needs - a strong auction site. *sigh* That may be possible too. There are many possibilities at this point. Question is how can I find evidence of this. Bitcoin is a double edged sword that is for sure. If I had all these funds in paypal I wouldn't be crying now lol..Oh god... Maybe. Who knows. It would suck if bitcoin price tanked because of me. God, that would be double worse for  me and for everyone else.  I have a router, the router is secure. The funds were taken from a WINDOWS machine. God I'm starting to hate windows so much now! I doubt this would've happened had it been a linux machine!I agree the fact that the wallet is unencrypted is totally ridiculous.  The problem is that I can't shut the machine as this is my work machine. I doubt any forensic expert can do shit. Bitcoins are 100% non reversible and even if this "expert" were to find out the IP address of the person who got it there is no guarantee that it was his real IP and well I'd be spending more than 25,000 BTC just to chase this. What I'm going to do though is shut the machine down and let the symantec antivirus clean the supposed infection it detected when I ran a scan of f-secure online scan (for some reason it detected a bunch of virus in the temp dir where the online scanner stores its temporary work - could be false). And then I'm going to backup my important data. Format and reinstall the machine. Then I'm going to sell whatever bitcoins I have remaining, take it as a life lesson, and count this as a not so fun experimentation with cryptographic currency. I am then going to focus on making plain old paper dollars and store them in a bank where at least I'll have the full force of society or some central government insurance backing me up - not to mention some recourse to the law in case of any theft.  Some people do know about my btc activities, but none of them have physicall access to my computer or otherwise. This happened right when I was sleeping with the doors locked. There is no way someone physically stole them. I am almost 100% sure this was done via some security hole in windows, trojan, or something like that. So yeah most likely some pimply faced teenage hacker now has them.Ain't it wonderful? Free money for doing nothing. Who says crime doesn't pay. I swear on my life that this is not a ruse. I have nothing to gain from this. I am one of the very early adopter of bitcoin. I was planning on using those funds to open up a bitcoin business. The sad fact is that just the other day I planned it in my mind to move the funds to a different wallet because of the possibility of someone stealing my coins. Transactions can be reversed. I have had someone reverse funds before. Ask the admin who runs the youtipit website. I VERY much doubt whoever stole it will return the funds back.  I have screenshots that show that I am the rightfully owner of these funds, but unfortunately due to the way the bitcoin system is structured there is no way to mark the coins as stolen. Can someone get me in touch with MagicalTux? What e-mail does he respond to the quickest? I'd like to alert him to keep an eye out for someone trying to sell 25K on his exchange. I can bet you anything whoever got it will try to sell it ASAP. I never did. I did backup my wallet.dat file to dropbox, wuala, and spideroak.Once I read an article about employees of dropbox having access to users's files I deleted the wallet.dat file from there. I dunno, I doubt it was caused becaused someone had access to where i backed it up. It most likely means he/she (hacker) had access to my windows box and the UNENCRYPTED wallet.dat file.The first thing I did when I saw this was restore the backup from these online storage sites, but still the transaction was still there so I could not invalidate one damn thing.
That is possible. So if the hacker gets the actual wallet.dat file and just plops it in his .bitcoin folder any transactions would show up in my windows client even though I still have the exact keys? I mean how does the bitcoin network know which keys are legit. You're right this can only be blamed on me. I am the flaw with bitcoin, but let's be honest the wallet should be encrypted. The developers should've put a very very high priority on this the moment bitcoin went over $1. They knew that this was bound to happen and someone is going to get hurt and if they taken preventative measures early this could've never happened. Now that's one side of the coin, the other side is that I'm an idiot for keeping a wallet.dat file with so much  money on my day to day machine - especially one running windows. I'd at least like to know who took them or find out how. I believe it must have been a virus of some sorts. Yes you are right. I don't think I can do anything at this point. Format and reinstall windows is the best I can do, and from there on not ever use windows for any security sensitive sites/systems. I moved it to a Ubuntu linux vmware install. On the same machine. What I moved is what I had left in my bitcoin wallet. It seems the thief was so fucking nice to leave me a few coins - as a nice insult. I did this via simple transaction. First thing that I noticed is that my slush's pool account got hacked into and someone changed the payout address to this:15iUDqk6nLmav3B1xUHPQivDpfMruVsu9fI then changed the password and proceeded to run some antivirus and anti malware scans. Some stuff was found, but they were all cleaned up and they were all in my windows user profile temp dir which I deleted all the temp files. God I can't even type properly. Sorry folks I'm a bit emotional now. I then left another virus scanner running and went to sleep. When I woke up I check my bitcoin wallet. I leave the client running to help the network, and I notice -25,000 (and a transaction fee) gone. Fuck, I really should've moved the coins to a vmware linux session I have running. But the question is was it already too late? Could someone had my access to my wallet.dat for a long time and now just decided to "cash out" Yeah I wish I could lend it a fraction of it to you. But it's too fucking late I think. Fuck I feel like such a retard. Early adopter my ass. God!I'm thinking is there any way I can invalidate his coins? Also does blockexplorer.com work for you guys, cause it does not for me. I tried on two different computers. Someone pretty smart is fucking around with me. Hi everyone. I am totally devastated today. I just woke up to see a very large chunk of my bitcoin balance gone to the following address:1KPTdMb6p7H3YCwsyFqrEmKGmsHqe1Q3jgTransaction date: 6/13/2011 12:52 (EST)I feel like killing myself now (edit: a little too dramatic, I'm since calmed down a bit) . If only the wallet file was encrypted on the HD. I do feel like this is my fault for not moving that money to a separate non windows computer. I backed up my wallet.dat file religiously and encrypted it but that does not do me much good when someone or some trojan or something had direct access to my computer somehow.The theft occurred right after someone broke into my slush's pool account. In a moment of sheer stupidity I did not think that maybe my whole system was compromised. I merely thought that someone brute forced my slush's pool password. I then proceeded to change the password on the pool from a secure computer. The transaction sent belongs rightfully to this address: 1J18yk7D353z3gRVcdbS7PV5Q8h5w6oWWGBlock explorer is down so I cannot even see where the funds went.  Edit: It's working now and I'm keeping an eye on it.I tried restoring an earler backup of my wallet but naturally that does not work because the transaction has already been validated.If anyone have any ideas what I can do, tips, tools, ways of tracking the stolen funds or anything of use please do share with me here on this thread PM me.Edit: Screenshots available here:http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=16457.msg215996#msg215996Edit: I'd like to thank those that came up with constructive comments and suggestions. Let this be an example to take the security of your wallet.dat files very seriously. I never thought bitcoin would attract criminals so quickly but yet here it is. Update: You can keep track of my stolen coins via these 3 links:http://folk.uio.no/vegardno/allinvain-transactions.txthttp://folk.uio.no/vegardno/allinvain-addresses.txthttp://folk.uio.no/vegardno/allinvain-transactions-addresses.txtUpdate: The latest bitcoin tracking info can be found here - http://allinvain.4shared.comI've also shared the C program that I used to track them. Hope you find it useful somehow. It is partially to do with the random nature of mining. But the fact is that we are being outcompeted by larger pools. I think that pools still rule the roost sort of speak. Just look at Deepbit. Their rounds must last mere minutes! Ah ok, TCP it is. Yep I know about that site link.There was but then it went down to 117 Ghash. I wish more people would join Eligius so we can shorten the rounds a bit.  Cool. Did the same and as supa mentioned the worker idle message disappeared. However I do still get disconnected from the server once in a while. I set a higher priority on my router to port 8337, but I'm wondering should I set it for both UDP and TCP or just TCP (I think it should be just TCP). Well I wasn't jumping on any bandwagon. I was just relaying what the pool operator said. So it was not actually me that came to the conclusion that it was DDoS.  loool...let's cut slush some slack, he's not a native English speaker  Another pool, or some super large miner, or someone who just wants to be a bitch and harass miners for no particular reason other than his/her pure hate of bitcoin lol  I saw that, but that wasn't a definitive answer. As best as I can interpret it is says "it could be the miner it could not..." He did mention that the pool's work generation code is very inefficient, and I bet you anything that's the main reason. Once he improves the efficiency of the work generating code I will know for sure. "That issues are called ddos, I'm solving it." -slush Hmm if it was a keylogger you'd figure it would go after something more important. Why wouldn't such a malicious program go after my wallet.dat file instead? I dunno I have some doubts that it's a keylogger but I'm going to run a bunch of anti virus scans (f-secure, bitdefender, etc) and maybe spybot & malwarebytes.  No, it does not. No they can't mess with the transactions folks. Worry not these types of attacks have happened before and they will unfortunately happen in the future. Slush has resolved DDoS issues in the past and I'm sure he will fix this one too. Patience  Yep I changed it once again and it's been stable thus far, but granted I had no miners running so whoever broke in no longer has any incentive to change the address. Right now slush is getting DDoS'ed so once the website is back up I will log in via SSL and change the password again just to be on the safe side. Slush is also going to look into what happened. If he discovers that the fault lies with his site I hope he would be so kind as to refund the lost 3.99 BTC.  Like I said (or I think I said it) previously, I don't have this problem with slush's pool. So I'm not sure 100% what is going on. I'll have to checkout the phoenix thread - maybe there is something that I missed.
Thanks for the update slush. Once you deal with the DDoS attack can you please have a look at my post about my account getting hacked.  Yep, noticed that too. I moved all my workers to Eligius though so I'm still hashing away, but the site is offline in both http and https mode. I have a hunch he's getting DDoS'ed like Tycho's pool.  I see. So you'd suggest poclmb instead? or?Another thing - and pardon me for not being up to date - , the two pools (EU and US) are not joined in any way, right?  Cool. Thanks Luke for that explanation. So it is not the miner after all - that's a relief cause people have reported issues with phoenix in the past. Yeap, unfortunately I see security as being a major future issue for bitcoiners. Just watch the string of newbies who get their bitcoins stolen by from trojan/virus/malware etc. We really really really badly need the wallet.dat to be encrypted by the official client. Also slush needs to use SSL for all pool website traffic. C'mon slush invest in a damn certificate, they're not that expensive any more. One can technically load up his site via ssl but it's a self signed certificate and even then ssl is not enabled by default. When someone types in the pool's website it should redirect to https://mining.bitcoin.cz  Yep good point. For some smaller miners the 1 BTC payout limit can be annoying and also the long round duration as well. It would not be so bad if more people were to switch over to this pool. If we can get 500 gigahashes it would be nice. Slush's pool does not run over HTTPS. I would be surprised if someone is sniffing my traffic, but I suppose that is theoretically possible. I'm waiting for slush to respond, maybe he can give me some clue as to what IP logged into my account changed the payout address. This way I can perhaps tell who or what might/may be sniffing packets. I have a feeling it's probably a combination of the miner AND the pool and how it responds (or how quickly) it responds with work requests. I bet you anything slush is on a much beefier connection with lower latency than Eligius US so that may explain it.Ohwell, I guess as long as the overall hashrate is not affected too much then it's all good.  How did it happen to you out of curiosity. The reason I'm asking is I'd like to know whether this is my screwup somehow or if it's slush's fault.  Yeah I like/liked? slush too. Although my account with that pool just got hacked 10 min ago. I changed the password and still someone managed to changer the payout address. Password was ultra secure randomly generated. I guess every pool has its problems. Right now I'm mining with Eligius until I figure out what the heck happened on slush. ok this is weird..now my confirmed reward says :6.112e-05 BTC when before it was below 0...Sucks that I lost 3.90 BTC though  Maybe I shouldn't publish my btc address here on the forum...Slush please look into this and at least let me know what the heck happened and how the account was broken into. no way, I'm not that stupid...and the password was stored locally only in an ecrypted file...that's about the only other place that password would be stored other than than slush's server... I wish more people mined with Eligius. I like the fact that they pay from block generation but the has rate is a bit on the low side. It would be nice if  was higher to lower the variance as much as possible. Hey guys, anyone else but me get the occasional "warning: work queue empty, miner is idle"..when mining with phoenix ?I'm using pheonix 1.48 aggression 12Never had this issue with slush so far... Ok, fuck this I'm moving somewhere else..it happened again right after I changed the password to the account. This time the address was changed to:176LRX4WRWD5LWDMbhr94ptb2MW9varCZPhttp://blockexplorer.com/address/176LRX4WRWD5LWDMbhr94ptb2MW9varCZPAND the payout was reset back to 1. Slush you better check your security as my account on your pool just got hacked even though I had a super long randomly generated password (used from a password generation site). Whoever hacked in switched the payout address to the following:15iUDqk6nLmav3B1xUHPQivDpfMruVsu9fUploaded with ImageShack.usVisual proof...Hmm, at this point I'm not sure whether to trust this pool anymore. There is no way someone could've brute forced my password. Maybe it's time to jump to a pool that does not require a username/password. Please do if not for anything other than to teach the drama queen panic trolls how a free market really works.Next thing I'll hear is that we need a bitcoin SEC.. Ahh I see now. Thanks. Well I guess that person decided he wanted some inflation funny money. Whatever, good for him/her.  lol..awesome..thanks for that piuk, you're da man!Those screenshots will have historical value - keep them safe somewhere  OMG not another one of these "the sky is falling" threads! This makes what..4? or 5? 
I agree. The thing is that I'm not sure anyone really "controls" this forum. It seems the current moderators have a laissez-faire attitude. I'm not saying that the moderators should be complete a-holes but a little bit of chastisement for the trolls is a good thing  Whoa dude, you mean I can quickly lose weight by trading bitcoins!?    Damn, I wish I had a video or some screenshots of that happening! Well true getting payd is gettin payd...but surely he would've realized he could've gotten MORE if he slowly sold on each market peak. I guess the whole time value of money applies...a bird in hand is worth two in the bush..yadda yadda May I ask how you know this? Were you watching the price feed when this happened? I wish I could've seen that in action if what you say is true.However, I'm surprised this supposed early adopter dumped so many all at once. Wouldn't it have been much smarter if he sold in small amounts over a period of time. $18 isn't cheap enough fer ya ? I haven't seen many financial experts on this forum. If there are, they must have their cloaking shields up.  You must be a trading legend then! Are you by any chance Jesse Livermore? You gotta be his reincarnation at the very least! Yes buy = good idea.But honestly threads like this annoy me a bit. Everyone needs to stop being so dramatic  Just wait until Monday before you come to any illuminating grand conclusions worthy of the golden hindsight award. Not really because when price goes back up beyond $31 they'll be OK. The insanely high price swing (coming from a traditional trading point of view) no doubt has scared quite a few people. And by price swing I mean downwards. See this thread:http://forum.bitcoin.org/?topic=4292.0very easy to do All my 5870s are at 300 and it saves quite a bit on power and also the cards run cooler... It's definitely a driver issue. The only REAL fix would come from AMD. Let us all bug AMD about it. Seriously people write to AMD and stop whining and complaining about "how come there is no fix..." or whatever..   It's the OpenCL drivers!  NOT any miner application..Please all e-mail AMD to fix it  You sure you got the right server data? Make sure you use the proper server AND port data as outlined on slush's site or at the beginning of this thread. From what error message I think what is happening is that gui was trying to connect to a LOCAL bitcoin instance for solo mining. See this thread:http://forum.bitcoin.org/?topic=1721.0 Had the same problem, but I now finally received payout. It seems like it's some bug or delay on the website front end or something like that. What's really weird though is that I still don't see the payment in my bitcoin wallet. Usually it shows up 30 seconds or max 1 minute after I receive the "payout notification" e-mail from slush's pool.  lol is that an MSI motherboard? The box looks very much like that of a MSI board I recently purchased.  Damn, that sucks. Hope you get this issue resolved somehow. Having read this I am glad I decided not to buy from this guy. I instead ended up searching on ebay and ran across some guy who runs this site: cablesaurus.comI ordered two dummy cables from him for a reasonable BTC price and I just received them today. I'm wondering if the admin of that site is on this forum.... Ah okie dokies. Thanks for the keeping your eye on the ball slush.Cheers!
"502 Bad Gateway"pool front end website down....miners are still crunching though.... I am confused a bit about round 5233. It says it lasted 1 hour and 5 minutes yet somehow I managed to get no shares in?!? Was the pool down at that time, or what the heck happened? All my miners were active and the internet was up.5233   2011-06-07 20:24:57   1:05:04   910194   none   129252    100 confirmations left It is very much a zero sum game. I agree a more liquid and faster loading exchange is a good idea, but you gotta keep in mind that even with a traditional brokerage firm you still have to deal with banks and other financial institutions as the intermediary. Transferring money still takes time unfortunately unless you can become a part of the ACH (automated clearing house) system the banks use. AFAIK with this FNIB company you aren't actually tarding with BTC just that they're going to credit your account with the dollar equivalent of whatever BTC you deposited. This works like wonder for them because you gave them a currency that will likely increase in value yet your account has been credit with a rapidly depreciating currency - USD. This is a clever way for the brokerage firms to make additional profit and tap the potential explosive growth of the bitcoin system. I'm surprised I don't see many more forex brokerage firms taking on bitcoin. Since we have a very liquid exchange (mt gox) I don't see any risk on their part if they did - well there would be risk but its very small IMHO. hehehe..yeah that "it's over 9000" was a rather geeky quote from an anime series I used to watch when I was a young lad - Dragon Ball Z lol love how the table is above to cave it..it can't stand to bear the weight of your megahashes! It must be over 9000!!!!  Well done MemoryDealers!! I will make sure to keep your company in mind next time I'm in the market for the products you offer. I will gladly pay with BTC too!Cheers! Guys trust me you do not want to trade traditional currency pairs with a market maker broker let alone BTC. A market maker loses when you win and wins when you lose, so they have an economic incentive to rig the game against you sorta speak if you are too successful. 90% + of forex traders lose so the majority of the time a market maker gets by just letting the trader do his thing and take the other side of the trade. However if you're successful you will quickly find out how a market maker operates and how quickly you will be given excuses as to why you must stop trading with them.Plain and simple if you want to trade forex do it with a STP broker or a ECN broker. If you want to trade BTC against other currencies then wait until some ECN type platform comes on the scene where the platform operator is compensates via a commission per trade. This way there is no conflict of interest involved. wow we're at 800 Ghash/sec now! I'd say we need LP support rather badly now....wouldn't you agree? Now way! Could it be! lolTo be honest I did not even pay attention to his avatar when I made that post.  I dunno about you guys but putting together the mining rigs is half the fun for me  The other half is watching them make BTC 4 me. Yeah no doubt this is just impatient miners taking advantage of the high prices by selling. Once more funds clear the buying frenzy will resume. I guess those of you who have lots of spare cash to invest now would be a good time to snap up some cheap bitcoins before they go over $20 lol you guys have waay too much money to invest in video cards...30-50 video cards..omg massive jelly on my part  Guys this is not a miner issue..it's just the opencl drivers... Congratulations Vladimir. I wish you and your family much peace, happiness and prosperity! And to all the bitcoin users the same! Cheers! Sometimes it is..and I'd say a large portion of the recent price growth was/is being driven by this irrational behavior. But also a portion of it is not irrational behavior but a genuine belief in the technical and practical advantages of the bitcoin monetary system. The people that are adopting bitcoin and building ventures around and with it are the ones that should get the glory. The speculators on the other hand see an easy "get rich" opportunity and well they take it - it's human nature.Worry not, all things will work out just fine in the end  The free market will take care of itself.  I have it. Great case! Very big, lots of fans, and pretty cheap.I got mine when it was on sale for $75 + free shipping...  Aha! So I have been vindicated. Well I should've had more confidence in my own words.  I already use 10.9 on two of my dedicated miners and it does not solve the high cpu usage problem. So just running 10 series does not work on windows. I'll look into that granola program. I hope though that I can trust it and it won't be some spyware/malware scam. Yeah it's nuts. But I think it's perfectly natural for people to do this - it's exciting! I used to stay glued to my trading platform during my early days of forex trading. Eventually I grew the balls necessary to just step back, go to the beach, have a beer with some buddies, etc, and not be "worried" or constantly be thinking about what my trading positions are doing. The same thing will happen with bitcoin for bitcoin holders/traders once some sort of price stability is reached. But until then I will continue to keep an eye on the btc/usd exchange rate like a hawk!  Wow really. I guess it was only a matter of time before someone thought "me too" .
Well then care to tell us under what jurisdiction the company is registered, and if you are at all regulated in the country of registration? Nope bitcoin is not "mom and pop" because bitcoin is not a business. Also what type of dealing scenario do you use? STP? Dealing Desk? From the looks of your domain the website/business is most likely registered in Colombia.Domain Name:                                 FNIB.CODomain ID:                                   D3681883-COSponsoring Registrar:                        TUCOWS, INC.Sponsoring Registrar IANA ID:                69Registrar URL (registration services):       www.opensrs.comDomain Status:                               okRegistrant ID:                               TUPOTQAGPVJ4MWXERegistrant Name:                             CCEO Capital ManagementRegistrant Address1:                         24 B Moorefield RdRegistrant City:                             WellingtonRegistrant Postal Code:                      6037Registrant Country:                          New ZealandRegistrant Country Code:                     NZRegistrant Phone Number:                     +64.48892808Registrant Email:                            Administrative Contact ID:                   TUZC5IJZB1PKABXCAdministrative Contact Name:                 CCEO Capital ManagementAdministrative Contact Address1:             24 B Moorefield RdAdministrative Contact City:                 WellingtonAdministrative Contact Postal Code:          6037Administrative Contact Country:              New ZealandAdministrative Contact Country Code:         NZAdministrative Contact Phone Number:         +64.48892808Administrative Contact Email:                Billing Contact ID:                          TUPPJL5GEIXM9HEEBilling Contact Name:                        CCEO Capital ManagementBilling Contact Address1:                    24 B Moorefield RdBilling Contact City:                        WellingtonBilling Contact Postal Code:                 6037Billing Contact Country:                     New ZealandBilling Contact Country Code:                NZBilling Contact Phone Number:                +64.48892808Billing Contact Email:                       Technical Contact ID:                        TUZ73Y2YRLOEAGCHTechnical Contact Name:                      CCEO Capital ManagementTechnical Contact Address1:                  24 B Moorefield RdTechnical Contact City:                      WellingtonTechnical Contact Postal Code:               6037Technical Contact Country:                   New ZealandTechnical Contact Country Code:              NZTechnical Contact Phone Number:              +64.48892808Technical Contact Email:                     Name Server:                                 NS1.INSTRADNS.COMName Server:                                 NS2.INSTRADNS.COMName Server:                                 NS3.INSTRADNS.COMCreated by Registrar:                        TUCOWS, INC.Last Updated by Registrar:                   TUCOWS, INC.Domain Registration Date:                    Sun Jan 09 20:40:10 GMT 2011Domain Expiration Date:                      Fri Jan 08 23:59:59 GMT 2016Domain Last Updated Date:                    Wed Mar 02 20:53:09 GMT 2011 Use a molex to 8 pin adapter or a 8 pin to 6 pin converter and a molex to 8 pin.. Indeed! Getting some sort of energy meter is a must!  Alle Ihre Bitcoins sind gehören zu uns! oooppss...yes my bad I was indeed confusing it with crossfire..as a side note under linux you can see 6+ GPU cores..I've seen some 4 x 5970 rigs.. I second that notion...show us that hashkill is better than phoenix  Or be there with a bag of marshmallows when shit really hits the fan (metaphorically speaking).. Are you guys a regulated forex brokerage firm or is this a mom & pop type of roll your own brokerage broker type of operation?Btw Forex in Australia is regulated by the Australian Securities and Investment Commission (ASIC).  Oh noes! Zeee Germans! They're trying to take over this thing too now! Darn it   I dropped a lol turd when I read this thread! I think there should be a comedy section cause this shit is hilarious. hahahaha..you're hilarious dude.So how much (BTC) for a kidney  ? As for your left nut...unless it's made of gold I don't see much value in it..sickening ornamental item perhaps? gilded nut? Preach on brotha! But umm I think it's hit an miss with this whole proselytizing business. Some people are just to lazy and ignorant to think outside their box or comfort zone. What really shocks me is how often I hear people telling me they think that their money is backed by gold.   I'd like to see more of the so called "third world" begin using bitcoins on a more widespread basis. I suggest that Zimbabwe convert its entire economy over to BTC  Nope..I'm afraid not. 3 6990s = 6 total GPU cores. Windows can address only 4 max.Maybe it might be more efficient and cheaper to run 2 separate rigs with 2 x 6990s? Hmm, wish they'd release a windblowz binary soon  Do you really need a xeon cpu and that many gigs of RAM?  Umm that's nuts. You may want to put the miners on a separate circuit if possible. If for some odd reason you're running everything in the apartment off of a single circuit then whoever wired that apartment should be shot. loool...bitcoin addict..I lol'ed profusely. Ma woman left me cuz I started selling her womanly artefacts to feed my raging bitcoin addiction...I gots to get ma fix!But umm, am I an addict if I check the mtgox exchange rate every 30 to 60 min?   White, male, morbidly obese, and I touch myself at night...no seriously why is this relevant? bitcoin chauvinism?  I'd have to agree. Even though you can power 3 6990s with a 1200 Watt unit you'd still be pushing it. It's good to leave a fair bit of head room with high efficiency PSUs. Often they operate at peak efficiency at ~80% or below load. You never want to get close to the peak load it can support because not only will you shorten its lifespan but because it will also pump out more heat due to inefficiency heat losses.Atroxes, I like your signature..so I take it you've got yourself a incognito mining rig in a garbage can with a power line running to a nearby power pole? 
Right, well, I did not know you were in Europe. I though that the most common circuits in Europe are 16 amps. But either way cause of the higher voltage you can - non technically speaking - squeeze more electrons though and get a higher work load out of it - 3680 watts from an European 16 amp circuit. But all that aside I'd say that if you get a decent high end power supply (which you'd have to in order to power 3 6990s) it will come with plenty of 6+2 connectors.  Typically some power supplies have two 6+2 connectors on the main wire bundle coming out of the power supply and they'd also have 4 additional 6+2 connectors that would be modular.  Well dammit why doesn't AMD fix this sh*t! Is it really so hard to at the very least allow us to turn off the cpu spin state flag off? I'm thinking a simple .ini or config file option would be all that is needed.  Yeah and don't forget to put this rig on it's own dedicated 15A circuit. In other words don't try to plug this mining rig on the circuit you have your toaster on or something of that sort.  Well, remember the old adage: "you get what you pay for"Some of those portable ACs are most likely not as efficient as regular in window or central air style ACs. Quote from the consumer reports website "Dual-hose portableswhich have two hoses that vent through a window; one brings air in from the outside to cool the condenser coils, and the other exhausts the hoy, humid room air back to the outsidedid a slightly better cooling job than the single-hose models we've previously tested, But their ability to cool fell short of similar-size window units, and they couldn't cool the testing chamber to the desired temperature."   kick ass...that's one smart use of the fireplace.. Damn...a lot of dots. I remember back when that map was almost bare. We have grown quite a lot! Cool. Can't wait to see the video or any future pics  Well if there is one thing that I've learned about bitcoin mining pools is that they're not exactly easy on server resources and it seems it's quite a challenge to keep a pool running without any problems. Also let's not forget the potential for getting DDoS'ed too!  Hmm, message said that the server is down for maintenance. Yep essentially a round is how long it takes the pool to find a block. If the registry hack works it would mean I just bought 4 dummy plugs for nothing Anyone tried it on Win 7 64 bit? Well a round exists only when we find a block. There is always a round, just that some take longer some take a shorter amount of time.  Wow...that's quite impressive. I guess we're going to be taken on a roller coaster ride soon.... I think he's going to need more BTUs. Maybe two of these:http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16896865291 Neither am I. I would have no clue where to begin. Designing your own circuit board is not that easy. I think for now I'll stick to "power hungry" 5870s and 5850s :pMy great hope is not for these low power gpus but for fpgas and ASICs. Umm, that sounds odd. I don't overclock at all but I do have ATI Overdrive enabled just to set the fan profile manually, yet I still have high cpu usage. I also have the memory underclocked but not via ATI overdrive but MSI afterburner. Hmm, I guess this weekend I'm going to have to try disabling overdrive and see if this works. But maybe someone can beat me to it and report back their findings here? Nice so what's next, strip apart a bunch of laptops and solder some 5870m chips on the same card, build a PCI express bridge and voila... Yeah but is the performance per watt ratio good?  Yes, that would be neat. All for the e-peen!  You ever plan in implementing that? I think it would be a neat additional reward for mining with your pool. Let's be honest here even with just solved blocks with 2% you're still making a nice bit of money.
Well c'mon now slush, you gotta help it get back up lool* allinvain dreams of the day when everything just works as it's supposed to forever and ever.... Damn! Now THAT is a mining farm. So farmer Vladimir I take it all those boxes are running Linux as I don't see any dummy vga plugs.What KVM do you use? I'm in need of one too. Yeah that sucks. For you the only option is to go the linux route or to get a cpu with dual cores (AMD Athlon II X2 250 may be a good one) The botnet operator just needs to install the UFASOFT SSE2 miner and tadaaa...instant hashing monster. Assuming he could somehow select for intel i7 or intel SSE2 capable CPU and he can get 12 - 18 Mhash from quad core chips (this is for intel i7 - 12 Mhash is easily achievable even with 3 cores) Hmm I guess, but isn't it going to take a LOT of heat from the miners to reasonably warm up the house. I guess if you can tolerate colder than what you're used to temps during the winter then it's ok. I think to reasonably heat up a modestly sized house you're going to need to output multiple kilowatts/h of heat. But if you have good insulation you can maybe slowly warm up the house and it will retain the heat for a while. Oooops  I guess I totally forgot about the total energy content of both sources of energy. So yeah in the end when you take in the total amount of energy required to heat a house with electricity alone natural gas would be cheaper even though on a per minimum unit of consumption basis electricity is cheaper. One can easily get fooled if you don't take the energy content into consideration. I don't think anyone will realistically use miner heat to warm up the house. I think a smarter solution would be to move mining equipment into a room or area where you can shut off the furnace vents or maybe even open up the windows and let in the cold winter air. That I think is related to the flawed way in which the hash rate is calculated after a difficulty increase. In other words the problem is with bitcoinwatch.com  Ah I see. OK, well that does it then. Mining and gaming = bad. Someday, someday, ATI/AMD will get their shit together and write some rock solid drivers. http://home.howstuffworks.com/ac1.htmhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Air_conditionerdebate over... Very cool. I'd be glad to use it once you build support for Slush's pool. What? Wait a minute. Are you saying that you control that hashing power? If so what are you running 1000 5970s? Whaaat? What kind of wimpy PSU were u using? Like a previous poster I too am currently running two 5870 cards running off of a 600 Watt PSU. Total system power draw is 434 Watts! PSU is a Thermaltake ToughPower 600WSecond PSU is a Corsair EliteXStream 1000W which will run two 5870s once again (I got it hoping that I can still find a 5970 but no luck with that). So yeah try to get the best quality PSU you can and also pay close attention to its efficiency rating (80 Plus and up is the minimum acceptable level) Hmm, I dunno but I think you're going to have some problems if you game and mine at the same time. ATI driver's can be sketchy sometimes and I bet you'll get some crashes once in a while. But if you wish to do it anyways set the miner's priority very low so it won't eat up the GPU too much. With poclbm if you set the the -f variable to -f 120 you should be able to game and mine at the same time. You're right. Silly me, I totally forgot about that.  Hmm 201.25. How's maybe $180 ?  50 is an awesome temp. If you can maintain that you're golden.I solved the hot summer problem by moving my miners in the basement. Don't think that's an option for you but keep an eye on the temps. I wonder if you can write a script that will shut down the mining program if temp reaches a certain point.  Hmm nice 70 Mhs is not all that bad. This would be great for peeps with no power bills. Still though a 5770 would kick its pants. Don't bother with CPUs - even Xeons. 4870s are okay but pretty power hungry so if you can get your hands on a 6000 series or even 5000 series card (or cards) then that's what I'd recommend. In fact I'd recommend the 6000 series simply because you're going to have a much easier time selling them after you got bored of mining - they have better tesselation performance in gaming with DX 11 games. 5870s go for $200 USD and up. I found a few for 150 a piece but those are much harder to find now. Basically hunt around. True but you know there is a problem with this idea. Most games are going to want to get the latest generation hardware. Many miners (including me) bought cheaper used last gen cards. We're all going to have a much harder time selling them. Plus all this supply being dumped on the market at once is going to make competition for clients really tough. So we'd have to sell the cards at a much lower price than we could get for them if we sold them right now. If a lot of people stop mining and decide to sell their hardware that will create a tremendous supply of video cards which I'm not sure will be met with enough demand from buyers.I look at it this way, if you payed for your cards already then anything from here on is all gravy. If you feel like taking a gamble sure go ahead and buy that 6990 and mine away. I said 6990 because you're going to probably have a much easier time selling that than a 5870 or 5830 etc. Well, what you ideally want is to circulate the heat throughout the whole house not just in the room where the fireplace is. Otherwise your miners will be eating that hot air. Ideally what would be best like I said is to put the miners in the basement and feed the hot air the give out straight into the furnaces air circulation system (it's a giant fan lol). 
I'm in Canada. You know what let me check my gas bill cause I may have spoken with my ass lol :p..one moment plz..nope I was correct..I pay $0.14 per cubic meter of gas, but pay only $0.06 in the winter for electricity. Niice! good work! I got dibs on any 5870s   Umm yes and no. What you're doing is using electricity to heat your home instead of natural gas. In most places I know of electricity is cheaper than natural gas/heating oil so yeah I guess you would be saving $ on heating costs. The thing is that you'd have to figure out some way to push all that heat from the miners and circulate it around the house. I wonder if anyone has setup a ghetto rig to push the heat into a furnace's ducts. Hahahaha... I'd pay to see his mining operation in action. Geek heaven that's for sure! Ah yeah good point. Hopefully this summer won't be all that crazy. Do you intend to add more airflow in the summer or just leave it as it is? Wood is an insulator though so I'm wondering won't the system overheat? How many fans you got in that thing? My spider senses are tingling..I sense someone is about to get fired! God daaaamn!  Yeah, that's one serious bitcoin investment there. It makes my several thousand in mining hardware seem like peanuts. Well, good for him! I do hope he uses his bitcoin wealth to further the bitcoin economy and to start new and interesting ventures. I'd also hope he'd sell me one of his magical ASICS but hmm doubt that will happen P.S ArtForz, I can pay you in bitcoins. Yeah worry not, most people I'm sure already sense that he is just trying to scam/beg.  Question is how much did he pay for the whole process? Tens of thousands of dollars?200 Mhash per chip with just 8 W is amazing though!  Do you live in the Arctic circle? lol What are you going to do in the summer; move the case inside or are you still going to leave it outside? Ouch..I bet a few more difficulty increases and you're out of the game..unless price goes up as well. Let's just say 2 Ghash/s..and feeling very very lucky Which super duper secret pool do you use?  And what that right pool be ? Slush? Deepbit? Hahaha..love that idea   hehe..bobr..speaking of which it's that time of the day again...to bug slush about long polling... Yeah for sure you can't hear it over the gpu fans.Guys check out the Lian Li PC-P80B. That case is sweet also (incidentally it's the one that I use at the moment).  Wow...lucky you at least have the pool fees cause otherwise you'll soon be making 1 BTC per day. If BTC price is greater than or equal to $10 that would still be a pretty damn good deal though - $300 a month.  True. Iceland could so own this mining market if they wanted to. Cheap and plentiful geothermal energy!  lol fo sh0 dawg....but umm  yeah I think US and Canada needs more nuclear power plants - as unpopular and "scary" as that idea seems. I'd move right next to one and ask the company operating the plant to run a 230,000V 3 phase power feed to the house lol!I'd be sippin them jiggawatts twenty'fo'seven..fo sho!
No guys, mining is now utterly pointless...you must halt all mining operations immediately or you shall be prosecuted by the bitcoin police.No but seriously yes mining is STILL worth it. You just have to have cheap electricity and a reasonable hashing rate. There are plenty of freely available calculator tools you can use to figure out if mining is profitable still for YOU. Not the right thread for this question but I'll bite...OK, a single 6970 has the following power supply recommendation on the AMD website: 550 Watt or greater power supply with one 150W 8-pin PCI Express® power connector and one 75W 6-pin PCI Express® power connector recommendedThe max TDP for this card is 250 Watts (just for the card btw!) so to run two you need 500 Watts just for the cards. Tack on the power consumption of your CPU, hds, ssd, other junk, and you're going to come pretty close to the max rated capacity of your hx 620. Sooo..I'd recommend you get a 850 or 1000 watt power supply. The HX1000W is a good one  That's what I have in my main sys and it performs like a champ. I love the HX series  hahaha..he mines carrots..far more valuable than bitcoins.... second that vote...this price is like a helium baloon, it has no choice but to go up up up and awaaaaay! lol Jesus h....it's nuts how much hashing power has been added to the network lately. It's as if everyone, their mother, father, cousin, and their dog bought a high end ATI card and started mining.  Difficulty is slowly but surely catching up to price. Makes me wonder if we're going to see another rally in price. This is not to say that the two are related but just maybe new people will come on board and drive up the price up again...we shall see. *sigh* I gotta throw more GPU power to maintain the same income now..yay for difficulty increases.. Yeah that is just plain rip-off! Whatever country has such high electricity costs seriously needs to invest in more capacity and to increase competition among the providers. Nice! How's that Corsair power supply? I read somewhere that it makes an annoying buzzing noise - especially when a CPU goes into one of the C states (Intel only).  Hmm if that's the case does anyone know of a windows catalyst driver package version for win 7 64 bit that does not exhibit this annoying 100% cpu usage? I'm currently  using 10.11 (why you may ask, well it's cause it actually works faster than 11.5 with phoenix and the phatk kernel). Pff...taxes shmaxes...if bitcoin achieves its destiny one day you won't have to pay taxes. I kid I kid, don't interpret that to mean don't pay you taxes cause you don't want to F with the IRS or any other tax man. That Hyperiod mini nuclear reactor is really cool. I'd definitely get one if I was super rich. I bet that the thing costs millions of dollars so I don't think it's within the reach of even the most hardcore bitcoin miner. Well you should be able to set any clock rate you want with AMDoverdrivectl or even with aticonfig. To be honest I haven't tried to overclock my cards under linuxcoin but theoretically it should work just the same as in windows except that you're doing it via command line.RPC errors means your miner lost connectivity to the master bitcoin daemon. Are you mining solo, pool? This usually means there is a network connectivity issue or massive packet loss/lag. Thanks guys for putting that one to rest.  $0.06 CAD off peak and $0.07 on peak for me...I think during the winter the rate is a fixed $0.06. Either way this is super cheap. Well I'm not sure if it's necessary. I hear many people talk about the so called "sweet spot" as far as a pool's total hash rate is concerned, and I also hear people say that it doesn't matter how high the hash rate is cause the higher it is the lower the variance. But wouldn't slower miners be put at a disadvantage because they can't get their shares in fast enough before the round is over? Maybe some expert can jump in here and enlighten me/us. He could also massively underclock each CPU and the RAM. If they're all AMD boards then turn on that cool'n'quiet junk. If he wants to be even more extreme maybe underclock the cpus so much that he can passively cool them?  He needs to move this operation to the Northwest Territories (Just above Alberta where he is) or as close as possible to the north pole as possible . When it's -30 outside I don't think cooling shall be a problem. I'm being facetious here but lol someone crazy enough may do this  That too, but I was thinking more along the lines of making the interface a bit more pretty and maybe tidying up and ensuring it's as clearly laid out as possible. Any graphical interface specialists/usability experts on the bitcoin development team?Linux packages for as many distros as possible along with freebsd, openbsd, netbsd, etc packages would also be a huge plus.  This is just a suggestion, but wouldn't it be a good idea if development now focuses also on the usability and appearance of the client software? Maybe a slicker interface, make it as dummy proof as possible? I dunno. I'm thinking out loud.
Are you joking me. You're worried about some dude with virtual play money having too much of it when there are a LOT more people in this world that have Billions upon billions of dollars - way more than Satoshi can ever hope to gain in a lifetime.  This is like saying that you refuse to use the US dollar because there may be some unknown multi billionaire out there that you don't know about. C'mon people grow up out of this jealousy of other people's wealth phase.  huh? It doesn't matter what miner you use. For me Phoenix does the same thing! Am I the only one?? God bless Canada and its cheap electricity  ! I pay max $0.07 per KwH If total pool hash rate rises further would you consider splitting the pool in two? Would this cause higher or lower variance? Yep, I understand your reason. But unfortunately you'll have to put up with the CPU usage. Just set CPU affinity for each miner to one core.  Yep, that's why I feel a good side panel fan is a good idea if you're not running open air (ie caseless).  All you would need is at max 4 GB usb thumb drives which sell for like $12-20 each I guess if you buy in bulk you can get a discount maybe. Maybe something like this would be suitable:http://www.newegg.ca/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16820139291A low RPM HD should not eat that much power but a thumb drive eats even less. We're talking watts vs milliwatts here. For example a Samsung F1 640GB is rated 0.7A @ 12V and 0.5A @ 5V - that means max 13 watts power consumption. A USB stick on the other hand will consume much much less than that - max 1 watt. SSH HDs are pretty power efficient too but they're more expensive. Bear in mind that a USB stick will be slower typically than a HD when booting from it, but who cares cause once the OS is booted you won't be using the drive much (maybe just once in a while for system logs and other stuch miscellaneous items, even this can be disabled and optimized to not occur).The latest version of LinuxCoin contains all the tools needed to overclock and manage ATI cards. As far as being easy it's as easy as using a command prompt. I don't think there are any GUI based utils for linux yet though. Hey slush, out of curiosity, do you ever intend to pay for invalid blocks like Tycho?  You live somewhere in Alberta right? Lease the computational power to the University of Calgary or some other western university.  Don't use a HD at all. Use a bootable USB stick with LinuxCoin on it. Also running linux ensures that you won't have that nasty 100% cpu usage issue windows miners have. For PSU I'd try to find 80 Plus Gold rated PSUs if you're concerned about power efficiency - which you should. You'd save 10 to 20 percent per machine in otherwise wasted energy.Yep, fly by the seat of your pants operations are more fun  Hey if you can have fun while doing it and make some BTC why not do it   With the 5970 since it's an externally exhausting design I'd recommend putting the fans in front of the intake vents (or so they're called - they're at the end of the card) Hmm, this got me thinking. You can also put a box fan or two and set them to blow across the whole area of the motherboard/gpus. I'm talking about those smaller 5 inch desk fans. They're pretty powerful and will provide ample CFMs for cooling pleasure Hmm about paper catching fire, I dunno, I read somewhere that it takes quite a high temperature to ignite cardboard. Now if you happen to spill some flammable substance nearby ..lol don't drink alcohol near the rigs  lol love the topic title...To answer it, yes, you're a very very bad and naughty miner! 10,000 whiplashes for you!  If/when you get this oil rig (har har I made a joke ) running please do post some pics   Oh wow we have an ACTUAL financial advisor among us. I don't think it's good to get too worked up about it. Let's all relax and see where things go. I hope bitcoin doesn't' become another example of what Alan Greenspan called irrational exuberance. Sure bitcoins are great and all but would it be smart to bet the farm on them sorta speak; nope!  hehehe..niiice..that is one ghetto rig Overheating issues on the 5870? Try putting a fan on top of it. This way it will blow cold air right on the cooling fans. Same here. 1 million USD/BTC wow that is such a wet dream for me dude  If price went up that high I could finally afford running a 1 Gigabit Ethernet connection to my house...  Checked out that website and I gotta say I love this quote "However, we do not recommend running anything close to this hot, as the acrylic can easily crack at that temperature"..  wow that looks pretty wicked... If anything you'll get bonus points for having the coolest looking miner  I don't see any reason why you would regret doing it if noise isolation is that important to you. It's your money. In the end you must do to get what you want as your expected outcome. However bear in mind that with water cooling although you don't have to worry about airflow IN YOUR CASE you still have to worry about airflow outside it - or more specifically the temp of the room in which the radiator block is located. Cool thing about water cooling is that you can have a radiator pretty far away from the heat source (ie waterblock) if you have a strong enough pump. I've seen a thread on here of some dude that used a car radiator mounted outside  Another advantage of watercooling is the increased card density you can achieve in one single system. You can do this with air too but you're going to run your cards much much hotter. Bah, why didn't they partner up with AMD? They're already a big purchaser of AMD Opteron chips, so why not poke AMD to develop a similar solution like the Teslas. Multiple Cayman cores on a PCB anyone? Hmm, or is it because Nvidia's CUDA language is easier to code with?
Agreed! For the $120-180 spend on a good waterblock I can get another 5850 or 5870! (albeit used). Water cooling makes sense only where noise is the issue like say in you bedroom. If you've got dedicated mining machines air cooling is just fine. Simply increase the fan speed and put the machines in a place out of sight and out of mind where the noise the fans produce won't bother you and that's it. Also don't forget to remove the dust buildup in the fans once in a while. So in conclusion what I'm saying is that watercooling your mining GPUs is another example of the e-peen effect  True. I'm kicking myself for not buying a bucketload of BTC when they were valued at $0.30! Oh how hindsight torments me When you think about it if one has enough money and patience then buying BTC at almost any price is a good idea (at least right now) since the value should increase steadily as more value is introduces into the BTC economy.Buy and hold.... Shhh  don't hype up the price  You only need dummy plugs for secondary displays/cards. What I mean by that is that there will be one card that is always active as the system display card. That one does not get turned off by the drivers when no monitor is connected to it. I dunno about 3rd card for 3/4..I never tried it with 3 cards. I do use two cards per system so I use the dummy plug on the second card. True. If you cannot get an ATI card or your electricity is free then yeah it is better than CPU any day. Suggest a card? Hmm, well depends on your budget. I personally prefer 5850, 5870, and 5970 cards, but the 5830 can be a good card if you can find it very very cheap.  You'll be able to see the second card as a valid OpenCL device without having to plug a monitor into it. Hope you take no offence, but please do not monetize your posts.  The best way to mine with a gtx 460 is to not mine at all With the price you pay for a 460 you can get an ATI card that will kick its ass. I'm starting to think that there is no solution in Windows..at least nothing super easy.In Linux use this:export GPU_USE_SYNC_OBJECTS=1 Umm, are you mining with more than one video card? And to what ATI driver version did you upgrade to?Can you show proof that it went away. Hmm perhaps Luke should update the first post   My advice (and this is speaking from experience as this is what I did) is buy as many cheap 5870s, 5850, and maybe just maybe if you can still find them 5970s. I try to get 5870s for under $200 and so far I've succeeded. But I bet later on supply will dry out and 5850s will be the way to go. Still try to get them for as cheaply as possible this way you'll recover your hardware investment costs as early as possible.  lol true their support isn't all that great. There is also a big language barrier as all their support staff are French Canadians with somewhat weak English skills. Rackspace seems to always make it in Netcraft's top "most reliable web host" ranking. I dunno, in the end it's up to you decide to go with. Slush have you considered switching to a provider such as Rackspace or Softlayer? I do believer they have a cloud hosting solution which may be perfect for the pool - you can scale the amount of server hardware you need. Another provider to consider may be iWeb. They're Canadian based, but when I had a dedicated server with them I found them to have a very reliable network. As far as I know they have cloud type of solution now too.Maybe you can even convince some of these provider to accept payment in bitcoins!  That would be super cool.  I think you're right cause now the server is responding as expected. What an odd issue. Could all the miner be overloading his provider's backbone links? But that would not explain why this is happening regularly at a set time. hmm..slush must be fscking around with the server cause it keeps on going "down for maintenance"...wonder if this is the planned long polling upgrade... Forgot to mention that you should take into consideration the power supply's efficiency level. Don't think that cause your cards in total consume say 600W that the actual juice that the power supply will draw will match that. Add on a 20% or extra depending on the power supply's efficiency level. I'd say stick to 80% efficiency level power supplies or better. Naturally the higher the efficiency rating (ie 80 Bronze, 80 Gold, etc) the more they cost.So I'd say you should leave a bit more headroom if possible. Excellent! That is very much appreciated.  You're welcome. And welcome to the mining community..now get diggin'  No that won't fix your problem. You need to spread out the load on as many SEPARATE 15A circuits as possible. Sometimes some apartments are wired quite stupidly so check with your landlord first before you try anything else. Maybe he/she can give you a schematic outlining which jacks are connected to which circuit breakers, etc. This assuming that you do not have access to the circuit breaker panel yourself.Get yourself a kill-a-watt or any other wattage measurement device and ensure that you do not draw more than 1800W from one 15 amp circuit (that's the limit for a 15A circuit). I'd say if you can do not draw more than 1000W from one circuit. 
You really do not want to use the gtx 580 unless you a) pay nothing for electricity b) are crazy c) are both crazy and pay nothing for electricity d) don't know how to get an ATI card e) can't get an ATI card because a mysterious cosmic force is preventing you from doing so f) work for Nvidia and you are afraid of betraying your beloved employer g) want to do it for shits'n'giggles h) ... Holy christ what kind of hardware you have dude? Whaaaat?   Can you post some proof plz. I don't think you can handle 4 6990 in one single system not just because of the space requirement but also due to the power requirement. You're going to need 2 power supplies to do the job. You can definitely build a 4 x 6990 system if you really really wanted to. You'd have to do some tricks like use a PCIe extension riser cable or whatever they're called.  Eventually demand will catch up and prices will skyrocket again. Remember that there will only be 21 million BTC out there EVER. My gut feeling tells me that the cat is already out of the bag and that price will not go below $1 again.  Good setup. You can even get away with a much weaker CPU such as the Sempron 140. One unknown in that setup for me is the power supply. Is that a good brand? The power supply has to be able to stand up to massive load 24/7 at stable and low temps. Those are all brand new 5870 cards?Also you can get away with a much smaller hd or even perhaps a cheap 16 to 32 gb SSD. Hard drives don't consume a super large amount of power but still if you can shave off a few watts why not. If you intend to use linux you can even get away with using only 1 gb of RAM.The idea is to minimize power consumption and cost yet maximize hashing power, which is 100% dependent on the number and type of video cards you're using. Off topic perhaps, but I'm wondering if ATI hasn't already built a mining farm of their own.  You're talking about another difficulty increase? Already 2016 blocks have passed? Damn! wow slush, your pool has grown quite considerably lately..almost 400 Ghashes!! Congrats.  Hey let's form a mining group and approach the FPGA manufacturers and tell them if they can build for us a custom more stripped own version of their hardware we'd buy in bulk. I think aggregating purchasing power this way can cut costs down for everyone. Just a thought. I hope that happens, or it could also be the case that video cards will just get more and more powerful and they'll always dominate FPGAs. Where FPGA excell is at performance per watt, but not per $...if video cards double or triple their hashing performance but remain within the same thermal (PCIE 2.0 spec) envelope then GPU mining will still have a future. Let's just hope that future ATI cards will remain excellent performers in doing straight integer work. But I have some doubs though as games are more floating point heavy and naturally graphics card manufacturers are going to optimize their architecture to perform better while gaming, not mining.Imagine though if ATI caught wind of this whole mining phenomenon and they'd produce a Cayman core optimized for hashing!  Yep, or "gift" ...I use that all the time to transfer money from my personal to my "premier" paypal account.  Yes. For example in the forex world (with which I am most familiar with) trading costs are incorporated either in the spread or the trader is charged a direct commission per trade. Either way there are ALWAYS fees and you cannot trade "for free"  Awesome. That is a much better solution IMHO. Thanks BitterTea for pointing me in that direction. That's why I don't overvolt or overclock my cards. I intend to squeeze as many bitcoins out of them as possible for as long as possible. Although the logic of "higher the temp the shorter the lifespan" is valid I don't think there is a way to measure or to know when and if the card(s) will fail. I think it's more likely that the fans will die before the actual GPU die will somehow fail. What's worse for a card is cold and hot cycles..running it at a constant temp I think is far better..no thermal expansion and contraction cycles which can mess with the soldering. Oh goodie goodie..*jumps up with excitement*  This breaks my heart, open source FPGA mining code, yet the hardware is prohibitively expensive for the performance that it gives. For $600 I can buy nearly 4 5870s! Anything above 60? pff..no way..radeon cards for example are ok with temperatures way above that.  yeah you're not even in the right directory I bet...try typing "ls" and then "pwd"  to see where you areonce you find the folder where you have the phoenix miner type "cd <insert folder name>" and press enter.then try that whole python command.. I am against dark pools. If we are to have a true an open exchange all price data should be immediately available to all market participants. No backroom deals!
Yes but you forget that in forex one can use leverage. On mtgox you can't. If they allowed margin trading them getting compensated via a traditional spread would be OK. As it stands if they implemented a spread type of setup they would not make a lot of money for sure because of the small size of the btc market. Be patient I'm sure sooner or later we'll be able to speculate on BTC using leverage and pay a commission or pay spread - like in forex or stocks, etc. Hmm, dunno if I would trust AlertPay that much either. What are their refund policies?Stay tuned as I'm working on a trading site which will allow you to deposit/withdraw money into your trading account directly from/to your Canadian bank account.  You intend to snap up some coins at that price range? So what does everyone think is the strongest reason for this massive selloff? Try: python ./poclbm.py -d1 --host=deepbit.net --port=8332 --user=c*****@live.co.uk --pass=***##* If I may ask what did this update constitute? LP support  lol ? Get the one that is cheaper! But make sure in either case to underclock your memory (VRAM) to 300 MHz or lower. This will make a noticeable difference in the cards overall power consumption (20-40W typically. for me it shaved off 40W!) 1.48 is out..try that... You sure about that? I never had to attach a dummy monitor *shrug* Hmm price is sagging quite a bit. I guess those supposed big deposits haven't cleared mt. gox yet?  s3052, what do you think are the current support and resistance levels?  I'm in the same boat. I've long since paid for my mining hardware. I'm still adding a few hards here and there but due to the increasing difficulty of finding the cards that I want I have to curtail my mining farm expansion until the current generation cards become cheap enough. Who knows if when they do they'll be economically viable given the difficulty level at that time, but the point is as long as I'm not going broke keeping the mining rigs running then It's all good. If my small contribution (even at low profitability) helps out the long term success of the system then I'm all the more happy. I already got my geeky reward building and setting up the systems I think though that the mining rigs I have will continue to be profitable for as long as there are coins to be mined (I'm one of those "fools" who believes in an ever expanding BTC/USD exchange rate - ie an increasing value of BTC). When the system switches over to a fee based reward structure I'm not sure what will happen. But even then I will still run a few rigs, just as I still seed torrents even though I'm not getting paid for it. What would be really cool is if in the future as more established companies and merchants adopt bitcoin they setup their own mining rigs and write them off as an expense or a kind of voluntary cost of keeping up the bitcoin financial system. It would be sort of like paying bank fees or account maintenance fees but no doubt be smaller. Sorry to interject in this fascinating discussion with my limited 2 cents worth of info, but you bring up a very good point. In today's financial system you never know how many intermediary banks along the way your payment will go through. Each one may have a commission that they'll take. Thus what the other person (or you) end up at the end of the transaction is not always 100% known. Toll-taking banks indeed!  Perhaps he doesn't want to be quotes as giving out investment advice ? Covering his legal ass perhaps? Smart I'd say. Problem is won't some of these VPS providers want to know a bit more about yourself beyond your e-mail and your visa number? Find out who the early gpu miners were and you'll know who has a lot of bitcoins. But even them may have  hard time competing against the holdings of the early early adopters who even with CPUs earned mad bitcoins (to borrow an expression from the hip hop community)!What's mind boggling to think is how 1000 BTC is now such a large sum of money when last year I used to think I couldn't even buy some bubble gum with that much. I think hoarding will slow down once the hoarders feel more secure that if they were to give up bitcoins they could earn some back by offering a good or service. What I'm saying is that once a mature and deep market exists hoarding will not be such a big problem. Right now bitcoin is like gold - a investment and an asset protection tool.  If the majority of bitcoins are treated as a sort of speculators tool then yeah their value won't have much of a solid base. So I personally agree with people that say that bitcoin needs to grow in economic use. This whole mining thing is blown way out of proportion. I have this uneasy feeling that mining will still be an ongoing central focus for most people until all 21 million coins are minted. I worry that a large majority of newbies are going to treat bitcoin as a cashcow (mine some coins and then dump them as quickly as possible). Heck, hoarding would be better than mining and then dumping them quickly into fiat. Even better would be to buy services and goods or offer their own services and good for them. I do not agree with not telling people about mining though. I don't think it's a good idea to conspire to keep new bitcoin users in the dark about this aspect of the bitcoin system. It would be pretty damn hard to keep them from finding out about mining anyways. The economic incentive is there so it's hard to blame them for wanting to exploit the potential for profit. Dare I go so far as to say that we're going to have a "mining bubble" which is going to drive up price and so on and so forth. Eventually the mining bubble will pop as the non-professional miners will get kicked out of the market by the increasing difficulty. So in the end everything will or should work out just fine @ speeder, I agree with you, there are a LOT of miners out there that don't give a shit about the security of the bitcoin network and they aren't planning to do this for the long term. They just want to squeeze as much fiat money out of this bitcoin thing for what it's worth. I'd have more faith in the early adopters than in say some teenager with his fancy pants radeon that his mommy bought him for Christmas. It's those that have a lot to lose and a lot to gain from bitcoin's success that you can count on to be there for the system when it needs them.Heck I'll mine at a loss if necessary! I don't give a crap about an extra $20 a month in electricity. I want bitcoin to succeed in giving a large portion of humanity freedom and control over their OWN money. On the flip side I understand that I'm probably in the minority and that not a lot of people share my ideological motivations. C'est la vie, n'est pas? Well it's good that the forum is now on a diff server than the official website, this way a /. effect on the main site won't affect the forum. So you tried how many cards at once with the molex to 6 pin pcie connectors? It may mean the PSU ran out of juice on the 12V rail or it's not able to keep up the voltage due to load. You can use 650 W PSU but for no more than 3. I run 2 5870s off of a 600W PSU and it holds up just fine but doesn't have that much more room for expasion (438 Watts at full load) and I too also use those stupid molex to 6 pin PCIe cables - wish I didn't have to but I'd have to get another power supply then (what I'm using is a left-over I guess from an older desktop of mine)Did you also try connecting the monitor directly to that card (the one powered by the molex connectors)? If you're not running in crossfire mode windows will shut off whatever vid card is not connected to a video load (monitor) so if that's the case then you're going to need some VGA dummy cables. Cool, a Canadian based pool  ! I definitely shall give your pool a try.Do you pay out from generated blocks or directly like Luke's (Eligius) pool?Seems like a clone of Luke's (Eligius) pool, but it doesn't really matter. The more pools the better. Now for some quick questions. Are you running this off of a dedicated connection (data center) or a shaw cable connection ? Do you have a backup server or some sort of high availability setup?Also where do you guys get the pool software from? I too would like to setup a similar type of pool for me and a bunch of friends. Any chance of sharing the software? How much does a Cyclone4-150 board cost? Also do you get a discount of you buy the Spartan boards in bulk?Kinda shame you can't get more hashes out of the Spartan boards cause compared to say a cheap 5850 it gets killed. If these boards cost like $50 or something that may be worth it for 80 Mhash/s I'd definitely buy 4 to begin with - maybe more. 
@shat They do not exhaust out the back. They exhaust inside the case. I think in your case maybe running caseless  is best? Well if you can get away with 4 running at 66 C they that's pretty nice  Yes the gpus are the real ovens, not so much the PSU - at full load most good PSU run at 50C max. You said you're putting the mining machine in a data center, so I'm not sure if you can go caseless there, so maybe a good sidepanel fan is called for - 140mm if possible.90 CFM min (higher is better but higher = louder)@1bitc0inplzIt lowers both power consumption and heat output as the memory does not have to work so hard and therefore draw as much power. Yes it applies to all video cards not just radeons. But lowering the memory to 300 Mhz (or lower in some cases) is a very common trick among miners. has the forum been upgraded in any sense or did they (or whoever hosts it) just move it to a subdomain? Damn. I'm jealous. Wish I had all that hardware to play with 60 to 62 C for your existing dual 5850 setup is a very good temperature range. I fear that if you put 4 of them next to each other like that you will had some major problems with cooling them. First off heat will bleed into the card next door (typically the one above it) and the resultant effect will be that the top card will be baked like a cookie. Second I'd recommend you leave a nice gap between the cards. The fans need some space to intake air. I can't quite tell from that picture but are those 5850 using a turbine cooler or a non reference design (ie aftermarket)? If fans instead of turbine then I think you're asking for trouble putting them so close to each other with no room to breathe. If turbine you may be able to get away with it if you maybe I dunno jam something in between them to open up at least a tiny gap. Also if you do this put two high CFM rated fans at the back where the intake vents are and run them at full blast to ensure that cool air is force fed into them. If you can get each card to run without going above 80 - 90 C you're golden  Don't worry about it  Yeah sometimes it's a pain to have to browse tons of posts to find something that you're looking for. I'd recommend to Luke to post the most useful links in the very first post. heheh.. I see, so everything is basically fresh..yum yum. Well then don't worry about it ...as long as it works it's all good in the bitcoin neighborhood. Use the links in the previous post!  That site is broken. And what exactly is "the right amount of btc" to you ? Awesome! I'm looking forward to this release. I hope you write an extensive changelog so we can see what has been changed/updated/upgraded  Excellent. I don't need the plugs right now but maybe in a week or two when I can find a second cheap 5870 (motherboard doesn't support crossfire -hence need for dummy plugs). I'll PM you then if that's alright with you.Cheers! You probably don't have the bitcoin software installed and are trying to start the bitcoin software in daemon mode from within the guiminer interface. This is only needed if you're trying to mine solo. I'd recommend you mine in a pool. Research them. There are quite a few now.  Anyone here willing to ship to Canada? Pretty soon the forum will need it's own maga datacenter full of quad xeon servers to withstand the load..lol  Surprisingly the forum worked fine for me during that recent slashdotting. did you try to "chmod +x phoenix.py" ?  I for one would gladly seed this. But I think it's a good idea to wait until he releases a stable version before we mass propagate this via torrent.Just my 2 bitcoins worth... IMHO combining the pools is desirable if it leads to better overall system stability and reliability. I for one would not mind the 1 block delay. As long as I can have trust in the pool's server and accurate stats reporting I'm happy  The /. people are quite the negative bunch No offense to the launch.is folks, but I think this article is far better and doesn't have as much fanaticism (which will cause criticism of bitcoin - especially by smart ass know it all geeks):http://techland.time.com/2011/04/16/online-cash-bitcoin-could-challenge-governments/ It helps a lot. Thanks for that analysis. I for one very much appreciate it. My dual 5870 rig eats up 440 Watts at the wall and I have a 600W power supply, so I'd say 600W is a good number to have. This way you have a fair bit of headroom and you aren't maxing out or coming close to maxing out the power supply. Anyone has an idea when this pool will support LP? Or is the score based system somehow incompatible with LP. Thanks for the tip! If Eligius stabilizes I may make the graph page public so everyone can benefit (I got cheap bandwidth anyways).
I can verify this. My power usage went up too. From 412 to 421 on one rig to 440~ Now the question is whether the extra hash power justifies the extra power consumption..math anyone? Damn that explains why the graph on the stats page does not update (see link a few posts back)  I thought it was just lag. Should've hunted through the thread to find the json stats link. Dammit without some sort of stats I don't feel comfortable mining for this pool. *Sigh* I guess it's back to a non experimental pool I go.  Sexbots and genetically engineered babies grown in artificial wombs and the female sex shall become obsolete. The bank accounts of male everywhere shall raise a cry of joy that day. Then we can afford to spend more on the important things in life - like mining rigs!   Kiv, I have an interesting question for you. I'm not sure if this was already asked or not, but here it goes anyways. I'm wondering if poclbm allows one to swap out its "kernel" (like Phoenix) and if so would it be possible to include the option to allow people to choose with which kernels they wish to mine (ie poclbm or phatk). I know Phoenix allows this feature but I really like your front end for certain reasons and it would be cool if I could use it and get the same performance I currently do with Phoenix and the modified phatk kernel (optimized for 5870) drgr33n, I'm wondering if you'd consider including the "phatk" phoenix kernel by default with the distro..here is the link:http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=7964.0This kernel is optimized for 5870s and it add a nice bump in performance. Some linuxcoin users will definitely appreciate it if it was already found in the mining dir.Just a suggestion..kind of one for lazy people :p but yeah none the less. Thanks! This modified kernel kicks ass. Went from 350 to 371 with stock 5970 (850 Mhz - it's the slightly overclocked 4 gb vram one) speeds and aggression level 7. With aggression level 12 performance bumps up to 377. All the memory is at 300 Mhz.Very nice! Thank you so much OP!!!!  Hi guys. I have an update in regards to my experience with this pool.I was previously having major connectivity and stale share issues with guiminer (poclbm) so it occured to me to try phoenix 1.47 and I'm glad to report that the number of stale/rejected shares is now within acceptible limits. As for the connectivity issues, I haven't had any so far - but I only switched back to Eligius today. I will keep an eye on it and report back. I would also recommend those of you that use the Phoenix miner to swap the kernel for the phatk one..err..that is only if you have a 5870 or 5970. The modified kernel works equally well on both cards (as 5970 is 2 5870s in 1 basically). I get 371 Mhash on average with average with aggression level 7. I used to get 350 top.So you do the math  Wow, nice. I am so glad that you created this as another user's version is down at the moment. I will switch to monitoring with this. Also thanks for sharing the source. I will put it up online on my dedicated server as a backup.  I'd like complete dummy plugs..call me lazy if you will   Anybody here still selling dummy plugs? I suppose that can be the case as well, but most news releases come out during the weekday business days. A few items like international conferences and such do happen on Saturday when the markets are closed.  That's why the bitcoin exchanges should be closed on the weekend like the Forex market - ie close Friday open Sunday  Yes I blame it all on competition for a mate - it's written in our genes. Social status, money, power, creativity, all of it just feathers in a peacock's tail  metaphorically speaking.Anyways, I'm being a bit tongue in cheek here but I think it would be quite sad if bitcoins became another male geek phenomenon. Don't mind him..let's trying to spread more of those filthy 4chan memes...*sprays forum with 4chan meme disinfectant*lol  OK guys, if there are women among us everyone sharpen up and put on your best "I'm cool" face.  Crazy stuff man. This makes the VIX indicator look like an asymptotic curve. wow we're back to the $6 range...pump and dump or just regular volatility? The gpu should get a few more mhashes than that...I'd hope..I dunno. To be honest I have a Wii but I would not be interested in mining with it. I'd rather spend the $100 something it costs on an ATI card. God I hope not. This is precisely why I worry that bitcoin is becoming a speculators bitch currency...Seriously what matter more than TRADING bitcoins for USD is trading bitcoins for products and services. The bitcoin economy needs to grow faster!  lol can't believe nobody replied with the stereotypical smart ass asshole response..so here I go:answer is...give them to me!  
Wrong! My wife is constantly bugging me to "sell some damn bitcoins"...or "did you sell MY bitcoins yet!?"  rofl!! But seriously Linux and other open source operating systems (OpenBSD, FreeBSD, NetBSD) kick ass. I used to be all hardcore into linux from back in the days of the 2.0 kernel. I was a big slackware fan and was so into compiling all my programs. Along the way the evil M$ empire got me and I installed Windows XP on my main machine (I wanted to play games) and the rest as they say is history. I still use Linux as my server operating system and I refuse to use Windows for that purpose.You gotta admit that Linux has come a long way - a VERY long way. I don't think M$ is shaking in their boots yet though.For mining Linux is perfect. It uses minimal resources (can be trimmed to run with very small amounts of ram) and if you use a more user friendly distro like Ubuntu it can be very well suited to quickly putting together a mining system. Long live Linux!!! Nature isn't so generous to all women..hence epic boob jobs  If you want big natural boobs Russia and some of the other Nordic countries are the place to be:http://www.geekologie.com/image.php?path=/2011/03/25/breast-map-full.jpg First off ensure that you have a nice gap between the cards. What you can do is put some plastic piece or something there to open up a gap between the cards. It's the front intake fans that matter the most, so if the stock fans aren't pushing enough CFMs then get higher speed ones or maybe one of those "Silverstone Air Penetrator" fans.  Direct them at the graphic card's intake vents at the far end of the card. Only 1 to 2 mhash? damn..forget about it then.. -f 60 or higher... Bingo! You've hit the nail right on the head. Bitcoin has no choice but to go up as long as demand for them increases (ie new people coming in) It's as simple as that and no technical analysis can tell you this. With bitcoins we have to go to the fundamentals. It's not a mature market so there is no range of trading yet. OMG that's waaaay too much!  How about keep some and invert..err..I mean invest some? Oh and how about you order some blow and prostitutes with a portion of them? haha ok I'm just messing around but seriously just do what you want.  I think that info is private and I doubt you'll ever find out. You might be able to learn something by looking at the daily volume for a given period of time.Market depth  - The market's ability to sustain relatively large market orders without impacting the price of the security. This considers the overall level and breadth of open orders and usually refers to trading within an individual security/currency hahaha..that the...nobody here is of the fairer sex? deadlizard, why? Have you had a recent sex change?   Well bitcoin is a protocol. Last I checked that's not really the same thing as a library. I agree one option #1. That is the best way to do this at the moment - to defend the system as it currently is and to properly educate people as to why its advantages far outweigh any possible perceived disadvantages. Many times people want to fork the current system because they do not fully understand economics or that they've been brainwashed by the Keynesian BS passed off as economics in the current educational system. Option #2 is also good. I see no reason why specialized forks of bitcoin and the main bitcoin cannot co-exist. 3. Do you have some links to threads regarding those *coin variants? I'd like to learn more about them. True, the early adopters have a much larger incentive to proselytize. Yes I never told anyone to buy bitcoins either. I did tell them to start offering their products and services in exchange for them. I also told them that they can make some bitcoins if they already have a high end graphics card (I did mention that it would be more economical for them to use ATI cards) but I never said they should go out right this instant and buy 50 Radeon 6990s cause they're going to become the next Bill Gates. I think that maybe you'll have the clearest conscience if you told people to offer their services and products for bitcoins. This way everyone would benefit from the enlargement of the bitcoin economy. As for miners I have a feeling that later on the mining portion of bitcoin will fade more in the background. It will become a specialized science sort of speak suitable mainly for the hardcore bitcoin geeks. The upside of this is that miners like us will naturally benefit the most from this. But to get to this stage a lot of miners will drop like flies due to the massive increase in difficulty expected before we ever get to this mature stage.  Hilarious and sad at the same time...Now here is an amusing pyramid: Thought so, so this is a windows issue with the OpelCL SDK using the CPU spinstates...in linux you can apparently disable this, but not in windows.  Many have already advocated breaking the 21 million limit and making bitcoin inflate at some "steady" % rate (various figures have been bounced around) but I feel the majority of the people who responded to their suggestion feel that this is a bad idea. I personally do not support it and would never join this alternative block chain no matter what. I do not want a digital equivalent of the same crappy hyper inflationary fiat money system I live under right now! But the reality is that there isn't much anyone can do to prevent someone from forking bitcoin or from creating their own flavor of the blockchain based on some wild idea that came to them while they were stoned. This is not necessarily a bad thing. But if the current bitcoin system were to gain a certain amount of traction any alternative systems would get largely ignored or would become a highly niche system. This is of course that it will be much easier for people to obtain common necessities and services for bitcoins belonging to the current system. Thus growth of the current system and widespread adoption is paramount!In what way do you recommend we "deal with" potential forks? Astonishing! How can he think bitcoin to be a pyramid scheme if there is no central entity or person (ie the "capstone") involved?Ohwell..chalk another one for human stupidity..the only true infinite commodity in the world. Spoken like a true banker right there. While you are correct it would also be stupid if you did all this work and spend all this money on your mining rigs and nobody start to use the currency you've mined. So it is in your own economic interest to have more people mine coins and spend them and then to tell their friend about it..etc. In other words the viral effect would pay off for everyone - especially miners who will see the value of their coins go through the stratosphere. I personally tell everyone who I have discussions with regarding bitcoin that they too can be rewarded for helping to strength the network by mining. If they are smart they will at the very least bother to do some research, and if they are really smart they will get more into bitcoin. If they do not, that's fine, but they will be the ones BUYING bitcoins from me at $100 per coin. Life is full of good opportunities but most people are to ignorant and too "stuck in their own ways" to see them. Such is life! Not good. Are you overclocking the GPU? What temps are you experiencing? hahahaha   preeeeeciiiisely!
Both tell us that BTC/USD is in a severe overbought and strong uptrend stage.The problem with using standard technical analysis tools on BTC/USD is that the BTC/USD market lacks the same level of depth and liquidity of say EUR/USD currency pair so there is more variability (volatility) which can really mess many technical analysis tools up. I'd say stop trying to apply technical analysis to BTC/USD for now and treat it from a fundamental analysis point of view. You can apply technical analysis when the daily volumes of trades for BTC/USD reach a very large level.For now "predicting" the trend depends largely on whether you know key bits of fundamental data that is relevant to the BTC/USD exchange rate (ie stuff like important bitcoin related news event, news of wider adoption, more businesses starting to use it, some big business adopting it, etc). I see. Well I am starting to think more and more that the problem is really on my end. Stay tuned as I plan to give Phoenix 1.47 a try and see if it helps.  Those after market GPU coolers are really effective but please do remember that hey will vent the heat INSIDE your case, so you better make sure you have some really good method of pushing cold air from the front and exhausting out the rear.  Damn, just got a huge bonercoin after watching.Very clever ad though. We need more of it! Sure open air designs are a viable alternative, but I think the biggest factor is controlling ambient air temps. Has anyone built some sort of "air tunnel" cooling system? What I mean is a duct or fan puling in air from one direction and exhausting the hot air from the gpu area to the outside air. Hmm, someone edit his post in the previous page saying that Phoenix 1.46 fixes this problem and that the reason behind the large number of stale shares is guiminer (ie poclbm).  You're probably right. The GPU inside the Wii isn't all that powerful. The thing is it would be far more efficient than say CPU mining if it managed to achieve ~15 Mhash/s Interesting. I think you may have solved my problem too. Do you get any RPC errors with phoenix? I think Luke needs to setup his own stats page for his pool members and not rely on someone else's script. It doesn't have to be anything fancy, just some silly little stats panel that is ACCURATE. Screw them..I for one would not sell them..Do you really think that all bitcoin  users are motivated purely by profit motives? Hmm, I did a bit of googling and I think it may be theoretically possible:http://forum.wiibrew.org/read.php?15,50783"Wii also supports Havok Destruction and Havok clothe, and those tools work with Opencl.""I have been doing investigation in gpgpu and Wii Hollywood and games and articles and all for about 1 year, I am sure of this, the problem is not the hardware, is the software, I have gone so far studying Opencl by myself, but the documentation is really complex and there are not many examples to practice, plus, we would have to look for a way to make it compatible with Wii, maybe a driver like how it was done with cuda running on an ATI Radeon"I also researched the Wii's power consumption in games, and apparently it peaks at 18W. Now I wonder how many hashes we'd get out of it and what its hash/watt ratio is.*rubs chin*.... Very nice! So you're set for not only the robot uprising but also a zombie apocalypse  Well I suppose that's not such a bad thing. Us more persistent miner will be there quietly mining and minding our own biz. I found a solution to the coming summer heat problem  (no, not AC - that would lower profitability) so I'm still going to mine even in the summer. The thing is that sooner or later the difficulty is going to push the majority of "non-professional" miners out of the market and we'll have a hodgepodge of large and dedicated miners doing most of the work. I think he was referring to the VRM temps being 100 or below. If his cores were at 100 they'd be throttling themselves if I'm not mistaken. Umm, did a calcuation and if you have a reference 5970 and reference 6990 (not overclocked) the total power  draw for both cards should be 600W. That does not factor in other power usage by the system. So I'd say your power supply should be up to the job as long as it's not faulty in some way. When you used the dual 5970 did you also use the same power supply? Also keep one or all the monitors on and see if there is a blue screen (drivers crash) before it shuts down. Try also leaving the 6990 in the non overclocked position (it's got a switch on it - or it should). Cool graph. I had way way more stale shares with Eligius. To compare at the moment the machine I'm typing from has a total of 180 stale shares for both GPU cores - that's out of a total of 23463 accepted shares. With Eligius I used to get 100+ stale shares with only 700+ accepted shares. The ratio was way too bad! I should mention that the moment I'm mining with slush's pool. I've yet to try mining on deepbit and recording the stats (I've mined with deepbit but never bothered to keep an eye on the  stale shares), but I think the higher fees probably means that even with the saved stales you'd still be making just as much as on slush. I dunno. Either way the conclusion that I've come to is that FOR ME Eligius has poor connectivity. I don't know whether this will change in the future but for now I'm sticking with slush, unless somehow Eligius improves. I like the fact that Eligius gives out minted coins but it's just too unstable for me to use at the moment. I was wondering if maybe I put a higher priority on packets addressed to port 8837 whether I'll remove the RPC errors...anyone tried this? Hmm, dunno, I've never had any problems with power supplies. Then again I only buy high-end power supplies. I currently have a Corsair HX-1000W in my main desktop (5970) and a Thermaltake ToughPower 600W in the dual 5870 rig - the power supply is 4 years old and it's holding up under constant load just fine. In my opinion sometimes going for the brand alone is not enough. Some of the good names out there use different OEMs from time to time and that can be a hit and miss. It's best to heavily research a power supply before you buy it. Google it and look for reviews. If the build quality is there and the power supply uses high quality components like Japanese caps and the rest then I'd say it's a safe buy. But yes you are right the majority of the power supplies sold to the average joe are pure junk. None of them will stand up to the stress test of 24/7 mining. Reached it again and surpassed it. Either it's pure insanity or irrational exuberance, but either way I think the uptrend party is here to stay.  Indeed. MACD would be a much more appropriate technical analysis tool. That and of course moving averages. If you plan to "o'clock the shit outta" it then water cooling is the way to go bro. Now go and make that video card squeal like a pig!  wow really..for this alone I am dying to see a windows build  I'd really love to swap out poclbm for hashkill if it means no more 100% cpu usage.
lol wtf...this thread is a waste of database space. So far no matter what I tried in windows I cannot fix this problem. I will try linux mining over the weekend to see if that fixes it. Guys give this a try:https://www.bitcoin.org/smf/index.php?topic=7374.0not saying that it fixes it ...just to try it. The thing is those errors happen quite regularly with this pool. I dunno if it's a connection on Luke's end or my (or other peoples') end. I for one decided to use another pool until this issue is no longer existent or until I figure out why it was caused in the first place. BitcoinRigs, what power supply are you using to feed those beastly 6990s? that's a whole different issue..but get yourself a "dummy plug" if you don't want both always connected to the same monitor Can they not check the load on the circuits? I dunno, I'm no expert on this. Yep, for the 6990s water cooling is the best solution IMHO. Or possibly an after market cooling solution like the one Arctic Cooling built for the 5970 - not sure if they updated it for the 6990. However with such an aftermarket cooling solution you'll be dumping heat inside the case so if you have good case airflow AND you only intend to put one card in the system (like a gaming rig) then it's all good. Oh yeah. Tis perfect now. lool...that indeed is a problem. The only other thing I can suggest is to give linux a try and see if it does the same thing under linux. Check this out:https://www.bitcoin.org/smf/index.php?topic=7374.0 Nope. The best you can do for now is set the affinity for each miner process to one core. hmm..changed my worksize to 256 and I noticed a very slight performance increase..hash rate is also more stable now.  *shrug* hai hoo, hai hoo..it's back to slush I go..hai hoo hai hoo....it's got higher fees I know..hai hoo hai hoo...hai hoo hai hoo.. lol didn't know there was a bounty..worry not; I do this out of the goodness of my heart..hey btw, I think with the 5970 using WORKSIZE=128 may give you better performance. Also experiment with the FASTLOOP setting (turning it on to see if it helps)If you got good cooling for those cards try clocking them to 850 Mhz - you'll get 350 Mhash/sec (that's with aggression set to 6..if you use 11 it will be even higher) Yeah it's possible. I'm not using 11.4 either. I tried it on a recent miner and I had problems - driver crashes - so I went to 10.11. Make sure you use the latest guiminer as it has support for the BFI_INT instruction. Another miner called Phoenix supports the same (it was the first to introduce it). Also keep an eye on a mining program called "hashkill"  Ok now that is odd. GPU 4 it seems is not really a GPU but instead the miner is using your CPU!!Do you see 4 Cayman cores in guiminer (try guiminer as a test)? Same here...this is nuts. This pool is cool and all but I am tempted to move somewhere cause of the connection issues. I don't think you need a monitor or a dummy cable for each card. If you use quad crossfire it should work just fine. The only time where you need a dummy plug is when you are NOT using crossfire/SLI. The reason being is that when the OS detects that no video load is on the card's connectors it shuts off the card. A dummy plug tricks the card into thinking it's got a monitor attached.  Hopefully you won't run into driver conflicts.  $820 I can easily do ..we shall see. Either way I'm buying a new 5870 soon. Hmm...yeah I think I will be moving on to linux for my dedicated miners. I managed to reduce the cpu usage to 50% by setting the affinity for both poclbm processes but still why should the cpu consume 50% more electricity than is necessary.That new bitcoin linux distro looks mighty spiffy!  I'll probably be using that on a usb drive.
Wow..I am impressed that the article is so well written and clearly not biases. No bitcoin bashing here and I'm am very happy to see it.  Once again there is no such thing as a free lunch...unless you live in your parent's basement..then you're living like a king..lol mine away!No but seriously yeah I bet most smart landlords do include a small clause or disclaimer that will prevent you from consuming the Gigawatts of electricity your dream mining farm would require. So I'm afraid with all things you gotta pay if you wanna play. Thankfully mining is still profitable - for some people - so the electricity costs can be covered and justified. Glad you got a chuckle out of it  I am to entertain as well as educate. Also remember that all men who accomplished great things were borderline obsessed  Can someone make a motivational poster with this quote? lol Yes. That is what I'm doing at this very moment. You will need a dummy cable for the video card that is not attached to a monitor though. If you want to go headless and control the system via VNC you need two dummy cables obviously. Miners are located in Canada. Checked clock - all is well automatically updated via microsoft's NTP servers.I dunno what else it can be. I'm mining with guiminer btw. Not sure if that has any affect. Where is this nvidia card?How about you post your entire system specs..they may be helpful Computers are absolutely crucial to humanity's survival..thus I'd say whatever pollution the produce either directly or indirectly (externalities) is completely justified....now pardon me while I add more power hungry computers to my hashing cluster..*pets mining rigs*  Do you have them in crossfire? If not what could be happening is that when no video out is detected it shuts off the video cards. This happens to me on my dual NON crossfire 5870 setup. If I don't at first plug in a video load the secondary video card is shutdown. This is where dummy vga connectors will come in very handy!Edit: whoops..seems someone already answered you..did not notice the warning..my bad Very nice  the pool's total hash rate just shot up from 35 to 50! someone should close this thread and update the bitcoin wiki to point to the new thread in the Mining section...dontchathink? Also is it just me but I noticed an unusually high number of stale/invalid shares. 833 submitted and 29 stale for one miner. 815 and 36 stale for another. edit: I dunno Luke I guess I will let the miners on your pool for a little longer but if this keeps up I'll have no choice but to switch them over to another one as I have no spare "play hashing power"  hahahaha...yeah that would be hilarious - not for the person getting busted though  Hmm it seems I'm getting a lot of these errors:Listener for "Eligius 2": 10/05/2011 10:10:21, Problems communicating with bitcoin RPCListener for "Eligius 2": 10/05/2011 10:10:27, Problems communicating with bitcoin RPCListener for "Eligius 1": 10/05/2011 10:10:27, Problems communicating with bitcoin RPCListener for "Eligius 2": 10/05/2011 10:10:34, Problems communicating with bitcoin RPCListener for "Eligius 1": 10/05/2011 10:10:38, Problems communicating with bitcoin RPCListener for "Eligius 2": 10/05/2011 10:10:41, Problems communicating with bitcoin RPCListener for "Eligius 1": 10/05/2011 10:10:44, Problems communicating with bitcoin RPCListener for "Eligius 2": 10/05/2011 10:10:50, Problems communicating with bitcoin RPCListener for "Eligius 1": 10/05/2011 10:10:50, Problems communicating with bitcoin RPCListener for "Eligius 2": 10/05/2011 10:10:56, Problems communicating with bitcoin RPCMy end or your end?  Ah ok so the server is located in a data center. Thanks for answering my questions Luke.  Well, over 100 Mhash for a 4890 is pretty damn good performance if you ask me. So I think in the end you just may have to settle for what you got. You need more than just the display driver. Get the complete catalyst package. What says it has opencl support? GPU-Z? Watch your temps..the 4890 run hot like toasters. In fact they'd make a good hot plate to cook your breakfast on Umm, but have you tried -w 64?I'm not sure what the optimal work size unit is for the 4890, but you can try -w 64 or -w 128 or -w 256 and see which works best. Or you can try to ask that question in this thread:http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=4122.0 Yep, as long as you're making *new* mistakes you qualify to be be officially SANE. Yep, real estate is way overpriced in the Toronto (aka GTA) area and as a result I'd say so are rents. If that landlord has the property already paid off (ie no mortgage) then that $800 is pure profit (minus expenses and other misc items) so our psknives's electricity usage may go unnoticed or maybe the landlord won't care all that much - at least not until the power bill approached the the multiple hundred dollar mark lol I dunno, this is all pure speculation. Psknives if you have the desire to do this go for it, don't let anyone here tell you what to do even if ultimately you may end up with an unprofitable operation - at least this way you've done it your way and you learned by your own mistakes and noone can take the blame for your actions  True enough, but at the moment the amount of bitcoins out there are greater than the total economic activity of the bitcoin economy. What I'm saying is that the bitcoin economy has to grow into the current number of bitcoins. The only way I can think of this not being the case if the majority (large majority) of current bitcoin holder refuse to let the currency circulate - ie they hoard it.I do wish a large poker site would adopt bitcoins. That would be a very good bit of news for bitcoin and bitcoin users. The early miners will have a field day as no doubt this news event will push price even higher not just cause of the extra demand for bitcoins but because the news would attract new bitcoin users.
True (I'm from Ontario too) but do you really think that free utilities means unlimited utilities. I'm sure someone would notice if you start sucking 10's of kilowatt hours. I thought about this a few weeks back and I think what may work is if you have a lot of friends who rent places with so called "free utilities" you may be able to convince them to allow you to place one of your mining rigs at their place (reward them somehow for this). Spread these mining rigs across several apartments and you'd have a nice amount of hashing power without paying for electricity - ie free bitcoins. The moral downside is that the landlord is going to end up footing the bill :p lol  Youch..to fit into the $380 price seems a bit hard. I've found a 5870 card for $150 but according to your estimation that's nowhere enough hashing power per $ I think it is pretty much near impossible to get 1 Ghash for $380 or less. Damn, I better squeeze in as much hashing power between now and the next difficulty increase. It would be nice for us miners if price stabilized for a few months   Luke I'm not sure if this has been asked (I read the whole thread and I think not), but what type of connection is the server using? Are you hosting this pool on some pc behind a ADSL/Cable router? My main concern here is the reliability of your setup. As cool as your pool idea may be it won't mean much if it's down a lot. $10 very close as in a few months? Dang. That would be something! But in the end I personally care more about how many people are actively using bitcoins to exchange value than simply a high btc/usd exchange rate. Why might you ask, well it's simply because if there isn't enough economic activity to back that high valuation the the btc/usd exchange rate is unwarranted and unjustified and eventually the market will give it a true valuation which may be much lower than it currently is. The larger the bitcoin economy grows the more stable the btc/usd exchange rate will be. Which version of guiminer are you using? Also make sure you install the full catalyst drivers with opencl support. It's probably best to avoid 1.45 until they fix the idling issue.  Hmm I see. So what's needed is an "industrial strength" bitcoin daemon - a lot of work and bug testing involved there. Would it be a good idea to setup the system in such a way that when the servers get overloaded to a certain point no new workers will be accepted to join the pool? Also is it possible to rewrite the bitcoind so it operates in a cluster configuration? This way you can have one bitcoind loaded to say only maximum 50% capacity. That would be a very sneaky and evil thing to do. What would make it worse is that the US government has nearly unlimited funds to dump into DDoS attempts. However if anyone catches evidence of this there would be a huge PR shitstorm coming their way.  Can anyone look you in the eyes and convince you that the USD you sell your silver and gold for will be of value 30 years, much less 3 millenia from now?Your argument is not valid because gold and silver are not officially treated as money, they are commodities.  Also maybe add more RAM to your servers? With the fees that you're earning I'm sure you can afford to upgrade the server infrastructure  But I think the main problem is the buggy bitcoind you use. Now that difficulty is at 157,426, I'm wondering what you guys plan to do? Add more rigs ? Who here plans to stop mining? Signed up. I like the site as it's very simple and fast so far. I hope you get more miners joining you.Keep up the good work! True, but bear in mind that they too have a large number of GPU crunchers. I don't know if they've got more then us but I suppose that can be easily found out, no? I'm curious to know if a windows beta/alpha build will be released soon. I think there is something wrong with 1.45. I get a "work is idle" error with slush's pool. Once this error comes up (I think it's happening at random or after a certain period of time) it won't resume hashing. With guiminer I have no problems.  Hmm seems I'll have to put off some mining hardware expansion I've been planning. Let's see though if price will go up again  I'd definitely be interested in purchasing shares one you guys go public/profitable. Any way to turn this variable on in Windows? Modify poclbm? Apparently the miner doesn't make any difference. I have the same issue with both guiminer (essentially poclbm with a pretty gui on top) and phoenix. 
Wow, I am quite surprised to hear that! It is very sad indeed. Makes me wonder who the hell is conducting these DDoS attacks. Besides another pool operator, in whose interest is it to DDoS fledgling mining pools? Any tips you can give us in regards to avoiding and mitigating DDoS attacks?  Oh ok, now that makes more sense. You had me confused there for a second.  Hold on a second, am I reading this right? You're getting 130-140 mhash/s from a CPU?  But what about people who do not have static IPs? I doubt anyone would want to DDoS a tiny pool. If you get to the point where you have to worry about DDoS protection then you know "you've made it".I think your approach is a smart one - smart small for now and if the pool "goes big" move it to Amazon EC2.  Interesting. So you're moving from a pool with lower fees to one with higher fees. Why not move that capacity to bitcoinpool or btcmine as both have no fees at the moment.  I think it would be more than enough. Sending work units to miners is not all that bandwidth intensive. But I'm wondering if it would be possible to increase your upstream capacity and lower your downstream capacity because upstream is what your future pool would be using the most. Oh and congrats on trying to start a pool. I for one think that the more mining pools we have the better. You would not need more than one server but for redundancy and reliability's sake it would be advised. Maybe you can setup a high availability cluster with 2 nodes? I dunno, the thing is that there are quite a few possible points of failure and if you can design the pool's infrastructure to be as resilient as possible then all the better  Yeah I was thinking of stealing that ram and putting into a new mining machine. The system would consume even less if it wasn't that while mining with 2 GPUs cpu usage eats up 100% of one core (if you set the affinity of each poclbm process to a specific core - otherwise it will eat up 100% of BOTH cores). Seeing as the TDP for my CPU is 85 Watts I could definitely save a few watts if the cpu wasn't loaded at all or only marginally (like 1-10%) Also I am thinking of underclocking and undervolting the cpu to shave off a few watts. Other than that I'm not sure what else I can do to lower system power usage. For your dual 5870s make sure you lower the memory to 300 Mhz. It does make a difference - roughly 30-40 Watts OK slush, thanks for clearing that up. I am in no rush so do that at your earliest convenience.  Correct. Unless of course you don't pay for electricity, then it's a net win obviously.  Yep, good point! Thanks for pointing that out. It is now my new policy to spread out my miners as widely as is reasonable. I wish though there were more pools out there. A few more pools, each with a total capacity around 50 Ghash would be a good thing IMHO.  1) AMD Athlon II X2 5200+, 4 GB RAM, 500 GB HD (SATA 7200 RM), 2 x Radeon 5870 @ stock speeds but with memory down to 300 Mhz2) 702 Mhash/sec @ 850 / 300 3) Average 425 WattsThis is the only machine whose power consumption I've measured.I've got my main desktop which has a 5970 clocked at 850 Mhz / 300 Mhz memory but for that one I've only measured it's power consumption way back when I had the memory at stock. At the time it was eating up over 500 watts.I am thinking of taking out 2 gb of ram from the machine mentioned first. I duno if it will make a huge difference in power consumption though, maybe 5 to 10 watts? Maybe not even that. It's DDR2 800 btw. I don't think you understood what I was trying to get across. I do realize it has to be confirmed, but I do not see any unconfirmed blocks that I participated in anymore - meaning all of the ones that I've participated in show as confirmed. The only thing that I can think of that may be going is that the stats on the main page are broken? My god imagine if all of them joined the bitcoing mining crowd overnight, imagine the hashing power and the ensuing difficulty jump! Ditto. 702 Mhash coming this way...open the gates..lol Hmm, this is weird..I have "0.63640126 BTC" showing as unconfirmed and it has been that way for many hours. No new blocks show up in the stats and none that I participated in so I guess I can kiss these bitcoins goodbye? It's understandable. I for one decided it would be best to evenly split up all my miners on various pool. Until now I had all my miners on slush's pool, then when that went down I moved the all to deepbit, but later I realized that with such a huge hash rate deepbit would not be in my best interest due to the very fast rounds. So my solution for now is to split half of the miners on some other pool and as for the others I'm not sure where to place them (still currently on deepbit). I think if everyone did this (distributed their hashing power on multiple pools) it would be better for the network. This way when one huge pool goes down for whatever reason it does not cause a huge and sudden drop in total network hash rate as the users scramble to find alternative pools to hop to. Also a mining proxy may be an even smarter solution. This is something I intend to look into this week.Happy mining everyone! Fair enough, but in that time period all the countries were on a gold backed standard and everyone benefited from a universal stable monetary system. I'd imagine a country who adopted gold as their official currency say several years ago would've had quite the fun time dealing with massive deflation as gold appreciated at a tremendous rate. This rapid appreciation would adversely affect exports among other things. What I'm saying is that bitcoin is in an unique position as one of the few examples of free market money in a world dominated by fiat (in the true sense of the word) money. It will be interesting to see how the bitcoin economy grows and how it will be affected by the fiat economy whose money is tightly and centrally controlled. The true test would come when the bitcoin economy faces the economist's bogeyman - the "market cycle." Which of the two systems would survive (ie between bitcoin and central bank controlled money) and in which manner is the really interesting test. If we look back in history even during the period of the classical gold standard there were boom and bust cycles. Bitcoin will no doubt be put to the test in the future with its very own boom and bust event or something else possibly much worse. I hope it comes out unscathed and survives this trial by fire. Careful there. You are using the current system (central bank based) as an example of why bitcoin will not have the same problem (different). And by achieving stability I am referring to stability in extreme situations as described by the author of the blog post I linked to (ie extreme bouts of inflation or deflation and constant swings between the two extremes). Yep, looks very cool indeed. Does it have VNC support, and if not could you add it? Awesome. Thanks LightRider  
Dang, what a mess. Several invalid blocks in a row (3 to be precise). Time to ditch this shallow pool and hop into the deep one :p That's a very good point you bring up. As far as I know there is no real way to differentiate. The Federal Reserve is in the same position of imperfect knowledge so I don't see how anyone could design a system that would have perfect knowledge of the transactions within a monetary system. I would venture to say that it is impossible.I for one am not in favor of this "virtual central bank" idea. However I am curious to hear some ideas about how you'd go about "achieving stability without a central authority" None that I can think of, but I'm sure now that you've started this thread people will grace you with some reviews right here.I recommend guiminer or phoenix. They both now perform on an equal basis so it's a matter largely of preference which you choose. Go for either one and mine happily!  Me 2. My miners are air purification devices. Once the crazy summer temps roll around they'll be air incineration devices. No air borne particle or germ stands a chance! muahaha  Speaking of which (and I apologize for the off-topic post), anyone know where I can get the toughest USB memory stick available? Or maybe the most secure?  Yep I think that's the safe route to take. I plan to just stop mining altogether when gaming. I really don't like crashes and rebooting for me is  such a big pain in the ass because I got like 20+ different applications running at once.Does 11.4 improve speeds a bit over 11.3? I have doubts, but thought I'd ask. Yeah I saw that thread a while back. Once again I was referring to a dedicated site for such activity, not some thread  Damn. OK, I am officially both frustrated and confused lolI wish I could upgrade my kernel too (win 7)  Ohwell, I guess there is always mining under Linux.  Why is it that mtgox has to abide by the rules of FinCEN which is a US institution! MT Gox is owned and operated in Japan from what I know, so once again what is it with this deference toward US financial authorities - you know not everything has to revolve around the US   I for one would prefer no withdrawal or deposit limit BUT in exchange I'd be willing to accept the implementation of KYC rules (know your customer) That's a small price to pay for increased transaction freedom. This way authorities feel safer that bitcoins are not being laundred for shady purposes via these large exchanges (if they wanted to launder it they should do it person to person ie direct payments). That without a doubt is the big hope of all bitcoin miners, but it doesn't necessarily have to be so. My gut feeling is that we will see another rally as soon as the next difficulty rate increase comes around. I meant a site where people can lend and borrow bitcoins - the bitcoin equivalent of the "Prosper" site. Sorry I should've made myself a bit more clear. I did not mean price data as in what bitcoins are valued at but price data in the sense of information about how monetary velocity, the size of transactions, etc - data that can be used to gauge what the currency is doing. Yep, I agree with you. I'm looking forward to seeing a peer to peer lending site.  Yeah I see your point. As long as ATI or other graphics card manufacturers can come up with more powerful cards that consumer the same or less watts for the same performance level then dedicated miners will have no choice but to upgrade to these cards. The thing is that there is no guarantee that future cards will be exceptionally powerful at mining. We could end up with a change in architecture that will spell the end of profitable mining on ATI hardware - ie ATI could make cards that suck at mining like Nvidia does. I dunno, but I think that by that point dedicated mining chips would be out and about being sold and snapped up by the hardcore dedicated miner. I for one plan to move on to ASICs and any other more efficient mining hardware platforms as they get released.  But you only have one card. This problem should occur only when running more than one GPU in the same system. I'm surprised to hear that you were having this problem. CPU usage was always at 100%? Hmm, carefull there. 91C is a IMHO too high a temp. If you can keep it within the 68 to 80 range it would extend the life span of the card. Once again your future water cooling kit would take care of that without any problems. You'll see the GPU (at full load) run below 60C for sure. True, but at the moment there is no money market for bitcoins hence no interest rates. Is anyone out there lending bitcoins? I doubt it. Well the reason the guy hasn't asked for a price change it because the value of bitcoins have been going up and thus he now getting 3x more than before (relative to the USD of course). So in a sense you're now paying $1.75 for hosting. Unfortunately for the moment (cause of the bitcoin economy being relatively small) people still automatically compare bitcoin prices to USD prices or do the conversion in their head. It's as if bitcoins are pegged to the USD! That really makes me wonder if it were possible to code a "bitcoin central bank" within the bitcoin protocol itself. This logic would respond to price data already freely visible in the block chain and make corresponding adjustments to the bitcoin total supply. I dunno if this is really a good idea in the end but it's interesting to think of it none the less. I agree. What the bitcoin economy needs is a) to grow as rapidly as possible b) to outpace demand for bitcoins as purely speculative i nvestments c) sophisticated financial tools (ie optios, futures, etc)
Yep, seen your video. Cool stuff. Happy mining! Hmm, a watercooling kit will definitely solve any cooling issues but bear in mind that a typical waterblock will set you back $150 or more. I know for example koolance asks around $160, but you may be able to find a cheaper waterblock somewhere (ebay maybe?).As for the warranty, what brand is your 6990? If XFX they will still warranty you even if you did all that work to it.Heheh..hey when you get tired of the card (and assuming there is no hardware defect) give me a shout and I'll pick up the water cooling kit + card from ya Hopefully you'll be able to improve cooling and solve the high noise issue. Out of curiosity what is the fan currenty spinning at - percentage wise ? I wish it were possible to disable it with OpenCL. If you find some way or method please share. I'd like to get the CPU to idle as it would save some watts.Funny thing this happens only when using two or more GPUs. When mining with a single 5870 card I get little to no cpu usage...go figure. lol, you sure you want them to last JUST long enough to pay for themselves..do you not instead want them to last until they pay for themselves and MUCH longer beyond that point ? Yeah that's the chance you take when mining in a pool. Mining solo with a low powered card is like playing the lottery. If you get lucky great, but if you don't you could go for a really really long time without finding 50 BTCs. I for one prefer low variance over "striking it lucky" so I'll continue to mine in a pool regardless of how much hashing power I accumulate..well almost regardless cause if I had 100 Ghash or something crazy like that I'd solo mine..but you catch my drift. I'm wondering if any of you have seen this dude's blog post and if so what you think of it:http://undergroundeconomist.com/post/1528511369His argument is that bitcoin will fail because it lacks a mechanism for dealing with demand, or "it lacks any mechanism for dealing with fluctuations in demand. Increasing demand for Bitcoin will cause prices in terms of Bitcoin to drop (deflation), while decreasing demand will cause them to rise (inflation)"Is this in and of itself such a huge flaw? Can the free market mechanism be trusted to create an equilibrium or will bitcoin inflate or deflate itself out of existence? So, what you all think? Definitely an interesting project and one that I shall be keeping a close eye on. I can definitely make use of this distro as it will save me quite some time setting up and configuring my own.Best of luck! Bitcoin is the next gold   Nice..I'd push my 5970 to that, but I got one of those internally exhausting coolers. 370 Mhash/sec is very good performance from it. Enjoy your mining! Cheers. hahahah... good one..Worry not eventually that feature will be taken out of the official bitcoin client. I am one who believes that mining should be a separate and dedicated function of the network that is suitable only for those with high end graphics cards. At the moment CPU mining is pretty much pointless unless you don't pay your electricity and even if you don't it's a huge waste of energy. This little piggy went to the market..this other little piggy wasted his time in bars and got wasted all day..and this other little piggy built himself a bunch of rigs and got rich mining bitcoins... Not only that but a LOT of them were woefully misinformed and they did not even show the willingness to educate themselves a bit before they open their mouth. Also many of them exhibited that idiotic "if it's new it must be a scam or something must be wrong.." attitude.  I like that..keeping it old school unix style (ie with separate conf files)  Probably a little bit from column A and a little bit from column B... Careful with those box fans. Some of them can consume quite a lot of juice - easily above 40W which is more than a good 140mm fan. I'd go with extra case cooling if possible. Also it strikes me that the P183 doesn't have good air flow, but I could be wrong. Been done, but not with carrots  Checkout 419eater dot com and then click on the trophy room. Nice! Very generous of you. I'd do the same if I had a beefy connection. It sucks though that Tor won't accept donations in bitcoins. You'd figure they would the ideal people to realize the privacy and security advantages of bitcoin. I second that! I have tiger blood in me and it demands lots of blow and good bitchez..lol j/kOK, but seriously I want to buy a new laptop (high end gaming laptop) with bitcoins...that's my wish for now. I like Tor a lot   Yes as would I. Hopefully he would be a sport and take a picture of himself standing next to the crate full of carrots. Then he can go brag to his comrades that he is rich in carrots. 
So far it looks like price is stuck in a range. C'mon $4 ...we can do it  touche!  I shall give that a go. What I had in mind though was a gui option..basically you'd tell it to "load" a specific wallet file manually when you launch the client, and it should also prevent the client from creating a fresh wallet.dat file if a specific flag is set in options.Thanks! 375 per core is excellent!  Congrats. I bet you can get it even higher with a bit more overlocking. But remember to take in the power consumption into consideration.  Ooops..my bad, I just noticed that error. Heheh..it's 6 in the morning here and I was half asleep when I posted that, so perhaps I can get some sympathy .Yeah definitely. I'm definitely paranoid as it is right now..imagine me at 100 BTC/USD exchange rate. I'd build a Faraday cage around my  house to prevent the evil bitcoin stealing rays from getting through. I hope in the future the bitcoin client will allow you to specify where the wallet.dat is located so I can load it from a secure jump drive (one of those "secure" ones - you know the ones that self destruct if tampered).  I believe this will answer most if not all of your questions:https://bitcoin.it/andhttps://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/FAQ Nvidia cards just plain sux0rz at mining. To generate a 50 BTC reward with that hash rate it would take 9607 days, 3 hours, 55 minutes...I am soooo there! Ship me the card ASAP I can't wait any longer!I think the cheapest entry into this fun bitcoin mining arena is probably the Radeon 5770 - sub $100 cards  You could also make him an offer he can't refuse...7000 carrots! Not really a "lot" - a lot is a relative term anyways (what would you consider to be "a lot"?) . I probably have more than the average user I guess since I got into bitcoins early on. Speaking of which, is there a way to find out what the average bitcoin holdings size is without asking people? (as in analyzing somehow the blockchain).But think about it this way, even if you have say BTC 1000 if the exchange rate went up to 100 you'd have $100,000!!! That's enough for a serious downpayment on a home, or a brand new car and a ton of fancy gear/toys I'd hope that by the time this happens the bitcoin economy would have grown into this valuation. Woohoo!!!   Now I can finally buy that new home I always wanted. Honestly though, if the exchange rate reached $100 I'd be shittin my pants with joy!  At what clock speeds? Judging by that has rate I suspect 900 Mhz Oh I'm sure it will start. There are a few OSX cpu miners around. Don't know how effectively its GPU can be exploited - if at all. If you do manage to get both CPU and gpu mining after a while you'll come back and see the laptop melted in a puddle of plastic and metal parts lool  Aha! But here the power of the neocortex shall come in handy! I shall put the miners in a different room and I shall run a heating vent flexible tube all the way to the sauna. OK, /me is silly. I'd like to see it rise to $10 after next difficulty, stabilize, then a rise around the 100$ range.    love the port number..hahahaha...If you wish to be truly uber 1337 you'd write your won daemon that listens on that port number and forwards all data/requests to /dev/null   Wow this attacker is such a loser! Is there any particular pattern to this attack? Are the majority of IPs from a specific country (I heard Vietnam being mentioned earlier)? Is there any way to directly counter attack his botnet or whatever means he is using to launch this attack? Anything you can do beyond just soak up the bandwidth bitch slap? Dang that just gives me an idea of how I can double my bitcoin mining profits. I shall open up a sauna business and power it with mining rigs! Brilliant I say! lol :p One might want to become a supernode merely to be as connected as possible to the network. This is especially useful if you're running a mining pool. Also you can help the bitcoin network out if you are behind a very stable and fast internet connection (ie 100 mbit and up) but there is of course a point of diminishing return where one can be "too connected." Being better connected has no bearing on mining efficiency.shenanigans:1. Secret or dishonest activity or maneuvering.2. Silly or high-spirited behavior; mischief. That seems totally odd. Even with 11.3 and SDK 2.4 (what I'm using now) I get 350 Mhash per core. There is something wrong with your setup for sure. You should be getting BETTER performance than me by maybe 10 to 20 Mhash..maybe more @ 900.What drivers are you using now, and what arguments are you passing to poclbm? Try -v -w 128 -f 1 if dedicated miner and if multipurpose machine -v -w 128 -f 60  Nope I don't buy that. I bet you anything you or whoever installed AMD SDK 2.1!  Yeah Tycho is right. You do not need a lot of bandwidth to mine. An acoustic coupler or a shoe string communications device is enough :pWhere you would indeed need more bandwidth is if you wanted to operate a "bitcoin supernode" (ie a bitcoin client hacked to accept a ridiculously large number of incoming connections and hence be so called "very well connected").But since you're solo mining bandwidth isn't important.
My next rig will cost me somewhere between $200 to $300 CAD so it is possible, but you have to find some pretty cheap hardware. Also you sometimes are forced to use somewhat out of date hardware like old Athlon X2 boards/CPUs. For me the only requirement is that it has support for two PCIe slots. The CPU ideally should have as low of a TDP as possible but it's not an absolute must cause I intend to underclock it anyways and besides the CPU will be/should be mostly idle.  I guess for me bargain hunting is just as fun as putting the system(s) together. As for finding cheap 5870s, well, what I do is search classified sites. Craigslist is a good place to start. Hmm, that ibook looks nice but you sure it's worthwhile mining on it if all you can get is roughly 20 KHash/sec? Also do you mean to say 20 MHash?  Is your 5970 clocked at 725 MHz? Are you using a miner that support the BFI_INT instruction? If not, then upgrade right away.Just for reference I get 355 Mhash/sec per core on my 5970 which is clocked at 850 Mhz with 300 Mhz memory. I agree. The 5850 is indeed a good mining card from a cost for performance basis. Then again so is the 5870 which is my current favorite. Why my favorite? Well mainly because I can't seem to find cheap 5970s. I can pickup some 5870s for $150-180 (CAD) so for me that's worth while. Also should the unthinkable happen and bitcoin goes flop I still have a reasonably well performing card that I can sell for a fairly good price. The key here is to buy your hardware used and well well below the market price - hard to do I know, but it's the ideal method.  On the flip side I guess it's also less risky if you have a newer card like the 6990 because you cam more readily re-sell that one but once again that card costs MUCH more than a 5870 or 5850 so it will take you longer to pay it off and in that time you are far more exposed to market risk (of bitcoin itself, difficulty rise, etc).  lol...no that's not what I meant...that is clearly a smart investment IF it is stable and you can rest reasonably assured that you will get that return for the time span that it takes to get your principal back (in this case the amount of $ you invested in the hardware). If the BTC/USD exchange rate reasonably outpaces the rise in difficulty then some hard core miners can justify new builds. You just better pray that new demand comes in and always drives up the exchange rate, otherwise if it stabilizes and yet difficulty rises due to a slew of new miners hoping to strike it bitcoin rich then it will take that much longer for you to recover your initial hardware investment.  Yeah for sure! I bet you can push 100+ fps on ANY game at the max 2040 by xxxx resolution..or even higher! I agree with you JJG. I don't think it would be a smart idea to invest large sums of $ into mining hardware now. If one can find a super cheap deal on a good mining video card then maybe, but otherwise I can't justify buying something like a new 6990 JUST to mine..or more. Yes but please don't compare investing in bitcoins to investing in bonds, stocks, mutual funds, etc. Buying bitcoins purely for investment purposes is akin to making a bet on the foreign exchange market - ie buying Brazilian Real or Turkish Liras because you think they will appreciate in value relative to your native currency or relative to every other currency. Yeah that thing is sheer insanity!  It will suck so much juice you'll need a nuclear power plant next door just to power it..heheh..I wonder though why they could not get away with having just two 8 pin connectors. I have a similar card with similar specs yet it has two 8 pin connectors. What's with all that needed juice? Overclocking headroom? I dunno.Hope you got a good deal on it, cause I think these cards still sell for over $600 USD, no? I asked slush about it over at his thread, and he says this is one feature he plans to introduce next  Definitely not cheap. It is as you say, the cost per Mhash rate is definitely not worth it. I'm also wondering if 80 Mhash is the max performance you can squeeze out of it?  Oh wow I can't believe I forgot about that. In fact I've been idling in that channel for a month now. lol...*face palm* Cool. Thanks. You da man  Depends. How steep are these costs? Toss around some $ figures. Yeah not sure what triggers it specifically but I got around the block by loading up the Tor browser bundle. I know how to do that yrral86, but for me it's not super critical as I mainly use mtgox to keep an eye on the btc/usd exchange rate. But thanks nonetheless for your tip  Slush I'm wondering if you'll ever add in support for miner status and reporting into the site's API? The reason I'm asking is there is this neat windows 7 gadget that I and no doubt others would like to use to monitor our miners with your pool. See this thread:http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=7071.0 Ah, bummer. OK, well I guess we'll have to wait until slush adds this feature. It's not a big deal for me as I have his page constantly up.Thanks for the great work you're doing!  What is the expiry time set to?  Yeah that may very well be the case. I merely tried to refresh the page at random intervals. Can I PM you my IP address or hostname or domain etc so you can add me to the whitelist? Guests or actual forum users? 
Nice. Can't wait until I can see stats for each of the miners I have with slush's pool. Lovely, mtgox is down again  Anyone have a clue what happened now? Another server move, more DDoS'ing? Gremlins? Great work MagicalTux. It looks like volume is picking up again and price has remained relatively stable while the site was offline, so all is well Cheers! Ever plan to build support for other pools as well?  He is 5 years old  If you've made some DNS changes that may take a while to propagate. But I assume the changes the reason the site is unreachable completely is that there is yet no server listening to requests and not a DNS related problem, no? Umm,,how about no. We all know mtgox is da shit and all but I for one do not want mtgox to be given a virtual monopoly or elevated to some holier than holy status. No extra traffic, no modification of bitcoind. What we really need is more exchanges like mtgox!  So anyone selling an FPGA miner box yet?   I can confirm that too. I'm using Symantec Antivirus (aka Norton Corporate Edition) and no virus warning or any such thing. It's up to 3.15 right now. This is crazy volatility, but it is to be expected from such a thin market. At the moment BTC/USD is like a penny stock, one small buyer or seller can raise or drop the price drastically.I'd say let it be and price will slither about for a while until it will reach some point of equilibrium. Then assuming that new bitcoin purchasers/users come and join the party the btc/usd price will rally yet again, and then another correction and then a brief pause, and then another rally...lather, rinse, and repeat like the shampoo commercials say :p Hmm, not too sure what to think of community level cryptocurrencies. I think they would be ok for a very small group of self sufficient families but you'd run into the same problem people bartering do. In my opinion the more widely adopted a currency is the better it is. On a community level I think maybe something other than a cryptocurrency would be best ( after all you think a small community would go through the hassle of developing their own bitcoin derivative, miners, etc) - something like "social credits" or some other form of fiat person to person credit "money"  Wow, way the go AMD. Way to keep up your reputation for having shitty drivers. Well of course! Bitcoin IS MONEY, and as such its supposed to be ideologically neutral. People can use money for both good and evil. People can desire money for both noble and ignoble or banal reasons. Bitcoin, like any other medium of exchange, allows for the full expression of human individuality in the use of that medium of exchange.  Well I personally would not mind it if big corps sold their products for bitcoins also. If they did it would no doubt be because their customer demanded it. Big corporations are practical entities, they do not care for grand ideologies or any such thing. If it makes economic sense for them to accept bitcoins, they will. I think we got a long ways to go until the mega corps will have a "pay with bitcoin" button on their websites, but at the moment I don't see any harm if this were to become a reality. Don't forget that this "train" is not supposed to be some investment asset. If a corporation treats it as such and decides that "hey we better accept bitcoin payments so we can collect some of these hot bitcoins because we'll make a ton of money selling them later on" then they'd be doing the same thing that a large portion of us are already doing - put your hand up if you bought bitcoins as a speculative investment! As for limiting the amount of hashing power each miner can generate, well, I don't think that's a good idea, because what if a very large portion of the miners drop from the mining game, then the existing miners can't pick up the slack. I can understand your egalitarian sentiment, but the reality is that bitcoins are money and the miners are in it to make money. If bitcoins were backed by magical fairy dust and were only useful in neverland then miners would not be doing this. The only ones that would be mining would be a very small group of hardcore believers. Then again without that monetary incentive bitcoin would never have grown. It would take an ideological revolution in order for the masses to use bitcoins and to donate their resources to maintaining the network. Technically speaking you could start your own bitcoin alternative and make it more egalitarian if you'd like. I think there is a wide variety of reasons why people use bitcoins. Some may use it principally for the economic ideology which is represents, some just want to make money from it, some a mix of both. Bitcoin is an organic in the sense that its future is no determined by some power external to itself. So which group of bitcoin users come to predominate is up to anyone's guess. I see no problem with having a large majority of bitcoin users be average people and with a small group of ideologues at the center of the action. In the end its those motivated by ideological reasons that will propel and do great things for the bitcoin system, but the regular users are also necessary becuase it will make the bitcoin monetary system a very robust one.If the so called major empires switched to bitcoin it would actually be a VERY good thing. Bitcoin is the digital and modern equivalent of the pre Bretton Woods Agreement gold standard. It will shackle and reign in the fiscal irresponsibility of governments. They have NO control over the bitcoin system whatsoever so they can't just go and print more money to pay for wars or to expand their empires.I assure you governments can't control bitcoin. They can hurt it but can't really control it.  Hmm, well mining yes it would be classified as self-employment because you are deploying capital (mining rigs) for the purpose of producing income.I plan to treat the income as plain regular income from non employment sources. If bitcoins were classified as securities I'd have to pay a capital gains tax too. Bear in mind I'm not in the United States. But for US Citizens this bit of info may prove useful:"some forex transactions are categorized under Section 1256 contracts while others are treated under the Section 988  the Treatment of Certain Currency Transactions.Section 1256 provides a 60/40 tax treatment which is lower compared to its counterpart. By default, all forex contracts are subject to the ordinary gain or loss treatment. Traders need to opt-out of Section 988 and into capital gain or loss treatment, which is under Section 1256." All currency is pointless?! I disagree. A currency system serves to facilitate the trade of products, services, and property in an economic system based on scarce or limited resources. Currency would be pointless if we can have everything we want when we want it how we want it..ie if we had unlimited resources. Currency also serves as a unit of account and a method of tracking "who gets what" and "how much" depending on how useful their services are to the rest of society (ie how much society values their contribution - this being totally subjective but that's besides the point). Just because the current monetary system is corrupt and faulty it does not necessarily follow that ALL currencies/monetary systems are pointless. I see that you're an advocate of the Venus project, so I think I now understand why you made that assertion. No doubt from the point of view of the proponents of the Venus project currency is pointless because they believe that the application of technology can bring about a Utopian society where money will not become necessary because we can all have what we want. But my major gripe with this idea is that it's not realistic because the Earth does not have unlimited resources. If we were a space based society then it would be a different game. In space we truly can have ALMOST unlimited resources. But I am digressing here.Also without currency the society you live in would not have developed. Currency is better than NO currency.  That's the prime factor yes, but also the amount of VRAM makes a difference as well. You'd be surprised how much.  If you make a profit from trading bitcoins your earning are still taxable - should you choose to report them. Bitcoin trading is much the same as forex trading (something I'm deeply into) so for me I treat it the same from a "paying taxes" point of view. Yeah, I'll figure it out. At the moment it's not a big deal as there isn't much of a performance difference between 2.1 and 2.2 from what I hear, and using 2.2 on just ONE card does not cause that 100% cpu load issue. When I get my dummy vga plug I'm going to activate the second card so at that point I will look into making 2.1 work somehow. I'm thinking I'll wipe all the drivers away..install 10.1 with only the catalyst control panel and the video drivers and then install 2.1 standalone.  I don't see how a very high difficulty level will necessarily lead to a drop in "faith". The mining equation has a self-stabilizing element, so don't worry about. It will all just work itself out into the most optimal configuration. If faith is the only thing keeping bitcoin alive then we are at a sad state of affairs. I would've thought it was the practicality, the functionality, the security, and the control over your own money that bitcoin provides which is keeping it alive. I think the biggest danger for bitcoin at this point is a massive influx of non-believers in what bitcoin is trying to accomplish for society. They will just push the price up in their greedy rush to make money and then they'll dump all their bitcoins at the first whiff of something "not to their liking." Speculators such as these are sketchy, flighty, and without a doubt will adopt a herd mentality.
That is highly odd. I googled your problem with logmein and no useful results came up. So this is something that you may wish to report to the logmein developers.Good thing that your PSU wasn't at fault   U in Canuckistan as well like me? I got cheap electricities too! $0.06 for the win! Perhaps I should've underlined the word perhaps :p Well I dunno. I don't think the OP mentioned whether the power supply was new or whether the cards are new. Therein lies the problem..in our drive to lower our costs us miners often run into problems that totally wipes out the savings we're chasing after. Well that works and I've done that in the past, but 10.11 does NOT come with SDK Stream 2.1! It comes with 2.2.  Maybe there is an unofficial drivers package that contains 2.1?  Perhaps those two press mentions explain the recent huge rally in the BTC/USD exchange rate....suffice it to say I'm happy as a carrot in the ground  Don't use me! Hmm, there is a thread (or two perhaps) in the mining section which mentions a specific program you can use to lower the mem even under linux. I am pretty sure it's possible. It's really worth giving it your best because it can help you save some $ by lowering the power consumption of your card(s)Yeah that diagram was very useful to me too a while back. Hmm, ok I shall give that a shot. So you're saying i should install 10.11 without the opencl drivers and then install 2.1 sdk separately..right? It should consume more than a stock 5970 due to having 4 GB VRAM alone. I happen to have a similar card (Sapphire 5970 4 GB Toxic) which also consumes more than a stock 5970. It requires TWO 8 pin PCIe connectors unlike a standard 5970. Also the stock clock on a standard 5970 is less. I don't think you necessarily need to overload it. Even with those two 6990s you aren't overloading it. Just put as much strain on it as possible in a different system to see whether the fault lies with one of the components of the other system or with the PSU. Btw, have you tried using something like VNC or RDP instead of logmein? I would be surprised of logmein caused all this.  Nice, you got yourself one serious space heater there  However I'd be concerned running the PSU at 80 to 90% rated capacity. I think that will shorten its lifespan.Did you also try to underclock the memory on those cards? You can save 20-40 watts per card doing so. Hey btw, checkout this picture to see how the rails are distributed on the HX1000W:http://forum.corsair.com/forums/showthread.php?t=70317 That and also putting as much load on it as possible. Also to ensure this is not a driver issue uninstall all the catalyst drivers, boot into safe mode and run driver cleaner (available for free on guru3d site or just google it) and remove all traces of the ATI drivers, boot back into windows and reinstall 11.4. If the problem persists then try downgrading to 11.3 (repeat the same procedure)If even THAT does not work then something terribly wrong is going on. Check to make sure all the PCIE cables are solidly in place, and also do a memtest. Also keep an eye on your temps (for the 6990s) - possible overheat? Bad RAM would not cause the system to shutdown with no vide though (you'd get a blue screen) so I doubt it's the memory. So far I suspect either a faulty PSU or a catalyst driver issue. lol so this was a pop quiz? That is more than enough to power two 6990s, unless of course the PSU is faulty. Do you happen to have a spare computer you can test it on?  I have the same power supply and even with a single 5970 it is still recommended that one spreads the load across the two 12v rails. I'm amazed the PSU handled two 6990 on the same rail. However when I think of it I am not surprised as I've read somewhere that the HX1000W is conservatively rated (ie it can deliver more than 1000W if pushed) and it really a 1200W PSU sold as 1000W (designed by an OEM called CWT) It could maybe possibly remotely cause a driver crash..also try to tone down on the aggressiveness of the miner in case the system being at 100% GPU load is somehow causing driver crashes. As for power supply how about you tell me what power supply specifically you have and I'll tell you if it has dual rails or single. OR you can google it  well, I tried installing 10.11 + SDK 2.1, but it's a no go. What happens is gui miner complains that there is no valid OpenCL devices in the system. So I went to catalyst 11.4 which works and there is no 100% cpu usage with 1 miner (one card) but when the second one comes into the picture it's 100% all over again.. Am I the only one that could not get SDK 2.1 working on a 5870? Am I doing something wrong here? Does 2.1 even support the 5000 series? Single rail or multi rail power supply? If multi rail make sure you spread the load across all the available PCIE rails.  Nice. Well it looks like I have to look into installing SDK 2.1 then. Do you happen to know which is the earliest catalyst drivers package that contains 2.1? Same here. I do it cause I enjoy building systems and maintaining them. If I was a technophobe I'd just be buying BTC. Also for me electricity is fairly cheap ($0.06 CAD).  
So only downgrading to OpenCL 2.1 would fix this?  350 Mhash per core on a 5970  Running at 850 MhzGotta love BFI_INT!!  Whoa, nice! You must have a tons of CPU miners running to get that kind of performance! Odd. Then again I tried it with 11.3 - works fine. What happens when I switch the cable to the secondary card is I get a windows desktop. The catalyst drivers should detect the secondary display and create a secondary desktop. If not you may have to manually create a desktop. Also bear in mind this is WITHOUT crossfire enabled. Crossfire may introduce additional details into the picture.  lool..watch out guys...Vladimir's mining cluster will be the birthplace of Skynet...all your bitcoinz are belong to him!? Using that or a similar device. I got mine from Canadian Tire. It's not a kill-a-watt-with-extreme-prejudice but it does the same thing. Yeah the bitcoin clients needs and should encrypt the wallet.dat file like RIGHT NOW..PRONTO!! This is a huge security risk. If we want bitcoin to become more widely adopted it has to be more than a e-currency for geeks..it has to be almost idiot proof and as secure BY DEFAULT as possible..ok..enough shouting :p I think storing an encrypted file on Dropbox should be ok. If you want to be super paranoid store another copy on another cloud storage provider as well. bitcoin needs a 4chan meme...that will increase bitcoin popularity 100 fold... mmmmm.....graaavyy...where can I find a gravy vending machine that accepts bitcoins?!     In windows if you don't want to use a dummy plug you can just switch the monitor cable from the primary to the secondary and the secondary card should then be immediately visible to OpenCL apps. I would build a dummy cable cause I'm lazy and don't want to be flippin cables.... Yep, that would be the smart thing to do then..and when difficulty falls, turn your mining rigs back on! I just worry that bitcoin will be a speculators' currency...I'd really like to see it succeed as a vibrant and viable REAL currency so I can buy all kinds of junk with it. The day I will be able to pick up a kick ass Sandy Bridge gaming laptop with bitcoins is the day I will have a massive grin face  Hundred thousand dollar per bitcoin?! Dang..I dunno I guess that is possible but I have some doubts it will get that high in my life time..I pray that I am proven wrong. Have you considered selling your soul to the bitcoin gods? I hear they're very generous this time of the year......But umm I think the best solution for you is to get the most powerful but CHEAPEST ATI Radeon card you can find. Scour the local classifieds sites or ebay.  I pitty the f00l who buys new hardware to mine  I don't think it's worth it now to go all out and built yourself a huge mining farm with NEW hardware. If you can find a really really good deal on used hardware (as cheap as possible) then yeah go for it. But even then there are many factors to take into consideration; each one of them will affect your profitability in a different way than it might the other guy. I personally don't give a damn if new miners join the game. If they wish to run at a loss that's their personal choice and their right. I do think that the majority of them will leave the mining game once they see that the $80 extra on their power bill has earned them only a meager 5 BTC.  Any chance of updating the app so it will work with slush's pool? I very much doubt Vladimir is "that big" or that he can really discourage the majority of new wannabee miners.  gavin, any idea when the bitcoin client will have a wallet.dat encryption feature?  lol is this why the forum was down a few hours go? overloaded perhaps?  I doubt he meant that. Also many said that if you don't run in crossfire mode you should not have this problem, but that is not true as I recently built a new mining rig with dual 5870s in non crossfire mode with a athlon x2 5200+ and guess what each poclbm instance chewed 50% of the cpu. What I ended up doing is setting the affinity for BOTH poclbm processes to ONE core. Thus I've cut CPU usage in half.  Yep I know that. I am surprised that if the problem is easily fixable as geebus suggested why haven't all the mining programs already implement the fix? 
You're quite sure this is JUST a poclbm problem? I recently switched to a new miner and it does the same thing. Also guys let me be clear. I do not get 100% cpu usage across all cores. I get a constant 13% cpu usage PER miner process (regardless if its poclbm.exe or something else)One of the developers of the new miner I'm using said that this is caused by ATI's OpenCL implementation.  Hmm well here you may be running into the limitations of SMF 1.1.13. I run several vBulletin based boards and all those things you described vBulletin can do, BUT (and this is a big one) vBulletin costs money. Also converting the forum over to vBulletin which is commercial software detracts from the open source character that no doubt bitcoin represents. I dunno guys, maybe SMF 2.0 once it comes out will solve these limitations.Also what may be a good idea is to create a "recycle bin" section and start moving stale threads there, and then after a certain amount of time has passed either lock the threads or delete them?  11.3 with SDK 2.3 ..same problem I get that too with a 5970 too. What's up with that? I'm surprised nobody has found a fix for this. How does this "granola" program fix this problem? How does that have any relation to this high cpu usage while mining problem? I do not want to undervolt (already did that) my cpu, nor underclock it, nor disable any of the cores. I just want the damn miners to stop chewing constantly 13% of each core for a total max cores of 2. So that's 100% cpu usage for one core relative to 8 hyper-threaded cores (i7 920). It knows because it will connect to the bitcoin server using the RPC username and password you configured in your bitcoind.conf (I hope you did not forget to do this!) Use the mining calculator to determine how long it will take you to mine a full 50 BTC block. Bear in mind that solo mining has a much wider variance then pool mining, so sometimes you may get lucky and generate a block or more in a rather short time span and sometimes you can have multiple bad luck runs. With two 6950s I recommend mining with a pool.  That is odd indeed. Perhaps this is a bug with LP support. I'm wish slush's pool and I just remembered that he doesn't use LP so I never noticed this issue. Sorry for the misinformation. When I replied to your post the first time I forgot about slush's lack of LP support.I'm curious why you haven't enabled the VECTORS variable? Does that setting slow mining down?Also what card are you running and at what speed? Overclocked? I think this may be an issue with LP support and not something hardware/configuration related. Can you post some screenshots maybe? Also what arguments are you passing to the miner? paste them here...perhaps there is something wrong with usage?  Yep it is quite impressive indeed. All thanks to the BFI_INT instruction support!  Hmm, that's odd. This is not happening for me. I've also noticed that 1.2 produces far fewer rejected results - the ratio of accepted to rejected is much lower now. Dang! So is there ANY fix for this? This extra CPU load is just wasted electricity. wow..nice! performance is up to 350 Mhash/sec for me  (5970 at 850 Mhz 300 MHz mem) Is it true that catalyst 11.4p fixes this issue? That looks like a very nice board. Not sure though if I can justify getting one brand new. I'll have to hunt on ebay for a good deal, but so far I'm liking everything I've read so far about it. Also the PCIe layout is excellent and provides plenty of space between two 2 slot graphics cards. If you want to use 8 gpus you have to use linux, but with 6 I think you should be fine with windows.  Nope, you can do it in Linux as well.  You mean the memory clocks down to 300? No no flash is necessary AFAIK. If you use windows go and grab MSI afterburner. Search this mining section for a thread that's dedicated to lowering mem clocks. There are certain steps you need to take to get the mem clocks that low - don't worry they're not hard. I'm about to go to sleep here so I'm sorry but I can't paste a direct link to the thread - normally I would.... I see. So, what boards are you using in your commercial mining operation?  Hmm, the Pentium 4 and Pentium D run hot from what I know - Core2 probably the same. A low power celery (Celeron) might do the trick. But I'm very much tempted to just go with AMD on this one. I agree. The sempron would be a better way to go (plus 45 W TDP), but I'm having a hard time finding a suitably cheap board that has 2+ PCIE slots with good spacing. It seems I can find tons of those MicroATX and MiniATX boards, but I'm looking for an ATX sized one.Do you have any recommendations Vladimir?
No you do not need a bitcoin client running to mine. You DO need it running to receive your payments from bitcoinpool.For help with setting your miner with that particular mining pool please see their website and/or support forum.To mine in a pool you do NOT need to touch the bitcoin.conf file (in fact by default it does not exist unless you create it and those who create it intend to mine solo - which in your case you clearly are not going to do that so therefore you should not touch/create that file)Hope this helps. Perhaps we can give people a choice whether to run this alternative mining work. As long as the having two proof of work mechanisms does not cause any conflicts it would be interesting to see how many people would opt in to do this other proof of work.Yep I agree. Discussion is always a good thing, and what happens I guess will happen. So, what do you folks think would be the best idea for an alternative proof of work job to set our miners to? Interesting. Thanks for the info. It's funny cause I'm looking for a motherboard for another mining ring and this one seems pretty nice. I do like the PCIe layout, and since you say that you run 3 5870s then I guess I'll take your word for it and assume that they will all fit just fine with good room for airflow.My own concern is finding low power Intel chips from the 775 eraP.S I found this board on ebay for $42 CAD so that's like $45 or something around there USD Some numbers for all to meditate upon:Radeon 5970Core clock 850 Mhz Memory Clock 300 MHzAggression level 7 with the BFI_INT turned onGetting 346 Mhash/sec for each GPU core!! Pretty nice improvement over the 317 I used to get with poclbm!  So overall I'm happy Maybe it is just me but I get the impression that the GPUs aren't "working as hard" with this miner as the temps are a bit lower than with poclbm yet I get higher performance. So far it has been 5 min running this miner and the hashing rate is averaging around 347 Mhash/sec.  Yep no problem. There are additional setup steps you need to take in order to configure it for use with one of the popular mining pools but instructions are available on each pool's respective website.Good luck, and welcome to the bitcoin mining club!  By multiple you mean more than 2 and less than 4? Or? How many PCIe slots are you expecting? For an easy to use (well as easy as it gets for now) mining setup look up "poclbm-gui" here on the forum. Tell you what since I know that most people loathe being told to "google it" or "search for it" I'll do you a favor and give you the direct link to the thread where you can download poclbm-gui:http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=3878.0enjoy! I would not worry about 110C. Just do your best to cool the card and its VRMs and as long as temps do go crazy like over 120C you should be fine. The cards and the VRMs are built to handle running at high temps so like I said I would not worry about it too much.My 5970 with a super beefy aftermarket cooler (Sapphire 5970 with the Aero tri-fan cooler) currently runs at 102 C on the VRMs for the secondary and 89-96,98 for the primary GPU. The temps were a tiny bit higher but I manged to lower them by reducing the mem clock to 300 MHz.  Has anyone tried this on a 5970 yet? I'm presuming that since a 5970 is roughly nothing more than 2 5870s on the same PCB that this miner should work just as well. I could confirm this for myself but I'm wondering if anyone has beat me to it. Cool stuff  Yes it would be awesome of the poclbm-gui people got involved! I agree that performance optimizations should come first. I'll be keeping a very close eye on this thread.Best of luck with your project! I think you are right. The thread title is a bit misleading and perhaps it should be changed. So in a sense the OP wants the proof of work mechanism to perform some function that not only is of value to the bitcoin network but also have some external positive social benefit. I think the idea is noble in and of itself but what on deep inspection it may be a bit impractical and difficult to implement technically.The question is who decides what should count as "useful" mining? How do we go about changing the nature of the mining work (hence the nature of the proof of work mechanism) on the fly when it is decided (by whatever mechanism) that the current mining work is no longer useful or is not bearing fruit. Will changing the mechanism cause incompatibility issues in the network. Will altering the mining work somehow "centralize" the decentralized nature of the bitcoin currency (reason being something has to tell each miner what new type of work is required of it - that something would most likely be a single server or cluster or some single entity)? Also what if changing the mature of the mining work creates an added value? Whom stands to benefit the most from this added value service? Humanity as a whole or a specific group of individuals or corporation or vested interests? Let's take for pharmacological computational work? Who will benefit from any potential discoveries that come as a result of this mining work? Who own the rights (and therefore profits) to any beneficial discoveries that come about as a result of the mining process? These are all questions that need to addressed. Sure it sounds noble and it would be *nice* if the mining process resulted in something of benefit to everyone. Lol I think at that point bitcoin would become backed by altruism in as sense - I'm joking of course.   Also am I mistaken but shouldn't the ideal currency have absolutely no tangible benefits whatsoever? After all we don't use water as money do we? Gold is not the ideal currency but it very much closely approximates that ideal. Bitcoin in a sense is the perfected ideal currency. I think that bitcoins should have no "benefit" and no inherent tangible value other than that which its USERS give it. Granted I'm no economist so I may not know what the hell I'm talking about  I'm wondering if there are any plans to write a guy front end for this miner? Or maybe the same folks that wrote poclbm-gui can add support for this miner? I'm mining in a windows environment and I'd much prefer to have a GUI frontend that I can hide in the system tray instead of having a bunch of command prompts taking up space in the start menu. I know some of you will come up with arguments that I can hide the command prompts or group them, but in my opinion having the miner hidden in the system tray is a far superior solution. The only thing that I can think of at this moment that would qualify as an "unexpected improvement" (well sort of unexpected) would be a quantum computer capable of making use of a surprisingly large number of qubits. Now on to the subject of the thread. I personally don't think bitcoin mining is pointless. I like to think of bitcoin mining as sort of what a stock exchange's transaction processing systems do. They process the necessary transactions of the exchange and in return earn a fee for their work. Miners do very much the same thing. Thus the energy expended as a result of this process is not "wasted" or "pointless" because it is used to accomplished a desirable and absolutely necessary task. If one argues that bitcoin mining is pointless, that is sort of like saying the energy used by cars is wasted or pointless because it doesn't cure world hunger. Kind of silly way of thinking. To phrase it differently; No use of energy that results in a personally or socially desirable outcome should be considered wasteful. Perhaps someone can refine my phrase a bit better. But anyways, I was quite surprised when I first saw this thread because I never quite expected that someone would question the usefulness of one of the KEY and ABSOLUTELY necessary components of the bitcoin system. Hmm, I wonder if or how easy it would be to upgrade the bitcoin network to use SHA3 in the future. Is SHA256 (aka SHA2) that vulnerable to "cracking"? You gotta use MSI AfterburnerSee this thread:http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=4292.0 Nice! Or maybe one that spins at 5400 rpm? One of those green drives. Lower power consumption, but then again a HD doesn't eat up that much anyways. Then he's just better off finding the cheapest (but still well researched for reliability issues) 150 to 500 gb hd. If he can get lower than that just enough to fit in Win 7 it's all good. Problem solved. If HD fails, swap in a new one, re-image the drive, badda booom badda bing, you're done. It's getting really hard for one to keep up with the posts. I'm getting flooded with thread replies e-mails lol I can only imagine what the moderators have to go through. Speaking of which I bet this forum is going to need more of them fast. Just copy the usb drive to another usb drive (ie image it) and have a backup in case the main one fails. But as xenon481 said USB sticks are not very likely to fail. Go for a fairly decent brand and you should be fine. Well from what I've read the 6990s should be pretty good for mining. They have a higher TDP but given that 5970s can't be found cheaply one has no choice but to go for the 6990s.Btw, what would you consider a fair price for a 5970? I found a few here in Canada (Ontario) selling in the $500 (CAD) range.
Jesus    Vladimir you must have like 100+ 5970s or something equivalent to put out that kind of hashing power. It's a pretty good deal dude. If I lived in the States I would get it just for the 6990  I don't see many 6990s for sale that can be bought with bitcoins so I think this is a good opportunity to grab a 6990 gaming card. You may have an easier time getting this setup to work with ubuntu - this is assuming of course that you wish to keep it l33t and use linux lol   Too bad you only ship in the US. Good luck with the sale! I'm also very glad to see that you will accept bitcoins as payment! OP, have you considered hunting for used 5870s. I think these cards represent the best deal out there for miners. There are tons of gamers who are now upgrading to the radeon 6000 series and thus dropping the 5000 series cards like hot potatoes. Yes you should  I'd buy one for sure ..if you let me pay you in bitcoins that is ... Naturally. The name of the game is profit margins.  I agree. Using first generation hardware = expensive. You pay a ridiculous premium for the "privilege" of using the absolute most high end video card ATI has to offer. A far cheaper solution is to collect a bunch of 5870s. One can search one's own local auction or classifieds sites. There are plenty of good deals on 5870s! Just the other day I picked up TWO of them for $300 CAD!!! So as the old saying goes, look and ye shall find. Heheh..don't let people get to you man. Do not worry, just do your thing as honestly and as frank as possible and let the chips fall where they may. But yeah dude you should definitely accept bitcoins. Many people here have a nice chunk of coins and they'd probably want to reinvest them in a good mining rig.Another bit of advice, why not sell the rigs with one of those 4U rackmount cases. You can find them on newegg for like $74. The HAF X is a good case but it's overkill I think for a miner with EXTERNALLY exhausting cooling. If you were putting in there two internally exhausting cards then yeah I'd understand the need for massive airflow, but for a dedicated miner I think it's not necessary to go with such an expensive and high-end case. Sure a few people will buy it for the e-peen effect, but the serious miners/investors can build a much cheaper system on their own.The only think you should not skimp on in my opinion is the power supply. The system must have a solid power supply with as high of an efficiency level as you can afford.As for the SSD, just go for the cheapest SSD possible. That way it lowers the overall system price and gives you a bit more room for your markup charge. Just my own 2 bitcoin cents worth ..Cheers! Right but who here pays $0.80 per kilowatt-hour? I doubt anyone pays that much. I think for the majority of GPU miners the mining biz is still profitable.  That's pretty much what I pay too $0.09 Canadian dollars. As far as temps, it all depends. This year I have a feeling the summer is going to be short and cool(er) than last year. Cooling costs are nil as I'm gonna put the miners in the basement where normally it's cooler. I'll figure out some ventilation scheme somehow. Man I hope I can make a bit of use out of a pair if 5870s I recently purchased before the difficulty makes it uneconomical to do so.Where you located in the US? Southern part? Hot weather most of the year there? Not always. Some companies (like XFX & EVGA) will let you overclock and still honor your warranty. Sort of yes and no. The majority of 5970 are not the 100% equivalent of two 5870s in Crossfire. The card that I have though (5970) has two fully fledged 5870 cores running at 850 so that card at least IS the equivalent of two 5870s but like I said the majority of cards are not like this. Either way I really worry about whether even with the addition of two 5870s I'll be able to make a profit vs the cost of electricity. I pay $0.09 per kWh. So what do you (OP) pay for electricity per KwH?Also does anyone know of a web based calculator that will help me determine at what point mining is no longer profitable?  So far my has power is 633 Mhash/s (radeon 5970) but soon I'm going to add two 5870s so that should bump it up quite a bit..dunno maybe in the 1.3 gigahash range? Alright guys, I'm getting a lot of conflicting info here. I'm going to be setting up a dual 5870 rig soon and I'd like to know for sure what SDK to use in order to get maximum hashing performance out of it. Which is truly best SDK 2.2, 2.3, 2.2 or does it even matter? I think the latest CCC drivers use 2.3 so will it be worth it to use 10.x CCC drivers to use SDK 2.1?I'm going to be using Windows 7 Ultimate 64 bit as my OS. Hey Slush, maybe I'm blind but why is there no password change feature on the site? I had to use the "forgot password" feature which works fine but it would be kinda cool if you had something already like that in the control panel that worked just the same. Also a security question upon password reset would be a good idea I think. Yeah no doubt. Maybe it's just a big miner deciding to treat himself to a nice Lexus or something like that. After all what's the use of money if you can't spend it? Great! Glad to hear that.  Secret arms deal? who knows! 
SMF 2.0 is going to be released pretty soon so I'm wondering if this forum will be upgraded. Also since this forum is pretty much critical to the bitcoin community (at least that's what I think) I wonder if there is some contingency plan in place in case it comes under attack/seizure by some government institution.  Yep you are probably right. Funny how bitcoin is practically a botnet owner's dream - free money!  Slush I'm wondering when you intend to bring the site back up. I feel kind of uneasy knowing my miners are churning away but I have no clue what they're earning and what happening from a statistics point of view. Nothing personal. I just think having access to account stats makes miners feel a bit more relaxed. Interesting article. Although it does not give details about what kind of cpu and ram they use I would imagine they aren't wimpy servers . If google ever build a gpu compute cluster I can see them easily reapplying that cheap but plentiful philosophy -maybe a giant collection of super cheap microatx boards each with a radeon 5770 card or something similarly cheap and power efficient. What that box got? A dual cpu (amd opteron perhaps) with boatload of RAM? I don't think a group of those servers can compare to the power of even a humble 5770. I moved back my miners too, but I'd really like to check my balance. I guess I'll have to wait until the web front end comes back online. I tried to check the balance through poclbm-gui but it seems to not work as no doubt it depends on the web/database system. Wish we had proof of that theory. Cause if we did maybe we should DDoS him. Vigilante justice! Riiight, now I get it. OK, well in that case I think I will stick to just linking the cards via Crossfire. I see no point in complicating things if I do not have to.  Thanks for the update slush. I for one appreciate the work you do, and I think it is sad that some lowlifes have nothing better to do than to DDoS your site The request limiter idea sounds like a good one to me. Maybe even have some method of banning abusive IPs? I for one intend to use Windows 7 Ultimate 64 bit. I found another guide to building a dummy plug:http://soerennielsen.dk/mod/VGAdummy/index_en.phpThe thing with crossfire is that I read on the forum that it decreases performance a little bit. I think for a dedicated miner squeezing as much out of the hardware is very important. But TheKid if you can assure me that performance won't suffer *that* much, or even give me some numbers to consider  (ie with crossfire and without), then I'll definitely not bother building a dummy plug. I see. Thanks for the info. Time to see if I can find some 50 - 150 ohm resistors.  Hey FoS do you know where I can get a dummy DVI plug or how I can easily make my own? I'd rather just buy one, and maybe even with BTC if I can find someone here. I'm planning on building a dual 5870 mining rig and I'm pretty sure I'm going to need one of these dummy plugs even though I intend to hookup a monitor to the machine.Edit: Hmm. I think I may have been wrong about needing a dummy plug. I think that all I need is _A_ monitor plugged in or a dummy plug but not both. Oh yeah no doubt. As they say, money is a bitch, she knows no loyalty :p Well that's what I say anyways even if "they" don't  lol It should automatically reconnect as long as the mining program is still running. I know this happens for sure with poclbm-gui. Try to install VNC if you want to remotely start/stop your miners.RDP won't work BTW. I feel your pain. I am not mining at bitcoinpool until he resolves this issue. I asked in his official pool thread that I'm wondering if the pool is/was under attack. Hmm I wonder if the server has been under attack. The reason I'm thinking this is that the number of connected clients spiked significantly. Hehehe..mine at 32...it's just not right that it's sitting there doing nothing..Slush you around here? Any word on when the server will be back up? Yay!   Congrats man. Now get your mining on  Hmm server is down temporarily for maintenance..is what it says. Same here, so it can't be the bitcoin daemon then. Probably something to do with his web server. This is not a criticism at you slush (if you're reading this), but is it me or does this happen quite often ?
502 Bad Gatewaysite is down...Can someone explain to me why this happens? Is this the bitcoin daemon crashing? lol who knows, but don't forget they DID write a java based bitcoin client..well someone from their organization, so I'm not sure if there is a formal "plan" to make bitcoin their next thing. However, let's put it this way, if Google adopts bitcoin in some major way then it's mainstream all the way baby! And rather quickly too!  You may need one of those null video connects. Also try disabling crossfire temporarily and see if you're able to address the video card cores. It's really lame that you have to do this, but *shrug* I do hope it's only a temporary solution. After all what good (other than mining) is a fancy pants video card with super duper whizbang video acceleration and other such newfangled technology if you CAN'T use it. So essentially you were able to maintain the same thermal profile yet increase your performance  ? If so then congrats!  Dang, I guess I should've done that before I bought it. Ohwell, it's ok cause I plan to sell it anyways as as a gaming platform it sucks compared to my favorite - PCs  PC Gaming 4 Ever!  I am thinking trusting the nodes that have the highest network uptime would be a good solution to this :p. A user could set the bitcoin software to take preference to these nodes. Jesus...30 mil botnet you can rent! Wow. Ok, now excuse me while I cash out some of my bitcoins, pay that monthly rent and go make back some bitcoins. Lather, rinse, and repeat  I am very excited actually. Let's remain positive, do our best to educate the new members of the bitcoin economy, and stick together! Sweet!! first online...next in the printed version! let's hope! Yep theoretically it can be done. I would imagine it would be in the form of an application or "addon' to the official bitcoin software. It would essentially work like the existing OTC bitcoin marketplaces already in place BUT it would not vulnerable to shutdown because it would not be hosted on web servers. I've got some ideas as to how this should work. One would be that the addon would operate a parallel P2P network which stores and broadcasts all available bid/ask order (like a stock market exchange but decentralized). After you decide how much you wish to buy your oder would be matched with the best available price for the number of "lots" (how many bitcoins you wish to buy) you want. Then if your order was met by a single person (the purchase CAN be spread across multiple sellers even at different prices if your total order cannot be met by a single seller at your asking price) he/she would then receive in encrypted format payment details and turn you'd receive his/her's payment details. This software could run it's own peer to peer escrow service whereby whatever bitcoins you are due to receive would be spread out across the network and in a sense every participant in the marketplace would own a tiny tiny fraction of your transaction UNTIL the settlement terms have been met - ie you paid the seller. Now where it gets tricky is how do you ensure the safety of the sellers and still allow buyers to use a wide variety of payment methods. Also how do you keep the seller's privacy? I can think of some ways but they'd be a tad bit cumbersome and open to other risks. There are also tiny technicalities that need to be addressed, such as what happens of the seller decides not to release the bitcoins from escrow. I think that depending on the method of payment used by the buyer the network should automatically release the funds, but since this would require that a certain database of various transaction clearance time frames be stored by the network I think a better idea would be to have it simply expire at 30 days regardless of the method of payment.Also we would need a distributed user rating/feedback system. This would also have to be stored by the network, but since this would be simple text which can be compressed easily it should not pose too much of a bandwidth burden. This addon could also use the bitcoin network to bootstrap itself. When it first starts up it would send a request to the various bitcoin nodes it normally connects to anyways asking whether that particular node is running this software and if so whether it is a willing participant in the network - ie whether it accepts incoming connections.Just throwing out some ideas. You most likely will not be free to choose your protection agency. As it currently is, the government IS a type of Mafia. They have the monopoly on the acceptable use of force because they pay for, direct, and control the biggest concentration of force in the land - the army. It would be far easier for the government to transition from its current state into being a sole protection agency.The only way to ensure that you do get to chose your protection provider is to cut off funding to the government - ie pay no more taxes (and btw everyone would have to do so, because as long as the government is the one that receives the largest sum of money then they'd still have a position of greater power which they could use to regain their previously held monopoly on power).You know what. I for one would be happy if the government wanted to tax my bitcoins, BUT and this is a big BUT, they HAVE to revalue the national currency in terms of bitcoins. This would curtail their fiscal powers greatly and it would be essentially like going back to the hard gold standard of yore. So to keep a reasonable government running (to do only the things that society deems are necessary to be handled by a institution with a monopoly on that particular task) every citizen would be asked to pay a universal flat tax of 10% regardless of income. You could register a "tax paying" bitcoin address with the government, go online, log in, pay your yearly taxes and tell the government to go shove it and start doing something useful with that money - "build me some roads"Ideally though no government at all is best, but what I typed above is more about making small compromises to reach a better state of affairs with the hope of gradually approaching the ideal state. Government will truly cease to exist when a few other "killer paradigm changing technologies" come into widespread usage. The internet was one of them, and I'd venture to say that cheap and universally available nanotechnology will be the next one. Basically any revolutionary technology that empowers the individual is good for society but bad for any group of people or institution that seeks to control others (ie government) If I may be so bold as to say this, but I think that bitcoin represents one of these paradigm changing technologies because it takes away control of money from government. OK, I think I'm going off on a rant here, so I will end it here  There are ways - granted cumbersome - around such ISP blocks (think torrents). I think the worst they can do is threaten with jail time anyone who decides to operate an exchange site. If they block the gateways between the "real" economy and the bitcoin economy it would make things a bit more difficult for us.  Yep and the first to get the freshly printed money are banks, investment banks, and other financially well off institutions. I like the fact that with bitcoin the creation process is very democratic or rather egalitarian. There is no supposedly wise and all knowing bitcoin Federal Reserve dishing out bitcoins to only two super rich bitcoin users and saying 'none for you' to the regular miner/user.  The government should offer protection as a means of earning income and little to nothing else.  True! Very good point. I don't think it would be very practical for a botnet/trojan to install an SDK without the user's knowledge, but it still is theoretically possible. Could the SDK not be "trimmed down" somehow? However, if the incentive is great enough I think someone out there will at least seriously attempt to do this. The same people  - or type of people - that are responsible for the spam sending trojans/botnets who make millions off of viagra and all kind of shit they spam people with are going to see this as yet another cash cow. As long as it is fairly easy for them to liquidate BTC into whatever national currency they prefer it will be a breeze for them to make money. The thing is this does not really harm bitcoin as a whole, but it does take away in a sense bitcoins from miners that otherwise would've mined them in a more traditional and dare I say "honest" fashion of investing in their own hardware and using their own electricity instead of STEALING it or hijacking it from someone else.  Yes dude, that's what I'm saying. I do not get why you think bitcoin is appearing in TIME magazine. epic fails...I kid I kid  Well whatever, don't be nit picking ..It's NOT true. But I'm hoping SOME DAY it will be true.  very good point casascius...that's why I'm now hunting my local market for USED 5970s and 5870s
NOO!! Bitcoin is NOT going to be on the cover of time magazine! READ PLEASE READ CAREFULLY! Someone just please close this thread or delete it. NOO!! Bitcoin is NOT going to be on the cover of time magazine! READ PLEASE READ CAREFULLY!  Well it's not that easy. People have different configurations with different cooling solutions. What I'm saying is that in order for the botnet code to be that smart it would have to be very complex and have a lot of built in knowledge of different card configurations, etc. It is by far simpler for the code to check "hey is there an OpenCL or CUDA capable card in the system? yes - let it rip! no - use the CPU" Moa has a point. You are less likely to get infected with these on linux. I'm thinking of building a dedicated linux box just to store my bitcoins for that very reason - among many. Precisely. They are going to demand higher prices to ensure that they cover their running costs and get whatever profit they desire. You as a buyer can do little if the seller isn't willing to sell. Miners are not likely to want to stop mining, they just try to ask a higher price for their bitcoins because they are more difficult to mine hence to them the coins have higher value to them because of the additional computational work required to mine them. I hope I'm not committing the fallacy of applying the labor theory of value, but I definitely believe that -as a previous person said it - difficulty and price are "married" together. Can it not? I mean those miners gotta sell some portion of their bitcoins to cover the running costs of their rigs. If it does not *drive* price it certainly affects it!  But what if the botnet intrustion code was smart enough to search for a suitable GPU (it would not care about mining efficiency so it would go for both ATI and AMD)!!  Imagine the hashing power such a botnet could achieve. Imagine all those poor games who are left scratching their head wondering why their system lags and why temps spike "myseriously"... Awesome! Ladies and gentlemen one day we shall make the cover of Time magazine as well !! Hmm, I wonder if this rally was purely market driven (ie buyers entering the market) or just cause of the increased difficulty...miners had to increase their ask rates to cover increasing costs of mining bitcoins. But then again one does wonder if the increased difficulty justifies a jump from 0.77 all the way to 1.03...so indeed this may be simple increased demand. They're going to go after bitcoin next then. Granted this will bring on publicity like crazy though! I just worry that bitcoin will be made into the next e-gold. http://bitcoinpool.com/account.phpthe account login page is borked.... Yeah that's most likely it..something PCI or kernel related. You can try updating the kernel if you aren't using the latest. This could also be a BIOS issue - failing to properly initialize the secondary PCIE device upon cold start. Check to make sure you have the latest BIOS revision maybe?Also is ACPI enabled ? Hmm, odd. So what version of the Catalyst drivers are you using? 3240   2011-04-14 21:38:46   0:34:40   84437   0.17911862    -    invalidhmm looks like we generated an invalid block..bad luck.. Hmm, I wonder if this could be crossfire related or maybe the second card expects a  monitor to be attached to it? I read something about needing to use some sort of dummy video plug or something of that sort. I'm leaning more towards needing a monitor attached. Try hooking one up if you have a spare one. We'll find out when he replies. At those speed for sure he's got either a) water cooling b) some crazy ass delta or scythe CFM monster c) fans always at 100% But hey if they run stable at near 1K core I'd do it too  Overclocked to what speed? 950? Is your 5870 reference design based (ie with the turbine fan) and what temps are you getting with your card overclocked? I see. So the crash was most likely caused by something else and not necessarily related to this issue the 6990s are having. I was messing around with the mem clock and fan speed very frequently before the system blue screened. I had the fan locked at 60% and I kept on lowering and raising and lowering the mem clock - trying to find if lowering mem clock affected hashing performance and if there is a "sweet spot" . But anyways, I hope AMD comes out with a fix, and most of all I hope it's not something that is hardware related. Thanks, same to you too. I've been looking at local classifieds sites but so far nothing sub $499. In my opinion paying $500 for this card given today's difficulty level is not worth it. Ideally I think $300 is a fair price to pay for a lightly used card, but doubt I'll find one for that price anytime soon. The longer it takes me to find a good deal the less worthwhile it will become due to increasing difficulty (of mining). Hmm, interesting. I did run across that AMD thread when I ran into a similar problem with my 5970. The system blue screened while I was trying to load a youtube video from within facebook. At the time I was running 11.2. What I did was run driver cleaner and install 11.3 after and update flash, turn off gpu acceleration - so far no crashes. Not sure if it was 11.3 that fixed it or what, but I do think this problem can happen with 5970 too. Has anyone else had this with the 5970 or am I the only one? (win 7 64) Wow what a stupid bug to have. Does this happen with every Catalyst drivers package of only with certain ones? Also have you tried disabling GPU acceleration in flash? I heard that can cause the video card drivers to lock up. Also update flash to the latest version.
I'm looking for a cheap 5970 from..anywhere Oh won't the GPU gods please deliver!  You think they will try to sue some anonymous miner or some forum on the net...hmm..if they're that vicious then I'm going to go burn their damn PS3 right in front of their greedy ass headquarters. I paid for it and I should be able to do with it whatever the hell I please short of pirating or distributing their copyrighted software,etc. If I want to potentially brick or hack their hardware I should be able to because the way I see it I'm not RENTING the PS3 from them - I OWN it!Sony if you're reading this come and get me, and then kiss my big bitcoin mining ass! /end rant If you paid attention carefully to what I posted you would realize that I AM and WAS giving solutions/suggestions. Second what I think happened is I though your response was targetted at one of the people who posted having 77C or 69C temps thus my response.Please quote the person to whom you're responding instead of blind posting. It really can prevent confusion. Cool. Thanks for the info  True. I wonder how temps will be this summer. The central air is broken at my place and the house has poor insulation/lack of it so temps will soar! I may even have to shut down mining on super hot days. See that's another factor we have to take into consideration - the cost of cooling! Running a central air system is definitely going to spike your electricity bill - not to mention the juice already being sucked by the cards. Well yeah but that's one monster cooling solution. My 5970 has one of them..came stock. At full load the card sits at 68 C, and that's with the fan at only 36%!!! If I crank up the fan to 60 it lowers the temps to the 60 - 61 range for both cores... Hmm, that's odd cause I run my card at 300 and I've noticed no graphical glitches whatsoever. Granted I did not try gaming at this mem clock nor will I. But you'd think if this was affecting the 5870 it should also affect the 5970 which is nothing more than two 5870s in CrossFire config. True. So us Radeon 5970 may always have some role to play as the "heavy duty" hashers in the bitcoin network. Now if only I could find me another cheap(r) 5970  zoro has a very good point..there are many variables that come into play here, but what matters most in the end is the spread or difference between the cost of mining a bitcoin (as in electricity) and what you can sell it for. If the value of a bitcoin kept on increasing faster than the cost of mining it then technically mining would be perpetually profitable - well up until all 21 million bitcoins are "mined"This all depends on a continual influx of new bitcoin users driving up the BTC/USD exchange rate. I have a feeling that the system will naturally balance itself so that mining will always be profitable but not necessarily by a wide margin. Hehehe..yeah I can see this leading to a bunch of miners arrested for electricity theft  Some more intrepid miners may even build their own power generating facilities (ie solar, wind, geothermal, etc) Time for me to move to Iceland   Easy, stop mining. There isn't much those of us who have to pay for our electricity can do. Or does anyone have some bright idea that escaped me? I wish I had superpowers...But on a serious note that those would be pretty cool features to have for both pools. Another cool potential feature would be if the site had some earnings estimate calculator that would show you what you might expect to earn give a certain rise in difficulty.  69C is too high!? No way. I disagree. I'm sure others would too.  Hehehe...and I just bought a 5970 last week. Sucks that I'll have maybe a few more months before it becomes unprofitable to mine with it. It's ok though as my aspiration for bitcoin is that it catches on and sort of goes more 'mainstream'. Mining is fun and all but it should not be what bitcoin becomes well known for. I wish more people would start some sort of bitcoin based business - invest in that instead of mining hardware. I agree. At the current difficulty even with twice that hashing power it will take 19 days (95% probability) to find a block. Sweet..this saves me the extra step of encrypting my wallet.dat before I upload it to Dropbox..hmm..or I can copy the encrypted file to both for extra redundancy :p Useful info! But how about using something like AxCrypt? This allows you to encrypt individual files without messing around with images or mounting/dismounting. For the super paranoid I guess you can RAR or ZIP up the bitcoin dir and password protect the archive and then encrypt it with AxCrypt. 77 at full load is pretty good  If you can keep it at that you should be set to go. I think there are two different designs of the XFX 5830, so I'm wondering which one do you have. Is it the one that vents its heat inside the case? If so the biggest problem you have is airflow..getting fresh air from the front or somewhere and ejecting it out the back or top.I'm thinking maybe one of those PCI coolers would help. Hmm I see. That's why I always profess the virtues of building your own pc. Nothing beats a custom case design. For hot running video cards (or multiple video cards) you want quite a few fans - as big as possible to keep the noise down yet maximize CFM.I'm wondering maybe he can setup some sort of ghetto rig...cut a hole in the side of the panel and attach a 140 mm fan there..or two.Do you have a pic of this case?
hehe..indeed. I haver a habit of freshing my stats page on slush's pool. But I don't think it uses that much bandwidth as most of the bandwidth intensive stuff like images and such are cached. It does increase the load on the database and other such "backend" infrastructure. Hmm well that's odd. From what I know the -f controls the "Frames per second" setting which you'd think if you set it to a lower number it would use "more" of your GPU and leave less for your desktop environment - ie increase performance slightly. Typically a higher -f setting is used if you find your desktop laggy. I think though if you leave the -f argument out it default to a setting of -f 30  Do you live in a hot climate? Also would it not be possible to increase the case's airflow without taking the side cover off? I'm thinking something like adding side panel fans or bigger/more/more powerful front intake fans? Do you even have front intake fans? Do you have a clutter of wires blocking airflow from the front intake fan(s) ? This is the bitcoin equivalent of winning the lottery!  I agree. HX1000W is the one I have and it's a beast..it should easily handle two 5970s let alone 5870. HX850 would be a good one. The TX series are excellent as well. But if I'm not mistaken Corsair's power supplies are typically a bit more expensive than the competition. I think the Cooler Master power supply suggested here is a good one too: https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Mining_rig$150 is not bad  Awesome. Thanks for the info. I'll have to see if I have firmware 3.55.  hehehe...just for kicks try -f 1  proportional...and yes you should run your miner with gpu specific flags..-w -v 128 -f 1 through 120 depending on whether you wish to use the system for anything other than mining...I use -f 60 and my day to day usage seems acceptable.. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CityHashthis?? Oh yeah a 1KW power supply will be more than enough. Just remember that if you're going to overclock them your power usage will go up and often it does not increase in a linear fashion - in other words there are diminishing returns. Where have you priced this build? Newegg? Pretty good..although for a dedicated miner you really do not need a 1 TB hd, unless you plan to use it for some other purpose as well..ie file server? That Rosewill power supply though, is it reliable and can you trust it with a high end card like the 5870? What do the reviews say? I dunno maybe it's just me but I don't think it's worth solo mining with that hashing capacity...given the current difficulty I'd say if you don't have at least above 1 Mhash/s then it's better to mine in a pool - this way you at least get frequent and more consistent payouts. Just my 0.02 BTC worth. 11.3 uses SDK 2.3 (ie opencl) as far as I know..I've go the same setup btw.  Thanks for the further clarification slush. Keep up the good work! So far I'm very happy with the way you're running your pool.Cheers! Nice! So Sandy Bridge CPUs should provider better performance..assuming that your miner will be updated to support AVX.  Ahhh..gotcha...I was under the impression all this time that those represented only my shares not the whole pool. Thanks for clearing that up.Those miners sure caught a lucky break and a huge payday! Sucks for those with a slower hash rate though. Or maybe the hash rate didn't matter just an issue of who (due to luck of the draw) managed to put in some shares before the round was over?  Well that's odd...why does it not affect hash rates on the 5970? My 5970 is currently clocked at 850 Mhz and 300 Mhz memory and currently pulling 318.2 Mhash/s per GPU...can anyone else corroborate this?  Check this link out:http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=4292.0Ye shall see the light in the very first post  Welcome to the wonderful world of bitcoin mining slurch!  Say what new card are you getting? I'm presuming it's an ATI card of some sorts. ...ooops..nevermind I found out ..I guess reading a bit further up the thread is a good idea  eh?  heheh OK, I see. Well I am satisfied with that answer. As long as it wasn't "just me"...On to other blocks!
Ah I see. That makes sense. But I still had 55 shares in according to the stats, so   I too would like to know. Any GPU guru's around here? Ohwell, trolls are a part of the natural forum ecosystem  what can ya do.No, on to the subject at hand, I'd like to thank you for that thread. It is from that thread that I first learned about lowering the mem clock -specifically what I needed to do to the MSI Afterburner config file to get it to go that low on the mem clock. Muchas gracias  I'm presuming that performance on Intel CPUs is staying the same? Code:3073 2011-04-10 13:06:20 0:00:06 55 none 117657  21 confirmations leftAny reason why for the reward column is says "none" even though I participated in that round? This is block 117657. What happened there? Damn! 1020 for the GPU core?! Gotta love those better binned cards. What temps are you seeing at that clock rate, and is the clock 100% stable? wow you guys are fighting it out with your troll nonsense on almost every thread I see...  Hehehe..not that frisky. Well, I may do that in a dedicated miner, but I won't mess around with that on the card which I intend to use for gaming as well. The reason being that when I want to game I do intend to up the mem clock back to stock speeds  The lower voltage may not work with 1200 Mhz mem clock because this is an OVERLOCKED setting..stock mem is like what 900 Mhz for the 5970, no? I worry that the difficulty level will increase to such a point BEFORE this project even gets started that it will make the whole venture uneconomical. Remember that you're chasing a MOVING target - the difficulty level. At some point the amount of money the investor will be making from his share of the rigs won't be enough to cover the cost of the administrative fees or whatever he will be charging. This is the same scenario with minim on our own (non cluster) except if we do this on our own eventually down the road when the difficulty level is too high to keep our rigs mining we can just SELL our rigs and get some cash back. I don't know how we'd have that option in a mining cluster. I suppose we can sell our shares on the newly proposed stock market, but umm what if nobody wants to buy your shares - and you can bet they will not if they know that it will cost them more in electricity/administrative fees then they get back in BTC.Please don't misunderstand me as trying to throw a "money wrench" in this venture. It's just that there are a few unanswered questions that need to be addressed. "You cannot run Aero through a client without Aero capabilities"Is what someone said on another forum. So I think what is happening here is the CLIENT is the one that renders the Aero effects which I guess is how X11 works  In regard to the GPU locking, I've had that happen with YouTube but that was caused by a bug in flash. Actually I think it was the GPU acceleration. I since turned that off. Try updating your catalyst drivers to the latest and also update Flash. Oh and you may wish to turn GPU acceleration off too. I dunno.You're saying you get hard system lockups when doing anything GPU related while also mining? Yes you can manually set the speed in Catalyst Control Panel but you can't build profiles there as far as I know - at least not in windows and with 11.3 that I'm using. To build custom fan profiles and overclocking profiles I recommend MSI Afterburner. Btw, changing the fan speed won't cause your card to burst into flames  unless you set the fan speed to low for extended period of time - but even then the card will throttle down its clock speed if it overheats.I think what's happening with the fan getting loud and quieting down for many hours is that it has a certain thermal max target and once the temps reach that it sets the fan to super high which cools the card sufficiently to keep it steady below that thermal threshold for a while. That seems quite annoying though. I would much prefer it to be at a constant value. Hmm, yeah that may be the case (regarding the ambient temps). You may want to make sure that there is ample air circulation in the room - ie basement. It could be that be ramping up the speed because what's happening is that the ambient air temp in your basement has been going up steadily. In other words it needs some fresh cold air - the poor thing  I wonder if this is as much performance as we're going to ever get out of CPUs. Also I'm wondering how the new Sandy Bridge chips perform with this miner. Anyone have such a CPU and can report how ufasoft's miner performs on it? Ah I see, but you can always manually set the fan at a certain percentage. 11.4 is beta no? Hmmm, if you can find out more I'd be interested to know. Yeah some VNC client/servers can be quite snappy if you install some special drivers. I think UltraVNC is one such example. When I last tried it the installer asked me to install some special driver which supposedly improves performance, but I chickened out as I don't like third party apps injecting "special video" drivers into my system. I ended up installing TightVNC instead which does not install anything special beyond the basic VNC server/client combo. Yep it was 10 right on the dot...thanks On a different note, it would be cool if the Red Cross accepted donations in bitcoin. I think the ease with which bitcoins can be transferred make them perfect for charitable uses. Well I know for sure that OpenCL fails because the video card is technically "turned off" (at least the drivers) when RDP is being used. Thus poclm and other GPU miners do not work. So yeah in that case VNC is the way to go. I do not like VNC though cause I find it much slower than RDP. In regard to RDP and video drivers..read this:"Terminal Services both on Windows Server 2003 and Windows XP include a driver that acts as the video driver within the TS user sessions. This means that the local video hardware on the server is not used. All graphical output created inside the TS user sessions is directed through the RDP video driver, which converts the GDI calls into an RDP video stream being forwarded to the network driver. As a result the quality of video hardware on the Win2003-based or XP-based Terminal Server does not directly affect graphics performance of TS user sessions"@ Jaime FronteroRDP takes over and masks the existing system video drivers, so you do not have access to video card functions normally handled by the drivers. Tools that access the video card at a low levels (ie bypassing the drivers) will still be able to read info from the card..ie tools like GPU-Z and such, temp monitors, etc.  Thanks..I will use -f 10 when I don't intend to do anything intensive with the machine.Umm well the second part was referring to RDP'ing into a windows machine..ie remote desktop. It seems I swallowed some words. I meat to add int he word "remotely" after "you're" Ah ok. Never tried it in linux, but hmm you're probably going to need to reinstall 11.3. I guess it's a matter of waiting for 2.4 to be integrated into the catalyst driver package. Quick question. If I set -f to something like "1" or "5" does the system become super sluggish and nearly unusable? Also to note people when you're <edit> remotely </edit> logged into your windows machine (RDP) the video drivers are disconnected so you get maximum performance   So you're saying you tried 2.4 with 11.3? 11.3 still uses Stream 2.3 AFAIK.
Hmm haven't tried 2.4 yet, but I did try to run 11.2 with SDK 2.1 which was utter failure..lol I guess you have to use the catalyst driver packages that actually contain a specific version of the SDK (in this case I desire 2.1). Installing the SDK on top of an existing catalyst driver package which already contains the SDK files fails..at least it did for me.2.2 and 2.1 are supposedly the fastest. That's what I intend to use in a my new dedicated miner. I can't use it on my main desktop machine because I like to have the latest drivers for gaming reasons. But I'd imagine 2.4 is probably as fast as 2.3.  That is an excellent solution! I'll have to keep that in mind. Thanks  10K!! Pfff..forget that  So I guess there is no cheap way for non old generation PS3 owners to use this miner then. TenthReality, did you by any chance just sent me some bitcoins cause I see a payment I cannot account for...time received 4/7/2011 17:10. Sapphire Radeon 5970 OC edition..4 GB VRAM...runs stock at 850 Mhz with meme 1200 MhzIt is weird, but that's what some people have been saying on this very thread. Check back a few posts. In windows lowering mem does not affect performance at 300 Mhz... yeah   I have that same issue..I have one of those new PS3 slim units..no way I can run any other OS on it. That's why it would be cool if somehow the mining app was made into a PS3 recognizable game  I mean this should theoretically be possible no? You are right, however repeated power loss while the file system is writing to disk could lead to data corruption. I've encoutered many computers that got file (important system files) corruption issues because the user stupidly forcefully turned off the computer instead of going through the proper shutdown procedure (this is in Windows though!)I guess a really GOOD surge protector with a high joules rating would be what he may need most, no?A UPS will cleanup power though but one has to wonder how much one is willing to invest in a big UPS system just for the power cleanup feature. I wonder if there are any power cleaning systems that do NOT have a batter backup..sort of like those fancy double conversion UPSs but without the battery? Then again the system would still have to use some sort of energy storage medium (ie batter) from which to feed the system cleaned up power. That is most generous of you! I am glad I was able to help even a bit.Btw, if you want a good UPS I think you can't go wrong with APC. For a 5970 though I think one with more than 1000VA is what is required. I currently have a 1000VA (650 watts) and it does not have enough juice to sustain the system for more than the minimum preprogrammed amount of time (I think that's like 5 to 7 minutes) at full power. I am in the dillema of having to get a bigger UPS myself. I'm thinking for a system with ONE 5970 a 1200VA UPS should do the trick - at least give me enough juice to keep the system running for a few minutes which is more than enough to deal with typical brownouts and give me enough time to safely shutdown the system.As [Tycho] mentioned in the post above you definitely need one serious UPS to run your rig. Also be aware that once you got above 1500VA rating then whatever UPS you get above that rating will require a 20 Amp plug!! All of this kind of underscores why if you're going to dedicated time, money, and energy into bitcoin mining then building a dedicated mining rig that does NOT require power backup may be the best course of action. I would even be tempted to build a system that boots via FLASH or USB drive or something low power directly into a mini linux distro and starts mining right away. Should the power go out the system will reboot and resume mining. On the desktop side I would still keep say a 5850 in that machine which is not demanding on a reasonable UPS system.Choices choices  Yeah if you're using Windows - reason being if I'm not mistaken in Linux performance also suffers if you lower the mem clock, no?But yeah, lowering the mem clock works for me in Windows and it does lower power consumption and temps. Not sure about "WAY" down though. I does cut quite a bit of "amps" off the VRMs powering the memory especially for me with my 4 GB of VRAM. I'd say it probably lowers power usage by 30 watts easily. Very well put eMansipater! +1That's why I think we should explain to bitcoin newbies that the system is just like the "real" money they're already using, but better. We should keep the explanation simple and uncluttered with undue technicalities. If anyone has the desire to deeply understand how the bitcoin monetary system works then they can do so. It's just like the existing fiat monetary system we all still use - most people don't really understand how it works, nor do they care. lol I can just imagine a book called "Bitcoin for Dummies" coming out  Dude if you can explain to the average computer user how the block chain and have them understand it you'd be da man of English usage and clear communication.. The UPS could be giving bad power to the power supply due to being overloaded and the power supply is complaining about it? (ie PFC kicked in)I too have exact same power supply and I got a radeon 5970 overclocked to 850 and before I plugged it in I did some research and ideally what you want is to split the load in two because as I'm sure you know the HX1000W is technically two 500W power supplies joined together. The power supply will actually handle more than 1000W from what I read somewhere because its very similar in design to a much higher rated Thermaltake 1200W unit - both built by the same OEM.Anyways, this may be helpful:http://forum.corsair.com/forums/showthread.php?t=70317First thing I'd recommend to try is to get the UPS out of the picture to rule out that possibility. I too have an UPS (1000VA) and there is no way it can handle the 5970 at full load. The amount of power this thing sucks is incredible especially if you overclock both the GPU and the memory.  hehehe  I agree. He definitely deserves it. The more I learn about bitcoin the more technically impressive it seems to me.  21 Mhash/s is not to bad I guess...it's not GPU but hey anything extra is a good thing. The downside is that given the PS3's power consumption that has rate may not be economical for the majority of people.I wonder though how people with the recent generation PS3s would be able to run this miner. I'm assuming that one needs to have linux installed on the PS3 to make this work; no?  Those were the "good ol' days" I wonder if we're ever gonna find out who the "richest" bitcoin user is. Sure thing Kiv! I'd be glad to help you out. Thanks btw for writing the gui front-end to poclm ) love it and love to use it Heheh..yeah that's possible but it certainly would be a ghetto setup. But the again it's cheaper than buying a suitable motherboard.Another problem with motherboards that feature 4 PCIE slots (x16 or x8) is the spacing. One solution would be to install a water cooling block on all 4 cards  Imagine 4 5970s or 5870s   error, I did almost the same thing - not six months but almost close to it. My biggest regret is not being one of the first people to use GPUs for mining. No doubt many others share my regret. Thanks for clearing that up. You know what's funny I've been to your page many times but never scrolled down to the bottom where you mention "Every instance of your miner needs its own worker account!!!"Silly me. Well thanks for putting up with my newbieness :p second poster is definitely right..bitcoin mining is NOT bandwidth (PCI express bandwidth) intensive so it doesn't really matter how many PCIE lanes you have. 
Up until recently all the bitcoin I have have been generated with CPU power but thanks to the much increased difficulty it's no longer worth it or economical to use my CPU. Instead I bought me a 5970 :p I remember the good ol days when I used to generate a 50 BTC block every hour or so... You have to run bitcoin in 'daemon' mode - ie server mode. As far as I know that is the only requirement. You naturally then have to point each GENERATING client to that server ie "http://192.168.1.xx:8332" or something of that sort depending on what is the IP of the machine where the bitcoin daemon is running on.  slush, I have a quick question. I haven't seen an FAQ section on your page so I thought I'd ask here. With your pool is it ok to "log in" or use the same worker login on the same machine? Or do you require that I create different workers for each GPU? I have a Radeon 5970 and naturally it has two GPUs so that's why I'm asking. At the moment I have two separate workers - 1 for each GPU. As a suggestion maybe you can add a FAQ section on your website so stupid questions such as mine can be answered? :pCheers! Hmm, too bad they closed that testing pool. I would've loved to setup my own pool. I guess I'll keep a close eye on the threads to see if something maybe comes up. I think it is perfectly legal to run a e-currency exchange business as Canada has a few of them already. They deal with mainstream e-currencies though but so far they've been running for years without the government shutting them down. Also take note that the payment processor AlertPay is Canadian based and I read somewhere that they never had to register with any government agencies or had the same stringent regulatory environment as in the States - ie PayPal. Oh, right. I was aware of that, but I don't think it's a good idea because they charge too much for shipping. For example to ship to my postal code they're asking $6.98. If I was to simply mail the cards in a regular mail envelope (letter) it would cost maximum $1.Also I'm not sure if they'll allow me to pay with a different address info yet ship to another. But none of this stuff matter as it looks like there aren't many people interested in this.  True you can buy them online. But what is someone who happens to have bitcoins but no credit card to do? And yeap Timmy's rocks! Hi guys and gals. I've been thinking of some ways I can contribute to the bitcoin economy, and yesterday in the morning while I was at my local Tim Hortons to grab a coffee it dawned on me that some Canadian bitcoin users may want to use their bitcoins to buy coffee. So I was thinking of acting as a "purchase agent" for people who wish to do this. I'll buy the coffee card for you and mail it to you via regular Canada Post mail service. All you have to do is send me the bitcoin equivalent of the coffee card value. This process may be a bit cumbersome, but hey it's another way you can make REAL use of your bitcoins without first exchanging them to fiat money.  Indeed. Unless you're a light bulb, then it's quite easy   *sigh* ohwell...Thanks for sharing that info. So I guess the only safe method of payments are wire transfer and cold hard cash. Kiv where you at? And do you still need this service? Gotcha. I agree. In addition to that using more "permanent" methods of payments like wire transfer or money orders would be a viable solution. Wire transfer and money order would have higher transaction costs. I personally believe it would be really cool if nearly every major population center had at least two people that exchanged bitcoins for fiat currency and vice versa. Imagine just giving "Joe" a call and stopping buy and converting $50 to bitcoins. It would be almost as convenient as doing it all electronically (ie with PayPal and other payment processors). I live in Canada so I am thinking I may allow people to buy bitcoins with something called "e-mail money transfers" http://www.interac.ca/consumers/productsandservices_ol_eTransfer.phpThe sender pays the fees, and the whole transaction is non reversible.Btw, any Canadians around here? I agree. But are you saying bitcoin to cash and vice versa is also a bad idea? As far as using PayPal's mass payment API I will look into it! Thanks for the info!  Sorry guys, yeah the site is offline. I am working with my coder to come up with an improved version - possibly totally rewrite the site as it is currently based on a Drupal framework which is hard to work with and possibly insecure.I thought of some ideas on how to secure the transaction. Perhaps giving people a physical crypto card of some sorts that they will use to verify the legitimacy of the transaction along with a regular password. I dunno, I just want to help the bitcoin system grow by making it easy for people to convert between normal fiat currency and the superior bitcoins. Holy-Fire, I agree that having the ability to buy/sell bitcoins in micro increments is important, but like you mentioned the paypal fees would eat so much out of it that I'm not sure if it's really worth it for both parties. Plus I'm not sure if PayPal would like it if we pushed thousands of $1 or less transactions through their servers on a daily basis. zer0, Hmm, perhaps the answer is doing only bitcoin to other e-currencies? The problem here is that the user would have to jump through extra hoops and first convert fiat to another e-currency and then finally to bitcoin. Another problem is that other e-currencies are all centralized and could potentially be taken down by governments or be hacked, etc. Guys, maybe in the end the best thing to do is to just exchange cash to bitcoins and vice versa?  Excellent. That's exactly what I have in mind to implement. I was also thinking of giving users a specific cryptocard keyfile that the user would have to match and type in my site in order for the transaction to get processed.. Nice! Thanks for sharing! Using this service would mean that the site would no longer be 100% automated though. I'd have to manually process each transaction AND have the customer wait a week or so until he/she gets the bitcoins. Indeed that would kill the whole convenience idea behind my site. Hmm, time to do some hard thinking. well I've shut the site down for now..I will bring it back up once I take out 98% of the bitcoins from the site's account. This way if I get scammed I won't lose much. This is a temporary solution until I figure out a way to better secure paypal transactions or maybe even switch the site over to use Pecunix or Liberty Reserve, c-gold etc ...basically a method of payment that can't be reversed. Even so your bitcoins are gone the moment they get sent to a different account. It's not like paypal is going to refund my bitcoins. PayPal is ok if you're a BUYER but for a seller (ask the people on ebay) it just plain SUCKS!You know what would be really useful, a bitcoin escrow system? Is there any around? If not I may consider setting one up.Cheers! True, there are plenty of fraudsters out there. OK, I shall have to get on it then and see what I can do to protect the site from the scammers.If anyone has any good suggestions I welcome them all! To be honest I'm not sure I can do much about that. I am thinking of limiting the number of bitcoins a user can buy per day or something of that sort. But there is no surefire way of preventing chargebacks. If this happens to much I will just shutdown the service. I really pray that it won't have to come to that though.
