This looks familiar. The SEC is investigating S.DICE.  Hilarious read: http://trilema.com/2014/interacting-with-fiat-institution-a-guide/ I can't find proof at the moment, but I believe this was proven to be an address controlled by bitstamp. To be honest, $9000 is a pretty shady number in the world of AML/KYC.  Sad, but true. I understand your point of view.  The reason I have BTC stuck in gox is because my USD was stuck there for months.  I bought BTC at a 33% discount after the initial announcements about withdrawal delays because I figured my money was stuck anyway.  It is just a shame that we will be fighting each other for a share of Mtgox's assets. I'm researching it, but no promises.  I have no experience working with lawyers and no connections, just a lot of money on the line.  It looks like it will be a battle for BTC holders against not only against MtGox but against the OP's legal team as well. I won't support any suit that seeks preferential treatment of USD holders over BTC holders. It's 2014, bitcoin has gone a long way towards being legally considered money.  I for one will fight in bankruptcy court to treat BTC and USD creditors equally.It is ridiculous that people think USD they can't get out is 5x as valuable as BTC they can't get out. I am also waiting 2+ days on a response after requesting a USD withdrawal and responding to the KYC questions (which they provided promptly after my initial withdrawal request).  This is my first time withdrawing from bitstamp so I don't know what to expect.Edit 2/20: Support replied and says the withdraw request will proceed.  USD still shows in my account.Edit 2/21: The wire appears to have been sent. I see you are putting your money where your mouth is with regards to MtGox's solvency. A mtgox rep responds to similar concerns here: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=110356.msg1202974#msg1202974 Already have a DO account.  Looking to try out protoshares.PqxDNnNpjKSMBgLn7Csd36LdRzvsVxfLu6 I received 6 transfers from coinbase today, it appears things are back to normal. Olaf, this issue is bigger than just a 1-day glitch.This sell and each sell from every day after it have not arrived in my account.  On the history page, the entire transaction is marked as complete, while in the details, the bank account portion is still marked as pending.  Additionally, a sell from Oct. 28 should have arrived last thursday or friday at the latest according to Coinbase's usual estimates.I'm not sure if this is relevant, but I recently noticed the messaging in the Sell dialog change from something along the lines of "we will transfer $X,XXX to you bank account by XX/XX/XX" to "we will wire $X,XXX...".  Has coinbase switched from ACH to wires?  Customers won't be happy with the incoming wire fees if this is the case.I don't think coinbase will do this. Update: Waiting over 4 months for USD wire requested July 4 within the hour of the announcement that USD withdrawals had been resumed. I am also experiencing this issue.  My mining business has been consistently selling some BTC on Coinbase every day, and the last USD deposit hit the bank account Oct. 30.  Transactions that have not arrived are marked as completed.Tweeted to the founders: https://twitter.com/dustcoin/status/397801153150201856 Good thing I remembered to check this thread today.  Claim submitted for my modest quantity of shares.  What is the estimated value of a share and previous dividends these days? I haven't been following this thread closely, so I apologize in advance it has been mentioned in recent pages.Is there any indication that USD international wires (without the 5% fee) are being processed at all?  If so, what request date is the queue up to? While mcxFEE shares may very well be overpriced, you can't apply same reasoning to mining equipment and shares of an exchange.  Mining equipment is a depreciating asset, that will eventually have near zero value after it is not worth paying for electricity to run it.  Therefore, it is important to consider the total dividends that will be generated before the asset value reaches zero. Businesses, on the other hand, are generally not expected to decay to zero value.  In the case of a new and growing business such as mcxNOW, earnings are expected to increase over time, thus increasing the present value of the shares. A newcomer to the community can deposit BTC with a trusted person/group of people as collateral in case they run off with everyones' coins .  Now that I think of it, this scheme doesn't make as much sense for a dice site because if the operators had more coin than the entire invest pool to set aside, then they might not need investors in the first place.
Ok... https://ice-dice.com/en?invite=1646I would place an ad on dustcoin.com/mining, but I'm worried about promoting something that could be a scam (operator walking away with the invest pool).  Has Ice-Dice offered any proof of legitimacy or deposited a bond with a trusted member? I was calculating the hardware error rate wrong.  It should be HW/LocalWork, which brings the error rates i'm seeing to a much more reasonable 1%.Regardless, 3 out of 4 of my batch 3 units end up with <10Gh/s after 3-12hrs of mining, some more frequently than others.Could this behavior be due to the new temperature throttling feature?  I have the default temperature limits of 70C target and 90C cutoff, but I don't see the temps going over 70C. One of my batch 3 avalons is performing very poorly due to a high HW errors.  Unplugging all by one module, each module individually has between a 25 and 75% HW error rate at either 256 or 300Mhz.This degraded performance starting after about 6 hours of mining at 300Mhz.Is there anything I should try before trying to make a warranty claim? I wonder if it is still possible to request a refund, given that there are no signs of 4 module units shipped. Do you have a PGP key that customers can use to encrypt their addresses sent via PM? I like the minimalist design, ordered. I'm glad to see someone shares my views.  All of the talk of lawsuits, complaints to the FTC, etc is counterproductive for BFL customers.  I still value a June minirig preorder at $100k+, so what is the point of taking legal action and probably just getting a refund of $30k. I can't see any case where customers receive "damages" based on lost mining revenue starting from some arbitrary date in the past.It is too early for lawsuits against BFL, I'm still giving them a chance to deliver.Yep, so much for the 1/3 1/3 1/3 plan.  It isn't worth getting too mad about though, early jalapenos are a drop in the bucket compared to the network hashrate.  If they ship a bunch of singles before the minirigs though, it will be more of an issue. This is correct.  Jared has never had any affiliation with Mtgox. S.DICE doesn't scale as well with increasing bitcoin prices as ASICMINER does.  People are generally only willing to risk a certain amount of $ when gambling.  This is partially offset by the increased interest in BTC that goes along with the price, driving traffic to S.DICE.There are the same number of bitcoins mined every day regardless of the price, so all the rising exchange rate does is lower ASICMINER's costs. Isn't it unknown if wires are working until someone sends or receives one that was initiated after the Dwolla incident? ..and *brix! Thanks, this works great.The total supply can be calculated with:before 161280: -0.000986912724567928 * blocks * (blocks + 1) / 2 + blocks * (254.53671561 + 496.03174604) EDIT: This doesn't factor in the demurrage. BQC, CNC and MNC have been added.  I also am now getting the BTE exchange rate from http://exchange.bytecoin.in and the MNC rate from http://mcxnow.com.Disclosure: I have received many PMs requesting the addition of BQC, one of these PMs promised a 5000 BQC donation.I'm still looking for an easy way to calculate the Freicoin block reward and total money supply. You are right about the issues with running a minirig off of household power, but it is ridiculous to assert that the power costs of a 9kW 1.5Th/s rig would "eat up a vast amount of profit".  At current difficulty, price, and the average US electricity price ($0.12), power costs would be 0.29% of revenue.  At 76x the current difficulty, it would be 22%, similar to the efficiency of a dual 5970 rig today. If you could deliver NOW, I would buy as many as I could afford.  However, you aren't delivering NOW, so I am interested in buying exactly zero.Delivery time is much more important than Th/$ or Th/W in the current mining market. OP, why are you asking what we would pay now if these 45nm products will only be available a year from now?The "Virtual Mining Corp" site, as well as another site you own, axs.net (can2it), are pretty shady and are not what I would expect from competent engineers and businessmen.From my observations:Optimistic case, you are a BitcoinINV type who has good intentions but is woefully unprepared for the businesses he runs.Worst case, you are a scammer.Either way, I find it hard to believe that you will develop your own 45nm ASICs within a year.To impress newbies? You will have to be willing to burn a lot more than $10k given the negative effect this action would have on the market price.Paul Graham (YCombinator) invested in Coinbase, not Coinlab.  It doesn't help that nearly every bitcoin business has either "bit" or "coin" in its name. You are correct, the LTC block reward was still being used for the market cap calculation. Fixed now, thanks. Interesting, I just put "Launching May 10" in my forum profile... and then I see this thread.(I have nothing to do with MicroCash) Bytecoin and Feathercoin have been added.  Feathercoin exchange rate is volume weighted between Vircurex and Bter.Freicoin exchange rate from bter.com is now displayed.I'll add it tomorrow, I'm too lazy to parse http://mcxnow.com/orders?cur=MNC right now.Is there a better source of bytecoin exchange data than scraping http://exchange.bytecoin.in/? Is RealSolid behind Mincoin?  There is a MicroCash banner at the top of the page and a user named RealSolid in both the exchange trollbox and #mcxnow IRC channel.  That might explain the huge block rewards for the early blocks.
Does anyone knowledgable of Freicoin have formulas for:1) The value of the current block reward2) The current money supply (other variable block reward coins have a "moneysupply" field in the getinfo response) If your PSU is built by any reputable manufacturer then 750W is more than enough for those cards. No, because the main contributor to blockchain bloat is transactions, not blocks themselves.  16 blocks with 20 transactions each is only slightly bigger than 1 block with 320 transactions.The blockchain will continue to grow, as blocks will be mined even after the block reward drops to zero.  Miners will mine for transaction fees. Honestly, this could be said about many people in the bitcoin community. It's not even a rig, it's a preorder for a rig (Avalon batch 2).  The listing says it is scheduled to ship April 15th, yet 5 days later there is no sign of Avalon shipping batch 2.I wouldn't be surprised if the buyer is either scamming or files a dispute when he does not receive the rig in a timely manner.  No, it is on the wrong chain.  The TRC dev made another hardfork with only a few days notice, and no real announcement, no alert sent to old versions.  In the future, I should receive emails when there is any activity on the github to reduce the likelyhood of this happening again.I'm pretty angry myself as I was mining on the wrong chain for over a day. EDIT: I'm now on the right chain. I'm launching my own pool soon, I'm not sure if it will be private (small group) or public. What about Peercoin (PRC)? Refunded fully today. I was refunded in full today. Tom is not a scammer and never was in my opinion. A miner with a high hashrate would not need to run multiple clients, they could simply alternate submitting blocks through various proxies.  This could be done for free using Tor. How is this enforced?  Big miners will just split their mining power between multiple IP addresses and become indistinguishable from a group of small users. Vircurex appears to be ahead of my local terracoind and cryptocoinexplorer.com.Vircurex Blocks: 104530My Blocks: 104508TRC deposit to Vircurex is not showing up, probably due to this. I just made the mining calculator parameters persistent, as long as you do not clear your cookies.  Does this solve your problem of having to re-enter parameters each time, or do you have a specific use case for the URL parameters?I'll consider adding it when there is an exchange with an API. dustcoin.com/mining is on block 104396 with difficulty 12265.71592580.  I think I've been on top of updating terracoind from the latest github source, despite the dev's ridiculous lack of communication and short release schedules.Is it possible that some services, miners and users are just running older versions of terracoin, and the forks are caused by the frequent hardforking updates to the difficulty adjustment algorithm? The OP was confirmed to be a Mtgox representative at the start of the AMA via Mtgox's Facebook page. The email is real, according to Sunny King.I'm not sure why the lead dev of a coin would announce the shutdown of his project to drive the price down.  Real or not, the TRC dev has lost  what little credibility was ever had. The correct solution is to protect against all CSRF attacks.I also recommend avoiding this site completely until this critical issue is fixed.  Any site you visit in the same browser could steal your entire balance with absolutely zero interaction from you.EDIT: FIXEDFunny, the first thing I thought of after seeing this site was "it is probably vulnerable to CSRF". Price drives difficulty and what miners are willing to spend on electricity.Difficulty and what miners are willing to spend on electricity never drives price. My comment was pointing out that during the crash, LTC/BTC has also fallen slightly.
LTC/BTC has actually been falling during this crash, meaning LTC/USD is falling faster than BTC/USD. This is what happens when fixes are quickly pushed out without any review. IXC and DVC prices, as well as the rest of Vircurex data, are back.  Vircurex decided to keep IXC and their API is re-enabled. Yes.Avalon sent out this email to their list today (link altered for anti-SEO purposes): The bitcoin testnet has a difficulty adjustment rule related to what you are describing.Reseting back to the minimum would be too extreme, but a moderate adjustment down after a period of slow blocks could work. Balthazar notified me that I missed a mandatory NVC upgrade.  The current version of novacoind is now runnning.The current PPC/TRC exchange rates will fluctuate wildly as Vircurex data is unavailable. BTC-e TRC and PPC markets will be factored in soon.EDIT: BTC-e TRC and PPC data is in use now. I second this.  I would withdraw BTC every time I used vircurex if the withdraw fee wasn't so high (over 1 USD). From what I have seen, Sunny King is fair and unbiased towards other altcoins. The public key corresponding to an address is revealed when coins are first spent from that address. 1F6fV4U2xnpAuKtmQD6BWpK3EuRosKzF8UDon't you mean 99.xxxx FRC?  This is probably unrelated, but it is worth being extra cautious: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=165497.0  I always build altcoins from source after auditing the diffs from bitcoin, and never run them on the same hardware I use to manage BTC wallets. Bitcoin already has a testnet. I think most Litecoin haters aren't afraid of LTC hurting BTC, as they see little to no value in LTC.  Instead, they are genuinely trying to prevent people from investing something that they consider a scam.  This is similar to how pirate haters went out of their way to discourage the community from investing in BS&T.  These "haters" were not running competing investment offerings.Recently, many community members have loudly warned against ordering from BFL.  Most of these people are not doing this because they want the difficulty to be lower, or because they have a stake in an ASIC company, but because they want to limit the success of something they see as a scam.Personally, I don't think Litecoin is scam, but I question LTC's current value and the reasoning employed by its supporters. This isn't true.  PC PSUs are generally most efficient when loaded 50-80%.Image source: http://www.hardwaresecrets.com/article/Understanding-the-80-Plus-Certification/742 The IP that shows up on blockchain.info is just the IP that relayed that transaction to blockchain.info's node, and may or may not be the owner of the transaction.  This IP has forwarded many transactions, it is probably just someone running a node.  https://blockchain.info/ip-address/173.208.219.162 ITT: Entitled minersngzhang is absolutely right.  Batch 1 and Batch 2 customers took a large risk.  Now, it is proven that Avalon delivers machines that essentially print money and it doesn't make any sense for them to sell them so cheaply.$5-6k is still a very reasonable price for a 60Gh/s machine, as BFL has not shipped yet.  If BFL ships in mass before the batch #3 store is opened, then I could see Avalon reevaluating their pricing.BTC was ~$12 when batch #1 ordering opened. The proof of work could be designed to benefit from a large lookup table or cache of results, too big to fit in memory.  One problem with this scheme would be that solutions might be just as hard to verify as they were to solve. This isn't true.  GPUs and even multi-core CPUs parallelize Litecoin mining.This isn't true either.  Scrypt ASIC and FPGA design is more complex and expensive than SHA-256 hardware design, and the memory requirements would increase costs, but dedicated hardware will always offer significant  efficiency advantages over general purpose hardware for embarrassingly parallelizable tasks.  People used to think that GPU mining Litecoin would not be viable. Coinlab, you are on the list of pools mining version 1 blocks, which will be orphaned once 95% of the network is mining version 2 blocks. https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=154521.0 "newmint" refers to immature, newly mined coins (<520 blocks old).To calculate the block reward use something like this (python from dustcoin.com/mining source):Code:coin.block_reward = 9999 * COIN / pow(coin.difficulty, 0.25)
Isn't BCB just going to get hit with a chargeback? Yes.  I was told everything was ok on 3/11. These coins cannot be spent. DHL should call the day before you will receive delivery, at least in the US. Peer-to-Peer Coin.  PPCoin would benefit from a rebranding. My site calculates the mining revenue with 5000 coins per block and the "market cap" with 50000 coins per block. Use a symlink: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=153569.msg1630124#msg1630124 Does namecoin not support wallet encryption?You can use a symlink to point namecoin to a wallet in a truecrypt container.For example (back up your wallet first before messing around with links!)Code:ln -s /Volumes/NO\ NAME/wallet.dat /Users/<YOUR USER NAME>/Library/Application\ Support/Namecoin/wallet.datNote that if you run namecoind without mounting the truecrypt container first, it will overwrite your symlink with a blank wallet (you won't lose your wallet, it will still be in the truecrypt container, but you will have to delete the empty wallet and recreate the link) Please be careful using commands if you do not fully understand how they work.EDIT: doublec's method here is probably better/easier for namecoin, as the blockchain is relatively small you put everything in a container and still be able to easily back it up: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=153564.msg1630096#msg1630096  The Xeon Phi was discussed here: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=88407.  The conclusion was that it would have similar performance to that of an AMD GPU, making it not worth the pricetag. I haven't seen any mining software for the Xeon Phi. BFL is looking less and less like a scam as time goes on.  They are just terrible at estimating realistic dates.Coinbase is legit.  They are a decent place to sell small amounts.  For larger amounts, you would want to use an exchange with lower fees and the ability to place orders at specific prices. 1. Make sure you are in the folder containing namecoind. Use cd to change directories.  You can use TAB when typing to autocomplete directories.  For example:Code:cd /Users/<YOUR USER NAME>/Documents/namecoin2. Make sure the namecoind binary is actually named namecoind.  Mine is named namecoind_osx64 for some reason, but I can't remember if I renamed it.3. Make sure namecoind is executable.  Use chmod to add the execute permission.Code:chmod +x namecoind4. Start namecoind.  Even if you are in the correct directory, simply running namecoind will result in "command not found".  You must prefix executables in the current directory with "./" (a single dot refers to the current directory).Adding the "&" to the command will run it in the background, so you can continue using the terminal.  Running namecoind for the first time may prompt you to create a configuration file with an rpc user and password.Code:./namecoind&5. Then try to issue commands.  Here are some example commands, use help to list them all.Code:./namecoind help./namecoind getinfo./namecoind getnewaddress./namecoind getbalance6. To shut down namecoind cleanly, use the stop commandCode:./namecoind stop 2 units delivered and runningLocation: USOrder: 168I was called by DHL a day in advance.  Today, DHL reported the delivery as attempted/failed, which scared me as I would have to wait until Monday. When I went to the apartment office to ask them what happened, THE BOXES WERE THERE! I'm going. PPCoin would be much more popular if it had been named differently. User: dustOrder #: 8xxPaid in: BTCAmount: $8590Date Requested: Jan 12thLocation: USPaid: No refund received No refund here.  I'm glad to see you are making progress though.Many have been posted in this thread. I'm going! BTC-e may be referring to Sunny King's deadline for upgrading to v0.3.0, March 20th. Unlike bASIC and BFL, who list their prices in USD, Coinabul lists their in prices BTC.  Therefore, customers have a much stronger case to be refunded the identical BTC amount.
It is extremely similar to BTC and doesn't really offer anything innovative like some of the other altcoins do. I was confused by the thread necro, but coincidentally there is actually a Seattle meetup tomorrow.  http://www.meetup.com/SeattleBitCoin/events/106940802/ "They are trading at a ridiculous 70 cents USD which is hilarious for a currency that no one uses."http://forumserver.twoplustwo.com/30/business-finance-investing/bitcoins-digital-currency-1011408/ I called DHL again today and they said their system for looking up packages without tracking numbers was down today.BitSynCom, can you please confirm that my order has shipped?  Given the order number relative to others that have been shipped, it should have already been shipped, but because the issue with the canceled status was never resolved, it is reasonable to assume there is a possibility that nothing has been sent.I wouldn't be hassling you about tracking if the order was displayed correctly in the store, in which case I would be reasonable to just wait for it to arrive. Do you have proof of this?  Blockchain analysis? I know right!  A few pages back there are the following posts:1. Keefe (ordered/paid before me): "what's up with my order?..."2. Me: "what's up with my order, was last seen as canceled before batch 1 store went down"3. Bogart (ordered/paid slightly after me): "what's up with my order...?"4. BitSynCom (Quotes both Bogart and Keefe): Bogart, your order was shipped, so was Keefe'sI wonder if BitSynCom has me on ignore  .  I feel like an asshole spamming every avalon thread, but the 2 month and counting resolution time is ridiculous.  With thousands of $ of mining revenue on the line, I can't just wait to not receive a unit and then ask "hey, what happened to my order?", so I am trying to be as proactive as possible in getting confirmation of a shipment. BitSynCom, I understand that orders may not be shipped/arrive exactly in the order # and time paid order, but I called DHL today and yesterday and they had no record of any incoming packages.  My order number and time paid are earlier than those of Bogart.  Given that the last I saw of my order was the "canceled" status, can you confirm that I have been shipped units? The site is functioning normally now.  The coin information (blocks, difficulty, etc) was stale for 6 hours, price data was unaffected.  I will be adding some monitoring shortly to prevent this from happening again without me noticing. The price of each coin is based on an average of the prices on Bitparking, BTC-e and vircurex, weighted by the coin's daily volume on each exchange.  However, there are currently some problems with the server configuration that could be preventing up to date prices.EDIT: Prices were accurate, the TRC price is currently weighted towards the bid/ask average on Vircurex.I changed the configuration of my local network this afternoon and broke the server sending updated information to the frontend.  I'm working on fixing this now. I'm surprised that no one has released an altcoin with malware in the binaries, but clean source on github.  I always build altcoins from source, and perform a quick audit of the commits on top of bitcoin to check if there is anything fishy. It isn't worth it to make scrypt asics yet because of the low value of LTC.  Creating an scrypt ASIC is a bit more complicated than creating a SHA-256 ASIC, but it is certainly possible.In addition to this, there is no reason to believe that the availability of ASICs makes a coin worse.  If anything, it is better for the coin, as the "good guys" (miners) have access to the best type of mining technology.Avalon has shipped bitcoin ASICs.  ASICMINER has also deployed ASICs.In my opinion, the only innovative altcoins are Namecoin and PPCoin.  Unfortunately, Namecoin failed to gain much adoption.  PPCoin offers real benefits over bitcoin (lowering the cost of network security), but its design and security are not nearly as audited and understood as they are for Bitcoin.  This is also the opinion that a court would have, as the products were clearly priced in USD.  The amount of "waiting" that is acceptable is debatable.  ineededausername took 5 months to pay out his "guaranteed insured" pirate bond, but was never considered a scammer by the community and eventually paid 100%.Do you have blockchain analysis to prove this?  I'm honestly curious, and not just trying to dismiss your statement.  The most likely case in my mind is that Tom sold BTC shortly after receiving them to fund ASIC development, and is now mining, selling assets for USD and buying BTC to pay people back, but I would quickly change my attitude towards Tom if blockchain analysis proves he is holding a stash of coins.Again, see what a court says about the "I paid BTC for a product priced in USD so I should get more USD value in BTC back".  Also, would you be demanding the same amount of BTC instead of USD if the price of BTC had gone down?  Contrary to the beliefs of many community members, the price of BTC does sometimes go down.On topic: Still no refund Did anyone receive tracking numbers via email? <whine>What about me, who's post was in between Keefe's and Bogart's</whine> I just called DHL and they do not have information on any incoming packages.  I have an order # less than 20000017x, paid immediately after ordering, so I am now extremely concerned that my order was actually canceled. Bitsyncom, can you please confirm my order?  This has been unresolved for 2 months. No alternative coins have features that reduce bandwidth usage.  The only reason they are less bandwidth intensive is because less people are using them.Bitcoin can be used anonymously if desired.  Even blockchain.info wallets can be used through tor.No alternative coins are any different in terms of privacy than bitcoin is. Keefe, I'm in a similar situation.  I responded to a post by Bitsyncom asking customers with paid orders not listed as confirmed to immediately contact Avalon to fix it on Jan. 8, and haven't received a definite confirmation that I will receive units, despite making many attempts to contact them and resolve the issue.  The last I saw of the order before the batch 1 store went down was the same "canceled" status.Support ticket #25 remains unresolved. Added power cost input and USD profit columnSeparated SHA-256 and scrypt hashrate fieldsMinor cosmetic improvementsI'm not sure what the best way to represent the profitability "ratio" of altcoins is.  The current Ratio column displays the relative revenue, not profit, and assuming a 1000:1 SHA-256/scrypt hashrate ratio.  However, the true % increase in profit can be much higher than the listed value, due to the fixed nature of power costs.  I want the value displayed to users glancing at the site without entering any information to be reasonable and useful.  I also want the information provided to be as accurate as possible if hashrate and power data is entered.  I will try to make this clearer in the near future. Wouldn't an "Economy / Trading" subboard in the newbies section essentially be a scamming board? Ripple threads are out of control in the altcoin section, it would be nice if they were contained in a subforum. Naming is extremely important to an altcoin's success.  PPCoin is the most innovative altcoin since namecoin, and offers true potential benefits over Bitcoin, which cannot be said for any other altcoin, unless the minor/dubious benefit of shorter block times is counted.  I believe one of the main reasons PPCoin has failed to gain popularity is its name.Litecoin was Fairbrix with a better name, a better launch, and better marketing.  No one uses Fairbrix now.Another example is BBQCoin.  Based on its name, people know it is a joke and do not take it seriously.  If it was named "Fastcoin" or something instead it would probably have Terracoin levels of popularity.Sunny King, I strongly recommend that you rename PPCoin and create a better website to market it, before it is too late.  The community should be able to come up with some good names.
This is not how taxes work. The OP or mods should remove the list of emails from this thread. It's Friday.  Has anyone received any refunds? Batch #1 here, last I saw of my paid order was that it was "canceled".  I wish I could get a simple Yes/No if I was getting units shipped, and work from there if the answer is "No", but at this point I'll just wait for tracking numbers in the next few days.Support ticket #25 with no responses*, can anyone beat it?*To be fair to BitSynCom, I have gotten some vague comments in response to my issue on the forums. Market cap in BTC is now calculated and this value is used to sort the table of coins.IXC, the original scamcoin, has been added. Avalon is stockpiling their own boxes of fans!   Customers who ordered little singles when they were announced (September?) should rightfully not be included in the first batch.  BFL did allow jalapeno orders to upgrade to little singles, these orders will be included in the first batch if the original Jalepeno order was early enough.I agree completely with all of these statements. No, devoting 1/4 of the chips to Jalepenos, 1/4 to little singles (which didn't even exist for months after preorders opened!), and 1/4 to singles would be an extremely unfair way of doing it.  A Jalepeno customer in August should not recieve their order before a minirig customer in June.  Minirigs only have an 8% Gh/$ advantage over SC singles.  It would be ridiculous to penalize people who ordered a minirig instead of 25 singles.Ideally, they should build units so that roughly equal order numbers/order dates are reached by the different product lines.Regardless, I'm not sure if BFL would rather have 1 angry $30000 customer or 25 angry $1300 customers.Disclosure: I have a June minirig order. BFL has committed to their 1/3, 1/3, 1/3 shipping plan for the first batch.  I'm currently thinking the fairest way to follow this plan would be to split the chips into the three groups and build whatever units are required to fulfill those orders. Interesting results.I'm surpised XRP is worth anywhere near 15% of BTCI'm surprised NVC is worth more than PPCI'm surprised IXC is worth anything at allhttp://dustcoin.com/mining will support this very soon. What is "performance", Gh/J?  Or the devices have to be within +-10% for both Gh/s and power requirements?Either way, 10% isn't a huge margin and people betting in favor of BFL can lose even if the devices exceed specifications. You are right.  When I first visited the page, the difference was 1%.  When I went to post, the numbers were different and I didn't think to recalculate the %.Looks good now! Good idea, I will add a column for market cap.  It is also an appropriate metric to sort the coins by. I did some price comparisons and BitcoinStore is actually cheaper this time (unlike during beta when "cheaper than Amazon" really meant "cheaper than some third-party sellers on Amazon").The hidden 1% fee due to the exchange rate used is a bit deceptive.  I would rather just see higher prices with the proper exchange rate. Not this again.1) According to Tom, he sold most of the BTC at around $15 (similar to the prices people ordered at)2) Irrespective of this, you preordered a product priced in USD and should expect USD back This is illogical.  Instead of holding any altcoins, why not hold all "insanely-undervalued" bitcoins, and spend them when necessary.  What businesses accept altcoins but not bitcoins?I fail to see how this leads to borrowers acquiring more bitcoins without exposing lenders to even higher risks. The fees would be lower numbers, but not a lower %. "No wireless. Less space than a nomad. Lame." Voted "this poll sucks" for this reason. NVC has been added to the list (don't DDoS the messenger  ).  It is currently 70% more profitable to mine than LTC.
Wouldn't it be better to estimate the future difficulty and block rewards based on the current difficulty and hashrate of recent blocks, as a miner would want to know what coin to mine now, not which one was more profitable in the past? I'm experimenting with a setup that utilizes two servers, a cheap VPS for the frontend, and dedicated hardware I have physical control of to run bitcoind and the backend.  The backend services can be further segregated using VMs.  The VPS handles all internet traffic, whereas the backend only communicates directly with the VPS with signed messages.  The frontend can verify that messages from the backend are valid, and the backend can maintain its own records to audit the requests sent by the frontend.  If the VPS was compromised, then any malicious requests sent to the backend would raise alarms.Currently, I'm not handling any coin, so it is a bit overkill, but this kind of design would be extremely beneficial where security matters.I don't think that SSH logs record passwords, that would be a huge security issue. Currently running on http://dustcoin.com/mining.FEATURESGeneral coin information (blocks, difficulty, reward, etc.)Aggregate exchange rates calculated from BTC-e, Vircurex and Bter marketsMining revenue compared to BTCSHA-256 and scrypt mining revenue calculatorKNOWN ISSUESI may be calculating the FRC block reward incorrectly.  If someone is familiar with FRC, please let me know if it is wrong.  Note: I am only listing the portion the miner receives.The LTC/BTC ratio will be a bit inaccurate if you are using an NVIDIA card.  I am assuming that SHA-256 minig is 1000x as fast as scrypt mining, which is accurate for most AMD/ATI cards.TODOAdd NVCAdd "market cap" column (ripper234)Add Ixcoin (markm)Improve input of sha256/scrypt hashrates, allow for ratio other than 1000 (MKEGuy)Add USD profit columnAdd power cost and profit calculator (MKEGuy)Support non-USD currenciesFuture difficulty estimates(?) Mining pool 1F6fV4U2xnpAuKtmQD6BWpK3EuRosKzF8U 1F6fV4U2xnpAuKtmQD6BWpK3EuRosKzF8U 1F6fV4U2xnpAuKtmQD6BWpK3EuRosKzF8UThis is a bitcoin address with the private key imported into terracoind. So there is a thread giving out a free 100 USD?  That valuation is way to high. This isn't working here, where a large image is quoted: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=146385.msg1554510#msg1554510However the image in this thread is properly handled when quoted. Thanks. Does anyone have a video of the ATM? Recommended reading: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=81553.msg897535#msg897535 I can't repro it from just letting the slideshow run.  I must have clicked on the "Pick your currency" tab, which consistently takes me to the state in the screenshot.Also, you absolutely need SSL for this kind of site.  Make sure to get a cert ASAP and don't launch without it. This is what I got after the slideshow on the homepage changed a few times clicking on the "Pick your currency" tab in the slideshow:Note the URL in the address bar. Is this your site?  Reading the text in the OP, it looks like something you would create.  However, I'm pretty sure you aren't in the business of scamming/phishing. PhishingBuggy site.This site redirected me to mtgox in an iframe. I thought of the first number I would think of if I was choosing a number 0 to 50. Here is a list of people providing escrow: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=108716.0 Order # is 8xx. Refund requested Jan. 12.Nope, I won't wait 20-30 years.  I was going to take legal action against Tom, but he is now sending out refunds at a reasonable pace so I have put that on hold. Obviously if I don't receive a refund in what I consider a "reasonable" time frame, I will resume my plans for legal action. What if the exchange rate had gone down?Tom owes me ~$8600.  I don't care if it is 8600 BTC worth $1 each, or a single BTC worth $8600.  Source?  I highly doubt that BitPay is still in control of any of the bASIC pre-order BTC.
You get get more "screwed" if the price goes up.  I wonder how many people would complain about not getting the exact number of BTC they paid if the price had gone down since they had ordered.  We ordered products priced in USD. Ugh, I hope I didn't get screwed by sending to the wrong emails.I sent request to dave@bitcoinasic.net, tom@btcfpga.com, and tom@bitcoinasic.net on Jan. 12, then added btcfpga@gmail.com on Feb. 4.  No emails received from either Tom or Dave, and the "Payment Address Requested" status on the bASIC site leads me to believe I'm not on the "list". The other driver is at fault.  Did they have insurance?  Even if they were uninsured, your SO's auto insurance "Uninsured Motorist" component should pay out. I'm not a huge fan of NVC, but let's be honest, how many "unsuspecting users" really exist? Do people buy a coin just because they see it on an exchange, without doing any research first? At least one person: 37 Adding a random delay does not prevent timing attacks.  With a large enough sample, statistical analysis can see through the random noise. Bumping this as ticket is still unanswered and it is impossible to check on the status of batch 1 orders. It costs ~$270/day to not have an Avalon mining.Instead of putting them on a cargo ship, it would be most cost effective to mine with them a few days then ship as fast as possible via Air.  This would be a win-win for Avalon and their customers. rpiX69i9z6ZQYomAxYfzTsnZ7urESwCT4R Same here.  I provided all of my order information and and refund address in a Jan. 12 email, then the status changed to "Payment address Requested" in late January.  I added btcfpga@gmail.com to the 3 emails I was sending the request to and resent it.  I wish there was a way we could confirm we are on the list. The risk and scaling issues associated with illegal drug production and distribution drive up the price of drugs immensely.  I don't smoke/buy/sell weed, but I would be willing to bet the price will fall as a result of legalization, even with the relatively high taxes factored in.  In the WA initiative, there is even text outlining a plan to adjust taxes if necessary to remain competitive with the black-market dealers. [1] Is OP a smoothie puppet/parody account? If the transaction was sent from the standard client, which pays appropriate fees, it should be confirmed within a few blocks max.This transaction does not include a fee (.0005 BTC, for example), so miners are prioritizing other transactions in their blocks.  The inputs to the transaction are also fairly new, which gives the transaction a bit lower priority.  Don't worry though, this one should be confirmed soon given the low complexity of the transaction and non-spam quantity of BTC involved. Fairbrix (FBX) was TBX without a premine.  Designing a true CPU-only coin would be quite difficult, due to the highly parallelizable nature of proof of work.  Color is silver.  http://www.autosofdallas.com/web/vehicle_photos/2755100/Wow, pirateat40 couldn't even afford to buy a $35k car with cash.  Maybe he hasn't sold the proceeds of BS&T for USD due to fear of attracting attention? In addition to ASICMINER's deployment, Avalon has delivered two confirmed units, one to Jeff Garzik, a Bitcoin developer and one to the Bitcoin Foundation.ASIC technology as a whole is not a scam.  Individual vendors have the potential to be scams. Dave's location is listed as Everett, WA, and it is reasonable to assume the warehouse is nearby (WA has cheap power).Dave: I live in Seattle and would gladly drive up to take a look at your facility and post a report on these forums.  I am also a potential customer if the business is real and the rates are competitive. I can't even log into the new store to check the status of my batch 1 order.  Bitsyncom, could you please look at ticket #25 from Jan. 8?  I still have no received confirmation that I will actually be shipped batch 1 units, and the last time I was able to log into the store, the status was "canceled".
Thanks.  The "old" in the repo name threw me off. I just synced the entire blockchain in about 50 minutes on a new Mac mini with an i7-3720QM (fast) and the stock 5400 rpm hd (slow) using -dbcache=4096 -par=8 and -connect to a server on the local network.  bitcoind is running in an Ubuntu VM and there have been no crashes so far.  I was also compiling and syncing a bunch of altcoins in the background. Is http://sourceforge.net/projects/galacticmilieu/files/ the latest official source? If someone thinks the future value of LTC is high, it still make sense to mine the most "profitable" coin and then sell it for LTC. What is the best way to contact Dave these days?  I would like to confirm that my refund is on the "list".  The status of my order on btcfpga.com is "Payment Address Requested" despite providing a payment address in the refund request on Jan. 12. ITT: Attention-grabbing title to brag about an irresponsible gamble. I think runeks misunderstood your statement "that we will only accept bitcoin transfers while we're in beta" to mean that bitcoin transfers would only be available in beta, and would be unavailable once the site is out of beta and traditional transfer methods are added. You chose to convert your money to USD the moment you purchased something priced in USD.  bASIC was advertising $1069 ASICs, not XX BTC ASICs.  If you want to continue this discussion, take it here: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=137026.0 No. The products were priced in USD, BTC was simply used as way of transferring funds.  Tom owes us USD, although it can be repaid with BTC.   Bumping with another rails vulnerability announced today: http://www.zweitag.de/en/blog/ruby-on-rails-vulnerable-to-mass-assignment-and-sql-injection Nice find Phin!  Up until this point, I was giving Tom the benefit of the doubt.  It was very plausible that bASIC was just a failed business, and I accepted the risk that the project might fail when I preordered.  Really, the only part that bothered me was that CC customers were given preferential treatment. If Tom had been extremely transparent about the project's finances, announced the project failed, and then paid back a good chunk of the preorder money, I wouldn't even be too mad.  With the rising BTC price, it might have been possible to return a good chunk of money to customers even if a large amount of USD had been spent developing ASICs.However, if Tom really does have a history of scamming... I can't sympathize with him.Tom owes me ~$8600 (8x 72Gh/s, paid in BTC). I will contact a lawyer this week. It's funny how NVC gets added to the exchange before PPC. Does this exchange's API have a "ticker" method?  I don't see it listed in the API FAQ. Running a ponzi doesn't make someone a bear. Is this based on the bitcoinica source code? Adobe released an emergency patch today for a Flash vulnerability that "is being exploited in the wild" and could lead to malicious code running on users' computers.To be fair, a common use for a paper wallet is long term storage, so there is a lag between the use of paper wallets and the reporting of lost coins with them.  The majority of paper wallets that have been created have probably never been redeemed.  When people finally get around to redeeming them, they may find them lost, destroyed, stolen, or that the private keys were printed incorrectly in the first place.2-factor authentication solves 99.9% of the issues with stolen mtgox accounts. Bitsyncom, any update on this issue?  You said you would be able to address it when you returned to NYC.Ticket #25, created 1 month ago, remains untouched. LTC has even more speculators, greedy people, and wannabe early adopters in proportion to people running legitimate businesses and trying to grow the coin. This site looks more modern: http://www.customsiliconsolutions.com/recent-news-ASIC-solutions/default.aspx?ID=40
[ x ] Joined today[ x ] Story to appeal to this forum's demographic[ x ] 50 BTC LoanWould you give $1k to some guy you just met on the street?FTFY Will avalon honor these orders though?  Will Walletbit refund orders that Avalon does not honor in the future? synonymous? I ordered a minirig upgrade on 6/25 and I'm worried I won't be in the first batch.  There are 16 minirigs listed in the original FPGA minirig thread.  Add to this gigavps with 4 rigs and DarkIce with 6 and there are 26 known FPGA rigs.  It is almost certain all of these will be upgraded, and most minirig owners were probably on top of ordering their upgrade.  26 known trade-in minirigs will account for 5200 chips alone.  Add to this unknown minirig trade-ins ,new minirig orders, and of course singles and jalepenos.6000 working chips is optimistic as well, their yield will not be 100%. I see 840 BTC pledged so far.  That is certainly enough to pay for consultation with a lawyer.I'm not sure why someone hasn't made a legal threat to put pressure on hashking to pay back.  You guys know who he is IRL.  He is most likely in control of 4000+ BTC, rental properties and other assets.  mining4fun11, who was posting that they had nothing worth going after, was outed as a hashking sockpuppet. Are you guys too embarrassed you invested in an obvious scam?Are your own finances too shady to put your real name on some legal documents against him?Stop with the childish threats of violence and use the legal system.  If he has assets, you may be able to recover something.  If not, you weren't going to get anything regardless. More like a scamming platform.I wish someone would launch a BitcoinINV ETF so I could short it. I owe you guys a review  I'm impressed with the design of the site, very few Bitcoin businesses look as professional as this one does at launch.  Betting is straightforward, although in my opinion the number picking is somewhat cumbersome as it is impossible to pick all 4 numbers when placing a single bet.  The free plays are also nearly worthless as 1BTC already adds a single free play.  Adding 2, 3, and 4 free plays to the jackpots is kind of silly, too.  Depending on the transactions used to bet, it can be difficult to use the same inputs to claim free plays.  Besides these nitpicks, the site is easy to use and the detailed information on each draw is well presented.BitMillions is a credible competitor to SatoshiDice.  It has more replay value in my opinion, offers no risk to the owners once the jackpots are initially seeded, and is sometimes even +EV for players, driving traffic to the site. This is a typo, correct? Solid post as usual.  Is Mtgox USD accepted for the USD LoC? I'm not sure what your definition of "no risk" is.   Has anyone confirmed that the Coinbase iPhone app is legitimate?  I see no mention of it on the Coinbase blog. This data isn't very useful.  Most users use donation addresses in their signature that are separate from their savings in order to preserve some anonymity.  Not to mention there are "some dings on the side".  $675 is too much. Thanks for the coin.  Sending... What will the advantage be to pre-loading a Walletbit account with btc?  Walletbit allows checkout by paying straight to an address. I always suspected that BTCJam was -EV.  It would be interested in seeing analysis of personal loans in the lending forum. (Excluding large loans, "banks", and deposit programs which would surely skew the results in the -EV direction) Has anyone received a BTC refund? The one in the OP looks much better than the current logo. Did you forget a zero or two? I wouldn't be surprised if ineededausername or other lending cartel members were buying their own debt at a reduced rate.  Pirate defaulted over 5 months ago.  Waiting this long to pay "insurance" should be considered a scam.
Let's be honest, anyone sending the wrong amount of coins was well aware that it might be lost or refunded.  I considered the 4 USD paid well worth it for a chance at getting a spot in the batch. I would prefer that customers who were unable to pay the full amount have an opportunity to pay in full instead of returning the units to another free-for-all, but i'm sure that others (who were not able to place any order at all), will have a different opinion.What you are doing is probably the most fair action that can be taken. The only people who vouched for pirate were in the "lending" business, ran PPTs, or were invested with pirate.The Bitcoin Foundation and Jeff Garzik are much more trustworthy than any previous scammer.  When has a core dev scammed anyone, or vouched for a scammer?I am willing to bet Avalon will deliver.  Want to take me up on it? Avalon should have just done an auction format.  Give people a few days to place bids, using 2 of 3 escrow to lock in coins, then take the top 600 bids.  They could have a per-customer (shipping address?) limit if they wanted to ensure that the units were spread out. Partial payment:dust - 3 - 2013-02-02 15:2x:xx - tx withheldI created the order right when the items were available and waited 20-30 min before giving up and paying, so the actual order is quite early. I don't see how anything done today was a scam, unless they keep money from people and fail to honor those orders.  Poor customer service, planning and testing? Yes. Scam? No. I gave up and sent the 4 USD for my original order.  Maybe this will hold a spot? LOL wow, just what we need when people are rushing to send BTC to the first address they see.You will need to upgrade walletbit's servers too.Perhaps using a different payment processor every batch isn't the best idea.  It would be easier to do a smooth launch with an already used and tested (but you are testing regardless before launch... RIGHT?) payment processor. Nope.  Avalon's engineering and customer service are complete opposites.It hosts their webapp. I'm surprised they would be sold out already, given all of the errors people have had and the 3 per customer limit. Were you able to pay $1500 each? Maximum of 3 units?Then walletbit wanted to charge me 4 USD... Same. Pagodabox appears to be a legitimate PaaS company, probably used for the site, but this warning will certainly scare customers. It was never September either.  They originally said October. Good article on HN today: http://www.kalzumeus.com/2013/01/31/what-the-rails-security-issue-means-for-your-startup/ I am telling the truth.Mid-september, imsaguy said on IRC (-assets or -otc probably) that he held 10,000 shares of ASICMINER.  In #bitcoin-assets, I had said something negative about GIPPT/imsaguy/ineededausername/hashking and he showed up to defend himself.  He also offered to buy out my few shares of GIPPT to quiet me, which I rejected on principle.  I suggested he sell ASICMINER shares to repay his debts, but he claimed the market was not liquid enough.  I then offered to buy 200-300BTC of ASICMINER at the GLBSE bid (which was around 0.10 or 0.11 at the time), which he rejected.  He has since deleted his "Says the guy that was offered a buyout and refused it because he'd rather bitch." post from this thread.Someone who keeps IRC logs could verify my claims.  Look around Sept. 16 - 18, 2012.He is absolutely scamming you if he has not repayed a debt.  I'm surprised he rejected settling for 50%.Here is some more evidence that imsaguy holds at least 5000 shares of ASICMINER, as one must hold 5000 or more shares to be a member of the "board": This is what I suspected.   I'll play & review 16G9Z5urjLVGPSgJxZv7USXJyU1VZ1FQc4 DeadTerra, can you comment if imsaguy has paid back 100% of his obligations or not? If he hasn't, imsaguy has been sitting on valuable ASICMINER shares (worth much more than 0.1 each now) while enjoying an out-of-contract, interest free loan from GIPPT investors.I'm honestly surprised that that imsaguy/ineededausername do not have scammer tags by now.  Any big investors want to start a thread?Relevant posts from 4 months ago:
Comparing the squares of the process size should be a decent measure of efficiency, if everything else is similar. (110/65)^2 = 2.86x more efficient.  The rest of the advantage would come from a more efficient design.  If BFL's chips are "full custom" as they say, this could lead to additional gains over Avalon.  I don't think the market has fully priced this in, so the price should fall as ASICs come online in the next few months. I thought about this some more and it does sound odd.  Perhaps selling BTC in china is faster than receiving international wires?  Regardless of speed, Bitcoin is certainly easier to set up automated orders for. FTFY Good question.  Some redacted customs and/or shipping paperwork similar to the TSMC/Fujitsu documents would boost customers confidence. It is completely reasonable.Bitcoin Only - It is easier to accept BTC, and they need to move money fast to pay suppliersNo Refunds - This protects Avalon against people freerolling them as a hedge against BFL.  If Avalon allowed refunds, and BFL shipped both on-time and within-spec, then nearly every rational buyer would ask for a refund, due to the 65nm vs 110nm efficiency gap.No Proof - They are just being honest here.  No amount of pictures / video will satisfy the doubters (but seriously Avalon, how about a video of a unit hashing...) and they are trying hard to expedite the delivery of the first unit to Jeff.I predict this batch will sell out, regardless of wether it is a good investment or not.  At a minimum, many miners are irrationally optimistic and will eagerly preorder anything that hashes. No. It is stupid to mine at a loss, even if one believes the value of BTC will buy higher in the future.  Instead of mining at a loss, it would be better to not mine at all and buy bitcoins on the market instead.  Mining at a loss is simply paying a premium to acquire BTC. I would consider ordering some more if my current order was not still listed as "CANCELLED" after 3 weeks of contacting Avalon.  Even BFL is more responsive. LTC mining also uses more energy than BTC mining, so this must be factored in when calculating which coin is more profitable to mine unless the electricity is free. My cancelled bASIC order is listed as "Ready to Ship".  My paid and not cancelled Avalon order is listed as "Cancelled".   Feels bad man.   Your purchase was denominated in USD, you should expect a refund of the USD equivalent.https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=137026.0 Bumping this issue.  Haven't heard from Avalon in 2 weeks.  I really don't like spamming the threads, but BitSynCom is actively posting in them and I have been unable to communicate with them through other channels. BitSynCom, any update on this issue? https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=120184.msg1463570#msg1463570I've been trying to get a response for 12 days.  gippt - [verb]1) To contractually promise guarantee deposits, but when required to make good on this guarantee, fail to pay in a timely manner, if ever.The investors were gippt by ineededausername, imsaguy and hashking. No I still have received no communication from Avalon about this and my paid order is still listed as cancelled.  I'm getting concerned as the shipping date is very near, and I believe there are other customers with the same problem as well. I downvoted some of your posts because you were reposting them repeatedly.  I'm not a bot and I wasn't paid. Calm down.  There isn't any evidence that Tom is not making a good faith effort to refund every order.  If he was running away, why would he refund $200k of orders, wire more money to the merchant account, and pay some employees first? As discussed in the bASIC thread, the products were clearly priced in USD, so a refund of USD is to be expected, regardless of the change in BTC price.Pirate gave "refunds" right up until he shut down. If BFL was running a scam, they would continue accepting preorders and giving refunds until the rate of refunds exceeded the rate of preorders. What does the SEC have to do with a company that is neither offering nor trading securities?By "full BTC refund", do you mean that he expected to receive the same number of BTC he paid with, despite the price of BTC rising?  BFL quoted their prices in US Dollars, so refunds will be in dollars as well.
Pirate caused the increase in BTC price that preceded the decrease he caused (See my post here). His net effect on BTC price is unknown and probably negligible. RoyalBitcoin might be what you are looking for.  Their affiliate program allows you to host a dice game and get a cut of the winnings.  I cannot vouch the quality or integrity of this service, as I am only going off of something I saw in a sig ad.Site: http://www.royalbitcoin.com/affiliates.htmlDiscussion Thread: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=129723.0 Becoin, that screenshot is a from a BFL order, not a bASIC one.  Regardless, that is the Bitpay interface, no BTC prices were quoted on either BFL or bASIC's sites.  If you log into your bASIC account, you can find the record of your order, which unsurprisingly is denominated in USD.I am curious about this as well.  It is hard to believe that bASIC had a working prototype and yet never posted video proof of it, or even flew in a third party to verify it.  No ASIC company has shown a working demo yet, so it would have been a huge boost to bASIC if they were able to. I would be interested in seeing this chart with all of transactions involving 1dice* addresses excluded from the data. Good news from Dave on the bASIC forums:https://www.btcfpga.com/forum/index.php?topic=1041.msg3096#msg3096 Agreed.  When you make a purchase denominated in US dollars, it is the equivalent of selling your bitcoins for USD on the spot and then paying those dollars to the vendor.  Unlike what some people on these forums believe, the price of BTC is not guaranteed to go up.  Imagine the shitstorm that would occur if BTC had fallen against the dollar and then Tom refunded people their exact BTC payments. "Never attribute to malice that which can be adequately explained by incompetence" I disagree.ASIC preorders are high risk but they are also high reward.Take for example Avalon's first batch, which is expected to ship 300 66Gh/s units.  This will double the network hashrate.  A single $1300 unit will return $2200 in a month ($1460 if ASICMINER brings another 20 TH/s online).  This is a ridiculous return on investment that is more in line with investing in a startup than purchasing a consumer product.I placed early preorders with all three vendors.  I did this with the assumption that my payment would be used to fund development.  I also assumed that I risked losing my money to scams or simply a failure to deliver due to technical issues.  When I ordered the upgrade to my FPGA minirig, I factored in a 10-20% chance that BFL was pulling a long con into my calculations.  The potential benefits of receiving the first batch of 1TH/s miners out-weighed this risk.  If there was no risk, why wouldn't the ASIC companies just mine themselves until it was only marginally profitable, and then sell units to the general public?There are two optimal points in time to buy ASICs:1) First in line (high risk, potential for high reward)2) After the product has shipped (low risk, low but more deterministic reward)Everything in between is only slightly less risk than being first in line, with significantly less reward.  Should you preorder an ASIC now? Probably not... why not wait until someone delivers instead of handing over your coins to get in the back of a huge lines?  However, I believe that early ASIC orders, while speculative, had a positive expected value.With regards to customers who placed orders with BTC, it is unfortunate for them that BTC has more than doubled, but no one could have predicted that.  The exchange rate could of moved in the other direction.  There were many opportunities to hedge this risk.(I just requested a refund from bASIC) Any update on this?  I sent a PM within 15 minutes of your reply and have received no response or update to my ticket  I'm sure the team is busy  It is my understanding that all unpatched rails apps are potentially vulnerable, regardless of their use of XML.  One of the suggested workarounds if XML parsing was not needed was to disable it in the config.  CVE-2013-0155 is much more severe than the one in the OP (CVE-2012-5664).Edit: Yep, serious business. Bumping with another critical vulnerability. Upgrade immediately!https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/rubyonrails-security/61bkgvnSGTQ I checked my account and my order was listed as "cancelled", despite having paid for it immediately after ordering in September.  I looks like I failed to confirm my order.  I have created a support ticket (#25).<panic>EDIT:  Re-reading this thread, it looks like I may be screwed.  I really hope I don't get kicked out of the first batch due to not wading through a troll-filled thread enough to realize that not responding to email = spot given up.  Here was the email:I logged into my account, saw the status as pending and the correct payment address listed and with coins received, then took no action.  I must have felt that the bitcoin order ID and address already being in Avalons system and paid for did not require me to provide additional information (as in, I had "confirmed" it was correct).  I unfortunately was never told specifically my order would be CANCELLED if this was not done and no coins were ever sent back to me.I hope this gets resolved.This + the bASIC delay has made today a pretty bad day </panic> I wouldn't call a coin that is unprofitable to CPU mine at most electricity rates "CPU friendly, GPU - unfriendly".  The CPU friendliness was certainly important historically, but is no longer relevant today."Smaller efficiency gap between GPUs and CPUs" would be more accurate.  If anything, LTC is "botnet friendly".LTC is not ASIC proof.  Any task computed with general purpose hardware could be done more efficiently with special purpose hardware.  If LTC mining was big enough, there would be ASICs in development.  100BTC is my maximum, I am willing to bet less. Even odds, up to 100BTC, trusted escrow.For BFL, bASIC and Avalon, I win if an end customer receives a product on or before Jan. 31. For ASICMINER, I win if some or all of their initial production batch begins hashing for shareholders on or before Jan. 31.Pre-production or sample units hashing do not count as a win for me.I'm not very familiar with ASICMINER's plans, so I welcome clarifications. Want to bet? I predict at least one of BFL, bASIC, Avalon or ASICMINER will deliver a product in January (In ASICMINER's case, this means running devices on behalf of shareholders)Please don't link a betsofbitco.in bet, I want locked in odds. Investors overpaid for a BFL single at IPOInvestors bought shares of an asset valued in USD (BFL Single) and BTC/USD went upNo scam occurred here, unless there is some proof of wrongdoing with regards to the OP's purchases of his own shares.From the contract:You guys are lucky it wasn't bought back for zero, following the strict wording of the contract which had no provision for a GLBSE shutdown.  I think the OP's buyback price is quite reasonable. No license is being violated.  There is lots of FUD in this thread. How has this guy not gotten a tag? I suspect this is essentially grouping up a bunch of mtgox customers on one account to take advantage of mtgox's volume discount, while taking a cut.On an unrelated note, I would have a hard time trusting the OP with my coins given his loud support and defense of Pirate.
If someone is optimistic about the future price of BTC and is mining at a loss, they should turn off their rigs and buy BTC instead.I think many people are overestimating the number of GPU miners that became unprofitable due to the block halving.  A dual 5970 rig is still profitable up until $0.15/kWh.  It is winter for most miners, so the heat generated is a benefit and not a cost driver. This would not work.  The "network hashrate" that is reported by various sites is just an estimate determined purely by the difficulty and the frequency of recent blocks. Selectively mining would still increase this estimate. I'm glad you now concur with my previous speculation smoothie!     I think they will sell 100k chips by the end of 2013.  After the first generation products ship, they will drop prices 2-10x and sell more units throughout the year.  The marginal cost of producing an ASIC chip is extremely low. The OTC website should display a field in the web of trust database that indicates if the enforce setting is enabled.It would encourage good practice, improve the integrity of bitcoin OTC,  and make the -10 spammers useless and unneeded. If a 51% attack were underway, it would not be contributing to the network hashrate.  The attacker would be extending the blockchain faster than the entire legitimate network in secret and attack by revealing a longer chain.I suspect the current jump is simply variance.  Some miners will move to alt coins and some GPU miners with expensive electricity will power their rigs off for good. Late 2010.I'm not sure what is considered "mass adoption", but the price was around $0.10 when the first free/open source OpenCL miner was released that enabled widespread mining with ATI GPUs. https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1334.0  I remember having a few % of the network hashrate with 2 5970s.Before this, there was a publicly available CUDA (and maybe OpenCL too) miner that sent 5 btc from every block to puddinpop, the creator of the software.  I think the price was around $0.06 then.This in no way implies that there will be an increase in price when ASICs start mining, if that is why you were asking  Smoothie's comparison does have merit, but there is a key difference between BFL and Pirateat40.Providing sustained 7% weekly returns is impossibleDesigning and producing specialized devices to efficiently perform SHA256 hashes is possibleIt is possible BFL is scamming, but this is not the only possibility, nor, in my opinion, the likely one. It does not. I mine LTC sometimes with a 6990 in my gaming desktop with 8GB of ram at full speed.  However, I have gotten lower speeds than expected mining LTC with dual 5970s and a single 2GB stick.  The desktop has a much more powerful CPU than the mining rigs as well. I would be interested to know the system ram and CPU requirements of optimal LTC mining, is this documented anywhere?In response to the OP, currently LTC and PPC mining are more profitable, but everything should even out after a few days as miners shift to the most profitable coins. I will not send you 1 btc because:1) There was no reasonable expectation I would be sent 1 btc if I was right2) There is no way to prove you are not affiliated with the site in the OPHowever, I do apologize for my hostile tone, and after doing a bit more research I am leaning towards you just being a newbie instead of a shill.  If you did send Progressive Mining coins, you likely got scammed and I am sorry for your loss.I will await more information from the owners of the site before commenting further on their operations. 1BTC says the OP owns this site.This site reeks of a scam, or best case, a not very well thought out business.  Given that you are new to the community it is up to you to prove your legitimacy and competency before people will trust you with their coins.Assuming the unlikely case this isn't a scam, here is some feedback:Are you taking the management fee out of revenues or out of profit in addition to expenses?  It isn't clear based on your site.  If you are taking 5% of revenues, what happens if/when the cost of space, electric and staffing costs more than 5% of the revenue.  As the difficulty adjusts, electricity costs will almost certainly exceed 5% of revenues.I see no mention of the location of this datacenter in the "About Us" or "Contact Us" pages.  This does not instill much confidence in your potential customers.  Are you authorized to use your employer's datacenter?  Could you link to a record of your business registration?This sounds like an excuse to remain anonymous as a scammer. Bullshit.  Are you assuming that you will be the only ASIC miners and the only miners reinvesting in hardware?  To put this in perspective, should I expect a $2 MILLION return on the minirig I preordered?Ordering a few Jalopenos and Singles doesn't sound like a very large scale operation to me.You are correct, their payout numbers are bogus and their pricing of contracts is not transparent at all.  Stay far away IMO. That would be a dumb scam as it is never certain which direction the price will go.  If BFL or other manufacturers were scamming they would just take preorders, issue a few refunds to maintain confidence, and then run with the money.I'm sure this has been discussed elsewhere in this thread, but if you are so sure the asic manufacturers are scamming, want to bet on it? (With me personally, not the ridiculous variable odds of betsofbitco.in) The amount 4.5 Gh.s would mine today isn't too important to you as the difficulty will be much higher when you receive your hardware.Why did you order a mining device without first calculating the BTC it will mine at various difficulties and the electricity cost of operating it?Keep in mind that the BFL units will be more energy efficient than their bASIC counterparts, due to their 65nm vs 90nm process.  This this will counteract bASIC's higher GH/s/$ in the long term.It doesn't.  124.5 Gh/s is the correct total. The block reward is dropping to 25 today.  The difficulty will skyrocket 10-20x shortly after ASICs are shipped. You read my post wrong.  What you are describing is exactly what I was describing. There are very few transactions in the first 30% of blocks, so these blocks download and verify very quickly.  The most recent 15k transactions have a bunch of transactions (many of them satoshidice related), which makes them slower to process. You read the email wrong.  BFL has stated they that they would not count the time it between when you ordered and when they sent you wire information against your order time.  So it if took them two days to send you the confirmation email after you placed an order, and then you paid immediately, those two days would not count against you. Cool, TIL.   They already received the BTC from investors so I don't see why it would cause any delays. The time dialation would actually reduce mining performance https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Time_dilation#Time_dilation_and_space_flight
It is almost certain he is not using someone else's identity as he used his srgexpert.com email address for correspondence. NMC's price is actually around the same level as LTC, although the volume is much lower.Keep in mind that the block reward for PPC is much higher than other coins, which make the price appear much lower.  Adjusting for the high block reward, the PPC price is competitive with the prices of LTC/NMC.  The real risk to BTC-e when considering adding PPCoin is the risk of a 51% on the chain given its relatively low difficulty. Paid back 50%?  Better than most scams, AAA-Between this and MPOE-PR's accusation, it is time Patrick is tagged.Patrick clearly broke his own terms with regards to the "guarantee". Additionally, despite advertising the fund as containing a diverse group of non-BS&T investments, he bought pirate debt (most of it from himself) at ridiculous rates with most of the coins.His Starfish Bank is in default.On top of this, Patrick's "credit ratings" were a detriment to the community and funneled coins into other scams.Disclaimer: I have not lost any money to Patrick or his operations.  I initially signed up for the Kraken Fund but backed out because I did not trust Patrick's judgement regarding Pirate, making it the closest I have been to being scammed   Carefulhttps://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=124182.msg1334195#msg1334195 No HTTPS on an exchange   Code:block_reward/(difficulty*2^32/hashs_per_sec/3600/24)Code:50/(18.48285344*2^32/100000/3600/24) = 5.442 LTC/day A 10% admin fee for holding gold is ridiculous.  I don't think you will find anyone that will take you up on this offer. GeistGeld used 15 second blocks.  Faster blocks increase the amount of stale shares for pool miners and orphans, but 2 minutes is completely feasible.OP, did you create this coin?  A search on the forum turns up nothing.  To be honest, this looks like just another pump-and-dump coin. I just bought a 4-pack of Natural Selection 2 on steam.I'm looking to sell 2-3 copies for BTC1.85 1.80 each.The game is currently selling for $25.http://store.steampowered.com/app/4920/ You said there is a "good chance" none of the ASIC manufacturers will ship.  What is a good chance, >10%, >25%, >50%? I agree there is a possibility that one or more companies are scamming or will fail to deliver, but it is highly unlikely that all of them will fail.  The advertised specs are very plausible for specialized hardware. Why are their multiple threads in the mining section pumping this device?  Even GPUs will crush it in terms of Mh/J and Mh/$. Do you want to bet on that?On topic: I think bASIC will ship first and BFL will ship more efficient devices.  This attack has the advantage of keeping the difficulty artificially low.  It is economically advantageous to the attacker if they control > (share_difficulty / difficulty) of the network. Correct, you can deduct your expenses (hardware and electricity) from your revenues.When you sold these coins, you would owe taxes on the capital gains.Edit: This is not tax or legal advice OP is. Everyone is missing the most ridiculous part of the article:  The EU wants to cap MEMORY BANDWIDTH, not just power consumption. It would be better to phrase bets like this in terms of difficulty instead of network hash rate, as the network hashrate is always an approximation. Obviously, when LTC was just launched it was not traded on BTC-e, so all trades were off the exchanges.Example: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=48060.0There were definitely big swings in LTC value early on, both before and after exchanges were available. 10 USD per coin?  You just knocked $30k USD off your 18k BTC debt.  That's enough to buy another Golf GTI + mods.
Fees go to the miner (often a mining pool) that includes the transaction in a block they have solved.  The coins paid as fees never leave circulation.  As the block reward diminishes over time, transactions fees will eventually be the primary source of income for miners. BFL chttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Redundancy_(engineering)Having two 30Gh/s units instead of one 60Gh/s unit does not increase redundancy.  It only decreases the "variance" of the lost hashing power due to downtime.  Assuming the failure rates of both types are identical, the expected output of both setups is identical.BFL can spec their devices any way they please.  The only reason to complain about the Little SC would be if buyers were allowed to jump ahead of Jally/SC/Minirig preorders in shipping order. Date    Order Number    QTY of 54GH/s    QTY of 27GH/s    Date Received    Wait Time    User2012/9/298xx80????dustIs there any reason to  anonymize the order #'s? Want to make an escrowed bet at even odds then? There is an exactly right (optimal) amount of ram for a given set of computational units. CPUs and GPUs do not have their cache/memory specifically designed for scrypt, and therefore either have too much or too little of it.I found this post on the subject: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=98535.msg1081219#msg1081219 Theoretically, you could.  I'm not sure if all FPGAs have the proper IO to interface with memory at a decent speed though. You obviously cannot mine LTC with a bitcoin ASIC (Application Specific Integrated Circuit), if that is what you are asking.However, this just isn't true.  It would be possible to design a chip that only performed scrypt and pair it with exactly the right amount of ram, and it would crush generic hardware in terms of efficiency.  Specialized hardware is always going to be faster than general purpose CPUs and GPUs, especially for highly parallelizable  tasks such as mining.Is it worth it at current LTC prices though? Of course not.No, neither Intel nor AMD make devices with the sole function of mining Litecoins. I received confirmation from the ebay seller that the reflow oven was bought by BF Labs.  The seller asked BFL's permission first before confirming them as the buyer. If you are in Norway, why does your facebook cover photo have two Golf GTIs with California plates, and your profile picture have an American exit sign in it?Are you claiming that there is someone else who uses the username "nckrazze" and just coincidentally decided to erase his posts and attempt to delete his account on a car forum around the same time as your scam collapsed?BTW: The unemployment rate in Norway is currently only 3.1% Nice lie.I have no involvement in this scam but feel like nckrazze deserves to get called out on the car.  He has failed miserably at covering his tracks.[Sept. 10, 2012] Nckrazze trying to get the admins on a Golf forum to delete his profile (unsuccessfully):http://www.golfmk6.com/forums/showthread.php?t=45332[Sept. 2, 2012] Nckrazze editing all of his posts replacing them with smilies: http://www.golfmk6.com/forums/search.php?searchid=3976403Nckrazze's 2012 GTI on a fuel economy tracking site: http://www.fuelly.com/car/volkswagen/gti/2012/all I predict the price of LTC will tank when ASICs arrive and GPU miners switch to litecoin.  It will be similar to when the merged mining of NMC started and bitcoin miners who acquired NMC just sold immediately, pushing the price down.  Currently, most people who mine LTC care about litecoin and hold some, but after ASICs hit, there will be many miners who are just looking for revenues in BTC or USD and will sell their mined litecoins immediately.The only chance of a boost to litecoin price is if ASICs somehow destabilized the bitcoin network and there are credible risks of a 51% attack. I sent a message to the seller, linking him to the announcement, pointing out the image, and mentioning the skepticism surrounding BFL.  I asked if the machine was being shipped to somewhere in the Kansas City area.  Everything still checks out as the auction was won Sept. 28 and it is reasonable for it to still be in transit.Oct. 8 EDIT: I received confirmation from the ebay seller that the reflow oven was bought by BF Labs.  The seller asked BFL's permission first before confirming them as the buyer. Why do you need over $1k USD in bitcoins to buy 2 used 6970s that are worth $200-$250 each? Here is a recently completed auction of the Essemtec reflow oven pictured.http://www.ebay.com/itm/ESSEMTEC-RO300FC-REFLOW-OVEN-/320989507198?pt=LH_DefaultDomain_0&hash=item4abc772e7eIs there any way BFL could prove they won the auction? It is real hash power, but it could be fabricated by using a large gpu/fpga farm or services such as GPUMAX. I hope they also bought some esd mats and wrist straps this time! Is it necessary to run a miner to create PoS blocks, or is just running the daemon sufficient? No.  Deprived corrected his own typo. Code:Bin: 541275Card Brand: MASTERCARDIssuing Bank: HSCB BERMUDA (THE BANK OF BERMUDA LIMITED)Card Type: Card Level: Iso Country Name: BERMUDAIso Country A2: BMIso Country A3: BMUIso Country Number: 060Bank's website: www.bocfr.comAccording to https://www.bindb.comEdit: I'm not sure how accurate this is, the website points to bank of china in paris  Wikipedia supports that this # is associated with an HSBC MasterCardhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Issuer_Identification_Numbers  When did you place this order?  I wouldn't be surprised if a recently placed order did not ship until January.  
Mybitcointrade was one of the most obvious scams on the forums, and reading any intelligent poster's comments on it could have told you that.  You are lucky you got 600 of your coins out when you did.Look at the assets DeadTerra has issued/run:REBATE - ScamZIP.A - ScamGIPPT - Insurers invested money to insure a scam in the same scam they were insuring, and are having trouble paying back the insuranceGamma Bitcoin Fund - Invested in obvious scamsGSDPT is probably your first decent issue as it is backed by a reputable business.  Hopefully it will break the trend of scam pass throughs you have run. I really wish he had just kept it compounding forever  . You would have been better off if you had mined bitcoins and immediately bought litecoins with them.  It is best to mine the most profitable coin, and then trade for the coin you want to hold long term. .01 why not. BFL has already pushed their ship date back to November. In person visitors will allow for a third-party audit of the devices' hashing speed.  Videos can easily be faked if the entire setup is controlled by BFL.I hope this visit happens sooner rather than later. It would be good for BFL as well as they are losing sales to their competitors due to a lack of transparency. I lol'ed. You misread the rules.  You only win if you amount behind the door is greater than the amount you sent.  If you sent >5 btc to every address you would be guaranteed to lose everything. The point is that in one thread you were offering to buy $1M of mining hardware, another you are asking for a huge loan, and in yet another you were asking for 25BTC to form an LLC. It will give off 100% of the energy it uses as heat. Cablepair stated the bASIC would consume less power than the mod miner quad (40 watts), but this was back when it was a 27Gh/s unit.  It is safe to assume the 54GH/s unit would required twice the power and consume less than 80 watts.80/54 = 1.48 J/Ghhttps://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=97269.msg1183153#msg1183153 The SC single board rendering that BFL released had 8 sha256 chips.  I assume the jalapeno will have 1.  It it even more strange now that the single gets more hash rate out of each chip.  The single is now doing 7.5Gh/s/chip compared to the jalapeno's 4.5Gh/s/chip, but they are equally energy efficient.This announcement is probably in response to bASIC's announcement.  It doesn't increase my confidence in BFL as if they were scamming it would also make sense to make this kind of announcement.  Pictures of the actual products and working demos would be nice... I'm interested and over 21. I just ordered 8 of the 54Gh/s variety.  bit-pay has improved a lot since I used them for BFL.  I actually got confirmation that I paid! I wonder if it will be more profitable to order the 27Gh/s model as there will be a longer line for the 54Gh/s one due to existing preorders. Didn't Artforz do a small run of ASICs a long time ago? That is exactly what the OP would say if the bet promoter was his sock account.  nraz was a new account created specifically to promote this bet, even going as far as PMing members about it, so it is obvious that it is someone's sock, although not necessarily one associated with Vescudero. DeaDTerra and I have vastly different definitions of default, as can be observed at multiple instances in this thread.  I consider imsaguy, hashking and INAU to be in default as they have failed to repay their obligations within a reasonable timeframe, and have missed deadlines agreed upon during the repayment process.Also, what happened to this? This is a great idea.  I too suspect that the GLBSE has overall been a huge transfer of wealth from investors to asset issuers and scammers. Interestingly, according to the contract between imsaguy and INAU, imsaguy must repay all GIPPT investors if INAU defaults.  INAU is clearly in default.
It has been over a month since pirate defaulted and only about half of the coins have been returned. I wish people got this mad about an official sounding name when some guy created Bitcoin Savings & Trust. Obsi has deleted all of his posts in his asset threads besides the OP.  He has fully bought back FUTUREFUND and OBSI.1MHS. 1500 shares of OBSI.HRPT have also been bought back. I'm surprised he didn't just run from all of his assets, as he was unverified and I assume no one knows who he is. Bullshit.  This is the guy who was asking for 25BTC to form an LLC to start a bank for medical marijuana sellers. https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=106562.msg1170935#msg1170935 Giving him a scammer tag would warn potential investors not to buy any more shares. It is my understanding that he currently destroys his record of the private keys.  He would be unable to "change his mind" due to life circumstances and steal the money from previous coins. It is in his advantage to pay back as slowly as possible, as investors will dump shares at lower prices as their confidence decreases.This kind of angleshooting has been done before with other assets an no one has gotten a tag for it. Code:Diode ?? uses <part #>Diode ?? uses <part #>SMD ???? jack ?? uses <part #>Switching regulator ?? uses <part #>For 2.2uH inductor use <part #> The chips in the rendering are soldered on, so no. WARNINGIn case these haven't been sold yet, I am warning potential buyers that RustRyan operates a likely ponzi scam https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=96163.0 and has failed to pay interest this week with no update in his thread. It should have not been anything higher than an F.  I fail to see how the numbers posted are inaccurate.  It is somewhat misleading as the 0.10 price last week was a spike up from 0.03, but is factually correct and certainly not libel. Lotteries and bitcoin mining... Sonny, is that you? The OP should have just created a security and offered "X% weekly LOW RISK GUARANTEED" with no indication of what he was doing with the money. Yes, players looking for stakes usually post proof that they are a winning player.I am not vouching for the OP, but rather defending the concept of poker staking as a whole. Didn't you trade with and defend on the forums pirate, who was running an obvious ponzi scam? Poker is a skill-based game over a large number of games.  Players offering others a stake in their play is actually quite common, for example http://staking.parttimepoker.com/ and http://forumserver.twoplustwo.com/135/staking/index2.html.That said, if the OP is a winning poker player, he probably should be able to bankroll low-stakes SNGs himself. Botnets will switch over to litecoin, if they haven't already, given litecoin's more CPU (and therefore botnet) friendly algorithm. All solid choices imo.
Meni is in Israel.  He seems pretty smart but he also trusted a serial scammer, Alberto, and agreed to run a 3% weekly bond for him.I think casacius is trustworthy and he is in the US.Gigavps and reeses were big-time pirate supporters.Code:8693 reeses  79 pirateat40 2012-01-28 02:28:55 10 solid as a brick and completely trustworthy. Lots of profit potential.11153 pirateat40 -41 reeses 2012-05-24 15:13:06  9 Core - The very best of the community.7853 gigavps  257 pirateat40 2012-08-30 22:29:00 10 all business, no drama7739 pirateat40 -41 gigavps 2012-08-17 22:30:23  10 They don't come better. I am curious why.  I have a vested interest in discovering the truth about BFL.  If it is a scam, then I would get authorities involved immediately.  If I found out it was a scam and tried to sell my preorder, then everyone would immediately become suspicious.If I remember correctly, reese shilled for pirate and then deleted all of his posts.  This disqualifies him in my opinion.Gigavps has already met BFL and already trusts them fully.  He also met pirate in person and trusted him fully.[/list]What about DeathAndTaxes? I'm glad to see Josh doing this and nominate myself.I am skeptical of potential scamsI have been on the forums since Oct. 2010, so I am extremely unlikely to be a BFL shill.I was not scammed by pirate or other ponzis and I actively call out scams on the forums.I have some technical knowledge (Software Engineering day job, EE/Comp. Eng. turned CS in college)I am a BFL customer (Minirig hosted by Inaba + SC preorder).  I also have a couple Avalons preordered and some GPUs still runningI live close to a major airport on the west coast and can fly out any time.If there is anyone with a better understanding of hardware (that isn't producing a competing ASIC) and is a long time member of the community, I would recommend them over myself.In my opinion, anyone who bought into pirate's obvious ponzi or is selling competing ASICs should not be chosen.Gigavps is a bad choice, as he got scammed by pirate even after meeting him in person.  Plus, I think he has already visited BFL. Information should ideally be provided by nefario or PPT operators' lawyers.  If not lawyers, then at least knowledgable and respected forum members.BitcoinINV runs a GPU farm based GLBSE asset (ironically more at odds with the SEC than BFL is) and would benefit from the government hassling BFL.  In fact, he would only benefit if BFL is not a scam but the government hassles them anyway, as if BFL is a scam an investigation would not change the availability of ASIC devices. No.INAU has defaultedhashking has defaultedimsaguy has defaultedThis is the second instance in this thread I have corrected you on the definition of default.DT, you should encourage imsaguy to sell some of the 10,000 ASICMINER shares he claims to have. No offense to BitcoinINV, but I would prefer that information about bitcoin that will be used IN COURT is not provided by random forum users.In addition, please do not inadvertently link BFL to pirate's scam.  BFL has not violated an SEC regulations as far as I know. I have not received an email.I have visited BS&T, GPUMAX and Bitcoinmax websites but never used any of them.  I signed up for beta access to GPUMAX but never got it.I rated him -10 on OTC after his default.Someone should verify this with the actual SEC so we know it isn't just more of pirate's scare tactics. Why should INAU be given preferential treatment over other creditors?Speaking of INAU, why has he not posted in this thread recently? I just replaced the fan on one of my Sapphire 5970s.  I cleaned and reapplied the GPU thermal paste but kept the old pads for the VRMs and RAM.  The card mines now at reasonable temperatures but smells more like "hot electronics" than my other cards.  I'm worried that the RAM or VRMs are burning up.  Is there any way to monitor the non-GPU temperatures on the card?  Has anyone had success taking the heatsink off and on without replacing the thermal pads? Counter is negative again   No, it is not.HYIP is an euphemism for scam.All scams are -EV for their participants (negative expected value)Investing in a diverse set of scams is still -EV.In contrast, stocks are +EV on average, and diversification reduces variance. Anyone have shares to borrow? I would like to short 1000 shares. Can you post picture or video proof of this machine?  Bonus points if it is running. Anyone remember this (days before pirate shut down)?I think it is a cool idea, but I would be cautious of the legal liability of making money off of scam victims. Bumping for visibility, coins still not paid. I updated my first post with a bigger warning, hopefully people see it. I'm still suspicious though, because that makes the only legitimate reason to offer preorders getting buyers locked into their products instead of competitors. Inaba stated that that preorders were not used to fund development and that outside investments (VC, etc) were taken. I lol'ed. As both a satisfied BFL customer and someone paranoid towards scams, I am glad to see this occurring.
DO NOT SELL BTC FOR PAYPAL.  PAYPAL IS REVERSIBLEEspecially not to the OP, who has a scam accusation against him: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=110404.0 Alright, who gave this guy BTC50? "Almost risk free" is right, if not an underestimate of the risk involved.  There is counterparty risk and security risks when dealing with a bitcoin website. I think the key here is "until all financial obligations imposed by the Court have been satisfied in full".  If he paid all of the fines owed, this restriction would be lifted.Inaba, thanks for the explanation. My research has pointed more to involvement with a ponzi than online gambling software, which is concerning to me.  Can you provide any public sources to support your statement?  Wyoming is a favorable state towards businesses, like Nevada and Delaware, where many companies are based. I hope BFL clears this up. Weekly update:Note: This graph shows the maximum profit if this asset was operated like a ponzi, assuming that Obsi has been able to sell every share put up for sale to investors. Poe's law in action. One upside to GIGAMINING over other mining companies is that gigavps will be one of the first miners to receive ASICs, and ASICs will be extremely profitable for a short period of time.That said, I predict the difficulty will be much higher than 10M within a month after ASICs start coming online. INAU has not posted on this forum since Sept. 8th, despite being online frequently. Imsaguy, is that you? Regular, encrypted offsite backups would protect against localized EMP strikes. I agree that PatrickHarnett is trustworthy and professional.  However, he is also too trusting.  His optimistic credit ratings and support of pirate probably led to thousands of BTC of losses across the community. New fancy sounding name, same scam.Absurdly high rate of returnVague business modelAnonymous operator with zero verificationSCAM Everyone who believes in him must be out of money because the market still only values pirate debt at 5% face value.... Which is probably too high. No, because I think you are scamming in this thread: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=110276.0 Nearly all legit bitcoin and mining related software is free, both in the price and freedom sense of the word.  You just have to watch out for scams.  I would recommend only using software found on this forum that has been reviewed by more experienced members. Based on the OP's post history, he mines with a 5450, which will produce less than BTC0.2 per month at the current difficulty. Keep in mind that Obsi also runs the scam asset OBSI.HRPT.  The contract change could be an attempt to protect against Nefario intervening with Obsi's other assets when the HRPT collapses. GIPPT (Gamma Insured Pirate Pass Through) is a GLBSE asset that offered 2.5% weekly interest on "insured" deposits with pirate.  The insurance funds were invested with two other forum members.  A portion of the insurance money made its way back to pirate, so the fund has not yet been able to pay out the full  insurance yet.  The entire fund was questionable from the start because there is no reason to pay 2.5% on a fully insured investment unless the insurance money was earning >2.5%.  Anything earning 2.5% is going to carry some risk.Your "insurance" is similar in that it is insuring high risk investments with money in "low" risk investments.  The problem is that these investments are often not as low risk as people believe.
Imsaguy only owed BTC3750 to ineededausername, the other part of the insurance was covered by deposits with hashking.  Imsaguy claimed on irc to have paid back 75% of it, which makes sense because hashking has probably paid back much less of his part if any.  If this is true, he only owes BTC937.5, and 10k ASICMINER is worth about BTC1100. I also refused it because it would unfair to all of the other unpaid investors who have remained quiet.Additionally, I have offered to buy a chunk of your 10k ASICMINER shares at close to market value to enable you to pay your debts. See GIPPT as an example for why this kind of "insurance" is a bad idea: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=96793.200Definitely not.  Usagi runs CPA, which provides the kind of insurance that a mining company might look for. Owned. Has anyone with a lawyer actually contacted pirate's lawyer?  Is there even any proof that pirate is working with a lawyer?If pirate was serious about repaying, he would be buying back his own debt at 5% of its face value.  He obviously isn't, so I will assume his statements are simply more delay tactics. I lol'ed. It is sad that it actually benefits debtors to prolong their repayment, as it gives them an opportunity to settle for a lesser amount.By the terms of the contract, INAU must pay the insurance, independent of the scammers he lent to (hashking and imsaguy) paying back.   It changed from an unemployment check in your previous posts to a military injury check?  Either way, that probably won't score many points with the hardcore libertarians that frequent this forum.EDIT: OP is a scammer https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=110026.msg1198393#msg1198393 BurtW's BTC10k bet was bigger, although there is no proof he deposited that amount: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=97094.0 This is probably just a educational or employer discount link. OP, you should team up with Obsi as he runs a similar scam, OBSI.HRPT, but isn't dumb enough to use the name of a major bank. Do you plan on verifying your identity with GLBSE?  Sorry, I didn't read the actual date   I'm going to assume this is a scam due to the high return and lack of transparency.  What prevents you from shutting down and taking 80% of investors money any time you want?I will short your bond when the time is right, assuming any idiots buy into this. Did I win? A better question is: Why would they pay this kind of interest to do anything? Obsi gave some more information on IRC yesterday.  I don't have logs unfortunately, so please correct me if I'm wrong. I am trying to be as factual as possible here.Obsi claims:Obsi is running a passthrough to a business involving lending and debt purchasingThis business allows its employees to invest in its operationsObsi has organized a passthrough with one of the employeesObsi can not reveal the business because others could bypass him and take this opportunity directly. Bumping. Any update from ineededausername? The market is only valuing BS&T debt at ~3% of face value, so Kraken is essentially carrying a large amount of unrealized losses. Diversification does not help you if you invest in things that are -EV (negative expected value).  Also, OBSI.HRPT will not last a year.  I'll bet on it. It is a much better scheme than pirate's because Obsi can take his investors' money without even violating his contract.  He can walk away with thousands of BTC and not even be considered a scammer.
0.02 BTC Obsi stands to make almost BTC4k if he closes up now, but it is currently more profitable to keep the scheme going until the purchase of new bonds slows.Edit: I have no position involving OBSI.HRPT currently but will be considering a short when it is closer to collapse. 7.5 BTCPayb.tc has been handling all bitcoinmax transfers, so there is really no way for a scam to occur unless the scammer is colluding with Payb.tc himself. I generally do not think that PPT operators should get scammer tags (unless of course they broke their contract or failed to pay back insured deposits)That said, if there is anyone who does deserve a tag, it is BurtW, perhaps the biggest pirate shill on the forum.He even promoted his PPT in the newbie forums: PIRATE Pass Through (PPT) bonds - outstanding returns for the small investors! 0.2 BTC 7 BTC Make a separate thread and post detailed evidence. pirateat40 recently got a scammer tag100% agree that hashking, nckrazze and other liars should get tags until they pay back. imsaguy and ineededausername will potentially be added to this list as well.Is there really conclusive evidence that zhoutong is a scammer? If he had 200k coins and truly believed in pirate, he would have just bought pirate debt at 5% of face value.  His bet lost all credibility with me when he was accepting BTC1k+ bets at 1:1 odds when the market rate was far below that.I in no way condone what Matthew did, but I do not feel too bad for people who booked huge bets after the bet was "closed" and there was little chance pirate would pay back. Funds received. Are you forgetting pirate already? Gary Johnson is a big supporter of online poker. http://www.garyjohnson2012.com/coalitions/poker The issue is that many would have payed MNW if they lost the bet.  Matthew was scamming expected value. I just checked, and yes, he finally got one. Bumping for "I told you so". I made my bet back when pirate debt was trading at ~75% of its face value, and got 2.5:1 odds, so I was making an even and fair bet at the time.  I did not pile on thousands of more btc when it was obvious I would "win", because it sounded too good to be true.I purchased insurance from CPA in the case that matthew did not pay out.  I also promised to buy a bitcoin magazine if I won, a term I will still honor if I receive my coins through the insurance. -----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----Hash: SHA512Theymos, please send the coins to 1QHLpbjkC5Nz5jNFG15eEWK5MVwDGjhjig-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----Version: GnuPG v1.4.11 (GNU/Linux)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FL5U-----END PGP SIGNATURE----- You responded HTTP 200 - OK   Who voted none of the above?  I have a bet to make with you.  I'll even exclude pirateat40 so you have a chance of winning. 2 BTC
OP also asked me to consider removing my post. You are delusional in your belief that you can develop and run profitable businesses that warrant borrowing at such high rates. To be fair, he said the deposits were insured, but didn't specify the timeframe that the insurance would be paid out over.  You are lucky it isn't 30 years.    At least this is in "Gambling" and not "Securities".... but seriously?  You want to start a BANK and you won't even put up your own 25BTC to do some initial paperwork? Both imsaguy and hashking are giving 3 years as an estimate.  Will INAU step up and cover his obligations, or will everyone blame each other, wait 3 years, and buy the bonds back for a few bitcents each from impatient investors?Note:  < 30 shares of GIPPT for trading is my only exposure to the currently failing lending/scamming cartel, so I'm picking on this thread more. In my opinion, dank is not running a ponzi, but he is delusional and should not be loaned a single satoshi. I voted no because running a PPT was just providing a transparent service there was great demand for.I will say however that some of the PPT operators were constantly shilling for pirate in every thread and ridiculing critics.  Promoting the scam and acting like they had evidence it wasn't a scam makes them "partially responsible". Why would that be the case? For example, Pirate owes Goat say 40k btc.  The SEC makes pirate pay Goat some money.  Goat can do whatever he wants with that money, including give it to other people.  Pirate's "give a list of depositors or face the consequences" deal is bullshit imo.He would still be risking his own money, unless he intended all along not to pay back investors. Will repayment by hashking allow you to repay GIPPT in full, or are you also waiting on imsaguy? There is no reason to secretly run a passthrough to a ponzi when it could just be a ponzi itself.  Either way, investors will lose their money, but if it is the operator's own ponzi, they make more. Quoting to save this. People learned from pirate and are now more suspicious of scams. LOL he is currently selling coins at $17.81 each, which is around a 60% markup.He has a whole page of sock testimonials too.  I was disappointed that a Ctrl-F for "Tod" or "Tom" turned up nothing.I'm not linking anything so I don't help his SEO, of course. Why scam when you can sell coins at 60% markup!On topic, I just saw this: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=106350.0 Why would anyone run a secret pass through to a ponzi when they could just run a ponzi themselves? Micon, you are missing the most obvious current ponzi: OBSI.HRPTIt is within his contract though to take everyone's money whenever he wants, so I don't even know if it can be considered a scam   https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=60117.msg1165301#msg1165301EIEIO and by extension GIPPT in trouble. 1500btc with pirate1200btc of mining hardware  https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=60117.msg1165301#msg1165301Vandroiy was right again: Woah, is this still open?
Ah.  I missed that. I think tbcoin is concerned about you being able to use the "forgot your password" option to take back the account. No. Intersango. Security experts.   You also lose your principal, destroying your NAV and resulting in a huge loss to investors.  It's not all about dividends. 40% is still huge.  You are essentially freerolling OBSI.HRPT with your investors' money.  What value do you add?  It appears to me that your only role is to take a share of the potential gains but expose investors to the entire risk of losses. I'm not sure why anyone would use Linode for anything bitcoin related after multiple simultaneous hackings of bitcoin services through the internal customer service panel resulted in barely any response or details from Linode admins. 1.5 TH/s is over 618 coins a day.  Still a very long time, but he wouldn't need to launder all his coins immediately, perhaps only a small portion he wants to cash out to USD.Let's use the 1.5 Th/s figure mentioned above.  10% of this would be 61.8 coins/day.  It would take an extremely long time to pay what he owes using GPUMAX.  Maybe you are right though, given his current rate of repayment...  Zero transparencyAbsurdly high interest ratesAdditional bonds issued every week0 interest could be paid indefinitely within the terms of the contractA buyback is only promised in case of an orderly shutdown of a unknown business with zero transparency.  Obsi can claim the investment failed and pay nothingIssuer is completely unverified on GLBSEObsi can steal your investment at any time while still adhering to his contract.PONZI SCAM Pirate is likely using GPUMAX to launder his own stolen coins. Mining bonds are expected to decrease in value over time, so this offsets the high interest payments.  They are also exposed to risks like new mining technologies becoming available.Pirate did this too. I will sell at .00015 BTC.  100k+ PPC available. I will consider a discount for large trades.Edit: I am currently not selling PPC. I will sell at .00015 BTC.  100k+ PPC available. I will consider a discount for large trades.Edit: I am currently not selling PPC. I suppose the contract never states when the insurance money has to be paid out.  The issuers can just sit around and buy back bonds at less than their face value from investors wanting to get out.What a joke. I don't think this got enough attention when I posted it earlier... Matthew must have other motives.  Anyone certain pirate will pay and trying to make money can just buy passthroughs at <50% and come out further ahead. In a ponzi scheme, investors are paid out with other investors money.  The operator never has enough money to cover everyone withdrawing at once.  So while there is BTC500k on paper, much fewer real coins exist if in fact pirate was running a ponzi.   By your logic, Coinabul could pay out 10% interest a week because they charge a 20% premium. Any reasonable businessman would not continually borrow capital at 7% interest per week.  Reinvesting profits in his own business would be much more profitable in the long run than relying on larger and larger loans. Quoting D&T from an another thread:
Yeah, paying almost $1 million in interest to spite someone is really worth it... I also have also received my rig.  It is hosted by Inaba, so I don't have any pics. I've been on the forums for almost 2 years. He claimed interest would be paid "down to the hour". True, but he loses BTC5000 EVERY DAY due to interest. Every day, Pirate is losing the value of this bet, BTC5000, to additional interest he has promised lenders, assuming his total obligations are BTC500k. He claimed over 500k btc.  Various estimates based on from the community put him at 350-500k.  Both of these numbers are going on the assumption that he was not running a ponzi, in which case he would have significantly less real btc than the total value of his accounts on paper. Ever owe some people 500,000 BTC? You don't just joke around on irc for a week, day trade on the market with a bunch of your lenders' coins, and only pay back a few small accounts. Yeah, I'm not sure why anyone would be using a pirate-owned service this week. I long time ago I assumed it was per transaction and set it to .1 to speed up an important transaction.  Paid a ~2btc fee   Why was this thread moved to "Service Discussion" from "Long Term Offers"?  It should be stickied in the long term offers imo, to warn potential lenders of scammy deposit offers. I find it extremely suspicious that he has enough coins to play with the market (he even admitted to trading with 30k of his "personal" coins) and yet has only paid back a few small (~100btc?) accounts. Wow, what a joke.  How did he even get ops? I too think the topics should have stayed in the gambling section. This is the kind of picture that everyone else on the internet makes fun of bitcoin miners with. This needs to be watched closely.  I wonder how many accounts have traded hands privately? Voted "He WILL pay up: He is teaching the forum an expensive lesson", because that is the most likely case (pirate paying back is also a decent possibility)However,  I think many of the other options are POSSIBLE and bettors should consider these as risks when betting. Looks like a pyramid scheme to me. Your intent is valid, but the block reward actually started at 2500. Fair enough.  Bottom line is it was changed very recently. It is visible, but the account has been recently deactivated (before it was possible to friend request him).  The two pictures that were publicly viewable are also no longer visible.
I apologize if this has already been done, but has anyone traced the coins they sent to pirate, and did they end up in a large address like this one?  If a lot of members pirate owes cooperated, there might be some interesting results to the blockchain analysis. BurtW: 12,198 Am I the only one who is leery about publicly associating bitcoin with a HYIP with a non-disclosed business model that was indistinguishable to a ponzi scheme during its operation? Yeah, IF pirate does pay back,  people will be less inclined to do business with him in the future due to his antics surrounding the shutdown.  This itself is a sign that he won't pay. From his original announcement: I think he said 1-2weeks on IRC on monday as well. Then you are not 100% certain. He just bet 25btc with a 13 (now 26) post user. Matthew's thread says he wins if pirate pays back as described in his [pirateat40's] thread.  Pirate said he will would everyone back with interest down to the hour.  If pirate pays only 20% back, and Matthew calls that a win, I feel like the community will not pay him.  Then someone has to decide who gets the scammer tags.Yes, this is extremely suspicious and everyone should be made aware of it before betting. I am concerned this could happen.  This could be pulled off more easily if pirate colluded with some of his top supporters (BurtWagner, imsaguy etc)  Has anyone seen any suspicious  purchases of pirate debt? I will panic buy when pirate doesn't pay. I will recommend using escrow for this bet as well.EDIT: Trolled   GPUMAX could be a mining service owned by a scam artist... just to gain trust with the community. Someone trying to move coins without anyone noticing?EDIT: blockexplorer is up for me, blockchain.info is down. Pirate default.  The price is low now because people are scared of depositors dumping coins.  Some people who lost money to pirate might also want to buy some coins to replenish their holdings. What is the basis of this valuation?  I'm not trolling, just genuinely curious. This offer is no longer available as I have withdrawn from the Kraken fund.I am offering a passthrough to my deposit in Patrick Harnett's Kraken fund, which is currently closed to new users.  I intend for the duration of this deal to be 4 to 8 weeks.  I reserve the right to return your funds with interest after one month has passed, and intend to do so within 8 weeks.  You, the depositor, may also request withdrawal during any week and receive your deposit with interest after that weeks payment.  Patrick said he will pay interest on Fridays.  I will pay out interest as soon as possible, within 24hrs of when Patrick pays.  The first payment should be this Friday, once you deposit I will prorate the interest for this week on a daily basis.I will take a 5% fee out of the interest payments.  This lower than the 10% fee of the KRAKEN passthrough on GLBSE.  The maximum weekly rate is 2.5%, so the maximum fee I will collect is 0.125%. This is a passthrough, If Patrick Harnett defaults, you lose your deposit.I am looking to deal with only one person for 300BTC.  If there is no interest in the full 300BTC, I will consider 30+BTC chunks.  Feel free to post your level of interest if it is >=30 BTC.   I finalized the OP and clearsigned it. I am looking for insurance for my 250 BTC bet against MNW.  Either:1) I pay a fee, and if I win my bet and MNW does not pay, you will pay the full amountor2) If I win my bet and MNW pays, I will give you a cut.  If I win my bet and MWN does not, you will pay my winnings.  If pirate pays and I lose the bet, we exchange nothing.Escrow is required, unless you are someone I trust greatly.PM with reasonable offers. 101BTC sent, txid: 04113fc2af8442cba99c3771f36b2bdb25ed784fcf6b95ac3ee73574356744c8 Theymos has agreed to act as escrow for this bet for a fee of 2BTC.  RolyTonyBrownTown and I will each send 101BTC to an address provided by theymos.
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----Hash: SHA1I, forum member dust, am betting 100BTC at even odds against forum member RoloTonyBrownTown that pirate will fail to pay back his lenders in full.The outcome of Matthew N. Wright's bet thread, https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=101751.0, will decide the winner.In the event that Matthew N. Wright fails to conclusively decide a winner, nanotube's ruling on Vandroiy's bet against Pirateat40 will decide the winner.In the case that nanotube's ruling is used, a failure to pay bitlane will not be considered a default.Theymos will hold both bettors coins until the outcome is decided.Each bettor has paid theymos a 1 BTC fee for acting as escrow.-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----Version: GnuPG v1.4.11 (GNU/Linux)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88YO-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----Aug. 27 2012 edit: Matthew's precise date and terms for his bet We are negotiating a 100BTC bet with escrow. A dividend of 1 will be paid, then they will become worthless. I would like to clarify that I am 95% confident that Matthew will pay me if I win.  I am not looking to bet that he won't.I have removed the capitalized words from the title to make this seem less alarmist. Sorry, I misread that.I came up with the 100:250 BTC ratio because that was in line with what the market was pricing passthrough bonds at. I offered to amend the terms of the bet. Which is why I'm standing by my bet.  I just wanted to make everyone aware that they should use an escrow. Matthew, I will reduce your liability from 250BTC to 240BTC if we amend the terms of the bet to include an escrow on both sides. Matthew is staff of the Korean forum, not an admin.  He is however a respected member and much more trustworthy than most.I will bet with you the same bet I made with Matthew, my 100BTC against your 250BTC.  Obviously I will not have Matthew ecrow, as I would not want to put all my eggs in one basket. Do not bet with Matthew without escrow: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=102354.0 In case it is considered off topic, I have moved my comments on escrow to https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=102354.0 I placed a bet with Matthew on Sunday.  My 100BTC on pirate defaulting against his 250BTC, everything else same terms as his thread.  After his thread exploded in popularity, I decided to demand an escrow.  He did not want to escrow, which I have begrudgingly agreed to because it was not in the original terms of the bet.However, I urge all future bettors to not bet without both sides in escrow.Anyone might be a scammer if there is enough money involved.  Here is a quote from Matthew quoting some of my PMs. I'm not sure what that means but I will make the same bet with you (with escrow of course) to prove I'm not just trying to dodge the bet.  This is on top of my bet with Matthew. I would like to advise everyone in this thread to not bet with Matthew UNLESS YOU BOTH ESCROWI made my bet without an escrow, so I might get scammed, but you shouldn't.  DEMAND AN ESCROW OR DO NOT BET Is there going to be another buyback and/or bidwall in the near future?  There are quite a few coins selling at 1.0. There has been a default.  Pirate has defaulted.  That does not mean he will not eventually pay back. This violates the terms of your contract, but investors will probably be ok with it.  However, it does raise some doubts about the availability of the insurance money. I guess he will never default then, he can just rack up interest forever.   You don't have to sell now if you want to wait for interest.  Goat is handling this bond very well. I'm waiting for someone with a finance background to step in here, but I thought that missing a scheduled payment is considered default.http://financial-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com/defaulthttp://www.investopedia.com/terms/d/default2.asp#ixzz24CSbcFRuhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Default_(finance)The contract of GIPPT states it will buy back bonds at face value in case of pirate default.  Pirate has already defaulted.
Yes. A default is missing any payment or return of principal.  Pirate missed his payments yesterday.  The bond should be paid out. This will be a good test of pirate exposure of this bonds backers. This is why it is a donation. IIRC Matthew did not invest in pirate.This bet has a 3 week timeframe.  It probably would have been better to do two weeks to match Vandroiy's bet, but I feel like the difference between 2 and 3 weeks is minimal. People who are stealing that kind of money can afford to create an entire fake identity. "Whiskey Dicks" -- seriously? I was unaware of that 30 day number.  It looks like it is advantageous to hoard coins without moving them between addresses. I've mined a bunch of these.  My "stake" is still 0.0.  How do i get stake?  Can I use stake to get mining rewards or transaction fees? If he had all the coins on hand, he could easily manually pay out over the course of the day.  He had the weekend to prepare too.  He doesn't need even need to pay out too many accounts because a lot of people invested through passthroughs.  If he pays back payb.tc, I bet it bitcoinmax users will recieve payments very quickly and efficiently.  Same with every other pass through.tl;dr, pirate does not have all of the btc he owes on hand.  He is probably working with his clients to get back btc, buying coins on the market ... or running a ponzi. This is in the contract of the Vandroiy bet.  There should be no guessing involved, assuming nanotube has been kept up to date. All of this. I feel like this is what posters like RolyTonyBrownTown actually think could happen. Just curious, has this been done?  It will be useful it some payouts start coming in. There is unfortunately no way this bet can be resolved until he either pays back or 3 weeks pass.  If he "defaults" tomorrow, he still could technically gamble up or borrow some coins to pay back with in the next few weeks.  He loses the Vandroiy bet after 2 weeks IIRC. BFL asics should be able to merge mine.  You could mine litecoins with GPUs. It will be obvious by then what the result is, and MNW said he can stop accepting bets at any time.+5000BTC from Vandroiy Fake: 3 weeks. Here is the problem:S.DICE is pricing themselves like a "real-world" IPO, and being potentially optimistic about their growth potentialBitcoin investors expect 1-7%/week return and don't care about the underlying business. My bold for emphasis:
Pirate is not proven to be honest yet, and elux said nothing about wanting to scam people himself. I've never seen so many ads for ponzi scams on one page. They will dump once pirate pays back. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bw9CALKOvAI This is great for bitcoin, and I would probably get one because it is cool. That said, it is hard for a 1-2% fee to compete with the 1-4.5% I can get back from using a credit card I pay in full every month.  Even some debit cards offer a 1% or so reward.  Perhaps when bitcoin exchange rates stabilize it would be possible to offer a card like this with 0 fee with revenue coming from the standard merchant fees. The difficulty is constantly adjusting, so it's current value is fairly representative of the total hash power.  Plug in the current difficulty (346.33 at time of posting) into http://allchains.info/calc.html to see you expected generation rate.  Currently, a single 5870 should find a block per hour.I built the "bitcoin-qt" (yes, it is still named that) version so I can see the generations and time to maturity.  "newmint" is equal to the total coins I have mined.  It may only refer to unconfirmed generations, but since it takes 520 blocks to mature, I do not know yet.  I've mined quite a few blocks and the reward drops slightly every one. The block reward appears to be consistently decreasing.  The first block I mined was worth 2481.75.  Maybe it is some sort of exponential decay from 2500/block? I still do not understand proof of stake very well.  Do miners collect transaction fees just by holding coins? It is that "high" because it is not scrypt based. Standard SHA256. Cheap advertising. Any miner should work.  I'm using cgminer.Hmmm, no idea.  There are no special password requirements, a single character should work even. You need to give it a password. OP released a link to the source in the other thread at the promised time (5 min before 18:00 UTC)  There was no premine.  By the time I had built from source and got things running, there were 5 blocks mined.Did you addrpcuser=<user>rpcpassword=<password>to ppcoin.conf ? My 50BTC to your 125BTC? Escrow required. It is free money if you truly believe in pirate. Not TA, but: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=97754.0 I will take the bet at odds inline with the market. I would want my 1BTC against a counterparty's  2.5BTC.  This is similar odds to the passthrough market which is trading at around 70% of face value. I would prefer to get 2.5:1 odds as that is around what the passthrough market is trading at.  I'll should create a thread "easy money for pro-piraters" and offer fair odds. Order at 8.51 just got hit.
It isn't a scam if everyone is paid back.  If the borrowed funds are used for market manipulation, so what?  That said, there isn't enough money in market manipulation to justify 7%/week interest over nearly a year. You will probably be too late.    How is this site and associated loans "non-commercial" in any way? I think DeathAndTaxes nailed it in another thread. While technically correct, this is very misleading. Eligius offers mining with just an address as well. There are pass through bonds selling at 10-20% discount right now, not even including potential interest.  I'm not sure why people are accepting such thin margins on accounts. It looks like he is buying accounts in BTC, so the exchange rate does not matter. Someone just bought 428 TYGRR.BOND-P at 0.9795.  Pirate, is that you? If pirate does pay everyone back, maybe all of his supporters will dump there coin into the 4.2%/week Dank Bank.  Get ready for millions in deposits. Goat took a risk.  Investors took a risk.  Goat deserves to profit if pirate pays back. If pirate is legit and has some extra coins, he should be buying every single pass through selling under face value.  Of course, this hasn't happened... I will apologize to pirate if he was not running a scam.  However, if I see anything like his operation pop up in the future, I will not hesitate to call it out as a ponzi again. If pirates returns coins with interest, shouldn't an additional final dividend be paid to make up for the lost 0.01/day payments? The 5000BTC bet is tiny compared to the coins he took in (500,000+) and interest he paid out (tens of thousands of BTC/week) If he pays back his investors, many will sell to take profits. It could go both ways. I will apologize publicly if all funds are returned. Inaba set up my rig yesterday   (8/16/2012 for the OP) I'm fairly certain this is not true, at least in the US. Dragons Tale has been around since 2010.
I'll just leave this here:If anyone is certain pirate is running a ponzi and wants to bet BTC100,000+ against him, PM me.  I have an idea.  You must be willing to risk large amounts of BTC.    The interest rates charged around here are generally much higher than the fees associated with buying BTC.  If someone without any BTC borrows BTC they will most likely have to buy some on an exchange to pay back the lender. If anyone is certain pirate is running a ponzi and wants to bet BTC100,000+ against him, PM me.  I have an idea.  You must be willing to risk large amounts of BTC. Be careful: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=88803.msg1103899#msg1103899 So a 40% decrease in interest rates for a 29% decrease in pirate's rate is "appropriate"? 1.78% sounds more appropriate to me. These indicators are just things to look out for when investing.  Investments that fit multiple indicators have an increased risk of being a ponzi. Explain again how futures trading is not zero sum?  Who is losing 50kBTC/week to pirate?  Does anyone really think a bunch of rich people buy high and sell low EVERY WEEK just for teh lulz? Why aren't more pools merged mining I0C/IXC/DVC? Is it difficult to configure pool software to mine multiple alt-chains?  Is the slight additional computational cost not worth it?  Healthy widening of the user basePirate and other HYIP injecting fiat inIncreased hoarding of mined coins due to positive outlook I wonder how many 1% payouts there will be now that pirate pays < 7% ?  I agree that every borrower defaulting is an unlikely scenario.  I used the cases of no one defaulting and everyone defaulting to illustrate that it costs you money when you take depositors regardless of the outcome of your loans. Ok, here are some examples:We will look at two lending cases for each method of lending:Success: 50BTC 1 Month loan is paid backDefault: 50BTC 1 Month loan is defaulted onWe will assume 2% interest/week (non compounding for simplicity of the math) to depositors and 10% interest for the entire month loanYou take 50BTC in depositsLet's say your reserve fund is 60BTC Your Deposit/Lending Offer:Success case:You pay your depositors 4BTC/weekYou gain 5BTC from the loans interestThe loan is paid backYour reserve fund is untouchedYou have 60BTC (reserve) + 5BTC (revenue) + 50BTC (paid back loan) - 54BTC (owed to depositors)Your net is 61BTC (1BTC profit)Default case:You pay your depositors 4BTC/weekThe borrower defaults and you earn no interestYour need to take 54BTC from your reserve fund to pay depositors You have 60BTC (reserve) - 54BTC (owed to depositors)Your net is 6BTC (54BTC loss)Lending Directly From Reserve:Success case:You loan 50BTC from reserveYou gain 5BTC from the loans interestThe loan is paid backYou put 50BTC back into reserveYou have 60BTC (reserve) + 5BTC (revenue)Your net is 65BTC (5BTC profit)Default case:You loan 50BTC from reserveThe borrower defaults and you earn no interestYou have 10BTC (reserve)Your net is 10BTC (50BTC loss)In both scenarios, taking deposits costs you 4BTCSo one of the following must be true (in order of most to least likely)1. You are not insuring deposits 100%2. You like losing money3. You are a scammer Why not lend directly from your reserve wallet and not have to pay anyone interest? In both cases, you are risking your reserve funds if someone defaults. Pirate hasn't sent everyone this week's interest yet!?! If your deposits are 100% insured by a reserve fund in an offline wallet, why are you paying interest for deposits instead of just using your own funds? 1% compounded daily is 3778% yearly.Unless the operator posts proof otherwise, everyone should assume this is a pirate passthrough.  The weeks with less than 1% payouts make the business look more legitimate and allow the operator to make a profit as he always gets 7%/week from pirate.  When pirate defaults, all the operator has to do is say "annnnnd it's gone" because after all, it is a "high risk" fund and you must be "not afraid of risk" to invest in it. +1 to Goat. This is by far the best insurance I have seen. GIPPT take note. I asked who was losing in the zero sum game of futures contracts and you reply "No one" In your example (a general case, not necessarily futures related) you then mention pirate buying 5000 BTC more than he sells (and losing 0 USD on average).  What group of people is selling 5000 BTC per day making 0 USD on average?Also, increases in BTC value probably hurt pirate, as when he trades between BTC and USD, he will at some times hold some USD, but he has to pay interest in 100% BTC. Pirate himself has claimed that sharp increases in the BTC/USD price could hurt his business. Futures are a zero sum game.  Who is losing massive amounts of BTC to pirate? In this case "the only one" means 105 out of the total 185 BTC.
Has he even paid this week's interest? What is the insurance money invested in or what is the insurance backed by? Does this mean if pirate shuts down his operation and returns everyone's money, you only buy back at 1BTC? Is the insurance payout coming from Goat's bonds if pirate defaults? What will the deposited money be used for? You have posted six times in the past 24 hours split across two sessions.  You had the time to post this much, but not enough to send three bitcoin transactions? I don't see anything wrong with running a passthrough that makes it clear what investors are investing in.  They are providing a service people want and do it in an honest way. All of the GLBSE passthroughs are very clear they are pirate related. All of the GLBSE passthroughs are very clear they are pirate related.  Bitcoinmax might be an exception as it could mislead novice investors.  On the other hand I suspect some of the "dank bank" kind of investments paying 1-3%/week are undisclosed passthroughs. 4a: If the price rises too much, the issuer cannot pay the insurance by selling their car. (see my original example)  The bond is not 100% insured if the issuer is making bets on BTC price and potentially will not be able to pay the insurance.4b: I'm not sure  where this magical CFD comes from.  If the issuer is long BTC, they should just use those BTC to invest with pirate directly. I don't understand your scenario.  I just reread the thread, and the example of having USD assets and being short BTC makes no sense to me.  This would lose out doubly if BTC price were to increase.The value of the hardware will still be less in BTC if BTC prices rise, regardless of what was originally used to pay for it. I'm just a concerned investor who was going to invest 100s of BTC in this. 2.5%/week insured by some of the most trusted members sounded like a very good idea until I realized the issuers and insurers have no good reason to offer it. Thanks for the response imsaguy.  If EIEIO was more transparent about its operations I would have much more confidence in it.  The description (in addition to mining) "taking advantage of market arb opportunities and other btc related activities." and interest rate tiers/incentives reek of a pirate clone. You have stated you will release "full statement of accounts" by the end of the month, which should improve your credibility.  Feel free to PM or linke me proof of a large mining set up as well.Assuming this bond is backed (in part) by a mining farm, I could still see a default scenario if the BTC price rose sharply and pirate defaulted, as mining farms are mostly valued in USD. Why would he pay 2.5% for money to invest in pirate if he had a bunch of btc available that he could invest himself.  Taking a 2.5% loan to invest in pirate is past putting "everything they have into BTC".My original challenge still stands:I would particularly like to hear from INAU or DeaDTerra. Ok.  Using a USD based asset and being short BTC would work.  Now if only INAU posted a picture of his $55k+ car and proof of a huge short position on BTC...TIL that VIPs can change their name.  Even so, why would someone invest in 100 VIP accounts (which are hard to sell and unlikely to go up in value) and not pirate if they didn't think he would default in the near future. Just to confirm i'm not skipping anyone in line, I was sent this 3 days ago:and got this today:They ask about shipping preferences before they are actually ready to deliver the product, which makes sense.I just got a bit too excited  What assets valued in btc are illiquid, besides fixed term loans? (which could easily carry some pirate exposure)  LOL @ VIP donator accounts, how do you plan to sell 100 of those with the user names already chosen? The insurer is still at risk of default because their car's value is not tied to BTC.  Say the insurer backs the 5000btc deposit with his $55k porsche at IPO when btc are worth $11.  If btc rises to $31 again and pirate defaults, then the insurer is also in default (out ~$100k) because his car is no longer worth 5000btc.In reality, the insurance funds are deposited with hashking and imsaguy, who may or may not default if pirate does. Depositing money straight into pirate will profit if pirate does not default in 20 weeks.  I challenge anyone to outline a scenario that makes offering this asset better than simply investing in pirate without exposing investors to risk of default.  I PM'ed DeaDTerra two days ago with some questions about this asset and he has not yet responded.Disclaimer: I currently hold ~20 shares of GIPPT. It is not zero risk.  If pirate defaults, you have to hope that ineedausername and imsaguy, who are both heavily invested in pirate, do not default on the insurance.Remember this: I first saw a post about bitcoin on reddit in July 2010, grabbed 5.0 btc from the faucet and mined 3 blocks on my laptop cpu in 2 days.  After mostly ignoring bitcoin for a month, I started lurking the forums for a bit and registered in October. Do you have a youtube channel?
One of pirate's business partners has a registered business... I'll just leave this here... This is pretty shady.  I didn't bribe anyone though, just agreed to pay the $300/month which I think is very reasonable   However, Inaba hasn't actually picked it up yet and set it up for mining, so I could be in the same situation as you guys.  Hopefully BFL has the hardware they claim to have ready. This asset is -EV for everybody except the issuer who can do huge insider trading.  I'd advise everyone to stay away. This asset is -EV for everybody except the issuer who can do huge insider trading.  I'd advise everyone to stay away. My mini-rig was ready to ship today (!!!) and I decided to have Inaba host it.  Inaba was super responsive and should be a great addition to the BFL team. Nice try... Litecoin I have no idea.  I remember requesting an invite many months ago and I haven't heard back.   Mining bond dividend yields have been increasing % wise because the prices have been falling. OP, you should post a link to proof of your North Carolina business registration to support your legitimacy.With BFL it is!   Half of the miners could give pirate all their coins FOR FREE every week and it wouldn't even cover the interest payments.Hoping something goes up 3000% in value is a terrible reason to offer 3000% anual interest.  Also, pirate pays out BTC, so even if he profited a bunch of USD from setting up a cheap mining rig, he would still need to pay out in high priced BTC. Are gambling securities allowed on the GLBSE? Mining ops have transparent business models and are back by physical hardware. Keep in mind the value of fixed Mh/s mining bonds goes down over time.  For example, a mining bond paying 2%/week might lose 1% of its value per week due to rising difficulty. It is important to remember that mining bond prices took a huge hit after BFL announced and sold ASICS.  The returns of mining bonds would probably have outweighed the depreciation without unexpected news  of disruptive mining technology.I would be interested in the results of this.  Might do it myself... The case that would crash the price the most would be if pirate shuts down his operation and returns everyone's money.  This would result in a huge supply to sell and a bunch of people looking to take profits. Nearly all of NYAN's investments are bitcoin only and do not involve USD, the rising price should not make it any less attractive.This is more likely.  Additionally, I suspect that many buyers are scared off by the complexity of the securities offered.  It is hard to tell which, if any, are a good deal. Why buy a non-guaranteed 1% bond backed by undisclosed investments when I could buy a non-guaranteed 7% bond backed by undisclosed investments? TL;DR: There aren't 5k coins in escrow. This is a weak answer to a very good question by Vandroiy.  I wouldn't want to get screwed out of the insurance money by some "smart accounting" if/when pirate defaults.
I will consider this depending on when mine is read to ship.  It's an attractive deal if the time between mini-rig and asic shipments is short, and apparently asics are on schedule for october.Question for Inaba:  Are you guys really shipping 1.5 rigs per day? Just what I want, EXTRA heat right on top of my electronics! The increase in price is not due to an increase in the exchange of goods and services for bitcoins or favorable news, the two traditional causes for rallies.Everyone is buying BTC to get in on pirate's scheme, pirate passthroughs, and other pirate like "lending" schemes.Obviously earning 3300% a year on BTC is more attractive than 0-10%/year with USD.The entire bitcoin economy is shifting towards lending and various financial instruments.If pirate were to default, would the price crash?  There would certainly be less incentive to buy BTC.  Of course, pirate might have all of the coins by then... so there might not be many sellers. Looks like I have a long time to wait .  Where did the April date come from? The advantage of Goat's bond is that insurance is much more reliable, as most of the coins are visible and stored offline.  Goat also has a more established reputation.All of usagi's bonds (YARR, CPA and NYAN) would suffer when/if pirate defaults.  There is no guarantee he would be able to pay back in full.1.6 is probably too high though.  YARR IPO'ed at 1.2 IIRC which was probably too low. It's not that it requires more startup capital, it just doesn't work.  Say you have two guys, one who is sure pirate will never default and the other who is sure pirate will default, each with 100btc.  The pro-pirate guy wants to make more easy money, so he offers a 100% insured bond that pays 3.5%, taking the other 3.5% for himself.  The anti-pirate guy considers investing 100btc in this bond.  However, if he invested, the pro-pirate guy would put 200btc with pirate.  If the anti-pirate investor truly believes that pirate with default 100%, he has no reason to believe that the insurance would ever be paid out.  If the pro-pirate guy had any funds to spare, he would just invest them with pirate because he thinks a default will never occur.Yes, it is terrible risk/reward for the owner I doubt it.  Why operate a HYIP passthrough when you could be the HYIP yourself? Hashking's insured pirate fund is just a worse version of putting half your investment with pirate or a full passthrough and keeping the other half in your wallet. YARR is an insured pirate bond.  The problem with insured bonds is that you have to trust the issuer to actually pay out when pirate defaults.  If an operator wants to reliably insure a pirate bond for its principal/face value, they need to keep that many BTC out of pirate, preferably in cold storage or even better, escrow.  No one should trust "insured" funds that have all of their assets with pirate. http://www.corporationwiki.com/Unknown/Unknown/gpumax-technologies-llc/101278778.aspxZach Nakaska - Managing MemberTrendon Shavers - Managing MemberMichael Thalasinos - Managing Memberhttp://www.linkedin.com/pub/michael-thalasinos/54/a8/396President/OwnerJetpack Cayman"February 2012  Present (7 months) Grand Cayman"Searching for "Jetpack Cayman" doesn't turn up much besides a 3 like facebook page and a few videos from a jetpack vendorThis is quite a suspicious place to start a business after launching service that resembles a money laundering scheme (GPUMAX) and one that resembles a ponzi (BTCS&T) I also suspect this.  No one is offering 7% a week on USD deposits. No.  The exchange owner confirmed it was a hack, and we can assume the hacker created large amounts of fake usd.  The amount of usd involved was an order of magnitude higher than LTC's market cap. Not as cheap as they would have been if usagi hadn't cancelled his 1500 share dump. Your bot can lose BTC if the price goes up a large amount and never returns to the price level you initially sold at.Example:Bid is $8.50 and ask is $9.00.  This is a nice spread so your bot places and ask at $8.99 and a bid at $8.51.  Your ask gets hit, selling for $8.99, and then the price continues to increase, never returning to <$9. You how hold some dollars from selling BTC for cheap and the value of your account in BTC is lower overall. Now that I think about it, btc-e is already screwed and it is just a zero-sum game between traders.  So trade away! I just successfully withdrew some LTC.  I did not try to make any trades as I feel kinda bad for btc-e... Placing an order through the API should return the order id. XMh/s perpetual mining bonds decrease in value as the network hashrate increases and new mining tech becomes available.  1-2% a week is reasonable when it is backed by real hardware and the principal is gradually decreasing in value.Funny how the people with enough common sense to call out 7% weekly returns are labelled puppets... Assume that pirate defaults half way to the deadline.  It isn't fair that someone can put 10k btc on the default side after a default is confirmed and be at least half as effective as anyone who bet when the outcome was unknown.The betsofbitco.in system is much better for events with known dates and unknown outcomes such as sports or elections. How does this bet work if pirate defaults before the bet deadline?  What prevents everyone from piling on bets on the winning side until the the deadline date?  Does betsofbitco.in have a system in place to invalidate all bets after an arbitrary date?
I used pessimistic estimates as I was responding to a claim that a 51% was difficult and "700 EC2 instances ... add another 5000 GPUs ... and you MIGHT have a chance" I suspect most miners react fairly quickly and switch pools or solo mine when a pool gets DDOSed. The GPU ec2 instance has two ~70kh/s GPUs and two ~25kh/s CPUs, for 190kh/s total.  The current LTC hashrate is 234Mh/s.  Assuming that BCX currently controls NONE of this power, about 1230 instances are needed, which costs between $2580/hr (on demand @ $2.10/hr ea) to $426/hr (spot instances @ $0.346/hr ea).  This is also assuming that BCX has no GPUs, which is false.  Under 400 7970s could 51% LTC.An attack is certainly viable. Are the bit-pay order numbers merchant specific or are they a count of ALL purchases processed through bit-pay? Has anyone gotten decent hashrates with a 5970?The highest multiple I can set thread-concurrency is 1600. With intensity 11, I get about 130kh/s per gpu.  At intensities 12 and over, the best I can get is 250kh/s from each gpu on the first card the both gpus on the second 5970 get "SICK".How are you guys able to use such high thread-concurrency settings? There are many customers not on the list. However, Sonny must have underestimated greatly OR there will be easily 100-200TH/s just from mini-rig upgrades when the asics ship. The owner says this large volume did not involve the mixer. I highly doubt there is a huge market for -EV mining "gambling".  There are many gambling games that have less of a house hedge and are more fun than mining. Sounds like this would be a user configurable option.  Mandating some form of two factor authentication for "large" transactions would be reasonable. Does anyone know when giga ordered his?  I saw someone say February, but that can't be right. Has anyone other than giga received their mini rig? Code:Date Paid       Order Number     Trade-In (Y/N)     Qty SC Mini Rig    User06/25/2012 --          Y             1                  dust Thanks, I misread and was confused by the full price of the dual equaling the discounted price of the quad. The other thread implied you were selling the quad version for $640.  The unit pictured also looks like a quad chip design.  Is there a mistake? Nitpick:  ROI stands for "return on investment" and is the percent difference between the return and cost basis of an investment.  You mean "break-even". Ouch, I just ordered a BFL mini-rig.  Watching... Order Initiated: 5/7/12Payment Complete: 5/11/12Confirmed: 5/18/12 with payment date of 5/11/12Quantity: 1 Is this a joke?You can buy seats on the general assembly for 100 Euros each.Sure is getting money out of politics! Mining is a fixed-sum game for miners, not a zero-sum one, as a set amount of BTC are awarded for mining.  Mining is not even necessarily fixed-sum in terms of USD, as a more secure network could lead to bitcoins becoming more valuable.That said, I agree with your post. Afghanistan is the first country in an alphabetical list, making it a likely "default" country.
 I am interested, but will be much more likely to purchase if the warranty is 1year+. I believe determining Linode's liability would come down to determining if Linode was negligent in their actions leading to the theft.  For example, if bitcoins were stolen from a VPS because of an exploit in the user's software or server configuration, it would be a clear-cut case of Linode having no responsibility.  In this case however, the break-in was a result of an error entirely on Linode's end.  To prove negligence, it would have to be shown that poor security practices were in place or unauthorized employees had access to the sensitive data.Additionally, bitcoins are not the only valuable files that could be stored on VPSs.  Customer information and trade secrets (algorithms for example) can also result in $100k+ damages if stolen. Thanks, I can confirm it is working. It appears that BTC withdrawals are currently broken.  After confirming the withdrawal, a page with no content is displayed and no BTC are sent or deducted. I suspect btc-e.com will adopt BTC/LTC trading within a day or so. Yeah that seems to be the case.  I switched out main.cpp to the previous commit and it worked. I compiled the latest source, downloaded litecoin.conf and put it in ~/.litecoin.  I'm stuck at downloading block 119.  This seems to be related to the lockin... anyone know what is going on? Btc-e, are there any plans for a fairbrix (FBX) exchange? I will bet up to 100BTC against this claim.  Your posts have been very critical of mtgox. Couldn't this be because BCX is throwing 400 ec2 instances at it?Source or gtfo. Based on the connections my client is making, quite a few ec2 instances are mining. 20 more minutes!... pre-mining? Dedicated mining rigs have nothing to steal on them. Anyone going to 51% this with a bunch of high-CPU AWS instances? I am almost certain they are three separate people, especially Artforz. A pool should come before an exchange.  Running a FBX pool does not expose the operator to any risk and should be trivial for anyone already running a TBX pool.  Running an exchange for a chain with a weak hashrate can be a liability, so a pool to boost the hashrate would be a good first step. It is stealing because it was done with malicious intent.  Small reorgs caused by honest miners are neither intentional nor malicious.   If I remember correctly, he only openly explained the pre-mine after he got called out on it.  Pre-mined coins were not mentioned in the OP or the first few pages.On an unrelated note, the FBX attack could have been ANYONE with an AWS account.  It is trivial to 51% chains when they are just starting. While I much prefer Lolcust's leadership to CoinHunter's, TBX was rather misleading as the announcement contained no mention of the 7.7M pre-mine.
Looks good!  Mining with tenebrix minerd. Sold all my TBX.  I can't see how people value a currency with such a huge pre-mine. I just sold for around 11btc on btc-e.com.I have no more TBX to sell currently. ~5000 TBX available, make offers. It was the --s flag.  The default of 5 seconds works much better. I've gotten 10 stale blocks out of 11 so far.  Is it possible that the blockrate is fairly fast and I am connected to some slow nodes?EDIT: Fixed... I removed the --s 120 option from the bundled miner .bat file.  Mining on an i7-870tRdPgGM7fnsnEMEeYqqiHhKNEUnwt1Yz8e Link is dead now.  Anyone know which pools this info is from? Just signed up, username is dust 2484.95 btc sold @ 5.95 ! Less new people are buying btc.  Miners are always selling some.  People holding btc are noticing the slow decline and want to cut their losses or buy back for a better price later. I think the 5 Mhash/s figure assumed by the OP is highly optimistic when estimating the power of botnets.  The kinds of computers that become part of a botnet are generally older/unpatched systems.  These computers are likely to have Pentium 3's or 4's and integrated graphics, which would yield only hundreds of khash/s.   Has anyone accusing mybitcoin of dumping coins looked for the transactions?  Last I heard the coins had not moved. http://pastebin.com/MmguJm3ZFake This is a great opportunity to promote the use of bitcoins.  #oppaypal has currently reduced EBAY's market cap by a billion USD, and likewise could have a huge positive effect on Bitcoin. Yes, I have started getting segfaults with 0.3.23 and it is probably due to loss of connection there is wireless involved.  Ubuntu 10.10 64-bit. It is malware that steals your wallet.  See: https://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=24437.0 The shading appears to represent the bid/ask spread. Looks great!  I think an option to overlay multiple markets on a single graph would be useful. I wouldn't be surprised if this thread gets put on reddit.  They do not like people gaming the system.
I successfully withdrew some btc as well. My daily maximum is set to 100btc/day. How much money has mtgox lost not being open for trading? My balance was a off when I first checked (low), but was corrected to the exact value it should have been.  I would fall under the category of an "old" account in terms of creation time. While the delays are frustrating, they are just trying to get it absolutely right before reopening.  I still trust MtGox. If it costs money and is "two factor authentication" it could be one of those RSA tokens.  The hardware costs money per unit, they aren't just going to give them out to free to every account.  Poker sites charge for them, but offer them free/discounted to high-volume players.  I suspect mtgox will do something similar. Saw this comment:This seems much more likely.  I believe mtgox still controls the 400k+ btc.  Mtgox could prove to everyone he owns the wallet by announcing an address and a time in the future and sending all the coins to the new address at a that time. Same here.  I wasn't counting on their security to begin with. You called?Good idea.. doesn't seem too bad of a price when you compare it to buying cans of air. You guys realize it is faster to withdraw btc than usd...  the people who want to get out fast will be buying. I believe to transaction volume numbers count a 1btc transaction with 999 btc in change as 1000btc moving. Wasn't this site involved with the theft of account information and wallets?  Might want to remove your link.Edit:  Apparently I'm mistaken.  I'm glad to see that Kevin is much more mature and reasonable than his supporters.  The hacked account could not have been a bitcoin wallet, it was an account on mtgox.  The first two poll options should be renamed. I did not make any trades that day.  I am in favor of rolling back the trades.  Mtgox absolutely has the right to do so. Mtgox is currently closed.  The orderbook will be reset before it reopens. $12.50-$14.99 this week. 100-200 BTC + ~1000 USD stolen.  Doesn't seem too bad... +1
LOOKS LEGIT Mtgox is not reversing bitcoin transactions, they are reversing mtgox transactions, which they have every right to do.  It would have been better if actions mtgox could take in a response to a situation like today were outlined in the mtgox TOS beforehand. Source?  I find this hard to believe.  I have only seen a file with around ~400 passwords cracked (only the few that were using unsalted md5) Can anyone see a flaw in this plan? (besides not working for accounts with no email):1.  All accounts are locked and no one is allowed to log in after mtgox comes back online2.  An email is sent to account owners with a password reset link3.  Users can then log into mtgox with no chance of attackers logging in first.In the meantime:1.  Change you password ASAP if you used your mtgox password somewhere else.Also, I saw this on 4chan /g/I'm glad i used a strong password... This is an extremely bad idea.  Who decides which coins are banned or redistributed to another address?  As a simple way to exploit this system, scammers could send some coins to another one of their addresses and claim they were hacked. I think only a small portion of mined coins are sold instantly.  People who are mining with a single card looking for some quick cash may sell instantly, but they make up a small portion of the overall hashing power.  Bigger miners are more likely to be invested in bitcoin for the long term. Is there any estimate as to when this will be available for viewing? The price shown in your account history includes the (0.65%)fee.  The price in the email notifications does not. I don't see it if I go to mtgox.com now, but it could be a reference to how many days mtgox has existed. It is slow for me using plain http.  I would also be willing to chip in a few btc for server improvements.This leaves bandwidth.  Could that be the problem? In my experience, transfers show up after 6 confirmations.  It is possible that the script checking for deposits only runs at a certain interval, leading to an additional delay. Check your math, a 110% drop would mean the price went negative. It would be more than enough for mining and driving a monitor. AMD Radeon 7990: Bitcoin EditionDual GPUS each with 3600 stream processors @ 1 Ghz128 MB of memory @ 300 MHzHeatsink with copper heat pipes, dual fans 350W peak power use This is correct.  Mtgox only offers limit orders. (29 * 1.0065 = 29.189) If transaction fees prove to be an insufficient incentive for miners, banks may chose to mine at a loss.  Currently, banks pay for hardware (vaults) and guards to secure their assets. Mining at a loss would be similar to this. I think the dwolla delays have more to do with mtgox than dwolla.  The general consensus around here is that dwolla is better due to much lower fees and not having to go through a middleman exchange site to transfer to a bank account. What about mobile phones?  We need a good mobile client ASAP! Good thing no one took me up on this!! (Although it would probably still be good for me in the long run if every year was bet on) MagicalTux will eventually respond to emails.  He says he gets hundreds of them a day.  Regardless, he should really hire some customer service people with all of the fees he is raking in.
The market should price in the block reward change well before it actually happens. Yes (US) Has there been any detailed analysis of weekday vs weekend trends? He was probably looking at bitcoincharts.com immediately after the market "close" and daily stats reset. The text in the options still says a fee of .01 is recommended.  Is this intentional? A variation of the slate article was in the Sunday print edition of the Washington Post. Difficulty does not drive price, only the reverse is true.  However, an increase in press exposure and interest may cause a rise to $10 next week. 200nc sent to N7DRYaasDrhKkMuH6NQfCYhmxAuo3Y2Bzf. I'm currenly travelling and will send the nc when I have access to a computer tonight. Poker player detected.  I used to be concerned seeing that kind of chart, but based on my observations of mtgox I am not too worried.  The bid/ask distribution has always been weighted towards asks for the entire existence of mtgox, and yet huge rallies have occurred.  My theory is that it is easier to get BTC to mtgox than it is to deposit USD, so some people will store a chunk of their BTC on mtgox and put in some high offers, while buyers are likely to buy BTC immediately after their deposit clears as they believe the price will rise.  This results in less standing bids.  Many sellers of BTC are miners and in no rush to sell so they just put in big orders at higher-than-market prices.  I'm selling 1200 for 5btc (link in signature)  If you want 2k+, give me a day or so heads up. Send 1 btc to 1BTwnGENp3h9a5L2tMeWYmcqcWgyt3m9Jf Yay pricewars! So that's where all the stock online went! Just got some for ~$725, but had to order from tigerdirect . Lowered prices. One of the the major selling points of Bitcoin is low transaction fees.  I few days ago I decided not to tip someone .1 btc because it required a .01 fee.  The minimum fee needs to be much lower,  .0005 sounds about right. The site implies otherwise:If listing is currently free it should be noted on the site. I just sent the remaining 40nc.Ryland's namecoin issues were resolved via PMs.I just lowered my prices in response to competitors' prices. +1 to Ryland Taylor-Almanza, namecoin trade
Generating a block is more like playing a lottery millions of times per second than working on a solution over time.  You can stop and start miners anytime you want and you won't be missing out on lost "progress". Charging a .5 btc listing fee will hinder reaching critical mass.  It would make more sense to grow it as a free service and then charge a fee when it is popular.  There are binaries available in the Original Thread (i'm assuming you're on windows)I unfortunately sold most of my namecoins and am down to 460.  Send 4.6 btc to 1B4RfAeTKbr4iibWvY9mb27THoYb8XBj9i if you want 460. Send 5.0 btc if you want me to send 460 upon payment and 40 when a block matures. Guess people can't ask for advice on building their video editing/CAD/software development boxes either then...Yeah... OCN is obviously fearing a hit to their folding e-peen. +1 to Cuophux, sold him some namecoins. +1 for removing the rating system. What about separate child boards for buying and selling?WTB and WTS seem less ambiguous than BUY and SELL.  If a thread says buy, it could mean the OP wants to buy something, or that people can buy something in the thread.Also my [FS] selling thread just got a [BUY] put on it so I changed it to [SELL]   I modified the phoenix miner to periodically spawn a thread to POST its hashrate to a django app, so I have a webpage that displays hashrates and the last time I heard from each miner.  I also calculate and display btc/day and usd/day.  I will probably open source it once I add some new features.In this post: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=6998.msg103376#msg103376, jedi95 linked to a much nicer monitor app. Send 9 btc to: 138rMMZcW3fhseueSixPEVmj648NTHR6j2 This looks very promising... excellent work. Grndzero, you are correct that pkill could interfere with other processes.  My mining systems are dedicated and there are no other processes named "python". Integration with the OTC web of trust would be really nice. On linux, use cron withCode:pkill -9 poclbm for poclbm orCode:pkill -9 python for pheonix Is there any reason to use Windows these days now that we know how to adjust memory clock and voltage on linux? +1 amincd.  Sold him some namecoins. Nice monitoring page, it's much better than the one I threw together!  Are you planning on open-sourcing it? You might need to set the permissions to allow execution.Code:chmod +x bitcoindThen try running it. Maybe there should be a disclaimer stating something like:"Some of the products/services in this section may be illegal in your jurisdiction... you are responsible for your own actions" Agreed. Yesterday, mtgox was DDoS'ed, coinpal's paypal account was locked and bitcoins are still trading above $3.  I think confidence is higher than ever.
There are a lot of fairly "extreme" comments (pro gold, pro-Ron Paul, anti-Obama) that were not deleted.  It seems odd for them to delete Bitcoin related comments considering the article mentioned it.  My comment was just trying to clear up false information propagated by the author. This is not the case.  There are two kinds of unlocks, one that unlocks additional shaders and one that is a complete flash to the 6970 bios.  The second method of unlocking is riskier and could damage your card.I'm not even sure if you can buy unlockable 6950s these days.    Difficulty is still 512, it is easy to mine many blocks a day with a decent GPU. Bumping for updated pricing. Unity seems only appropriate for netbooks to me.On topic: Building with the trunk of wxWidgets worked for me. What about an android app store?  Third party stores are allowed (amazon) and bitcoin could allow for low prices without processing fees. "Real" banks have legal means to pursue and collect on clients who fail to pay.  How will you protect yourself from people taking anonymous money and running away? https://btcex.com/ claims:"We are under DDoS attack"I question the truth of that statement. On IRC, MagicalTux described the type of requests made and it was clearly a DDoS (SYN flood etc).  The requests also originated overwhelmingly from Russian and Vietnamese Ips. I posted in the comments calling out the author for not researching Bitcoin (it's decentralized design, etc) yesterday.  I'm 99% sure my comment was deleted or reported as I check through all the comments today and couldn't Ctrl+F a single mention of Bitcoin. The graphical client doesn't work with either unity or classic for me. Difficulty does not drive price, price drives difficulty. People in the thread are justifying using pay-per-share at a 10% fee   Agreed. What about a sticky in the Bitcoin Discussion section titled "BITCOIN FAQ: NEW MEMBERS, READ BEFORE POSTING".  This thread could contain answers to common newbie questions. Haha I did the same thing: "AGRESSION" Solved. Same problem with a 5970, only about 40% GPU load.  I've tried a variety of settings. Yes: http://blog.zorinaq.com/?e=42 Each GPU is around 285Mh/s so 1.14Gh/s total.  Stock clocks, poclbm.  I'm going to upgrade to Phoenix miner. Keep in mind putting 4 cards on a motherboard results in the cards flush against each other.  5870s will throttle if not cooled sufficiently.  You may want to consider building 2 dual card setups with cheaper PSUs and motherboards. Impressive.  Your using windows I assume?
I can confirm dual 5970s work with Ubuntu 10.10, SDK 2.1 and Catalyst 10.10.  You might want to try newer drivers versions.I'm running a Sempron 140 and 2x5970 (stock clocks) off a TX850.  The HX850 would be better as its 80+ Silver vs just 80+ certified for efficiency.Do the math.  At current difficulty hardware will take months to pay off, and keep in mind the difficulty is always rising. What was the reasoning for using a command-line client instead of a web interface?  A web interface would be more friendly to the average user.Edit: I see you are working on a graphical client, so I'll rephrase my question: Why a desktop client instead of a web interface? I will bet 500USD + 500BTC against each of these. Bitcoin can be traded physically (flashdrives, printed certificates).  I agree with your vote though. I don't think this counts   The trade was for 20btc on a low volume market.  If I traded 10btc to a friend for $3/btc would that count as the price hitting $3? I will bet against $15 by the end of the year, 50 BTC.Betting in BTC essentially gives the people betting on high BTC value very good odds, as the btc will be worth more if they win. This is a good point.  There is no way to get large amounts of USD into the exchanges on weekends, whereas people can always transfer btc to sell easily. New prices (2011-5-10):200nc for 1btc450nc for 2btc1200nc for 5btc I made the mistake of upgrading to Ubuntu 11.04 and can't seem to get the graphical client running.  Neither the released binary nor the binary I compiled myself will show the graphical interface.  The debug.log file indicates that at least the IRC communications are working.Has anyone been able to run the graphical client on 11.04? Commenting out the USE_UPNP line allowed me to build without miniupnpc.  Assigning zero still defines the symbol. Currently mining.  I think i control >50% of the network  This thread http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1631.0 has a "Bitcoin Accepted Here" graphic. I tried to mine on the free tier and it throttled down to 20-30 khash/s (useless) and lagged up my ssh session.  Now i'm just running bitcoind with 8333 forwarded to help the network. You are correct, PCIe bandwidth is not important for mining.  x1 will work.Using both nvidia and ATI cards in one computer might be possible, but is probably a huge hassle in terms of drivers.  Using different GPUs from the either nvidia or ATI works fine.If you are buying a new card for mining, just ditch the 9800 and get AMD/ATI.  5970s and 6990s are the best cards for mining long-term.  A cheap 5870 (<=$200) is also pretty good value.https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Mining_hardware_comparison There will be no panic in terms of prices when the generate reward halves.  Predictable, well-defined, future events will be already be priced into the market.  The only significant effect will be some of the least profitable miners dropping out, resulting in a reduction in difficulty.  What are the disadvantages (security, etc) of having UPnP turned on? Is there anyway a more accurate number could be calculated? One way would be to only count the smaller part of the transaction, assuming people are spending less than half of their total wallet.  This would at least be an underestimate instead of a nearly meaningless number. The average generation time for that hashrate is OVER 8 YEARS at current difficulty. You have to create the file bitcoin.conf in that directory. You don't need to specify an IP, it defaults to your local instance of bitcoin.
For jgarzik's CPU miner: Use the flag --userpass yourname:yourpassFor ufasoft's miner: Use the flags -u yourname -p yourpassWhere yourname and yourpass are defined in bitcoin.conf (~/.bitcoin on linux, C:\Users\you\Appdata\Roaming\Bitcoin) on Windows Edit: You have to be running bitcoin with the -server flag (or run the daemon bitcoind) I'm curious as what you did to compile namecoind.Same thing happened to me on ubuntu. I highly doubt this.  Any source on any VC's investing in Bitcoin? Some guy posted asking for advice regarding buying 200k-400k BTC.  Maybe he was serious.  There have also been the poker site seizures (leading to interest from poker communities such as 2+2) and some more press exposure (TIME, reddit). Has anyone else got this working? There is no namecoind target in the makefile, so i built bitcoind.  My daemon is currently sitting at 0 blocks and doesn't recognize calls such as name_list and name_scan. Fails to compile with gcc 4.5.2Code:hook.cpp: In function int GetDefaultPort():hook.cpp:116:20: error: new declaration int GetDefaultPort()net.h:14:23: error: ambiguates old declaration short unsigned int GetDefaultPort()Making the return type consistent between files fixes the error. Bitcoin: Botnet Edition If you are using poclbm, try setting the -f flag to something high like -f 60 or -f 120. Discussion of Bitcoin on the 2+2 forums: http://forumserver.twoplustwo.com/30/business-finance-investing/bitcoins-digital-currency-1011408/ New all-time high: $1.15 ! 8x6990 @ $700 each leaves you negative $600 left for the rest of the computer. 6 might be more realistic if you are really cheap on the other components. A good 650w PSU will run 2 5870s at stock clocks and a Sempron.  Of course, if you are using a CPU above a Sempron or overclocking you might want to go with 700w or 750w. Only ATI 4xxx series and up are supported. Mining software would be fine with any number of GPUs (assuming we're counting OpenCL as part of the drivers) Unless I am mistaken, ATI drivers only support up to 8 GPUs on linux (and up to 4 on Windows), so that's 4 6990s max.  I don't think a special expansion chassis would get around that limitation. Why not put the player count on the main page of the website and in your signature on the forums? Other reasons to use linux for mining:  Higher reliability, easier remote access and scripting, and no license cost.I saw no reason to consider windows until memory downclocking was discovered.I really hate the existence of wine because it gives developers an excuse not to port their games to Linux.  Blizzard games already work with OpenGL on Macs, it can't be that hard. It looks like people aren't taking this to seriously as the market has remained flat today. None of the pools I know of are pyramid schemes.  You get bitcoins proportional to your mining contribution, if someone does 50% of the work for the pool, the get 50% of the coins.  The purpose of pools is to greatly reduce the variance of mining (for a small few, usually a few %) Voted to remove.The only reason I see in keeping dark pools is that their functionality can be partially emulated by a trading bot or script, and having the functionality built into the exchange would even the playing field to some extent.
Current bitcoin.org looks good, but I think the horizontal space could be utilized better.  The page is a bit too long/thin.Edit:This one is better proportioned in my opinion.  Are you using a low resolution? I'm excited. It would be nearly impossible for anyone, even a large government, to buy 5M bitcoins.  There are probably < 100k btc for sale on all of the exchanges combined, and the price would rise extremely quickly if someone attempted to buy a quantity that large. Where has this been documented/mentioned.  I've only heard of a limit on USD. I generated three blocks on a 2Mhash/sec laptop back in July in around two days.  Unfortunately, I shut off generation afterwards as I didn't see any value in btc back then. If the card is running too hot it will throttle itself, resulting in a fluctuating hashrate.  I have observed this with 5870s with inadequate cooling bouncing between ~320Mh/s to ~220Mh/s after they heated up. /r/ could really benefit from using bitcoins... I am consistently amazed that people assume the work being done by miners is being sold to a company.  It is open source software, this claim is easily proven false. One possibility would be to allow pool/business owners to pay some btc for a dedicated sub-forum.  The revenue from this would go to hosting, SSL cert, etc. I read about it on reddit mid-July, didn't take it seriously though until October when there was decent volume on the exchanges.Related: r/economics is currently discussing bitcoin http://www.reddit.com/r/Economics/comments/gdb2i/bitcoin_continues_to_grow/ The performance will be similar to two GTX 580's, or slightly less if the cores are down-clocked slightly for heat and power purposes.Nvidia cards will only have the possibility of being competitive for mining if Nvidia releases an entirely new architecture.  "The maker of bit coin was one of the first Creators of Spyware﻿ people."Yay, Youtube comments... HoboHarvester's widget provides similar functionality and is open-source.  It appears to have been buried as it was released a bit later.http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=3616.0http://code.google.com/p/bitcoin-alert/ I think a temporary sub forum would be a good compromise.  For those of you that care about Bitcoin's image, the marketplace currently looks super sketchy... This widget has that functionality: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=3616.0 Over time, participants could get together and realize that their combined returns were less than expected. Am I correct in thinking that only clients with port 8333 forwarded are helping the network?  The 8 connections made by non-forwarded clients are all receive-only, right?I have one of my mining boxes forwarded, as well as an EC2 micro instance (free tier, anyone could set one up to improve network strength) Wouldn't the incentive for attack rise as well if bitcoins were worth significantly more? I trust ubuntu over windows to run for weeks/months without issue.  There are other benefits, such as ease of scripting and no need for windows licenses.I keep my clocks stock for reliability/warranty purposes.  I'm not sure if it matters for warranties though... is there any way that the manufacturers can tell you have overclocked?I get around 285xxx MH/s per GPU @ stock clocks.  Ubuntu 10.10 x64, Catalyst 10.10 SDK v2.1, -v -w 128 -f 1Has anyone noticed an increase with newer drivers or stream SDK? Check out biddingpond.comWelcome to the forums.
It downloaded a "proprietary daemon" on first run, so no. Remember that mining/printing, storing, securing and transporting other commodities/currencies (gold, coins, paper money) have environmental costs as well.  Bitcoin's completely digital representation may make it very environmentally friendly in comparison. s--z@gmail.com, 13U6k7gFNbBmmV4ZXSu4NmmSo9CfaQpXD8 That doesn't look like a good idea, as the hot air would be redirected back over the intake of the fan.  Some large side exhaust fans would help cool this card ... or even better, water cooling.Before I started mining bitcoins, I preferred nvidia. (Probably due to hearing about poor ATI drivers and poor linux support) The cheapest option would be to use two PSUs.  A while back I bought one of these in an attempt to run 4x5970 http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16817256054  Expensive... It is certainly possible, some people around here have done it.  I think only the linux drivers support 8 GPUs.  Regardless, going with 2 5970's per computer is probably the more cost effective option. This is probably just variance. An easy fix would be to redirect bitcoin.org to the wiki. http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=3712.msg53595#msg53595If mtgox is correct, the drop could have just been one guy selling off stolen bitcoins. Yes.  I'm using a TX850 with 2 5970's and a Sempron 140. This was exactly my face when I read the spreadsheet.  The difficulty rises when the btc price makes it profitable to mine.  The btc/usd exchange rate does not necessarily rise with increased difficulty. I have never had problems using the binaries from sourceforge with ubuntu (9.10, 10.04, 10.10)I would recommend Ubuntu 8.10 or just compile it from source on your preferred OS. You are correct in not using the crossfire cable, you should also make sure crossfire is disabled in the drivers.  However, I don't know if it is possible to get windows to detect multiple 5970s for opencl.  I wasn't able to get it to work when I tried (this was back in november, SDK 2.1, Catalyst 10.10).  You probably want to use linux, as it supports up to 8 GPUs for opencl and is what most people around here use for mining.Device 0 is probably your CPU. The volume listed is the number of btc exchanged in the past 24 hours. I suspected you would implement that payment scheme.   For now I will just pay out customers portion of fees every week if it is > .01 btc.  This requires some trust as only I know what fees were collected.  Currently, fees are negligible so it doesn't matter too much. I can verify that both 5870s and 5970s work at x8 speeds, and assume they would work at lower speeds.  I don't think there is any performance hit at all for mining, just for gaming which is more bandwidth intensive. I even think there is someone running 5970s out of modified x1 slots!This is possible.  The motherboard is responsible for 75W of a 5970's power (and probably something similar for 5870s) This is probably a power or heat issue resulting from your GPU running at full load.  What power supply are you using? The problem with including GPU related features in the main client is that GPU computing is very hardware / operating system dependent.  At the very least, installing additional software or drivers is required. Good point.  I ignored fees as they are currently insignificant.  I suppose I could add in (customer's GHash/s / total GHash/s) * (total total fees collected) to the daily payment.  I won't worry about this until it would amount to over .01 a day. I have had issues with 5870s jumping between 320 and 220 mhash/s at temperatures around 90c.  It only happens after the miner has been running for a while.
