Hell, I love NORML. Working to reform draconian drug laws and cut down on the world's largest prison population. Nothin' wrong with that.And +1 on Water.org. Oh no, I support Bitcoin100 100%. I was replying to edd and others were talking about not participating because of what their BTC may end up funding. I wasn't complaining about the selections. My point was that: No one will support all of the charities all of the time but that's no to reason back out. The goal, for me, right now isn't to actually support these charities. Just open the door for everyone to donate bitcoins, at will, in the future. That's why I didn't call them out by name. If I support one charity more than another then I will send in more than one bitcoin to that particular call for funds but still pledge at least 1BTC to any and all charities you decide to contact. I'm sort of in the same boat except I do take issue with a couple of the charities listed. I know first hand that one of the charities HAS been shady to people in it's family of companies. Though, it wasn't the actual the charity's decision to do so. At least one company under it have recently been forcing employees to attend fundraisers and have been deducting a percentage if their check against their will. Another of the charities has recently been promoting an agenda that few people here or the even general population supports. Another charity I just don't get along with their philosophical views.Either way, I'm setting all that aside for now and don't intend to rock the boat. Just for the sake of helping out some people and continuing the bitcoin experiment.  Bitcoin mentioned as a PayPal alternative at the bottom of this Forbes article as PayPal back-pedals on freezing Regretsy.On The Anniversary Of Cutting Off WikiLeaks, PayPal Slaps Christmas Charity Project I made four withdrawals this morning. One was received instantly by a bit-pay shopping cart. No word on the others yet but one was a private transaction to a forum member so I'll have to wait for an update on the forum to confirm. The others were .bit registrations so no telling how long that'll take. Thanks. I sent my first BTC in from the address in my sig. Count me in for at least 1BTC per charity. Can I get my website or company name on the list instead of my user name?Also, is there going to be a mailing list or website for this project? I don't come to the forums often and get most of my news from Reddit. By any chance can you do Business Card sized magnets? I need something like this...http://www.vistaprint.com/custom-magnets.aspx?xnav=pricingdetails Yeah, I'm already using Square as my primary Credit Card processor. I just found out that Dwolla is about to release a Proximity Based payment service that mimics NFC with no NFC hardware needed. Square already has such an app called Card Case. Dwolla's solution will be more streamlined, easier to use, runs on top of Credit Union infrastructure, and has more users. So, those are things to look forward to. It's just that Bitcoin Wallet is the first solution to bring NFC to bitcoin. I just won't be able to take advantage of it or promote it for a year or two. Even if Gox adds it to their app, I hope Bitcoin Wallet stays active and gets more popular since it's a standalone system that will work even if Gox and the other exchanges face problems in the future. Now, I'm pissed that I just started two year contracts on a set of Droid Bionics and I'll be stuck using QR codes to accept payments. I'm sure every phone that come out from now on will have NFC. I guess I'll just have to try to make enough money to buy new phones off contract. Nah, I've been sitting on 50btc since it was $16. Eventually I'll print them out and call it art. I prefer Reddit to coming here. A lot of it has to do with the fact that the different political factions, along with every other topic, have their own place on Reddit. That means other things rarely bleed over into the Bitcoin sub. I know this forum has made strides to improve a lot of things but most of it has resulted in more negative consequences than positive.Problems also seem to get handled a lot faster and with less grief than here.  Noobs on Reddit get their questions answered and pointed towards relevant information without being called idiots or shoved in a box. I spend a lot of time answering those questions in /r/Bitcoin and /r/mtRed. I've transacted with people and vendors /r/Bitmarket that are also active here. Over there, I just drop in, read the news, post some comments and I'm up to date. I had to jump through hoops today to get the privileges to make this post even though I've been here longer than most. This forum isn't very accessible and most of the content is irrelevant. I've shied away from it unless something big is happening or a new project starts here. Hell, I came here today looking for answers about why Gox's merchant service is down. I still haven't found anything relevant. Hi, umm.....  I've had an account on this site for almost two years and I'm still classed as a noob. So, I'm dropping some junk posts in here with the rest of you guys so I can feel feelings again. I guess this is why I get my BTC community fix else where and never login here. Nevermind me. Carry on. [EDIT]: Oh, I guess this post put me over the line. Later.  I think you're all barking up the wrong tree here. This is a solution in search of a problem and the problem you've come up with is even more nonexistent than it's namesake. Forums and lists have been working perfectly well on the internet for way over a year now. Probably a lot more. The solution to perceived problems with the "commons" was not and is not enclosure. I think this was posted by Spangler on FB. It looks pretty far advance. Someone more knowledgeable than me may be able to tell if it's useful yet. https://github.com/FellowTraveler/Open-Transactions/wiki/FAQ I've been reading about possible parallel Bitcoin networks. I thought you knew something about it that I didn't. Either way, like I said, I'm not quite ready to get into this market so your US business is safe for now. I don't have $$ laying around that I can tie up in BTC since I have another business to run and I just got hit with a massive tax bill from California. I'll keep an eye on how things work out for you two, though. Where is the best place to read about this fragmentation and it's effects? I'm not 100% up to speed yet. Yeah, I donated 100 to MikeG when he finished the Joomla mod. He has a Drupal mod, too. I keep up with him on FB. He mentioned on FB that he sold some Zimbabwe cash and that's what made me come back to the forums here. I've done a few Joomla sites. I used it for our clothing store in California. It was a great platform until my partner spent all of the operating cash on personal expenses.I'll keep an eye on what you guys decide to do and help out however I can. Sounds good to me.  I don't currently see an easy way to get $ out to pay for the inventory I need in my offline service business. Unless someone is able to start selling me Virgin and/or Used Motor Oil for BTC. So, I'd rather not compete with you or anyone to provide financial services. I'm more of a work-with-my hands kind of guy. I make and fix things. I do web design but I got bored with it a long time ago.I'm trying to think of hard goods to sell. I just know that it would be easy to go out and buy prepaid Visa cards, set up a Joomla/VirtueMart site, and mail off the cards to who ever buys them. I think I may be able to set one up for us US ppl. I'm thinking I'd provide an actual card, though. I could email the numbers almost instantly, then send the card in the mail.
