0.018 btc Intresting project. Cheers to dev's.  I'm gonna bet max 16'Q4 aswell:@bitfinex 8736.09 USD per BTC Hello, anyone can participate here or only Russians? The Biggest disadvantage of BTC is transaction time.Now we are seeing lot's of people starting using BTC instead of bank account to save and send/receive money so transaction time really brings some problems for new users.Another important disadvantages could be created by world banks, as main competitors of Bitcoin ecosystem. Hello,just got my device, BIG thanks for developers, I really love it, very reasonable price for such a thing.Waiting for new versions. Keep it up! How can you see future of BTC when humanity will able to colonize different planets like Mars?Will we have the same blockchain for all the human empire or splitting blockchain is needed for colonized planets? They are connecting electricity cable in "stealth" mode to the network. So here the contract is not needed  But need to hide this connection really good in case of Inspector's visit. Time passed and BTC has proven to be really one of the most secured and valuable currency. Very proud to be a part of it since the very beginning. where can one buy siafunds? So siafunds aren't effected by miner dumps? You can't send messages to Bitcoin users unless it's the IP? That seems unnecessary. Any reasoning behind this? I think people will use Bitcoin addresses a lot more often than the IP address when sending or receiving coins.  I, have not tested it. Just giving ideas. Besides, 1 coin, according to Liberty Standard's exchange, is less than a penny. I wouldn't get hung up on decimals. Simple solution to that. If it's for sale for 500 coins, just have them send 501 and send 1 back  Alright great, then I don't have to worry when I only have a few connections open. Thanks  I knew that Bitcoin would increase my temps. My computer is semi-new and I haven't done much full load testing, but Bitcoin makes my machine rise 20-25 degrees C. It's still safe, at 57...but just curious. Do you all run Bitcoin 24/7, and if so, is it bad to run at 100% usage, at such a temp, whenever the computer is on? I've played games or used certain programs with high load for a while, but never thought it would be healthy to support higher temps non-stop.Also, an idea while studying this earlier. It may be small potatoes at this point, but a scheduler to accomodate different times you want it to run and/or how many processors you want running at once. For example, it would be nice to have it run on full load while I am busy or at work, while slowing down to one or two processors during my main usage hours. Or for those with a computer that is a bit old or they don't exactly trust, turn the load down at night or when you are not home for safety precautions of temps. Like I said, a timer/scheduler like that is small potatoes, but at some point I'd really like to see it in the Options menu. What exactly does the number of connections do for me? Do I generate more coins with more connections, or is it equivalent no matter what?It seems that from time to time, Tor gets tied up and can go for a few hours with 3 or 4 connections. Then, when I restart bitcoin or restart Tor to refresh my connections, I can get 7,8, or even more (9 currently).I haven't really been able to tell if coins generate slower or not with less connections, but I was curious if it does correlate. If not, how exactly will having more connections help me out compared to less? Yeah, I have not been able to check this site since I've read the post I'd like to learn of any and all exchangers. I know they're limited as of now but I hope they start popping up soon. You're right, there is a demand. But I wouldn't necessarily say that just because there is a demand it is correct. For pure financial reasons, maybe..Backing up your wallet say, three times, will leave you very secure. The problem is that people are relying on those online third parties too much nowadays. When someone like, Paypal, takes over a wide market, they then can basically implement any rule they would like and the clients must obey. That amount of power simply breeds control, along with more government intervention and regulations.I know the demand is there, however I think the future is keeping the currency digital, while stepping out of the web, and third parties, as much as possible. That is one of my biggest excitements about Bitcoin, but sorry to say the web app idea kinda crushes most of the hopeful thoughts I would have about it   Well I see several problems with this system, most of which are the reasons it seems Bitcoin is being implemented in the first place. First off, one question, for you and all of Bitcoin.Paypal has terms in their Acceptable Use Policy, that states transactions related to "currency exchanges" are forbidden. Is this sort of transaction considered a currency exchange? If so, I see problems arising from exchangers using methods like paypal, just like other e-currencies have problem finding easy funding sources.I think the program is lightweight enough that anyone can install it quite effectively without any problems. For those who don't want to run a node, they don't have to. Using only the program is even easier and faster than logging into a web account and checking any transactions there.The idea of a server holding all information and being centralized is exactly what Bitcoin is fighting. Truly, it is unnecessary. I could do a bank transfer everytime I wanted to give my neighbor money, or I could just hand them money out of my pocket. In a sense, a web server would be the bank, and the bitcoin program would be out of pocket. There's no real need for the extra step.I think you are making much more work for what is already a well implemented program that runs on it's own. Central servers in different countries? 100 one use key orders? You could not even run a node from a web app, so technically all this extra work would only be so you could check your account online.If anything(which may already be in the works?) bitcoin could be used with your mobile phone to check balances and send them to other members. I never tested this system, but something like www.opencoin.org has interested me.I understand the reasons you feel the way you do, but I honestly just feel it's a lot more work that is unnecessary, and it is causing problems in which Bitcoin is trying to solve in the first place.  Hello, great work!Let me just say that I love the idea behind this project, and support it fully. I am very enthused on the direction this is heading and I hope more people soon realize the potential of such a service, that I am now glad to be a part of. Let's hope to see this around for a while, instead of fizzing out into the dark like some other projects I've seen start to prosper.I never used the previous release, but .2 is working great! Downloading the blocks took a minimal amount of time(around an hour, or a little bit longer), and I had actual credits in my account within around 18 hours. After the first matured credits were complete, it's been working like clockwork ever since, generating new coins within about a half hour to an hour successively. Needless to say, I'm a bit impressed!I understand the low limitations to these coins now, but in the future the opportunities are absolutely endless. Bravo, Bitcoin!Also on a sidenote, Tor has been working great for my Bitcoin now. At first it has a little difficulty making connections, but Tor will retry and retry until the connection is established. Some IPs have a more difficult time than others connecting through Tor I've seen, but within a little while Tor will have retry connections and attempt new exit nodes to match you up to the proper connections and will keep those connections open. For peace of mind, I might recommend shutting down Tor completely every once in a while, as I do not think the "Use a New Identity" feature in Vidalia properly configures a new Bitcoin connection, and will most likely keep the same connection open for an extended period of time.Anyway, here's to hoping Bitcoin stays around a while! 
