I might be able to help, send me the details. Thanks. Appeared on the Google news feed."Visionary Bitcoin Creator Satoshi Nakamoto to Reveal Identity"https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2019/08/16/1903230/0/en/Visionary-Bitcoin-Creator-Satoshi-Nakamoto-to-Reveal-Identity.htmlSomeone claiming to be satoshin. The thing about that coin is that people will pretty much only use that coin to invest. Bitcoin is what is used outside of the Internet. The crypto market is not that volatile. It may have a bunch of fluctuations here and there though this should be nothing compared to what is about to happen. Most coins that had a lot of hype seem to be going down in value. Most people forget about them over the years. It will be very difficult for Ethereum to get a really high price on its own. The price of Bitcoin needs pumping to make it easier. The price doesn't look that hurt. The price should recover when there is more news posted about Bitcoin. People have to learn that this is the only option that they should choose if they intend to store the coins for a long time. You sound so sure that I want you to be wrong. Anything can happen if Bitcoin goes then all the coins should go. A wallet is what I use. There is no reason for me to use an exchange because they can shut down at anytime. That is what pretty much the entire community is trying to do. If they research the coins more then the coins will grow larger. That guy is a hardworking campaign manager, you might do well with that project. Most campaign managers don't like to update their threads. If he continues with the campaigns then he could have a lot of projects flourishing. There is a lot of campaigns that need it. I would have to disagree with you on that. Investing in Ripple is not something that anyone must do because the price is fake. Bitcoin is the investment that most people want to make. Nobody really cares for Ripple much because they are trying to regulate crypto. That also the KYC program is a scam that is phishing people's information. They probably like to sell the information to people that ask for it. What are you going to purchase? There is a lot of coins that are doing pretty well while Bitcoin is getting dumped. If the price could go much higher than the price that you are looking at right now and you sell it then it would be considered a panic sell.  Not interested in that coin at all. They seem to be trying to scamming people with their KYC verification situation. Altcoins are used more than just a for speculative events. Bitcoin and Ethereum is fighting in the top spot trying to replace each other. That is proof that it's not just speculation.
I like to join the Telegram to write to the people that are in the coin to get more information on it. Bitcoin does not have a super popular Telegram so that is the only one that is hard to research in real time. You'd be pretty sure if you wanted Ripple to get a higher value since most people don't want it. It should be easy to pump if the coins vanished from the market.Ripple is just a coin that is used for pumps and dumps. Usually when the price is calculated to have more than 50x its value, no coin ever makes it out that well. Ethereum is a special one. There's a small chance that it will get a larger price. SIA is a not a coin that a newbie would do because the price pumped already. The ICO is what I like to read up on because I like to participate in that or their bounties. Reading the Announcement thread usually goes for a little over an hour. I don't like airdrops. The amount of time that I need to just fill out a form is not the same worth as the reward on an airdrop. They could also make a lot of money if they keep purchasing the low value coins. Holding the coins is not the only method to making money. It didn't seem that way until it went down to 700 per Ethereum. The ICO managers should use a different coin, Ethereum sucks for investing in that now. This drop in value is not that much compared to what the price began with!Keep the coins that you have man. The price could go towards a low 7k if there is no cool news on Bitcoin. He could cash the coins out now then purchase BTC at a lower price. They will continue to collect coins if they are professional. They won't stop just by cashing the coins out. I think that almost everyone that sold a coin somewhere has experienced that before. The coin has about a 90% chance of pumping if you dump lol I just use cryptocurrencies when paying for certain things online. I don't like to just use the coins for investing only. They can't do that for a long time if they have a low amount of money in their capital. The price should get much higher if this is true.  Whenever I purchase Ethereum, I try to go in an exchange again then change it to Bitcoin for a higher price. There is a lot of buy orders on Ethereum. Bitcoin should impact wars because there is money with Bitcoin. People can transfer millions without a bank or with someone that needs to verify the amount. That's also like faucets as well.Bitcoin can get to your wallet online, so faucets are really fun to use. If that price is that high then I would  sell some coins. I want to keep the coins until $1,000,000 a coin, i'd have to sell a small portion. Only if they are trying to put their money into a coin and leave it as it is.Bitcoin is not for people always watching the price. The cryptocurrency area is going to get a lot of coins built into it so there will be a lot of people dumping coins. I would not worry.
Are you going to purchase any when the price goes up? I suggest that you have some money to spend on that. Losing money is not a thing that a lot of the people on here like to do. You should invest in Bitcoin and just stay with that investment. What? Your Bitcoin?Why did you Bitcoin stop earning money?Japan is a nice place to get Bitcoin and spending over there should make shopping faster. That would be a normal price for Bitcoin. Does the price look like it's going to get there in the next couple of days? Bitcoin might not be the coin that will bring that into all the huge banks. Bitcoin is making them more aware of it now though. You seem to know that you have a strong stack of coins in that list. You should move more coins into your Ethereum stack. Money flooding in the markets is going to damage Bitcoin because it might not be ready for the transactions. I would invest in something that is close to Bitcoin or just invest with the same amount of due diligence on Bitcoin. China won't have Bitcoin banned unless they had full power over Bitcoin. Many of the guys that mine Bitcoin can post inside this thread at tell you that it would be very tough to challenge in breaking Bitcoin or Blockchain without knowing how to mine it. Difficult goes up as well, so the hardware would have to be constantly updating. That video looks like it could've been built through Fiverr within 30 minutes. I can't see any potential in the real life applications with the product. I would say that increasing the amount of fans that you have on your Twitter could make you more money. I'd do that before anything else. WRC is not a top coins lolI like how you tried to sneak that coin in there, you know it ain't true. The other selections were top coins. It is pretty late.He can still make some Bitcoins if he doesn't keep asking around in this section. He should invest in Bitcoin or NEM. Dips from pumps will cause many people to lose their holdings. I just stay a holder without letting the price alter my emotions. If you just stay with learning then he will lose his investment money. He should work on something then make it work, you get paid in the end. Ethereum is an old schoolers coin that can make people the same amount of money as someone who was holding a coin for multiple months. I like to trade that more than NEO. You should keep your first and last coins in that list. I don't know what you should do with the other coins that are in there. No rivals with no other coins? Don't make me laugh, Litcoin can be a rival to Ethereum. All Litecoin needs is the marketing. I can't compare the two topics. Bitcoin is much more difficult to trade now because it's very new. Warren Buffet is with the old clunky stuff. Both of the coins should last a while if people still want their Ethereum project to be better than Bitcoin. If you invest in stocks make sure you invest in the stock for Lambo's lol we may see it everywhere on the roads.  Bitcoin will usually have a Country stating that they'll try to regulate Bitcoin but they know that they can't stop millions of people that fast.
 The whole Government just wants to make Bitcoin cause a scene, the whole Federal Reserve can make Bitcoin whatever price they want. There was a little bit of a dip, now the price is holding pretty nicely. There is more to go to $20,000.00. What are you good at? If you like to play video games then you could play a game online that has a payout in Bitcoin. Universal income is one thing and Bitcoin is another, I am sure that the governments will make something else that will allow people to get paid every month like they are trying to do in Switzerland. Some people already know how it works, that is why the price is being manipulated in this way. Bitcoin could be much more expensive right now. Japan is a large place for electronics, they like to use Bitcoins because it's the Hip method of paying for things with a smartphone. That was a waste of time for them. Why did they try to get rid of Bitcoin in the very first place? FUD doesn't last that long if the coin is real. Where did you get the information that Bitcoin is certified by the world bank? Bitcoin is not certified as far as I know and it is not an official currency according to the IMF. Stocks and penny stocks feature the same system, the investor will usually win until there is no one around to purchase the coins anymore and the one left holding loses money. That's what most people want, it could happen if there were less coins being traded on the markets. If this is really working with Uber then this should do well in the near future. If it does go to $5,000 then there would be a lot of coins that people can purchase for a cheap price. There should be more holders then. It can go past $5,000 with enough support from the Ethereum community. It's already $100.00 over $1,000.00 Ripple is under $1? What happened to the price of it? There was a pump that pushed that coin to at least $1.19... That won't be safe enough, there is a lot of unknown things that anyone could put in that wallet easily. Can you have a VPN and invest in the ICO? I am pretty sure that would work if you live in the United States. That place is only safe if there is anonymity on the computer. By going there without staying anonymous then it brings risk to you and the other people. Bitcoin will still be available to use, someone will find a method to make Bitcoin exchangeable via Mesh. It's not, the China situation is only temporary. People in China should be able to trade with a VPN on their computer. There's another thread with a user with the same thing happening on his phone. Someone is data mining.
You might not have that 500k anymore if you invest in Deeponion or the other one. They will dump the coin when their campaign is finished. There isn't any point to having this stickied because any coin that is not Bitcoin is likely to scam. Careful, if Bitcoin gets accepted by Hotels there will be a slight drop in the price. I don't use Bitcoin enough to do that though. Whocares if Bitcoin is watched by the people inside FBI agencies. At least there is money in Bitcoin. That is why people want Bitcoin. Other than just using it for trading, it has a purpose beyond the markets. The marketcap is not stuck. The price is changing everyday, it would mean that nobody is using Bitcoin if the marketcap was stuck. A large pump and sump group is playing in the markets, it doesn't mean much because they can't cash that money out unless the price gets more expensive. I think that the price is undervalued. Most coins don't have that many people working in their team like they do. Why is that coin trying to partner with Polymath? Polymath was once called a scam if I remember correctly. What do you think? Bitcoin is getting popular more and more everyday. Bitcoin is even accepted in most online stores. Ethereum is one of them, there is also MaidSafe. If I had more Bitcoins then I'd invest in the latter. I still think that they are a scam, they might have something to deliver though they aren't doing it because they want their coin to be number 1. The market will grow back to normal when Bitcoin goes up. The prices that altcoins have is only temporary. McAfee could be pumping the coins that he chooses. There is no chance of him being correct 100% of the time. The price of Bitcoin comes only second to the technology that Bitcoin has. A lot of people that saw the history of Bitcoin can understand that. I've participated in the Swissborg campaign, that was a good one. They should be in exchanges real soon. Storiqa is still going on if I remember correctly. They should be over soon, they just need about a million dollars left before they get their hardcap. That is my suggestion to him as well.Bitcoin, Ethereum also Waves is going to get some volume real soon.  I've invested in coins that went up so high when the price was only expected to go up a single percent. Anything is possible dude. I like to also add that bounties that have bounty managers that update the thread almost everyday is a good campaign to be in.
I use Telegram to see what people are in to. Most investors that use Telegram are very knowledgeable in the coin channel. Why would you support an exchange that is cheating on the peoples money? I don't see the logic in that method. All of cryptocurrency is just a barter something that they think that they deserve for the coin. The prices of cryptocurrency is overhyped. Earning money slowly is how I like to roll. If the money comes by too fast then I become rather skeptical. If you are wanting to invest in that ICO then why don't you just invest in it? Is that coin a scam? I don't know about it. I am looking for something that is active in the community and a team that is willing to make their project stronger than other cryptocurrencies. People were complaining about the price of Bitcoin when it was around $500 and now they are complaining about it when it's $10,000.The complaining won't end though there should be a higher price next time. Especially since people just made a lot of fiat from Bitcoin in the past couple months. People will leave then try to come back when the price gets larger than they sold it for. This is a very common thing, I've noticed the same situation with Altcoins and they get their price back to where it was in like a month. Dyor coin?It's better to research what's out there, many coins still use Ethereum for their sales so it's better to get a coin that is primary focused on gathering Bitcoin because they know that Ethereum is just another coin. This year could be the year that Altcoins finally get pumped like they used to. I don't know about AION coin though I know that Cardano will get pumped in 2018. Wait, reading and the announcement thread is not enough. You have to read the source code and look for clone inputs because that coin could've been made in a single day. The coins that Cryptopia lists are usually the ones that get delisted in a matter of months. I don't trust that place. It's more so of the community being supportive of what is on the market. They don't have to sell the coins that they have but they do. That is why it's wise to just store your coin since almost everyone that is into Bitcoin wants some. If sending money without worrying about the wait is something that you could do then just send the money with Multibit. They tend to send money with a 0.0001 BTC fee. Bitcoin being $10,000 per coin is a sale. There won't be that many people that will be able to purchase the coin when the Lightning Network gets launched correctly. They claim to be the real Bitcoin or the coin that will be the top digital currency.With them losing money like that while they just started being in an exchange, it doesn't look that good for them. What are you looking to purchase?You can get gift cards and purchase things on Amazon if they have the item that you want. The difficulty for mining is really high, you might want to consider mining altcoins instead of Bitcoins so you can compete with less people. I feel that the price is going to get much higher than 11 thousand dollars.A lot of people in the world did not invest in Bitcoin yet.
I will purchase some coins when I have more money, I don't really want to have any Ripple right now because I feel that Bitcoin is much more important to use in this current generation. I can't get into coins with weird names like Kodakcoin and other names like it because they aren't that catchy.I support a coin only if the problems are very small and could be let go. Bitcoin is the only coin that I know of that can attempt to change a persons life. The only coin that comes close to that is Ethereum because of Ethereums Blockchain. I want to know the same thing, I don't do bounties that much though I am willing to help out the project if they need it. Why do you have so much money in cryptocurrency? Don't you fee l that the price of all the coins could tank one day? That and also it's better for the developers to have you know what the project is about so  you can invest in it as well. That's kind of hard to find nowadays because most crowdsales have a hardcap that they want to get. If the softcap is obtained then you could take the risk and invest in it. Especially if the price of Bitcoin is gradually going up, there's only a few altcoins that can have a stable or increasing price in that scenario. Ripple might be the next coin, it's going to have a much larger price when more people find that Ripple is going to be used in something other than just normal spending.  Bitcoin Futures are there to stop the huge pump that Bitcoin is going to have. The people in Wall Street also the Government will see that they can't stop it. I don't want any coin to be regulated. It doesn't matter if the coin has a crowdsale or not, people should do what they want and the investors should know enough to see if the project might scam or not. Tron looks kind of like a money maker though most coins that have large people in it don't do that well no matter what. Look at Humaniq. I am not making any money through the crowdsales at the moment because I like to purchase coins after they get listed or while the price gets dumped for safe measures. Bitcoin is a brand though Bitcoin was one of the very first successful coins that made digital payments popular. Many have tried and failed though Bitcoin stayed the successful coin and a lot of coins are using part of its source code. Just because the coin is ranked pretty high, it doesn't mean that the coin is actually going to be a successful pick. Ripple is trying to centralize and regulate crypto. I think that it's more of a team effort than just the roadmap and the information on the coin. If nobody purchases the coin then it's worth nothing. Etherdelta is a cool exchange that has a low transfer fee. If you send transactions from there with little to no fee -it would be confirmed in like 2 weeks. It is definitely not going to be the next Litecoin, there is a only a pump on the coin and most people won't use it anyhow. Don't invest in Deep Onion or NXT, if you want to make money then invest in a coin with a high daily volume so you can actually cash your money out when you make the money. $12,000 is a lot of money, there should be more money to make in Litecoin than Ethereum because Litecoin is known to go up when Bitcoin does.
I was interested in the coin though they changed the dates of their project's crowdsale so many times that it caused me to move onto another coin. Only if the price of Bitcoin increases. If the price has a large pump that causes most people to get their cash out then yes the Altcoins will crash again. That's correct man, there is a lot of coins going around and if Bitcoin stays being the number one Crypto then Ethereum might be #2. I would use Monero as well, that coin has a lot of healthy conversations in the announcement thread and people still want to purchase it.The coin also has actual usage so that's pretty nice too. While there is a lot of investors in Ethereum, there is a lot of people trying to dump the coin down if it gets to that price. I would be careful that point. A lot of people were registered in that website and they tried to get their money back but couldn't. Don't feel that bad, we just have to learn from our mistakes lol. Most coins that are inside of Coinmarketcap won't last that long since they have a lot of whales trying to manipulate the price.So, I guess my answer is that it depends on the coin. I agree with you, there is a lot of people that just want to purchase Ripple for the money though they have no other thoughts on what they are actually purchasing.Ripple is trying to break crypto. Did you check your balance on Github? You'd want to see how many coins you have after that trade, it could've canceled your order without you officially knowing.https://deltabalances.github.io/ How many people do you think will use that coin or play something based on Bitcoins Blockchain? Or use that coins Blockchain in real life? You don't really need $500 to start, only $10 or so can make you a bunch of money if you trade inside the right coin. I am sure that Ripple won't get larger than Ethereum because of the dislikes that Ripple has. More people don't like Ripple compared to Ethereum. I also feel that Ethereum is going to be one of the top contenders for the ranks next to Litecoin and Bitcoin Cash. Ripple can go over $5 per coin though most people in this forum won't want it because they know that the whales can dump at any moment. Those coins don't seem like they will do well outside of Crypto. There is a point to all these coins and I think that they are missing that. They actually made some money through their ICO? That's a real bad system then, they didn't do anything that useful with their time. Invest in Litecoin, at least you will keep your dignity when you have those coins. Banks are trying to regulate cryptocurrency through Ripple and their Blockchain. I would not invest in it as well, I just saw the chart on Cryptopia and it looks like the price was pumped so it could be dumped on whoever buys in now. Is there somewhere that you can give us a link to the transaction? If you have the TXID then you can verify that you didn't get it. Didn't that coin get labeled a scam when they postponed their project without any updates on their Announcement thread?
They usually reply back to messages that get sent to support, they just take a while to respond. I don't like that they have futures on that website though, their wallets are almost always on maintanance. How come you didn't invest more of your money into Ethereum? The price looks like it's going to increase soon. I haven't used that exchange though I would use caution when trading on a new website that is asking for deposits. None of those coins are worth any money. Those coins look like it's just there to take peoples coins so they can get a bunch of money. Not right now, the coin is just getting new money into Bitcoin so the price is about to go up very soon. Litecoin is much better than Bitcoin Cash, Bitcoin Cash is like a toddler compared to Litecoin and the team that is working in the coin. I'd use MyEtherWallet as well, there is a lot of unheard coins that also have friendly features for that website. x2.There is no reason to participate in an ICO right now because the price of Bitcoin will cause you to lose your money on something that was $0.03 when the ICO started. I don't like that feature, the coins that have that usually get dumped as soon as the stakes come in. That's a good list, there's more coins that can get you money for your Bitcoin -like Maidsafe for example. I am not worried if Bitcoin gets accepted by them or if they do get accepted. The money can get spent anywhere. Real Bitcoins is what you need to get if you are planning on participating in the price gain of Bitcoin. You will won't have anything to show for when you have a certificate. Isn't it a bad image for people to link Bitcoin or any other cryptocurrency with the Tulip scenario? What happened to this project? The token was known to bring people money depending on how they traded it though it looks like the hype went away. I hope that there will be a lot of coins burnt so the price of this coin will be more expensive to purchase. The platform looks smooth. It's probably bankers trying to persuade the normal guys to invest that in that coin. There is not many people that want to hype that coin. Do we have to PM the campaign manager or do we just have to post the update of the rank in this thread? I am not so sure if he looks at this... Isn't the coin being traded with high volume? Who is actually mining the coin? They can make more cash by trading it this week. I would agree with you but if you were the seller then would you want the purchaser to use an Escrow? Sellers can do fast transactions without the need for another entity. I am not sure if I can change my rank but I am now a member. Please change the information in the spreadsheet, thanks.
Altcoins are increasing everyday though there is nothing that can damage Bitcoins price since Bitcoin is what started the whole thing. Monero is doing well, there is just a bunch of people wanting more Bitcoin so they cash their coins out too early. I am into Lisk some though I also think that the coin will not have the same price as Ethereum.Though they are always battling each other, the coin can get traded with high volume soon. It won't last that long because there is another coin being traded with pretty much the same type of distribution (Bitcoin Gold). Use you due diligence if you plan on investing in that coin. There is a lot of people claiming that the coin is a scam so you might want to listen to them. There's other people that fell for that trap. It was quite easy to figure out that those coins weren't really worth it. I tried to invest in an ICO before then I found that the project can do well without the money used in the sale. Sure, whales can do unexpected things but they usually don't just invest in a weak coin that has weak people behind it. lol, who made that picture? Do you still think that the whole project is a scam?The price looks like it's going up for some reason. Deciding on the price of a project is not that easy to do because any large amount of coins can get dumped by the developer as well. I am pretty sure that if you had any Monero you would invest more into that coin then hype it up like these guys are doing. I think that NEM has a very wide orderbook sometimes. Although the coin is well-known, they spend too much money on advertising. Why is there any positive input on Strat? That coin is not going to have a high price because they already multiplied their original price. They will go much lower. Fast priced coins are usually not worth investing in...so why would you want to participate in their airdrop? I use Bittrex as well, there is not many things that's better than making money and cashing the money out safely. Ico's are not what people want to purchase right now since the guys that want to make money need to make the money ASAP. You will get a loss of income if you try to purchase coins during their crowdfund because they will have very thin orderbooks. Bitcoin Cash is pretty much done, there is nobody really trying to flip that coin for anything that has a large price attached to it. I think that it depends on the purpose of the regulation and how long it last. People can still do things beyond the regulation in-effect. Youtube: https://youtu.be/PezuTn6X940BTC: 1Hf3eFvg8AZ7ztByYsKuWN7isYrdLvQ4vpthanks.
video: https://youtu.be/S0U-LxlwmCI Bitcoin is merely an electronic form of the USD/JPY/CHF etc. The numerical value of them goes down eventually, it's a large battle of who will win the war among the different Currency selections.Gold is real money, people want it and it's used in most electronics. If the person does the math then they would see that Gold would be a better option to select if they want to make large sums of money.The leading Currency will have a huge influence on how much Gold someone could buy. Eric Rudolph wasn't even a Christian. With his past involvement inside the Christian Identity movement he moved onto a bigger cult like the Army of God.Christian's aren't supposed to kill while having selfish hatred inside their hearts. Hi Zero One,you will fall.Enjoy your day. It's more of the Catholic thing on the surface. The CIA and the Governments are founded by Catholics.If we take this a little further -you will see it that it's all satanic rituals gearing up for the proper scenario because they secretly worship Lucifer.Sounds real simple yet easy to overlook. The CIA most likely wouldn't assassinate Donald Trump because he is just making the bad things worse.If you don't know what I mean then watch this video even though it is kind of old:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EsTNWnVTPr0The Pope is afraid of the next move because he doesn't know if Donald Trump is really a Christian. Donald Trump doesn't like Musilm's but he likes Catholic's? Doesn't make sense does it? Catholic's aren't Christians. Why not just explain your idea on here so we could just discuss it and let the idea grow even more?Unless you are just trying to make money? Think big. If you need a country to say whether it is legal or illegal to use Bitcoins then you are not using Bitcoins correctly.consultant.ruPersonally, I think that Bitcoin is just within its BETA phase. Technically you might want to argue against that point because it has been 2920+ days from building it though with the very large amount of vulnerabilities that Bitcoin contains, there is just some people who want to implement a bit more security so they could use it as a large monetary system. That is pretty big news.It is a start for Bitcoin, although the machine seems like people could only top up via Bitcoin and other payment options -the people cannot receive change with Bitcoin.I just checked the amount of companies that are accepting Bitcoin as a payment option in Switzerland -with about 11 companies listed in the results, Bitcoin is making progress. From what I remember, Bitcoin Core downloads the whole Blockchain data and takes a while to download because of that.If you are using a laptop and planning to have Bitcoin Core on your computer 24/7 then you would want to make sure that you have enough data on your Hard Drive before downloading the Bitcoin Core software. I think the current Blockchain size is at (87.204 GB).You could purchase a external hard drive (around 500 GB) so you could download the Blockchain data then move it to your hard drive, freeing up space on your computer. The Blockchain data is growing larger everyday so you might want to have that in mind when purchasing a external Hard Drive.If you are using a Macintosh computer on the go and no wanting to use Bitcoin Core 24/7 then view your Bitcoin Core folder so you could copy the wallet.dat file and the passkey file (If you have a password for your Bitcoin wallet).You could do this by typing this directory link in your address bar: Code:~/Library/Application Support/Bitcoin/The size of the two files will not be that large so you could keep that on a USB that is under 4 GB real easily unless you have a bunch of transactions. 4 GB should be enough though.With these two files backed up in your USB if someone sends you money then you could just load up the USB with another computer then open the "Wallet.dat" file and the "Passkey" file with another Bitcoin Core software then you should see your coins just sitting there along with the new money that arrived from the other person or people.That is it.My only additional advice to you is don't store a whole lot of your money on the computer. That is if Bitcoin becomes successful.I think the question is how are people that are using Supercomputers/Quantum Computers going to store their data?Sure miners will lose out on getting paid through mining blocks, the money might be in the data servers.For the readers of this forum who don't really know, Quantum Computers calculate many equations (100+ equations) within one sitting...as to regular computers just calculate about 1 or 2 equations in one sitting. That is just the most basic method and comparing of the two.With the speed of Quantum Computing the data will be enormous.Just storing large amounts of data isn't enough though because of the size of Quantum Computing data is big -that big data will have to be transferred to the data servers at a very high speed without any issues. The internet speeds that most people and corporations have right now will most likely not be able to stay balanced with the speed to data ratio.Then again..Who knows, Bitcoin might not even make it that far. If you have Paypal then you will have more people interested in trading with you at the currency exchange section:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?board=53.0 Sometimes the transactions don't appear to the 3rd party. Try to give it 24 hours and in the meantime you could contact Neteller to check the status on your transaction.Hopefully you sent it to the right address. Transferring Bitcoin to your bank account is a good backup plan when you need to pay bills.As for using Green Address to pay your bills, I haven't tried it so I don't recommend it. I wouldn't want another person to pay my bills for me without insurance. If the transactions of Bitcoins and the mining just stopped and there wasn't any pending transactions then I would think that you would have a chance to get the 12.5 BTC  from that last transaction with just mining in your laptop since there aren't any new blocks. You should start with Circle.com to buy your first Bitcoin then you could look around Bitcointalk for specific things that you want...whether that may be buying things or just making money. 700 GB isn't that bad because we have Bitcoin Clients that sync the data with a virtual bootstrap so the Bitcoin Client is able to view transactions via real-time.It was pretty much stated before...If Bitcoin is alive in 4 years it shouldn't be a big issue because we would most likely have high quality fiber cables that transmit faster internet speeds.Just watch out though.. If you look at the blockchain you could see how many transactions there is. It is kind of important to see that Bitcoin is young and there isn't many people using it, the number of people using Bitcoin these past 7+ years have drastically increased so that is progress. I agree with Sithara007, although Bitpay is an awesome company it is becoming more like PayPal.I think the main point of Bitcoin was to have fast transactions with a low fee plus a little bit of Anonymity to go with it. It is fun learning about Bitcoin though....Maybe more schools should focus on important things like Medical Courses, Micro/Macro Economics rather than Bitcoin because being social while helping the whole economy is cool.Money isn't everything youngins.
