 this showed up in like three places, all of which I wasn't paying attention to, resulting in me missing ithell if I know Keys for the BF3 beta should be going out shortly are now being sent out. Will pay for one, or account access. Unsure how it works.E-mail: Will be using escrow due to the rather high chance of scamming in this genre. What are these "non-declining societies" that feel that homosexuality is an abomination?Also, are you saying that every society that declined was accepting of homosexuality?  Download it. See that it has your username, email, and hashed password.How could it possibly be fake?  China owns 9.5% of our securities, this gives them dictatorship powers? Received my item promptly and satisfactorily, so I have made another order. Bought some slim jims through him, received receipt of order. Will report back next week or thereabouts with status of receiving them. They can be bought using a credit card at: https://secure.newegg.com/GiftCertificate/GiftCardStep1.aspxMy e-mail: Email me then post here so I can check out your rep. I'll be using donation ClearCoin.With the fast-moving market I am not sure of exact price I will pay, but say around 45BTC. Just tell me what you want when you email me.  I should have posted sooner, my apologies. I got distracted and forgot to post the warning.The actual result is "justcause is a scammer."This is two days after he would not send the code because I was using ClearCoin and he expressed skepticism that I would release the funds. +1 to demonofelru E-mail: I want Amazon giftcards, I'll pay in Bitcoins, blah blah. Post in here before you email me so I can see that you do actually have a reputation for non-theft.I'll be using ClearCoin.Right now [...]Also, please don't PM me because I never notice the tiny indicator.Thanks @ demonofelru! I may bump this thread if I want to buy another, but I'm not currently looking to buy another.  Just because you have one or six methods of transferring money doesn't mean you can't use another. Especially a new one, that is decentralized, which means other groups cannot control it and most other govs won't be watching it.  It's only worth slightly more than $50, which I don't mind. 15 Something important to note here: Handbrake is pretty terrible.If you want to properly encode with Handbrake, then... actually you can't. If you want to encode as best you can with Handbrake, get a nightly build. Handbrake includes x264 as a library, not an executable, so you need the latest dev build to get the latest x264. And the latest x264 is always better; even the 3-4 month old build in Handbrake 0.9.5 is missing a bunch of bug fixes and some minor speed enhancements.The 1.5 year old build in 0.9.4 is missing a lot of very important features. +1 to hippich. Bought some WMZ from him, very easy. I saw BTCex, but only 0.21 was being sold there and I bought it all. Are there any other BTC->WMZ exchanges? Or anybody selling WMZ? It has the ability to be registered to a name/address still? I've got a Mosin coming to my FFL, so now I need to buy ammo for it.So, does anybody have any Russian, Romanian, or Bulgarian surplus 7.62x54R ammo? (That list chosen because they are the cheapest on Gun-deals)Right now I'm only looking for one can, which is 440 rounds.I'm located in California, and would like to have it shipped to me.AFAIK, this is legal. Please inform me if it isn't. They even have "In God We Trust" on them?!
Couldn't find anybody selling US Amazon gift cards at reasonable prices.Looking to spend 70-80 BTC, for whatever amount GC that'll get me. PM me I guess.  There's only so far they can go. It's estimated that Asia is going to start having new clients IPv6-only in less than a year due to their constant rapid expansion of internet. Thanks @ TheKid. Bought Codblops through him. Easy and very fast.Why, yes, I am wildly late on posting this.  http://funroll-loops.info/  The most commonly encountered HTTPS sites encountered by an average user will be login pages/financial websites. A self-signed certificate is what appears if somebody is running a MITM attack. MITM attacks will commonly be encountered on public networks. Treating it as a security issue is correct. If it just gave a small note that the identity is not confirmed, 95+% of users would ignore that, click through, and get their credential stolen. I do not believe this would work against a determined (and very smart) attacker. Although video files test as being completely random, I believe it is quite likely that there are patterns within them. See this comparison of overheads for containers. In a ~993MB MP4 file, the MP4 container is about 2.4MB. Not much, but it seems that MP4 structures would appear at predictable areas in the file. (MKV is 1.5-1.8MB, btw)Additionally, it is easy to figure out if One Of These Things Just Doesn't Belong with a video file. Just demux the video file. (There are many, many tools to do this. FFmpeg can.) If the video/audio tracks add up to less than the actual filesize (minus approximate overhead), then there is something odd about that file. Or, obviously, if one of the tracks is of unknown type and you can't decode it.But I am assuming a "We only have twenty four hours to disarm the bomb and the code is in this computer!!" situation. Against a less determined, or more cursory, inspection (ACTA's border searches, for example) this steganography would work great.  If a government is prepared to seize a certificate from the signing company, why wouldn't they just demand root access from the server's host? Those of you running sites with self-signed certs should look into https://www.startssl.com/. Free SSL certificates valid for 1 year, renewable every year without charge.They aren't accepted by mobile devices, but Windows, Mac OS X, and Firefox and Opera accept them, so it's far better than throwing an ugly security warning from a self-signed cert.(IE, Safari, and Chrome use the OS' certificates)See also https://secure.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/wiki/StartCom  If your school allows HTTPS, you can use Stunnel to get through their filtering. Why is a credit card required to check out even if my giftcard value exceeds my total price?  They were actually in the running for a Pulitzer in investigative reporting last year. They can be surprisingly accurate. They're a tabloid, yes, but it's not like it can be denied that Jobs is sick. And the NE got it right when they said Swayze was being treated for cancer at the same center that Jobs is now at.(But I wouldn't bet a large amount of BTC on this)  He took medical leave a month ago. In 2009 he took a 6-month medical leave.https://secure.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/wiki/Steve_Jobs#Health_concernsHe's been having health issues for years but, assuming the news is somewhat accurate, he might die this time, quite soon. Google NewsHe's receiving treatment at the Stanford Cancer Center, and people are claiming he has only weeks to live. American company.The seized FreeDNS domain was moooo.com (or similar, forget # of o) .com and .net are both VeriSign, and the TLDs that the USGov seizes sites on. .org is operated by the Public Interest Registry. A number of your rules have extra slash at end of the to= string. This leads to 404 when going to e.g. (bitcoin2cc.com/faq.php).I have fixed that. Other changes:* Forced www.bitcoin.org instead of just bitcoin.org. The certificate is self-signed for the www domain, and forcing it wrongly prevents me from using Perspectives to bypass the warning.* Removed targethost vekja.net from Mullvad rule. It is already always HTTPS.* Added targethost mullvad.net to Mullvad rule. It is a valid target but not included.* Cosmetic changes to better follow EFF rules.I have done a bare minimum of testing on these rules and they all work for the frontpages.Here are new rules, .7z:https://sovietpride.su/stf/lgbtf/HTEv2.7zsha256: a196848a0e5768843d6b8fb80cf43144cf00d68a36f7e4700ec82aee195a6d54md5: 9cb3250df1f3f36170191ea81de49a71or in .tar.xzhttps://sovietpride.su/stf/lgbtf/HTEv2.tar.xzsha256: ea469b0c50d8d6f5469b22fbdf35b4315f9da8b60ea489996907b6eaf7b32aa0md5: e7a69d10b18fb251cf42fc17d9b232adMore people should be using HTTPSEverywhere. // Perspectives is also nice if you don't mind it sending certain hosts to their servers (via https) to check on its certificate status. I have mine set to paranoid settings: check all HTTPS, not just unsigned; 75% agreement; certificate has been seen consistently for 7 days. Certain images are served via HTTP, thus causing a minor security issue. Browsers flag this. View the source and search for "src="http://" to see.PS: Easier way to find Firefox profile on Windows is just to paste "%appdata%\Mozilla\Firefox\Profiles" into Explorer and hit enter. OpenCL can run on CPUs, too. It seems like that's what is happening. Maybe. Does poclbm ask you to choose your device when you start it?My CPU usage is <5% for poclbm, so something's wrong. http://www.google.com/search?q=amdfamk10I think he misremembered it since AMD arches are K#. try -march=amdfam10 I wrote a java program so that I didn't have to run the flash slots app  (it's just a bunch of HTTP POSTs), also it goes fasterblew through my deposit in 20 minutes 
