I'd like it be be in the main client, but I'd like it to be called "privacy mode", as opposed to "advanced view", for its educational effect.  For further educational effect, privacy mode could enable informational warnings that let you know which addresses/identites are being linked during a transaction.If address labels have multiple entries: identity, one to distinguish same-identity addresses, and an "Is Reused?" checkbox for send addresses that you know or expect get reused with multiple people, then the messages generated can be much more personalized and succinct, and will hit home better.Imagine if when you tried to send some bitcoins you got a warning like this:Or maybe replace ShadyDude with Wikileaks' public address, and RichMistress with BusinessIPatronize (who happens to reuse the same address and needed to send you a refund one time, and who is now being subpoenaed by the Stasi into identifying you as the owner of the address the sent the refund to in order to prove you donated to Wikileaks).Clearly address reuse is really bad for privacy, and the consequences are not internalized to the address re-users, so I think new address requests (and labeling) should be automated for all clients, not just privacy-conscious ones.Sorry if this is obvious or flawed - I'm new to this stuff - but here's an idea for how to do this:This can be done by having a contacts list, and a single master public key from each of their contacts, from which they can deterministically derive as many addresses as they want.  These addresses can't be associated by outsiders as long as the master public key is kept secret.  See this post by Stefan http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=19137.msg318989#msg318989 and the one below by gmaxwell about choosing a sequence of serial numbers for how it might be implemented: .Of course lost master private keys will be a problem, but this can be mitigated by users having (untrusted) storage servers that serve the master public keys to their contacts (the same one that syncs your everyday-use wallet between devices?).  This way they can be easily changed at any time, all at once, and in one place, if necessary, and the contacts will always check that they're up to date.Hopefully privacy mode would also turn on Tor as well.Considering the "Bitcoin is anonymous" spin in the media, I really think we're going to have a lot of people unwittingly find themselves in a lot of trouble with criminals, spouses, friends, governments, etc. if they can't easily learn how Bitcoin is working for them in practice.  Somebody said here that users aren't stupid, but the client is making them stupid, and I completely agree. Am I correct in thinking that if you keep A a secret between you and a friend, and agree to use some agreed upon sequence of serial numbers (could this just be trivial and the same for everyone?), that they could have access to an infinite number of your public keys that can't be associated by an outsider?  Edit: lol I think you just said this in the last sentence.If so, then it seems like it could enable people to interface in the client with a contacts list instead of ugly addresses, but without having to reuse them or manually request new ones all the time.I guess one major problem would be losing the master private key, and having people continue to send to addresses derived from the associated public key.This could be mitigated by having your contact instead for each transaction get the master public key from an (untrusted) online storage server who stores it encrypted to your private key and your contact's public key, and check that it hasn't changed.  That way if you lose your wallet, you can stop everyone from sending to it in one step by deleting the master public keys from your storage server, and restart it again by uploading new ones for each of your contacts, without having to notify them, since their client can just start the agreed upon serial number sequence anew if they notice that the master public key has been changed.Edit: Damn, I read your post two days ago, and forgot to re-read it before responding.  I apologize for basically restating what you did. Was just about to say the same thing. Edit: I think my questions were answered in this post http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=28565.msg363945#msg363945My curiosity won't stop nagging, so here's some bounties Thanks for the link!Please forgive all the parentheses in the following...The first two problems you listed I think can be avoided by treating votes just like bitcoins, but having "election cycles" to compensate for their irretractablility.  For every election cycle (measured by some fixed number of blocks that is limited by the cost and time of running an election), every bitcoin address (or a uniquely determined address, so that bitcoin-containing private keys don't have to be network facing) is issued an equal number of "votecoins".  (Can actual blockchain-recorded transactions be avoided for this issuance?  Can it be done by an understanding that spends from the determined votecoin address up to the amount contained in the determining bitcoin address at the start of the election cycle are allowed during the the election cycle?)  During the rest of the election period, the network will accept votecoin transactions only for those issued during the current election cycle, until the end when some fixed number of addresses containing the most votecoins are elected to be the "representatives" during the next election cycle.I'm not sure how resource intensive this search for the top votecoin containing addresses would be.Perhaps voter participation could be incentivized using some portion of the transaction fees and newly issued bitcoins.  I'm reluctant to propose schemes to do this, though, since all the ones that I can think of don't really produce the right incentives, and also create perverse ones.  The larger bitcoin holders obviously have an interest in delegating their votes, but hopefully a really simple UX (vote delegation needs to be automated every election cycle according to user inputted delegates and weightings) and some peer pressure/annoying requests from the client/P. Diddy would be enough to motivate the rest.  Then again, maybe it won't matter if a bunch of the bitcoin-poor don't care enough to vote.Notice that the public nature of the votecoin transaction history would help keep the delegates honest/effective.Also note that storage requirements shouldn't be an issue since votecoin transactions from old election cycles don't need to be held on to.Miners still seem to be necessary to keep time and bundle transactions, but the hashing power/reward they require could possibly be minimized the elected representatives' ability to regulate/make recommendations in the block selection process.And if all the representatives are really doing is making recommendations to miners, then wouldn't only the miners have to be checking their signatures, usually?  This could allow for a much greater diversity of representatives, since the miners are already geared to accommodate higher overhead than clients.  I figure the only time the clients would need to check the signatures of the representatives is if the miners wanted to ignore the representatives en masse, creating a longer fork, and the clients wanted to ignore this longer fork.  But this might become too likely an attack vector if a significant amount of the overall hashing power of the miners is made obsolete by this system.And if it's just recommendations, then would any of this require a separate blockchain/breaking change to the protocol?  Can the votecoin rules (their periodic creation and finite trading period) be accommodated somehow into the existing protocol?Edit: From Mike, "There is a method of batch verifying ECDSA  signatures that's much faster than normal. It might change the economics of what you want to do: http://www.springerlink.com/content/h758580006764h26/ " It sounds like it could scale to more than just a few.  And the voting power might flow much more easily away from corrupted players than with SWIFT due to the almost zero barriers to retracting votes, and to enter into the market to supplant the established delegates.  Remember, with delegated voting you don't necessarily give your vote directly to who will eventually cast it - you can just pass it on to someone you trust, hopefully solving the problem of rational ignorance/apathy.  That or the bad guys will just buy up all the votes   Or maybe the good guys will?I guess the relevant question is if this would do a good enough job of decentralizing the "voting power" and making it accountable?  If so, the benefits listed above (that have survived) seem pretty significant.  It might at least be a good approach to smaller blockchains that don't expect to attract enough outside computing power to keep them secure.That is good to hear!  I understand that proposals from people who obviously aren't qualified to program the shit they propose, not to mention that most of what they propose is indeed shit, probably gets pretty annoying.Not at all!  I quite appreciate your thoughtful responses! If there are relatively few delegates, and if they could each store their votes in single addresses, this could save a significant amount overhead for the network as a whole during voting/checking.I suppose stakeholders by definition have an incentive to delegate their votes in such a way as to minimize the overhead in the network, but could this alone lead to some stable equilibrium?Maybe you could also cull some necessary amount of the least influential addresses in the vote in order to help to reduce overhead to a workable amount?I'm not sure if there's a transaction signing scheme to deal with retracted votes though, so I don't know if such a delegated voting scheme can even work. Haha, I thought it felt a bit too obvious.  Well at least I have a greater, more justified, appreciation for Bitcoin now.This whole thing actually came from thinking of a way to solve the checkpoint problem Ben Laurie wrote about.  If votes don't need to occur very often, then would the bandwidth/checking cost be such a big deal?  Is his issue even really a problem? I think a hybrid approach would only allow stakeholders to sign whole blocks that have already been found.  And then miners could defer authority to the stakeholders when they do, and work forward from that block.  This would decrease the confirmation time to 10 minutes on average.  And it would remove the need for checkpoints, making Ben Laurie a happier camper. I think a fork is more appropriate, since it incentivises the existing userbase to participate and avoids alienating them, and it solves the initial distribution problem, allowing for a very diverse voting group from the start.  I see Bitcoin as having made some progress at solving the social problems (bootstrapping a new currency) just as much as it has solved the technical ones.  No need to throw this progress away IMHO.But Ben Laurie would be much happier  This alternative wouldn't need computing power - that's the point.Furthermore, if you want more influence in the current system, all you have to do is buy yourself more computing resources.  Morally not much different than buying yourself more bitcoins AFAICT.Lastly, if the bitcoin-rich (as opposed to the computing power-rich) started "voting" themselves more new bitcoins than the allowed amount, then people would lose confidence in the currency, and the bitcoin-rich would no longer be rich in any meaningful sense.  They have more incentive to maintain the currency's value than the current miners do, it seems. Company shares sounds like a great application, too.  The proof-of-stake alternative seems like it could be a good way to prevent unwarranted outside influence from messing with smaller scale public ledgers like they can with proof-of-work.This unwarranted outside influence also seems to be why alternative Bitcoin implementations don't seem feasible now - you need enough miners to be on board to secure the network against outside attackers, whereas attackers can only come from within using the proof-of-stake alternative.  All it needs is a sufficiently diverse userbase.This is relevant to Bitcoin as an alternative means of forming consensus on the valid transaction history, or the public ledger at least.  But all it would necessarily borrow from Bitcoin is the public ledger contained in the block chain, in order to co-opt its userbase. I've got an idea, and I'm wondering if it's been discussed/ripped apart here yet:I'm wondering if as bitcoins become more widely distributed, whether a transition from a proof of work based system to a proof of stake one might happen.  What I mean by proof of stake is that instead of your "vote" on the accepted transaction history being weighted by the share of computing resources you bring to the network, it's weighted by the number of bitcoins you can prove you own, using your private keys.For those that don't want to be actively verifying transactions, and so that not all private keys need to be facing the network, votes could be delegated to other addresses via some kind of nonstandard Bitcoin transaction.  In this way, voting power would accumulate with trusted delegates instead of miners.  New bitcoins and transaction fees could be randomly and periodically distributed to delgates, weighted by the number of votes they've accumulated, thereby incentivising diversity of the delegates and direct voters.If the implementation could be done, it proved to maintain at least a similar level of privacy and trustworthiness, and it only minimally complicated the UX, I'm thinking that a proof of stake based fork could out-compete a proof of work one due to much lower transaction fees, since its network wouldn't need to support the cost of the miners' computing resources.  (Note that the vote delegation scheme has bandwith/storage overhead that would offset these savings by some amount which would hopefully be relatively small.)Some other potential improvements this system could offer:Possibly quicker, more definite confirmation of transactions, depending on how it can be implemented.The "voting power" may be more trustworty, since it would accumulate in a bottom-up fashion via a network of trust, instead of in the somewhat arbitrary way it accumulates now.  (Note the potential problem of vote-buying here.)It would remove the physical point of failure of bitcoin mining equipment, which can be confiscated or made illegal to run.It could be used to provide stakeholders a means of making their voices heard (via the delegated voting system it establishes) when it comes to proposals for software updates and protocol changes.Anyway, I just wanted to throw the idea out here to see if there are any obvious reasons why it couldn't be implemented, and to hopefully spark a discussion amongst those better qualified than me.Cheers. Wikileaks recently tweeted a reply (http://www.twitlonger.com/show/b8qli4) to a news article spreading FUD about Bitcoin.  In it they suggested Bitcoin "be augmented with a sub currency that has fixed time spend retractability if it is to be successful as a safe storage (as well as exchange) currency for the average person".I was thinking the purposes of this could be accomplished by the client putting a fixed time delay on sends.  Of course, the user could always have the option to force transactions immediately.If the recipient needs proof that the sender indeed has the necessary funds to send in the meantime, a message could be signed using the private key associated with an address containing them.This would also provide some protection against "fat finger trades".Am I understanding their concerns correctly?  Does this address them, effectively?Edit: I guess part of their concern is theft.  Hopefully this can just be sufficiently mitigated by better security features in the client. If you evaluated the cdf of a gamma distribution with parameters 7 and 1/10min at 10min to get 0.0000002, and 1 - the pdf of the binomial distribution with parameters 132000 and 0.0000002 evaluated at 0 to get 99.7%, then I think it's correct.  I'm too lazy to calculate it, though.Also, http://www.xkcd.com/882/ I'm also fine with my donation going to this. I can pledge 0.5 BTC for the refund thing if I end up getting my donation back. +1A federation of servers you don't have to trust is good enough. This (OPEN-TRANSACTIONS): http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=20425.0If Bitcoin makes you giddy, then this should too.It provides the technical groundwork for an entire financial industry done right. And sign it with the private key associated with the address you donated from.  I think there's a patch that allows you to do this.Allow this for a certain period of time before sending everything to the faucet.
I understand why people spend so much time promoting Bitcoin here.  They're excited by the prospect of financial privacy, financial decentralization, personal profit, and the technical beauty of Bitcoin.I don't understand the apparently equal incentive to demoralize Bitcoin supporters.Based on this, I can't say I believe you're here full-time to protect people from making risky investment decisions, like you claim. Well there's always me.  My gift to the world. Somebody's got to take the risk of holding on to these crazy things.  If nobody wanted to hold on to them, they wouldn't be worth anything.Seeing your position's value fluctuate like this is not exactly easy to stomach. The only difference I can see between gold and bitcoins in this regard is that the rate of adoption and associated rise in purchasing power of gold happened very gradually, so being an "early adopter" didn't really mean much, and therefore wasn't a source of envy. Its established network of users.  Just like gold's, except much smaller and less established. Cutting his head off would prevent double spending... It is (making an attempt at) solving a problem: https://secure.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/wiki/Coincidence_of_wants For the deflation alarmists:Here's a 2004 article from a couple of Federal Reserve economists: citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.147.6290&rep=rep1&type=pdf.The abstract: "Are deflation and depression empirically linked? No, concludes a broad historical study of inflation and realoutput growth rates. Deflation and depression do seem to have been linked during the 1930s. But in the restof the data for 17 countries and more than 100 years, there is virtually no evidence of such a link."During the 1930s, deflation was a monetary phenomenon.  Even though they were under a gold standard, the money supply was still able to significantly contract due to the fractional reserve nature of the banking system.  This was due to massive deleveraging.If Bitcoin were to ever become so dominant that a discussion about the macroeconomics of it is actually relevant, then one must consider the fact that the base money supply would be a good measure of the money supply since people would not need the traditional fractional reserve banking system to store their bitcoins.  Thus, contractions of the money supply are probably impossible, and they will not be the source of any deflation.So with deflation and depression linked in only one relatively short historical period, and given that such a significant deflation would not even have occurred in this period had there been a Bitcoin-dominant economy, what is the worry? Delegated voting solves a bunch of the problems in direct democracy: http://www.communitywiki.org/en/LiquidDemocracyI wonder how a more direct democracy would handle foreign policy, though.  On the aggregate, people don't seem to be willing to push the fat man off the bridge - https://secure.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/wiki/Trolley_problem - and they tend to revile those that do.Corpse cleanup: the single remaining problem anarchist thinkers have yet to solve.  In case you hadn't noticed, Brazil and NL already have states, and sitting and waiting until the shooters ran out of bullets was about all they did.  Like it or not, the only viable deterrents to this kind of shit is either an armed populace, or a total police state. And it wouldn't be the first time something like this has happened either: http://www.slate.com/id/2245188/ That combined with the bitcoin supply limit being 1 since it's so sexy and natural. I like it.  And the Thai people will thank us for it   I like the finite lifetime transaction rule.I was thinking it would be nice if when a user is entering a transaction, the fee could be adjusted from within the same window while giving a concomitant estimate of the expected time for the transaction to clear (to have, say, 6 confirmations), based on the parameters of the proposed transaction, and the block chain data from the past, say, 24 hours.  This would help to make the purpose of transaction fees more transparent to users, and the fees would be set closer to where they actually need to be. I can't help but take this opportunity to plug natural units: https://secure.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/wiki/Natural_unitsBut seriously, why choose an arbitrary moving decimal place in the first place?  Lots of countries have a ton of zeros in the smallest useful denomination of their currencies, and it doesn't seem to be a problem (when new ones are not being added).So my vote is with natural bitcoin units: 1 BTC -> 10^8 BTC = 100 MBTC.Then again, it's probably way too late to fix this. Maybe "the world's first cryptocurrency" should be changed to "the world's first p2p cryptocurrency" so as not to disregard the work of Chaum, et. al. Yeah, probably better for them to just capitalize a bunch of market makers, while periodically weeding out the losers. Like Gavin said, "spend a lot of money".  This is almost certainly not a money making venture, at least not directly.  However, it seems reasonable to me to think that a coordinated attempt to smooth out exchange rate shocks - not to control overall trends - would make Bitcoin a more attractive currency, driving its exchange rate up, and possibly leading to an overall gain for those coordinating the "smoothing".To the extent that they filter out real price information and not just noise, sure they're creating distortions.  But people don't see invisible distortions; however, they do see exchange rates. Glenn Greenwald on Wired: http://www.salon.com/news/opinion/glenn_greenwald/2010/12/27/wiredBased on the way they covered the recent Anonymous vs. HBGary thing, I think Ars Technica are much more likely to be favorable to Bitcoin.Edit: huh, didn't realize Wired owns Ars Technica. I would think the major bitcoin holders have an incentive to pool their resources to do this to at least some degree.  Even the small holders might be persuaded to chip in a share of theirs, provided the fund was well-managed. Why is it more important?  The FAQ's argument was that it's not.
His argument was that market demand and threat of boycott isn't sufficient to pressure producers directly to conform to their wishes, since not enough people gather the relevant information to persuade them to change their behavior and collectively make a difference.A decentralized legal order can overcome this problem for the same reasons a centralized one can, only more effectively I would argue, since it can be much more accessible to those it serves. I think his rebuttals only really apply to minarchism, since a bottom-up legal order would likely, IMO, produce the food labeling laws, etc. which have such widespread support.  It would probably even produce laws in some places requiring mandatory contributions to some universal health care scheme!  If he's arguing that we should be trying to aid the development of the good parts of government, then one might argue that government in its current form is hampering its own positive development, and that a more bottom-up approach to law would better achieve this end.  And it would be less prone to bad developments like corruption, police states, corporate welfarism, and rampant militarism.And I'd definitely argue from within his moral framework. Everybody is for "regulation".Sometimes government controls have the effect of "regulating".I think free people would be much more effective at "regulating".And no, gene, free does not necessarily mean disempowered.N.B. trolls eat flying cars. But as a Ripple network gets bigger the disconnected components are more likely to become connected until eventually the network exhibits the small-world phenomenon. No, and for the same reasons a meteor hitting a bunch of priests doesn't result in "atheism". Is this it? https://ffij33ewbnoeqnup.onion.meshmx.com/books/Toward_A_Private_Digital_Economy/index.html My point was that the courts might then reject your plausible deniability defense, "How could I have known those funds he paid me with were gotten illegally?"Also, if you have a hard time spending those "dirty" bitcoins you keep on receiving, or they have a lower market value than "clean" ones, then you'd probably feel pretty compelled to run some patch that recognized "dirty" or "clean" bitcoins, whether its blacklists they're using, or whitelists.  The bigger businesses would fall in line for the most part since they're easiest to police and they've got the most to lose, and their customers would in turn.  And their customers' customers, etc.  And this would surely get rolled out incrementally somehow so it would feel less invasive and burdensome.Sounds pretty plausible to me.  And it makes me wonder what could be in store for the homogeneity of bitcoins if lots of different governments have their own separate lists of "dirty" or "clean" bitcoins. I doubt such an arrangement could persist based on coercion alone.  States seem to be unstable without pretty broad ideological support.  I suppose a disciplined population is useful for preventing the balance of power from moving too far in any direction, though.I don't do anything.  But maybe they'll agree to respect the outcome of a vote, or maybe they'll just go their separate ways.  Perhaps it'll be pistols at dawn.  What kind of disagreement are you talking about?  One within the hypothetical law-recommending organization?Violence is ugly, especially to pampered westerners, so I think the bar would be set pretty high in western societies for the violent enforcement of laws by voluntarily patronized legal agencies.  Much higher than it is today for states.  This would put pressure on them to develop alternative nonviolent means of gaining compliance. I like the idea of people forming open organizations that create and recommend laws, but if it has to resort to voting all the time about everything, and dragging around those that lose the votes, then I think it's doing it wrong.  The focus should be on consensus building.  Here's some inspiration from the IETF on this: http://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/news/2011/01/25-years-of-ietf-setting-standards-without-kings-or-votes.ars.I think kiba's objection is when the "recommendations" are mandatory. lol, this thread is awesome FatherMcGruder, It should also be noted that the hypothetical scenario you described is perfectly applicable to the situation today with multiple nation states living side by side, yet they still manage to resolve disputes without violence.I'd call today's situation the worst case scenario for a functioning stateless society, since states can more easily keep their members separated - integration builds economic dependencies, and thus increases the cost of wars borne by those that end up paying for them - and can more easily go to war than voluntarily patronized legal agencies. Yeah, but the idea is that competition, voluntary patronage, and open management will provide adequate accountability. FatherMcGruder, I don't think statelessness requires an especially disciplined populace, just one with enough common values.  Presuming the legal agencies would accurately reflect the values of their members, then it is these common values that allow for common legal standards to form, and so reduce the possibility of violent clashes between different legal agencies.Also, wars are ugly and expensive, and patrons of legal agencies that attempt to engage in them would probably just stop patronizing them in order to save money sleep better.  That's not to say that wars are impossible; they're just strongly disincentivized if those funding them actually have a choice.The alternative, people of dissimilar values all tolerating one monopoly legal agency, has the unfortunate side effects of law being produced and enforced that has no market demand, and can be easily purchased, and the characteristic that it is authoritarian at least to the degree that the values of its citizens differ.Think here about the necessity of somebody like Saddam to keep the Sunnis and Shiites from killing the shit out of each other.  Presumably such an unstable situation wouldn't have emerged in the first place in a stateless society. Could governments maintain blacklists of addresses, while offering patches for Bitcoin clients to recognize them, so that people receiving them in exchanges might not have a valid plausible deniability defense against money laundering charges?  Is this how anti-money laundering laws work? FreeMoney, I agree, solutions that actually emerge in statelessness probably won't look anything like past stateless solutions, or the new proposals thrown around today.  But the point of designing new solutions today is not to figure out exactly how it'll play out, but to undermine the perceived necessity of statist solutions to societal problems.creighto, we can argue objectively about the merits of a non-monopolistic approach to law and law enforcement over a centrally planned approach.  If opponents are impervious to reason, then the only hope is to at least get them to respect the idea of secession to some degree.  That or wait for them to die out while focusing on raising the new generations right.Yeah, what creighto said.  Which is why a rosy picture of a stateless society not needing any law and law enforcement is silly.The only way I can think of to lessen the whole "might makes right" thing is to advance a reasoned respect for the law so that folks are more accepting when it doesn't rule in their favor.  Presumably this would be much easier if it weren't so corrupt.But really there's no way to avoid it completely.  "Might makes right" is certainly true today.  The only alternatives to anarchy in the pejorative are a single dominant power, or lots of them in some state of peaceful coexistence, where if one becomes abusive, enough of the rest will jump on its ass and set it in line.It's tough to sell the latter, since people tend to underestimate the corruptibility of a single dominant power, while being scared that having lots of powers in coexistence will just devolve into anarchy in the pejorative. Like I said, "if you want to convince people that a well-functioning stateless society is possible, ..."  Of course you don't have to, otherwise.Law enforcement and courts have been provided in many past stateless societies: see medieval Iceland, medieval Ireland, the stateless American west (had a lower homicide rate than the incorporated states!), stateless Pennsylvania (short period of time), Common Law, Law Merchant (there are others that I can't remember).Welfare and healthcare used to be provided by fraternal societies and churches.Private roads exist today.  Highways are easy for private providers.  Intracity roads are harder, and probably require some sort of collective arrangement, but there are proposals out there:https://www.youtube.com/user/fringeelements#p/u/0/A1gp9_oCafMhttp://mises.org/books/roads_web.pdfCurrent statist solutions to societal problems certainly suck, but they are in some cases better than no solution at all.  So it is indeed up to the advocate of a stateless society to argue that it could not just provide solutions, but provide them better than today's states if he wants people to accept his ideas. That was a response to your suggestion that my advocacy of the use of force is immoral.  I was assuming that you didn't mean to imply that this applied to all uses of force.AFAIK, the only people advocating emergent law here are certain types of anarchists and libertarians.  Republicans think they do out of ignorance to public choice theory, and (statist) socialists think they do out of ignorance to the fact that people are quite different from insects.  I'm only saying here that there is no correct way to distinguish between legitimate and illegitimate uses of force.American common law was working away the whole time. If you want to convince people that a well-functioning stateless society is possible, you'll have to address how the services monopolized by "the state" today could be sufficiently provided - including courts and law enforcement.  Although today these institutions have been monopolized and now basically serve to protect the interests on an elite, they are still necessary - albeit in a much different form - for solving a host of problems faced by a society, and discerning people will not take your ideas seriously if you can't address this fact. From the website: "This license allows you to install the script on only 1 domain. Lifetime updates included.The software comes with no copyright and 100% Open Source"I guess this is why the F in FOSS is important.  Wait, I'm confused... I agree, mostly.  There are many areas of law, however, that do seem to require a degree of complexity.I smell bullshit.  Just a way of using guilt to control people.  The same way religion uses fear.  OTOH, a nice way of getting people to adopt a common set of values...Anyway, you need to distinguish between legitimate force and illegitimate force.  And how do you do this in an unambiguous way?  The best we can do, I think, is allow the law to develop in a way that is responsive to market demand.I'm well aware of the problem of regulatory capture and the overproduction of law, so I agree to a large extent.  On the other hand, ceasing the production of law altogether is not the solution to the problem.
Willing?  As if everyone would have a choice?  Do you expect all the grannies that don't to be packing heat?I apologize if I was unclear, then.  I'm suggesting a polycentric legal order. All law enforcement, including property rights enforcement, is force at its core.  Is law bad because of this, too?The problem is how law is made today, not that it is made in the first place.  We need systems that actually respond to market demand, and have a at least a modicum of efficiency and accessibility. Seriously?!  Well, if states should fall in my lifetime, and there are enough people like you around, then I know what I'll be doing for a living!  Somebody's gonna be robbing your asses, so it might as well be me!   Maybe there was some confusion here; I'm not suggesting any kind of centralized monopoly make and enforce laws. You'd need a sufficiently incorruptible system for law-making, along with a sufficiently powerful and incorruptible system for enforcing the law. Proposed solutions to these problems abound, but it's impossible to say what kind of laws would actually emerge to regulate these in a stateless society.  Different solutions would be tried in different areas, they'd be iteratively improved upon, and the best ones would become the most widely adopted.  On the question of how to get corporations to play nice, I addressed the issue of enforcement of the rule of law in a stateless society in my previous post in this thread.Cognitive wireless mesh networks seem like a promising way of reducing the scarcity of electromagnetic spectrum.Here's another video by that guy on these issues: https://www.youtube.com/user/fringeelements#p/u/3/qwCXOhDqRYc Gene, you're absolutely correct, defenseless stateless populations would pretty obviously be subject to aggression by private powers.  It should be noted, however, that if a private power relies on maintaining a good reputation in order to preserve its customer base, then this imposes an added cost of messing with the defenseless stateless populations.Unfortunately this disincentive is not sufficient to deter attacks in all cases, since the customer base may be either1) too uninformed or apathetic2) other private powers whose customer bases are too uninformed or apathetic3) governments whose citizens are either uninformed, apathetic, or just not powerful enough to keep their governments accountableFor all of these things, solidarity is indeed very important (most important in the long run, IMO); stateless people needs to organize effective PR campaigns.  They should take lessons from the Israelis here.  More important in today's world with today's human population, however, is actual muscle; stateless defense needs to be organized in such a way that overcomes the free rider problem enough to deter attacks.  Here's one possible solution: http://www.youtube.com/user/fringeelements#p/u/2/ylXAhyDZhZ4.  Long video, but most honest presentation on the subject I've heard so far.I'll criticize ancaps for sometimes not recognizing the fact that all systems of property rights are involuntary to those that don't agree with them.  Also, sure they're useful from an economic efficiency standpoint, but the reason they emerge when they do is to prevent or mitigate disputes.  So it's a total violation of the natural order to try to impose systems of property rights from the top down.  (I'm looking at Natural Rights adherents and Objectivists here - refuting their moral theories is the topic for another tl;dr.)That being said, I would prefer to live in a society that respects the private ownership of capital based on its apparent economic efficiency.  I would say that private powers in this society only become really problematic when they are unchecked, and the biggest factors in their ability to become unchecked are the existence of monopolistic law making institutions that have vast ideological support, called states, from which they can buy blindly-enforced laws cheaply, and also the degree to which people are "disarmed" - in various senses - by these states, and left unwilling or unable to create actual effective checks on private powers in an emergent, bottom-up, resilient fashion.  I think it is possible for a stateless society to defend itself from aggressive private powers, and I think solidarity based on a common set of values is extremely beneficial for the provision of this defense, as well as any otherwise unsupplied public goods.I hope this helps to produce some understanding or agreement.  Or maybe I've just made enemies on both sides.   I think a lot of the software for what's needed for this is already written by FellowTraveler here: https://github.com/FellowTraveler/Open-Transactions/wiki.Here's a use case to show how it would work:By some payment method, trader Joe first buys $1000 worth of digital currency from a trusted currency issuer (say mtgox, so this is 1000 mtgoxUSD) who is operating on the same Open Transactions server as another whom Joe trusts who issues BTC backed currency (say mybitcoinBTC).  The Open Transactions server also functions as a marketplace so Joe can then sell his 1000 mtgoxUSD to someone else who owns some mybitcoinBTC at the prevailing market rate.  He then redeems these mybitcoinBTCs for real BTCs from mybitcoin.Some neat things about this model:Trade can be effectively conducted between any number of national and digital currencies in the same marketplace.Multiple trading currency issuers along with separation of server and issuer is much more resilient, and it makes it much easier for new issuers to enter the market.Open Transactions has lots of other potential uses, so will (hopefully) be actively developed and maintained."I would like to see the server side of OT become completely distributed as well." - FellowTraveler.  This would mean a distributed marketplace!Brokers can easily offer margin accounts.Basket currencies can be used in order to spread out risk."Soon: Stocks that pay dividends, Bonds that pay interest, and Collateralized Debt Obligations."Privacy/anonymity when run over Tor or i2p.Some work that still needs to be done:Develop user friendly client software, and use OT's XmlRpc / HTTP transport to develop a pretty web service.  (I think FellowTraveler mentioned people have already started doing this.)Research and openly disseminate payment methods, legal/regulatory issues, etc. in various jurisdictions to currency issuers. I just downloaded SpiderOak for backing up my wallet to cloud storage.  It's like Dropbox, except all files are encrypted on your computer first, before being sent to their server.  You also get 2GB free.  Backups and syncs can all be automated.  They say the client software will be fully open sourced, but this hasn't happened yet. Bitcoin can be used to incentivise contributions to p2p networks like distributed online storage (Tahoe-LAFS once accounting is implemented), filesharing, wireless ad hoc networks, anonymizing overlay networks, etc.  I think all of these could have pretty mainstream appeal - especially wireless ad hoc networks and distributed online storage!It's uniquely useful for anything that can make use of automated microtransactions, really.If/while storage and bandwidth costs are too high for generators to facilitate these microtransactions, then maybe a Ripple-like network could be used to make the payments, with Bitcoin automatically clearing any debts that build up large enough such that this clearing is economical.  Hopefully much of the debts in Ripple would end up canceling anyway, further reducing the overall burden on the Bitcoin network.  Since the risk for microtransactions across Ripple is very small, perhaps credit line management could be mostly automated using trust metrics.  In this way, I think such a network could become quite connected and thus very effective for microtransactions.  Either way, Bitcoin is the facilitator of microtransactions, and all the neat things that rely on them. Count me in for 100 BTC. Apparently Tahoe-LAFS (1.6.1 so far) works fully within I2P: http://duck.i2p.tin0.de/tahoe-lafs/ Is there/could there be a command that moves all the bitcoins associated with a given account to a new single address?  I could see this being useful for auditing purposes.Edit: This probably wouldn't be useful since I don't think you have control over which addresses payments are sent from using sendfrom.  I.e. if you're trying to maintain an association between account A and address 1, then a payment sent from account B may be at least partially sent from address 1, with the "little man with a green visor" doing the relevant bookkeeping on the side. Well said! Looks like Open Transactions will have the technical side of this covered: "Soon: Stocks that pay dividends, Bonds that pay interest, and Collateralized Debt Obligations."  And "NEW! Markets with Trades". https://github.com/FellowTraveler/Open-Transactions/wiki Hopefully then, the availability of margin accounts will increase liquidity enough that deposits can be practically guaranteed!As a side note, I wonder how much downward pressure will be put on the exchange rate due to traders finally being able to easily make short sales.  It's also not difficult to think up simple closed loop economy counterexamples with fixed money supplies and lending at interest which are perfectly stable, and require no bankruptcies or dipping into collateral.  The key is that people (obviously) don't pay back their loans all at once and all at the same time.  So their idea that there needs to be a continually increasing money supply to keep lending at interest going is clearly wrong. It sounds like pooled mining would either flood the network with tiny transactions, or be unfeasible due to transaction fees.  So the server would therefore have to keep accounts for users which they could withdraw from once their balance gets large enough.I guess it would probably be best then if the server required the miners to have MyBitcoin accounts, or something similar.  It'd be nice if MyBitcoin offered a pooled mining service; they've got all the accounting infrastructure in place, and it could be a nice additional source of revenue for them.Very elegant solution, Ribuck. Lending any currency (deflationary or inflationary) at any positive rate of interest is better than simply holding onto it, given zero risk of default.But you are indeed less pressed to lend a deflationary currency over an inflationary one.  For a bunch of reasons, I don't think this is a problem for overall economic growth and stability, though. My apologies.  He does, on the other hand, have something like 2 million dollars to go into the development of his videos and software, not to mention lots of fame to pull potential customers away from competitors.  But I think a similar competing model where tutors are instead screened and hired would be beneficial if whatever quality control scheme he uses for his crowdsourced tutors doesn't work well.Also, I wouldn't be so sure he'd be averse to people providing a tutoring service based around his content.  This isn't the impression I've gotten, at least.
My point is just that if Sal does a good job of the computer science thing - and I'm sure he will - then it'll be hard to compete with free, especially given his rapidly growing fame. +1 for p2p lending with Ripple.http://www.lendingclub.com/ is another means of doing p2p loans, but it uses a third party to help verify creditworthiness.  They also have a secondary bond market where you can resell your bonds.But member banks in central banking cartels get deposit insurance and implicit bailout guarantee subsidies, not to mention all the regulatory barriers to entry against their competition, so the deck is pretty stacked against honest challengers at this point.  The obvious way to combat this is to establish a money that is impossible for governments to control, and which doesn't need to be stored in banks (lending institutions) for security and convenience, but I'm sure you all know this already     I was thinking of it more as a replacement for a 'real' academy.  By real do you mean accredited?Also, I think the idea behind the Khan Academy is to crowdsource tutoring and other support.  Sal doesn't seem at all opposed to these people being compensated for their work - not that he'd be able to control the situation much if he was.  So I think that aside from being able to provide accreditation, it could have all the useful elements of a 'real' academy.Another source for support - in addition to Khan's future material - are local hackerspaces, which seem to be growing and springing up very rapidly. Sal Khan at http://www.khanacademy.org/ has said he will be focusing on computer science soon, but that since it's his specialty, he's postponed doing it because he wants to really do it properly.  Now (especially) that he's got Google and Bill Gates backing his free online school, I think we can expect really good stuff on this subject coming from him. Here's an article on a company that crowdsources jobs to a worldwide mobile workforce: http://www.technologyreview.com/business/26651/?p1=A5.  They do jobs via text messaging.Notice that they have to send many small payments all over the world, reaching a huge number of people, and also that they've previously paid people in Linden dollars and are therefore clearly open to using alternative currencies.Anybody who's good at selling Bitcoin feel like getting in contact with them?  Bruce Wagner?   Macho, I didn't read all your posts, but from what I did read, it seemed you were describing a classic pump and dump market manipulation, and then claiming that this is the strategy that all speculators employ.  This is definitely not the case.Pump and dumps require the following: 1) the means to take on dominant long positions via coordination amongst several 'insiders' or access to large amounts of cheap enough credit, 2) manufactured hype around the financial instrument to be pumped, and 3) a large enough pool of 'suckers' to fall for the hype.The inverse of this scenario works as well, where market manipulators coordinate dominant short positions, triggering other traders' stop losses.  This creates further fear, snowballing the wave of selling.  Bad 'news' can simultaneously be released to compound this.  The silver market has recently been exposed as being manipulated in this fashion, and the same is pretty clearly true for the gold market.It may be said that these sharks act to rid the market of speculators who don't know what they're doing, and thus increase the likelihood that speculators in the aggregate will move prices in the right direction.  I doubt this is true, however, since the sharks probably aren't any better at trading based on fundamentals than the speculators they devour.  So I probably agree with you that these guys aren't providing any value to society.But at the same time honest speculators move market prices based on real economic information, such as expected shortages and gluts.  It is in these cases where what the people in this forum were saying holds true - i.e. what you were denouncing as free market propaganda.That being said, most speculators do not employ these nefarious strategies, since most speculators haven't got access to the means to gain dominant market positions in deeply traded global markets like food and other commodities.One of these means is cheap credit, produced by central bank manipulations, so one obvious way of lessening the damage these people can do is to undermine the ability of central banks to manipulate interest rates by creating successful competing currencies.  So I'm glad you're interested in Bitcoin then!But there is a problem when it comes to small markets like Bitcoin, since these pump and dump schemes can easily be employed by a much greater number of people, since it's much easier then to gain a dominant market position.  (This is why you see pump and dumps happen so often in penny stocks.)  I hope Bitcoin's reputation can weather these pump and dumps, and I hope the people here will discuss possible ways of preventing/mitigating such damage. Secure, distributed online storage a la Tahoe-LAFS! Is there a technical limit beyond this artificial one?  Would it just be the bandwidth available to the weakest (in terms of bandwidth) nodes, or are there any inherent limitations of the p2p network itself? The service exists, although the necessary accounting scheme has not been developed yet. I'd like to see Bitcoin payments implemented into Tahoe-LAFS (distributed online storage), like Zooko was on here suggesting.  I would help, but I'm just learning how to program. Nice work!  Been hoping someone would do this. Sent my 10 just now. Hey, I won the lottery!  Got 161.70 BTC from my 10 BTC in bets!  Minus my 10 BTC gratuity, of course.    Yeah, my I'm fine with putting my 10 BTC in the escrow account, and I'll be keeping my eyes peeled for their Bitcoin donation button so I can give EFF the rest   I think Satoshi proposed a protection against this in the following post: An extra 90 if they put up a donation button on their website. Count me in for 10 BTC. Market - not central bank - interest rates will always be positive to reflect risk and the time preference.  Unless the loan is such that it would significantly affect total productivity in the economy surrounding the given currency - very unlikely - then negative interest rates make no sense.Am I missing something? To the extent that inflation or deflation is predictable, willingness to loan or spend in the present should not be affected since then relating the value of money at different times is trivial, all other things being equal.I think having a central authority attempt to fix some arbitrary price level only adds an extra layer of uncertainty.  If they have some sort of secret knowledge (AFAIK they don't, aside from their planned market manipulations), then why not simply publish it and let everyone act accordingly?One must also consider the negative effects of arbitrary purchasing power redistribution and interest rate manipulation that most monetary management schemes entail.  This is why ideally I prefer a fixed money supply over even some kind of predictable monetary inflation or deflation. Beautifully argued...  Here's some counterarguments:http://mises.org/daily/1583http://mises.org/books/deflationandliberty.pdf
