Update again - guys, I finally received the wire.  I wanted to be fair to bitstamp and not just leave any uncertainty hanging in the air.  Although I had somewhat panicked at first, things worked out in the end.Good luck to all Update - they finally replied to the ticket, and said they will process the withdrawal soon.  I don't think that these people are running off with our money, but they are having some serious communication issues.If/When I get the wire, I'll post here. Your account may not be verified yet, so check that out first...Other people, starting from myself - are having serious issues with 6 figures worth of money being held hostage by Bitstamp... if anyone has any helpful information on how to find these people, please share the info Hello everyone,I am posting this first and foremost to see if I can obtain any information that would be helpful in rescuing my money which is being held hostage by Bitstamp, and secondly as a WARNING to anyone else who has money in Bitstamp or is thinking about using them. Briefly, to not make this too long : I have a verified account, been verified for a few months.  I did 2 withdrawals successfully in the past, both for low 5-figure amounts (USD).  Last week, I requested a 6-figure (USD) withdrawal, and it got stuck in processing.  I sent them support tickets, and finally they answered.. saying they needed additional KYC information.  Bear in mind that they already have all the KYC stuff that I did months ago, so these questions were completely separate and additional to anything that is their standard procedure mentioned on their site.. as I said, my account was already verified.  So they sent me a bunch of questions in order to satisfy them.  So far, that didn't fix the problem - they are still holding the money hostage, they didn't reply to my reply.If ANYONE - and I'm very serious - has any information about where these people are physically (all I've heard is Slovenia), PLEASE contact me, preferrably by private message because I want to give Bitstamp.net the benefit of the doubt, and if they are indeed legit I wouldn't want their private information leaked onto the Internet.  I am already in Europe as I write this and I will get to the bottom of this, no matter what it takes.  Anyone - the CEO, or other staff working there.. any information, names, phone numbers, addresses, friends, associates, which restaurant they eat at, any piece of information possible.  I won't let these people get away with my money, so long as I am alive.I used to use MtGox.. and I stopped using them for the same reason everyone else did, because you can't get your money out.  Now I regret that decision.  I sincerely hope that there is just some big misunderstanding here, and if anyone from the Bitstamp.net staff sees this message, I implore you to send me a private message, or at least address your customers as soon as possible.   Yes, in fact I can't wait till they ban it! That's when it will *really* start having value.P.S. - you can do a 'poll' easily when you create a new post. You must be a bit newer here.  The fractional thing isn't an issue, there are people already working on sub-units.  The bitcoin itself was designed with deflation as a possibility.. so in the future we may be doing 1 millicoin = 0.001 BTC or something.. the bitcoin software will just get updated for that, if the requirement should arise in the future... so it's a non-issue.I can tell you just by looking at the trading ladders that one big player could push the price of bitcoin to $50 easily... if someone wants to do that.  By big I mean someone with a million, who feels like taking a big speculative position.  The bitcoin market is really in its absolute infancy, when you look at the bigger picture. Very hard to predict because it depends on so many factors - new user interest, speculation, actual use of it as a currency, etc.If I had to take a guess - it'll go to $100.  Sounds crazy, but I believe that demand will exceed supply for quite a while to come.. and that's why the price should continue going up in the long term.  I remember when people sold at 5 cents because they had made 10 times their money, and nobody thought it would ever go to 10 cents.. that kind of thinking was 'delusional'. Yet look at where we are now.  If nothing else, Bitcoin is a fascinating experiment at a true free market driven by supply & demand 535,000 bitcoins traded in one day on Mtgox. If that's real, do you guys have any idea how much the mtgox owner made today?    half a million bitcoins traded on mtgox.. I've never seen that before in a 1-day period 1 cent!! time to BUUUUYYYYY! last price I saw as 11 cents. well that was fun to watch... $3.40 $6.60...  Looks like an early adopter decided he likes USD better than bitcoins.  Well whomever you are - good riddance!*EDIT - changed title of thread, since selloff seems over 1 more day of voting! I just want to say thank you to all the panicked sellers.  We're going to move some major money as soon as selling slows down, and make a killing on the way back up.  I love human fear... because it's so easy to predict and profit off of it   Probably one big sale.  Whoever it was will probably be feeling the pain in a week or two   $31.. this is wild good point. as insane as $100 by the end of the month sounds, I thought it was insane when people were saying it was going to reach parity with the dollar.  And here we are a few months later at $27 Make your bets folks!
