Value goes up -> nobody spends due to hoardingnobody spends -> value goes down due to the currency being worthless.Do you think that it's at all possible that there could be an equilibrium here? Or do you somehow believe that the price will go up forever despite hoarding and no real use? I think the point of the large sum of money is an incentive to allow the island to secede and form its own city state. Simply "buying" an island won't do this. You'll still be under the ownership of the government that claims ownership of the island. This is like when people think they can hack around a stupid law by using some technicality.It doesn't work like that. You will be convicted anyway, even though you found that watertight crack in the law that means you didn't, technically, break it.Once Apple discovers how it is being used it will be banned. It doesn't matter what gimmick is used to camouflage the intended functionality. Or if you found a flaw in the TOS that means they should allow your app, they will ban it anyway, and maybe update the TOS, if they feel like it. $19.80 bencoder, thanks  Yes I didn't fully investigate the differences between the two schemes. I understand the model, so I deleted the post.Still though, what happens if you don't get enough plays on HC Lotto to cover the investments on HC Invest? As somebody who had several thousand coins (from selling something small and cpu mining) back when they were they were somewhere around $0.005, It absolutely wouldn't surprise me if the vast majority of the other "early adopters" from those days had no coins left.I sold the majority of those very early coins when the price jumped 10 times(!) up to $0.05 in the course of a few days. I also gave many away to friends to convince them to try out bitcoin (I mean, giving away blocks of 50 or 100 coins at a time).It's not like we knew the price was going to rise so much. I don't think 2 and 4 are the same. 4 is referring to the mixer/anonymizer idea like you've talked about, but 2 is talking about the actual bitcoin tcp traffic, and is suggesting you should route it all through tor or another anonymizing network. I've managed to spam the orderbook by doing tiny increments in rate and have drowned out everything on the USD side of the order book using less than 1 USD in funds. Now nobody can see what's available. I'm sure i could do the same on the BTC side if i had any left and there was anything to drown, making the orderbook useless.I think to solve it the order book should be put into bins, so it's more a rough idea of the quantity at each rate, by combining all the quantities at the rates say between 15 and 15.01, or you shouldn't allow quite such small increments in rate. Or maybe it should be left as it is. I suppose when there's active trade across the spread it won't be an issue because those micro orders will be picked up as soon as there's a trade. But I think there should be some way to see more of the orderbook if someone does do this and while you still have low activity on there.Not really a bug but the way the order book doesn't update even when you place an order kind of bugs me  looks like they are being attacked: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=40264.msg901601#msg901601Could be the issue, give it a while I guess. Attack surface is pretty low. I can't find anything obvious through fudging with form parameters but I'll keep looking when I have time.Couple of trivial/minor things:You can click new multiple times and it makes many rows of the new order form. I thought this was so you could create multiple orders at the same time which I thought was a good feature - However, you can only select one of the radio buttons across the whole set so this looks like a bug. (pic: http://i50.tinypic.com/34so4du.png)IMO, If you do make this feature there should be a button at the bottom so you can place all the orders at the same time rather than having to click the place order button on each individual row.Very trivial thing, don't know if it's an actual issue or a conscious decision:on Signup, the terms and condition link changes the page rather than opens in a popup so I lost the password I had entered when I hit back.Normally I middle click those links to open them in a new tab but sometimes they are javascript links(to open the t&c in a pop-up) which means that doesn't work. If you do decide to make it a javascript pop-up, leave the link as it is, and use the onclick to open the popup and return false so it doesn't actually change the page. That makes middle click work to open the link as normal, and left click calls the onclick handler to open the popup and cancels the normal link action.Bitcoin address, if accepted: 1GgQn4VGwv75x2bNweua4Ko34tGvZXjkNj You should put the link in the first post or at least in your signature or something:https://strikesapphire.com/ So, I presume something like this:Take the list of addresses you know belonged to MBC; For each address in list:    For each outgoing transaction from that address:        If transaction has more than 1 input:            Add any input addresses to the list if they aren't already thereSeems quite reasonable I will look into making a simple JS client for the API this weekend. Remember that javascript restricts cross domain requests, so it will have to reside on your server (well, under the same domain, but that's likely to be the same thing in this case) in order to work.(For dev, I'll write a quick proxy that will redirect local requests back to your server, so you don't need to give me access for development) Assuming you're talking about a specific old and a specific new key then yes, it is equally hard to find the private key (which is incredibly, astronomically, hard).That said, if you are trying to find a collision by brute force generating bitcoin addresses, then you're more likely to find a collision with an older address because it's likely there are considerably more "older" keys than "newer" keys. It depends on where you draw that line.Care to explain further? Unless you have more details (and I don't know why the host would have given out that kind of customer information), you're referring to the domain and not to the hosting.The hosting can expire while the domain is still active. Seems incredibly expensive. I've seen nice wood boards with decent go stones (convex & glass) for considerably cheaper. Negative 2% (student loan) Given that it is a specific address, it would indicate that the solution will eventually resolve into either a wallet.dat or a private key (and given casascius's service, I'd guess that the solution is a private key) and isn't the login to an online wallet, as those can't guarantee sending from a specific address.The string is very short and generic, and so it seems a little unlikely that the private key somehow is encoded into it. A private key is 256 bits and the string (assuming casascius is only looking for a-z,A-Z,0-9, period, comma, space, even including the quotes, gives a total of 66 symbols, or ~6 bits per character) has a total of 324 bits... That really doesn't include enough to hide it stego-style in such a pretty sentence.Given that this is ruled out, its probably more likely to be a logic or lateral puzzle. plain site... site, website... somewhere on his website, view source, ctrl-f, plain.htm, plain.html.I think I'll give up, never very good at these things. http://www.google.com/search?q=25+plus+%281.3%25%20of%2025%29But regardless, I don't think that was the point - I'm assuming that lighter previously calculated that trades were charging 1.3 and was just attempting to make an example but failed on the calculation.
You have to provide me with an address.[/quote]Did you read my post? Or just send it all to Davux's address if you don't want the donation: 17E9BE8HwnPbV1JDFPnUvVWCQo9pBWjdAY Sorry, was at work and couldn't really elaborate, was just surprised to see his name there after all this time. Davux also got burned by Just a Man so I don't know if you want to make it 50-50?. After thinking a bit and seeing Just a Man's response of changing his post and signature, I'm not too worried, I donate whatever my share of this would be back to the Bitcoin Weekly. Well we hit 10 before, I don't think it counts unless it's sustained. Please consider not dealing with just a man, or split the 0.1btc amongst those he owes.http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=2748.msg49917#msg49917Thanks Please consider not dealing with just a man, or split the 0.1btc amongst those he owes.http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=2748.msg49917#msg49917Thanks Sure but you have to do that before the thief does it himself and it's not always going to be simple (imagine if you only had 1 computer and that got stolen). That's my point, which is why I want a service where I can log in (from my phone if need be) and quickly get my wallet decrypted and my coins sent to a new separate address that the thief will have no access to. The bitcoin wallet stores 100 addresses that have not yet been "generated". That means when you generate a new address and send coins to it, the thief will also see those coins because he has the same extra addresses in the wallet. This does make me think of a scenario - the bitcoin aware thief, who steals your laptop and transfers your coins before you had a chance to recover your wallet, download the blockchain and send them on to a new address (one that also isn't in your wallet already).This is quite interesting - perhaps there should be an option in the client to make a new address that hasn't been seen already, for this possible situation where your wallet has been compromised.Another thing I'd like to see is a secure and heavily backed up service where you can upload an encrypted wallet.dat - if your laptop gets stolen you can send the service a decryption key(kept on a usb stick with you all the time perhaps) to have the coins sent to a new address immediately, and just hope that the thief hasn't had the chance to send them on to another address yet. The service can take a small percentage of the recovered coins (after decrypting the wallet) as payment for holding it.I wonder how long it will be until this becomes an actual issue? Sold 1,000 bitcoins for about $45, after a sudden increase of 10x from about 0.004. I felt sure that it was going to crash after an increase of 10x in such a short period, so I sold.   The next day, I think, was the first slashdotting. Oops.  Cypherpunks gave us the internet as we know it. Satoshi is/was most definitely one of them. That was great, good job Gavin and Genjix! Lets try this again since BTC pretty much quadrupled in price while this auction was active. Relisted with minimum start of 0.99btc. Nope, the "layering" can be an automatic process.http://www.nkyvoice.com/But who cares, where he's born doesn't make any difference. Go to the auction page for details:http://www.biddingpond.com/item.php?id=470Thanks! I just had one that only came in at 9 confirmations. Sent BTC and replied. Thanks. Are you able to transfer it to another account then?I will take it at 4btc if you can. Great! do you want to pay through biddingpond? Or you can pay me directly at this address:12fyP4gU2Y7WoaLZm8xhgiPddK14MjVcZdRevenue is quite minimal. It has earned about 7 btc since I released it (another reason I wish to sell it, but I think this can be improved if the site itself is improved, but I just haven't had the inclination or time to do so). I understand if you wish to reconsider based on this extra information, da2ce7.Also I will transfer you the correct amount of bitcoins to cover the current account balances, assuming you want to keep the site going as it currently is for now(?) Hello!I am selling the bitcoinservice.co.uk website due to a lack of time to continue development. Hopefully you can make it into something greater.It is set up on bidding-pond, along with what you will get for your purchase:http://www.biddingpond.com/item.php?id=459CLOSEDIf you buy it now for 200btc immediately I can help you set it up this weekend, beyond this weekend (even if you buy-it-now) it will have to wait until between the 29th and the 2nd as that is the next time I am free.Thanks,Ben Problem on my end. Should be fixed.
Somewhat aware of the problem. I expect it's with the size of the files or timing out of the request with the upload. The site was developed just as a quick project to test out bitcoind integration and I didn't expect it to become the only btc file hosting service that seems to still be around. What happened to the others?There's currently a max filesize upload limit of 2mb and a maximum timeout of 300seconds(or 5 minutes). If either of those are exceeded then it will fail. Thanks genjix! Great work.You showed bitcoinservice  Wasn't expecting that  Sorry Kiba, I have to sleep and hold down a day job.13DbJQ5np5TYVLRL5G6EuRtXRDBsJ6HrsXThanks!Edit: Received & confirmed, +1 Kiba 680269Thanks very much! Thanks  One thing I'd say though, you should probably check how the name is being used already before you decide. Did anyone notice any links to bitcoinservice on 4chan?I just noticed how high the file number had got up to and found somebody uploaded lots of 4chan /s/tyle images on the 1st april. And they also uploaded a handy script to automate uploading of files (http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/688)  I am very interested but this is quite expensive when I do not know what they are like inside.Can you please explain to me what I will get if I buy the files?(Also, thanks for using my bitcoinservice site) The Autoverse (Like Plato's, it comes from one of my favourite novels: Permutation City) Note that it really depends on what you need and what content is going in there. Tables have some unusual behaviours that people learnt to rely on that isn't easily reproducible with css.One of the things that can be (quite stupidly) complex to do is to make a footer stick at the bottom of the page even when the content on the page doesn't make it extend to the bottom, but it is possible. If you require that then let me know. Even though metal-giant's version makes the page look exactly the same as the simple tables version in your original post, it's likely to not behave exactly the same because it uses some tricks to make it look the same as your tables version (like line-height, which makes the text go into the center vertically which is default with tables, but means you wont be able to have more than one line in there) Building on error's work somewhat (use the same html with this css):Code:body {        margin: 0;        padding: 0;        color: black;        background-color: white;}#footer, #header {        background-color: #e7e7e7;        height: 250px;}.indent-and-center {        width: 900px;        margin: 0 auto;        text-align: center;}Just noticed there's been another post since, but my version is shorter 13DbJQ5np5TYVLRL5G6EuRtXRDBsJ6HrsX http://blockexplorer.com/address/17LMUQVqHrnPg3CZMECMBdW7XV1nr1A4K1Yep, looks like it's being paid off at a good rate Was posting the repayment address publicly part of the plan to show your trustworthiness? How are the addresses generated? By that, I mean, what's used to seed the random number generator? Obviously it's correct that mathematically, collisions are insanely improbable. But if the method used to generate the random numbers is insecure or compromised then that's a much much greater problem. I think on linux /dev/random uses noise from system devices but is this guaranteed? And how does it work on windows? You could "prove" it's you after the fact by looking at the transaction in block explorer and seeing which addresses/inputs the coins were sent from or the output the change was returned to(The address in the outputs that isn't the one you sent coins to).You could then send a large (significant enough that the other party would be satisfied that you're not just sending the coins to somebody else in order to "prove" that the address is yours) but unusual amount to one of those addresses after telling the other person how much it will be. I sent a pm about this but I'd like to make a new offer of 100btc including postage.Thanks,Ben This was generally the impression that I got, but it doesn't really explain why he claims the coins are spent but they haven't moved from the addresses we sent them to. I looked at mtgox and it seems you have to specify how much is going to the account before it gives you an address so I guess he wouldn't have received my second payment of 30 bitcoins since I sent them without warning to the same address as he previously gave me and then sent an email afterwards. So it would still suggest he is lieing about having spent the bitcoins. Somewhat glad I'm not the only one.I've also just discovered that he is also lieing, since my 60 bitcoins have not moved from the address that I sent them to (I sent in 2 sets of 30 a week apart):http://blockexplorer.com/address/15XZ56bmKQkzaw9dd463aGJuxHx2ktzKGeWhich makes me far less sympathetic and far more unhappy.Edit: Thinking about it, that could have been an mtgox address so i was sending straight to his account, in which case it'd make sense if they weren't spent but still could be sold. I had a 3 month contract here, starting on the 16th January, so I paid Just A Man 60 bitcoins up front.After about 2 weeks he told me I could no longer have that server but offered me a much better one, which satisfied me for the inconvenience at having to change.Yesterday or the day before, he offered the old server back but then changed his mind again and said I could keep the good server.Today, exactly 1 month in, I get the following email:While I appreciate his plight and do not wish to make his life any more difficult right now, it is also important for others to know the experience I have had with Just A Man, which went from very good 1 month ago to very bad now. I would have also appreciated an offer of a refund for the remaining 2 months (that is, 40 bitcoins) once he is back on his feet. I attempted to reply with such before I posted this but his email address is now bouncing. when the bitcoin faucet made the transaction sending you 0.05 bitcoins, it got inserted into the block chain. Once your bitcoin client downloaded all of the available blocks, your client saw that transaction in the chain and so you have the money available to spend now. Sent email, thanks  Probably the closest you'll get:http://maps.google.com/maps?q=https://smsz.net/btcStats/bitcoin.kmlOf course, there's no way to know how many nodes belong to one person, nor how many aren't listed on the map.(from http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2346.0)
No problem! I'll leave it and withdraw my offer for now. Any more offers?Still happy at 60 despite the increased BTC-USD exchange. 60 BTC Including shipping to the UK Not sure where you but as you state it has an EU plug, you're probably not so far away so shipping to the UK should be cheaper, please consider that when comparing my offer with any others  Quantum entanglement does not allow FTL communication. I want this hexacopter:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fyYujjP5J-k Retailers accept a transaction on faith every time they accept a credit card. Or even cheques which were still used up to a few years ago. I wouldn't mind the confirmation so much if it was made obvious that I would have to wait.On Kiba's file, it said: "send at least 0.102 coins to <address>"So I went to my bitcoind and did sendtoaddress <address> 0.102Everything seemed fine and I kept refreshing but it still wouldn't let me download the file. Then I remembered that bitcoin still only works in cents so I had to send another .01 and then wait for a confirmation before I was able to download the file. It was pretty confusing - maybe you should round up to the nearest .01 so that I can actually send the amount you require, since bitcoind didn't inform me that it only sent 0.10 when I tried to send 0.102. This is a very good point. Any domain registration message to the network could potentially be hijacked. It doesn't matter what the system is, if you're loosely connected and you send a registration message into the network, a well connected client on the network could simply resend the message using the same domain and possibly get to a larger proportion of the network faster than the original sender's registration message, causing his registration to be more likely to be included in the block chain. I'm not sure what the solution to that is. Of course the person who does this will have to spend whatever it costs to register a domain to do this attack, which will have a natural limiting effect on it, which may be the best we can hope for.Can anyone think of a solution? Perhaps having to mine a hash for the domain registration message with much less difficulty than mining for domaincoins/whatever, but just to slow anyone down from being able to instantly register a domain as their own. Care to stick a wiki up on there? I like DomainChain as well.I would also argue against any particularly special attachment to bitcoins, what would the purpose of that be except to hopefully promote bitcoin? I prefer to allow it to be a separate market in it's own right. With people able to pay for domains from those who've managed to generate them using whatever payment method they want to agree on.Do we have a wiki yet? Couldn't a block including a known revoked withdrawal be ignored as invalid by the other clients though? How are the addresses generated?Although obviously there's technically a huge huge number of them, they are limited by the randomisation function used to generate them, unless the openssl libs do something a lot more clever (got as far as EC_KEY_generate_key, but got lost in the openssl source). Typically randomisation will be seeded by the clock value, which will probably be in milliseconds, so there seems that there's a definite/significant possibility of collisions. Hopefully someone can educate me on why this isn't a problem. 20 BTC from me I don't think it's so weird, it's just ensuring it will only print that cpu info line for the first call of the function. excellent  <3 competition Good luck backing that up through the web upload service with a small upload limit. It's a good point though, I need to investigate and make file size and upload terms more explicit. I just asked about a betting exchange in the irc today, didn't notice this thread before. I was thinking of starting to work on one for football(soccer, that is).Any chance of being able to change the odds display? I can't understand American/US style odds very easily at all. Decimal makes the most sense to me, but lots of people swear by fractional - you should probably try and support all of them if possible.How are you settling your bets by the way? That would seem to be the most difficult part to me, seeing as most of the live scores & results feeds available charge massive amounts. Been looking out for some decent free feeds for football results that are updated in a timely manner and not finding anything yet. Sorry I only just made it last night, haven't advertised it at all yet except in the irc... but here it is: http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk It still needs a lot of work and I think you've got a much better domain for yours but mine has an account based model rather than your instant anonymous uploads. Now that I have the accounting stuff I can add more features and services based around that than just file downloads. File downloads was a quick easy thing to implement and I wanted something that I could build quickly yesterday. Hope you don't feel too threatened by the competition  They won't be synchronised. It might synchronise for a little while until your 100 saved addresses are used up, but after that you'll be using different addresses on each machine, so it will become unsynchronised... so if you make a payment you'll get the change on one machine but you wont get it synchronised on the other, you'll just see the loss of money.I am curious if/how it would cause any problems beyond a forking of the wallet though. Assuming the web server is still running and you know the ip then just put it in your hosts file with the now defunct domain, so that your browser will send the correct host so the web server will serve the right site and any absolute links on the site will work as well.
