Currently? No. I've had to reinstall a lot of stuff due to temporary issues on my server.I should be able to get it up and in working order again soon though. All signatures should then start working again. Sorry for suddenly disappearing without notice As for plans to release the source code... yes, I'll definitely be looking at doing that some point in the future, though I'd like to fix some small issues first though. More along the lines of me adding some debugging code and forgetting to remove it Fixed  And... Bitthanks now has a logo  Flattr definitely sounds like an interesting model. Currently, to do that with Bitcoins though I'd have to get both the user and the benificiary to register. As far as doing any integration in the Bitcoin client, I'm afraid I don't know C(++).The code to do this locally would be pretty simple. All that's needed is a JSON-RPC API call to getnewaddress with as argument a label you want the donations to apply to, and a call to getreceivedbylabel for checking the amount of donations sent. Furthermore, you'll need to use a graphics library to generate the image. I am using GD along with PHP. For JSON-RPC I use http://jsonrpcphp.org/. You'll of course need to install bitcoin on your webserver currently, which may not be possible on shared hosting. Another interesting use for Bitcoin is the ability to quickly send a token of your appreciation for help received or small services provided to someone, especially in forum environments.To aid with that, I've created Bitthanks. Bitthanks is a system which displays a public donation count in a forum signature, and displays a small banner soliciting a donation. The system generates an unique address labeled with the receiving user's label for each possible donator.Once transactions clear, a cronjob takes care of automated deposit to the legitimate beneficiary's address registered with Bitthanks.Currently, this system is in beta. To sign up for beta testing, private message me on this forum with:An address I can send the Bitcoins you receive to. Generate one in your client, and label it something like "Bitthanks Automated Deposit"Your e-mail address, in case I need to contact you for some reason.UPDATE: Future-proofing: a password, which might be required for a future web-interface for manual deposits.(optional) An alternate message, which you want displayed instead of "Want to thank me for this forum post? Click here! Powered by Bitthanks."You'll receive a message back with the proper BBcode to place in your forum signature.Enjoy!  (deleted as nodes are down currently)
