Hi guys,Just cross posting a Magento job at BitcoinDeals.  If anyone monitoring this thread is interested, please let me know.https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=46007.msg549058#msg549058 Hi All -As BitcoinDeals is tying up some loose ends prior to public (non-invite-only) launch, we need to bring on a new team member.  We always prefer to start our search inside the bitcoin community first.  We are looking for a PHP/mySQL (and preferrably Magento) expert.  This will initially be about 40-80 hrs of work for the next couple weeks (depending on experience) and then will transition into deployment/maintenance assistance.  If things go well, there will be opportunities for full-time work on other projects as well, but for now consider this a moonlight/part-time job opportunity.If you're interested in helping to grow the bitcoin economy and feel that you are qualified for this position, please email me at jobs [at] trucoin.comCompensation:  negotiable and DOELocation:  you are welcome to work from anywhere but at this time we prefer that you are a US citizenThanks! +1 on putting what you have on github  If you need more moderators, I can lend a hand.  Just let me know. +1Ideally if we were to add it to the bitcoin.org home page, it would be nice to keep it neutral and edit the last part of the video to mention bitcoin.org instead of the author's site.Great video though! Well done! I'm sorry if I was misleading.  In my original post, I very clearly stated that I will award 30 BTC if I use the suggestion.  That being said, as a token of good faith, I have decided to split the reward between Ardvark Quark and Mystaceus.  There were many of great suggestions put forth, but as the weeks went on, those two were in fact the most memorable to me.  Unfortunately they did not meet the criteria for my business model.Most importantly this was merely supposed to be a fun exercise for the community.  I look forward to serving you all soon.[Edit:  btc addresses have been solicited from the winners via PM][Edit:  the name we decided on for the time being is TruCoin Technologies] Just an update.  We have chosen a name.  Unfortunately it was none of the names that was suggested.  I want to thank each of you for your suggestions!  We will be launching soon. We will be releasing an android client soon, coupled with a server that does exactly this. A few of us in the community are working on a solution that will both increase the usability of bitcoins for newcomers, while preserving the user's control of those coins.  Expect some good things in the near future . +1 I about rolled on the ground laughing when I saw the Mystaceus recommendation and the picture. LOL I have been having similar thoughts lately.  I think this is a huge hole that bitcoin could elegantly fill.  However, it is somewhat like bitdns that it would likely not be supported by the mainstream bitcoin client out of the box. Hi Guys -So most of my due diligence with regard to the bitcoin-related businesses I am starting has been done under a parent company called "Chaordic Ventures."  While I like the term "chaordic" (hence my forum name), it doesn't really brand that well for anyone not familiar with Dee Hock's ideas about organizations, and people are uncertain of its pronunciation.   Needless to say, it's time to better brand the parent company that will be formed. So here's what I'm looking for:I need something like ________________ [Ventures/Enterprises/etc], LLC.  The .com domain name (without the LLC) needs to be available for registration at a major registrar like http://www.dotster.comI do NOT want the terms "bitcoin", "btc" or anything eluding solely to bitcoin to appear in the name.The suffixes of "ventures," "enterprises," are optional.I'm looking for something that embodies the ideas of: nimble, yet robust, trustworthy, distributed, I'm not opposed to new words, or words that sound like other words (eg expedia), as long as it's easy to pronounce and spell.So please, give me some ideas.  If I use your suggestion I'll pay you 30 BTC.  If you don't want to share your ideas in public, please email me at chaord.btc@gmail.comOverall this should be a fun exercise, and who knows, maybe your recommendation will be a part of history, so please have fun and let the name generation commence....! Agreed.  Luckily there are more entrepreneurs than bankers attending   Nope I will be attending this conference on Monday.  While I agree that the vast majority of typical bankers will have no desire to see bitcoin succeed, there is a small subset that will see the inherent opportunity.  It's that subset that I am willing to work with and educate along the way.  I'll let you know how the conference goes.If any other bitcoiners will be there, please let me know. Thanks for backing me up.Nope.  But you do get comedy points  Fellow bitcoiners (and especially old-timers and miners),I have been working on a stealth-mode startup that, IMO can help take bitcoin to the next level and perhaps even to the mainstream.  Everything will be on the up-and-up, and all t's will be crossed and i's dotted from a legal standpiont.  I'm not going to divulge here, but needless to say, I would like to talk with any established bitcoin community member who has an unallocated 100,000+ BTC around.  Please email me at chaord.btc@gmail.com and we can set up a time to chat via phone, skype, gchat, or IRC.  I have an investment proposal that you'll be interested in both from its potential return and it's inherent benefit to the bitcoin community as a whole.  Development, legal necessities, and planning is already underway.If this is something you are remotely curious about, please contact me.  It doesn't hurt to ask.  However, at this stage, and so as to not waste anyones time, I merely ask that you be a qualified candidate (eg large amounts of BTC and good standing).--chaordP.S.  If you don't have 100,000+ BTC, but you do have a large amount (and especially, a low cost basis), please contact me anyway.  While, I'm much more interested in having a single partner right (don't want too many cooks in the kitchen), I'm open to other options.P.P.S.  If you are not interested in working together and simply want to give me a quote for an off-market purchase (or agreement) of nominally 100,000 BTC, please do so.[Edit] P.P.P.S.  If you are curious what we're up to and have 10+ hours/week that you can contribute in sweat equity, please contact me and tell me about your passions, skills, and a role you could see yourself playing. What bitcoiners are planning to attend this?  If we can get speaking slot, I'll buy a last minute ticket, attend the conference and help with the pitch. Looks good...just fixed a couple grammar issues and added a little flare.  I'll also add 5 BTC to this bounty, payable when/if Schneier would like to redeem the offering.Dear Mr. Schneier,We're writing as a community of enthusiasts and creators of an open source cryptographic currency project called Bitcoin.  Bitcoin is a decentralized peer-to-peer money system that relies on cryptography instead of central banks to enforce the integrity of transactions.  Started in 2009 by Satoshi Nakamoto, Bitcoin is being billed as "the world's first cryptocurrency," and has recently started to garner significant interest.  Though officially still in beta, Bitcoin already has nodes, participants, and exchangers located around the world.The reason why we are writing is, first and foremost, we wanted to see if you have heard of it.  If you have not, we'd like to invite you to become familiar with it.  Second, we are eager to hear any opinion or critique you might have to share about it.We understand your time is valuable.  We hope that after a brief look you will find Bitcoin to be truly novel, peculiar, and worthy of your interest.  Several of us who are familiar with you and your work have expressed a willingness to collect a small but significant offering if you're interested - naturally, payable in Bitcoins.I have included a brief synopsis of Bitcoin, as well as a summary of Nakamoto's Bitcoin Whitepaper for your convenience.  Our website is bitcoin.org, and we are available to answer any questions you may have.Sincerely, ...
Bitcoin is digital cash for people who embrace technology yet prefer not to trust bankers and politicians. Hal -Thanks so much for contributing this.  I'll see if I can get it implemented an tested somehow (I'm not much of a C++ guy, so it'll be interesting).  If it works out, I'll flick you a couple bitcoins for your efforts!  Cheers.--chaord I'd be happy to opensource this patch.  I eventually plan to open-source everything I'm working on.I can't speak for the official source-code though.  I suppose if there is enough demand, they'd likely include it or something similar. Alternatively, I would also accept a server-side program (any language) that accomplishes the same thing and simply opens a connection with bitcoind, does the handshake, and sends the transaction.Any takers? Hi guys -I hope someone is in the mood to make a quick buck today.  I need a relatively straight forward patch for the bitcoin client.  Here are the requirements:Add new json-rpc command "broadcastTransactions"Parameters: list of transactions in the same format as a serialized CTransaction.  Note, these transactions are likely NOT belonging to the client's bitcoind wallet.  They were created and serialized by an external wallet.Procedure:  broadcast the new transactions to peers so that it will ultimately be accepted into a block.  i *think* it just needs to get added to the memory pool and then bitcoin will take care of advertising it to other nodes, send it etc.No GUI necessary.  This is purely a headless patch.If this is something you are capable of doing, I'd really appreciate it.  I'm willing to pay 100BTC for a working patch in 48 hours (50% bonus for < 24 hours).As always, if you have questions (or if I didn't explain something correctly).  Please ask.  You can reply here, or contact me privately at chaord.btc@gmail.com.Thanks.P.S.  I will pay an additional 50% bonus if you can make sure the transactions are not lost in a blockchain re-org. +1 That's excellent!  Is your protocol Android capable?  How much work needs to be done to implement the crypto stuff?I'd be happy with either xml or json, as long as it's pretty much human readable and doesn't require a hefty library to read it. Thanks for all who responded.  There are some very talented folks perusing the bitcoin forums. I'll get back to each of you today via email. I'm cross posting here (sorry).  If you are a java developer with a good understanding of bitcoin's transaction protocol (no mining necessary), please see my posting (for pay) at http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=3523.0 Hi guys,I'm have a number of projects that I'm trying to get underway, and one thing that could speed those up is a java library (no UI necessary) with the following capabilities:Read/Write Btc addresses and associated keypairs from local XML file (keys.xml)Example file format: <bitcoin>                                     <keypair>                                        <address>abc123</address>                                        <pub-key>public key goes here</pub-key>                                        <priv-key>private key goes here</priv-key>                                    </keypair>                                     ....                                   </bitcoin>You can pick whatever format you think is best.  As long as you can create valid btc addresses/keys and append to the file, in addition to read addresses/keys from the file, I'll be happy.  You'll probably need to use some java crypto library to do this.Read Transactions from a local XML file (transactions.xml)Assume that the file already contains all relevant bitcoin tx entries for the bitcoin addresses in keys.xml  This means that the program does NOT need to read any data from the actual blockchain.  The list of transactions for all addresses in keys.xml will be retrieved from a trustworthy source (eg web service) outside the scope of this project.Example file format:  <transactions><tx amount=30.00>..... </tx></transactions>  (please propose a format that will work, i'm not intimately familiar with how they are stored)Create a valid transaction for a specified amount, utilizing above inputs only.Since the above inputs are the only ones necessary to formulate a valid transaction, there should be a function like "build_transaction(amount, destination_address)"  This function will return a properly formed and signed transaction that can passed to a server and broadcast to the network.Small and self-containedMust be a self-contained jar (including dependencies).  The smaller the better.  Please note, there is NO direct interaction with bitcoind (local or remote) allowed.I'm willing to pay for this work, and it is urgent.  For starters, here's what I propose:$1000 (or BTC equivalent) if done in 2 weeks.  50% bonus if done in 1 week.20% bonus if implemented in Scala.Alternatively, I will also pay $500 (or BTC equivalent) for someone to implement the exact same thing in PHP.  I will open source a PHP implementation immediately.Please respond to this thread with questions.  Please email me at chaord.btc@gmail.com if you're interested and capable.  Compensation is negotiable.Looking forward to working with one (or a few) of you! Great talk! Gavin did an excellent job of both relating to the audience and putting bitcoin into terms that the average technically inclined person is able to understand.  [begin plug] Incidentally, I'll be doing a similar pitch at Boulder Startup Weekend http://boulder.startupweekend.org/  in about 2 weeks.  If any active Bitcoiners are in Colorado, I invite you to attend. [/end plug] Interesting story! We just need to trick people into using bitcoin.  Ironically, unlike the federal reserve system, ticking savers into using bitcoin is actually a good way for them to preserve their purchasing power, rather than erode it. I wrote the prototype in Scala (http://www.scala-lang.org) and the Lift Web Framework (http://www.liftweb.net), persistence is any JDBC compliant DB.  Scala/Lift are awesome technologies and I thoroughly enjoy them.  However, I'm open to a rewrite in a more prevalent language/framework of your choosing.  If you're interested, contact me off-record and we can talk more chaord.btc@gmail.com . Like I said, I need dates.  "First week of Spring Break" does not work as an input for me to look into lodging for you   Additionally, let's take this conversation off the record if you're interested.  We don't need to divulge all details of your vacation plans to the public. I'd need to know some dates, but we could potentially work something out. Ideally, I'm looking to have a motivated individual take over the coding and the testing. Thing are certainly taking longer then expected   I'll open the site back up eventually, but I have a bunch of things to get done first.  If you're a developer and would consider developing and improving Bitcoingateway, contact me privately. For one person, on a budget, we could probably get 2-3 days of skiing and lodging for $500 or so.  It all depends on your budget though.  Email me and we will try to make something work. I live in beautiful Colorado.  As I prepare to head up to the mountains to ski this weekend, I realized that perhaps there might be some bitcoiners that either a) haven't had a vacation in a while or b) haven't ever skied/boarded at world-class resorts and mountains.  Colorado is home to world-class skiing, scenery, and some of the coolest mountain towns you'll ever find.  Therefore, as a show of good faith to the bitcoin community, I am prepared to offer:A Personalized Mountain/Ski Weekend! for you, or you and your family.Here's how it will work:Email me at chaord.btc@gmail.com and give me a little information about what you'd like to see/do, number of people, your price range and your expected dates of travel.We'll agree on an itinerary and accomodation/entertainment details, and a USD/BTC exchange rate.You place an estimated BTC equivalent in ClearCoin escrow.I'll front the USD necessary for your airfareI'll book and pay USD for the lodging and skiingI'll pick you up from the airport and drive you to the slopes (or rent a car for you if you prefer)If you desire, I'll ski with you or give private lessons to any of your party <--HUGE SAVINGS (on-mountain lessons are normally very expensive) I'll give you a prepaid Visa card for incidentals and reload it if necessary during your stay We'll settle in BTC!Essentially, I'm willing to front all the USD necessary for your ski weekend and also show you a good time.  Contact me if this is something you'd be interested in (chaord.btc@gmail.com). dissipate -I have thought about looking into opening a store with some cool bitcoin t-shirts.  I'm talking about high quality, trendy shirts, for girls and guys.  I know my girlfriend would wear one...she has finally come to appreciate bitcoin for the possibility of freedom that it offers.  If you're interested in pursuing this, I'd be willing to talk more.  Email me at chaord.btc@gmail.comPerhaps we should utilize this thread to come up with catch-phrases for bitcoin shirts.  If you're a graphic designer, please add your ideas too.  I'll start:"Live Free.  Use Bitcoin""They may take my freedom, but they'll never take my Bitcoins!" --Descendant of William Wallace
This is very cool!  I wonder what a graph of posts by date would look like?  Do we have data for that? LOL.  Yes, that would be considered fraud.  Unless you're the Federal Reserve, then it's considered "legal tender." I prefer to determine my answer for the whole "intellectual property" question by invoking a thought experiment.Example:Let's say that I discover that exactly 8 cups of water per day, no more, no less is a 100% cure for all types of cancer.  Depending on how clever your lawyers are, you probably could get some sort of copyright AND patent on such a "process."Let's say that I do obtain a world-wide patent (for sake of argument) on the "process for curing cancer."  Legally speaking, no one is allowed to "cure cancer" without my consent.This is a pretty ridiculous scenario, yet it is exactly what happens with intellectual property laws.  If I made my information (my cure) publicly available, in my opinion, there should be no penalty for public use of that information.  If someone else uses that information, they are not precluding me from also using the very same information.If, on the other hand, some sinister company that profits from the existence of cancer wants to pay me billions of dollars to not publicize my cure, that is a choice I will have to make.  In the case of cancer, even if I took the money, I'd probably hate myself for the rest of my life (others might be completely ok with it).  However, if I break the contract with the sinister company and leak the cure anyway, that company should only have recourse with me, not with other beneficiaries of that information.  Their contract with me better have some serious teeth.   Likewise, if the very same cure is found by someone else independently, and released to the public, the sinister company should have no recourse against me or the other inventor.In a nutshell, I always think to myself, "should anyone have a monopoly on the use of information that is publicly available?"  Especially when the information can undoubtedly advance or prolong life, in my mind, the clear answer is no.  If I want 100% ownership of that information, I should not tell anyone.  If I want to profit from that information, I must build a business model based on contracts and not utilization of force to ensure my revenue.We cannot directly control information, but only the tangible representation of that abstract information.  Therefore property rights on information in its abstract form make no sense to me.Sorry for the rant .   Not being intimately familiar with the source code, I probably should not have described the goal in terms of "accounts."  It sounds like creighto is after an almost identical feature.  Perhaps we should start a new fresh thread that won't bog us down thinking about the account intricacies.  Instead we can focus on simply allowing private keys to be exported to (and read from) from outside the standard wallet.dat file.If I am understanding bitcoin's internals correctly, one thing that seems to be a hold up is the "change transaction."  Correct?  So assuming you had say, 100 BTC in a bitcoin address tied to private key Y, which is located on a mounted USB drive.  If you wanted to send all 100 BTC to a new address, everything would work fine.  However, if you wanted to send, say, 80 BTC, to a new address, you'd need an additional private key (eg bitcoin address) on the USB stick available to receive the 20 BTC as change. Am I understanding the issue correctly? Yeah, something along these lines could work.  So would anyone be interested in laying out an exact plan to accomplish the desired goal and coding it up asap? for pay? As long as we can effectively have one part of the wallet "offline" such that coins cannot be transfered without insertion of the usb stick, I'd be happy.  I don't necessarily need the "account" aspect.  That can all be done with business logic, as mentioned.  I need the online/offline aspect for security reasons and was merely describing it using the "accounts" feature, thinking that would be the easiest entry point.Thoughts? ribuck & davout -Thanks for your helpful replies.  Just so I can properly understand what is entailed, you're essentially saying that it *is* possible, but may require some considerable tweaking?  Ideally if each account created and pulled from it's own pool of addresses when sending/receiving.  One could then simply export all of the private keys for a particular account.  This does introduce a potentially manual process, if Account A does not have enough funds to send from, but Account B does, the user manually must transfer funds (eg official bitcoin transaction, not internal) from one account to another.  However, this is precisely what I am after.  I want to make sure that transferring funds between accounts requires that the private keys be present (or inserted if not present).Not only do I think this is a very helpful feature from a security standpoint, but I also think this would be a much more consistent approach to the idea of "accounts."Would either of you be willing to implement this for me? I am willing to pay someone to implement this feature in a timely fashion.  Please respond to this thread with any clarifying questions.  If you would like to be considered for the coding of this feature, please contact me directly at chaord.btc@gmail.com and include an estimate for a) how long to implement the feature b) desired compensation (in BTC or USD equivalent).  In a nutshell, here is what I need:On top of the new "accounts" feature I need the client modified such that:An account's private keys can be exported to a provided location (eg USB stick).  Private key would then be deleted from the "live" database.When trying to send coins from an account where the private keys are "missing", have the client return an error message until the necessary private key(s) have been "found" (eg by inserting the USB stick), This effectively allows one to, on the same machine, split your wallet into "online" and "offline" accounts.  A remote attacker could only compromise your "online" accounts.  Even if the attacker had physical access to the machine, he'd still need physical access to the usb stick to compromise the "offline" accounts.I know that similar features have been proposed previously.  However, I need this feature (or something that accomplishes the same goal) implemented asap.  If you think you are qualified to implement a feature like this, please contact me and give me a quote via email.  Of course, if you have questions, or don't mind the details of your quote being publicly known, by all means, reply to this thread.Thanks! Perhaps with quantum technology it will be feasible not only to keep bitcoin alive, but to build a better bitcoin along the way.  For example, fully homomorphic encryption has recently just been shown to be possible, yet it is too slow for production use.  Perhaps something like that would be incorporated into the "next generation" bitcoin, thereby making bitcoin transactions verifiable, yet untraceable. Bitcoin has the economic security of sound money, like gold and silver, yet in a convenient digital form. Ahh!  I see what you are saying now.  Thanks for the clarification.  Yeah, I too have wondered about this. Good points!  I'll add them. Done.  https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Ideal_Properties I got rid of the "theft" category entirely and split it between Storage and UnspoofableAnonymity in the current bitcoin implementation requires trust of some third-party e-wallet service with lots of volume.  I think an ideal system can do better.I'm not quite sure I understand this.  Could you please elaborate? Agreed.   Agree.  I was more referring to the fact that most mainstream people can hardly wrap their head around paypal, much less bitcoin.  Yet paypal is far more recognizable as a products/brand.  I changed it to a C-.By auditability, I meant it would be nice to do instant "approval" for transactions.  Eg, if you are supposed to pay me 30 BTC from an account you specify, it would be nice if I could check that account and make sure that you have at least 30 BTC in it, ideally without revealing your full balance.  Just thinking out loud here.  Maybe we should get rid of this property requirement all together?I was probably too harsh here.  However, currently with bitcoin your transactions are easily traceable unless you choose to obsfucate them.  I'd like something the other way around:  untraceable, unless you explicitly choose to divulge transaction info (much like physical cash is today).  I changed this to a CGood point.  PP would definitely have been the F, not bitcoin.  Changed bitcoin to a C, since it takes some serious effort to remain anonymous. So I have been thinking about this for a while.  Bitcoin is definitely the best and arguably most successful implementation of a decentralized digital commodity that any of us have ever seen.  However, even Bitcoin is not perfect (I wish it were).  Therefore, I'm starting this thread for us to brainstorm and determine exactly what characteristics an ideal decentralized digital commodity would have.  Since ultimately money is just a tool, I think it would be helpful to design the perfect tool, even if it can not be fully implemented yet.  My goal here is to create a quasi-scoring mechanism that we can use to rate the "idealness" of bitcoin and any of its (future) competitors.  Here's what I have so far:Please check the wiki https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Ideal_Properties_of_Digital_Commodities for the most updated list (and explanations).I'm not an expert, and this is not exhaustive (yet).  So please comment below (or update the wiki).I know it might seem like some of these things are mutually exclusive, but time and time again humans have made the "impossible" possible, so feel free to think hypothetically here.One would think that if we could design (or improve) a commodity like bitcoin such that it would receive all A's, people would adopt it on a massive scale.Anxious to see what you guys think. I like this idea.  What about using something like Twitter as the medium to spread the word? Aww, well now I feel bad.  I didn't think I'd be the only one.  Kiba, thank you for organizing the initial shared marketing effort.  I can hardly even count your contributions to the community anymore, they are so plentiful.  Keep up the good work!That being said, I'm all for additional campaigns in the future, but with a better paved process for customers to join the bitcoin ecosphere.  I'm afraid that most newbies hearing about bitcoin these days get turned off by how hard it is to purchase/earn them, due to the incredibly small market.  I wish there was some way we could bootstrap a process to cheaply get bitcoins into the hands of consumers, yet at the same time having those consumers perceive bitcoins as valuable.  Thus they would start trading amongst themselves and spending them on goods/services.  Just my two btc :-) Fascinating!  I have had similar thoughts of starting small partnerships like this.  I'd love to hear more about your plans.  Email me when you get a chance (chaord.btc@gmail.com), and we'll get a dialog going.  I could be interested in joining up with you.I've actually wondered whether a modified plan of yours would work better, from a financial standpoint.  By this I mean, what if you built your "village" to handle 30 households, yet only 11 households live there full time initially.  The amount of housing and amount of food grown/stored would be enough for 30 households.  Resident households/land owners work the land and such.  They also sell call options to the other 19, giving the non-residents the right, at any time to move into the community and bring agreed upon additional resources (exercise price) when they come.Advantage to early adopters/residents:  option premium provides revenue to supplement sustainability efforts Advantage to non-residents: an effective "insurance policy" should "sh*t hit the fan"The development must always be able to accommodate both residents and option holders, otherwise the viability as an "insurance plan" is nullified.  This would likely mean that these options wouldn't exactly be cheap.What do you think? Maybe we should build ourselves Bitcoin-Ranch   [/list]
Thank you all for the very well thought out and reasoned responses.  I too tend to think that we'll be fine.  However, it seems pretty apparent that the next 50 years or so would necessitate quite a lot of cultural and developmental changes.  If I understand correctly, essentially this is what needs to happen:The world population must decline naturally, due to a conscious decision to have fewer children.  But how far does it need to decline?Our cities need to become more dense, with surrounding suburbs turned back into farmlandIndividual transportation will become far far more expensive than mass transportationConsumers will be priced out of their habits of materialism.Unfortunately, looking at that list, and thinking about it from the perspective of liberty, and it doesn't look very good.  By this, I mean that governments have claimed a monopoly on at least two of the areas mentioned (city and urban planning/zoning, and mass transit).It's quite frustrating to think that we, and other market participants, have solutions ready and waiting...yet we are unable to implement them, because we need either "buy in" or "sign off" from the powers that be.   Vinnie -I couldn't agree more with your analysis and conclusions.  In fact I have an almost identical picture of how civilization would react to much higher (eg more true) oil prices.  And frankly it's not a half bad picture .  But this pretty much presupposes that the rise in oil prices, and hence the timing of the development and re-localization of economies and such, will be gradual.  I hope it is.My fear though is that there is a slight chance (how slight, I do not know) that we will not gradually shift towards this utopia, but instead prices will rise much much faster than our ability to re-develop.  Most people/societies, rather than redeveloping for the long term would revert to "survival mode."  By this, I mean that any attempt (private or public) to allocate resources toward "smart development" might be thwarted by the masses because those masses would literally consume those resources for survival.  As an example, I imagine a scenario where a family has a couple goats that they do not eat, but rather use for milk.  Let's say that those goats produce enough milk to sustain the family of 4.  However, as soon as a mob of 30 sees those goats, they will not have enough sense, nor will the goats have enough milk to justify keeping the goats alive (much to the family's dismay).  The mob would probably slaughter the goats, divide up the food, hoping that that will sustain them until their next slaughter.  Otherwise, the mob would starve.So essentially I am afraid that we may run into a situation similar to the goat example.  A few people around the world have properly planned, prepared, and cultivated resources necessary sustained themselves.  However, it takes time to develop those resources.  And if it's literally impossible for the ill-prepared masses to follow-suit (eg, there are not enough goats, and we can't make more out of thin air)  Yet, because there are literally not enough resources to sustain the rest of the population, most people/groups would simply revert to survival mode.Of course, all this is a thought experiment at this point.  I'm actually quite optimistic about our ability to innovate out of a resource crisis.  However, I still would like to know what the odds are that society is left in an impossible situation:where the resources available could keep a everyone alive for a couple days, after which everyone perishes (probably what would happen if the entire world was socialist/communist)OR the available resources could keep a portion of the population alive indefinitely (probably what would happen if the entire world was a free market and respected private property).  In either case there is still a lot of pain and suffering, presumably of some innocent people.   So, I have been hesitant to post this for a while, but I have been thinking about it a lot.  I also have great respect for the bitcoin community when it comes to sound economic and philosophical analysis.A few weeks ago, I was told by a buddy to watch the documentary Collapse http://www.imdb.com/title/tt1503769/  It is essentially chronicling one man's attempt (Michael Ruppert) to expose what he finds as the biggest reason why governments all over the world are making huge power grabs.  He argues that it is not actually a quest for power so much as it is literally a quest for survival (the two are obviously very related).  In essence he's talking about the whole "Peak Oil" thing (that from here on out, we have exhausted over half of the world's oil supplies).  Here are a couple of the claims:We have exhausted over half of the world's oil suppliesWe use oil for so much more than just heat and locomotion these days.  It is an input to so many economic goods you can't even count them all anymore. It is extremely unlikely that we will find a true replacement (economic substitute) for oil anytime in the near future.World population growth started increasing exponentially with the discovery and industrialized use of oil.  They claim this to be beyond mere correlation, and that abundance of oil actually opened the floodgates for population growth.When oil eventually is either exhausted or priced beyond reach, the world as we know it can only actually support 1/3 of its current population, in their current lifestyles.Governments have known this for quite some time and have been scrambling to maintain ownership/control of oil around the world (eg, we are not in the middle east to spread "democracy" as they like to say).  Many would argue that they have been preparing for a time when large portions of their populations will starve (ration) to death (FEMA camps, etc).The US will NEVER leave the middle east, for the above reasons.All-in-all I would recommend the film to anyone interested, and it's made me contemplate picking up a book like http://www.amazon.com/Ecotechnic-Future-Envisioning-Post-Peak-ebook/dp/B002TLTSB0 or http://www.amazon.com/Transition-Handbook-Dependency-Resilience-ebook/dp/B001ANYD6I/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&m=AG56TWVU5XWC2&s=digital-text&qid=1294646498&sr=1-1So that's a lot of pretty crazy claims.  However, it's also pretty hard to argue with the data presented as well.  I, like many of you on these forums, am adamantly for unhampered markets.  I'm sure that oil prices will rise so high that we will truly attempt to innovate our way out of this (once governments get out of the way and stop keeping the price artificially low).  And I'd like to think that we CAN innovate our way out of this.  However the more I look into it, the more it seems highly unlikely that we can maintain our current world population AND ween/replace our dependence on oil.My question is this:Is the whole peak oil thing and it's doomsday predictions just a bunch of mis-information?If the consequences of peak oil are what some of these "experts" are predicting, what contingency plans do all of you have in place? Assuming oil was exhausted, do you think the market can innovate to support the current world population? If so, how?  I personally have yet to see a technology or resource that could even remotely compete with all of oil's uses.Essentially, I'm just trying to see whether any bitcoiners think there is validity to all of these peak-oil claims.  And if there is, what you propose we do about it. I am not a lawyer, but I am actively engaging lawyers to assist me with some bitcoin related ventures.  Even though most of us here do not agree with the current laws that prevail in the world, the fact of the matter is that the people in costumes/robes, emplying people with guns, are going to hold you accountable for their laws, however messed up they are.Securities law is particularly tricky especially when it comes to raising capital for a company.  If you are located in the US, I would encourage you to take an extra look at Regulation D.  The rule of thumb is that "if you ever wonder whether what you have started selling to the public/investors is a security or not, it's already too late."Anyway, I'm all for freely exchangeable shares of bitcoin companies (grondilu's service looks awesome!).  I just figured I would give a quick word of caution, because I would hate to see any of us well intentioned bitcoiners be fined/caged for breaking a "law" that we didn't even know existed.  It is unfortunate that we even have to worry about this stuff, but at this point I think it's important for all of us to start dotting our i's and crossing our t's.  If bitcoin is even half as successful as what we all imagine, we are likely going to be in for a bumpy road.Frankly, the day that a big law firm steps up and is willing to be the go-to general counsel for bitcoin-related ventures (and get paid in BTC) will be a happy day for bitcoin as a whole.  I look forward to when that happens. I'd be interested in putting something together and attending.  However, I do not want to go it alone.  If someone has a good idea about what exactly we should prepare/present, let me know (PM to get my attention) and we can start working on it. Pull -To be perfectly honest, I have not read all the upstream posts, but I did skim them.  If you are in the Denver/Boulder area, which it sounds like you are, I'd be happy to meet with you in person and see if we can't get you back on your feet.  I am located in Denver.  Shoot me an email when you get a chance:  chaord.btc@gmail.com It is way to early in the research timeline, but I recently read that "fully homomorphic encryption" has recently been shown to be possible.  Currently it's incredibly slow, but if I understand it correctly, in the future it would be possible to have a bitcoin-like network that is end-to-end encrypted.  By this I mean that the blockchain and such could be fully encrypted, and transactions verified/audited but only in a one-way manner.  See http://blogs.teamb.com/craigstuntz/2010/03/18/38566/If you guys think this is applicable to bitcoin in the future, I'd enjoy having a new thread to discuss the possibilities.   Yeah, I thought about that.  However, that would potentially mean they would be blocking all corporate VPN's as well (correct?).  So, hopefully that will never happen.Glad to know that there are pretty easy solutions waiting in the wings for this though. I'm not incredibly versed on the inner workings of the proposed net neutrality legislation.  Frankly, handing any more power to the government and assuming they'll do "the right thing" is a pretty absurd thought in it of itself.  But that's beside the point.  I would like to open this thread to discuss the effect (if any) net neutrality actions might have on the bitcoin network.If service providers can throttle bitcoin traffic, just like bit torrent traffic, what will the effect on the bitcoin network be? more block-chains? transaction delays?Is the bitcoin network protocol set up to easily route around net neutrality type stuff?Discuss  Bitcoingateway.com will be closed for the holidays as we restructure and add new features...hopefully the crumbling non-bitcoin economy can hang on just a little longer :-) My apologies.  I see now that my post could have been seen as offensive from certain points of view.  That was certainly not my intention.  If anything, I was just saying that I'm personally very glad that Satoshi posts in English.  Otherwise I probably would have never found bitcoin . Yah, I definitely think it's important we build good relationships with the EFF.  We never know when/if we'll need them  I figure it makes sense to post here before I officially contract with any bitcoin outsider.  I am seeking a savvy General Counsel willing to get his (her?) hands dirty with some bitcoin-related businesses.I know just enough about law to get myself in trouble, so I'm looking for someone to step in and help me formulate a legal plan of attack with regard to everything from entity formation (domicile choice, entity type) and compliance.  BitcoinGateway is only the first of a number of bitcoin-related businesses in the pipeline.Please email me at chaord.btc@gmail.com if you, or someone you know, is a qualified person that I should be talking to about such things.  While I am willing to pay, ideally I am looking for someone who believes in the coming inevitable value of decentralized digital commodities and would want to join my companies as a team member.Happy Bitcoining!Note: please email me rather than PM me (I rarely check my PM's). Out of curiosity, is Satoshi even Japanese? Or is it just a pseudonym? His english is absolutely perfect, so I'm leaning towards the latter. Hmm...weird.  I believe that could be the problem.  It might be your browser too.  Could you please email me at admin@Bitcoingateway.com with details? Thanks. Just an FYI, I take identity theft very seriously.  In fact, one thief has already attempted a number of fraudulent purchases on BitcoinGateway.com.  Luckily I was able to speak with the actual card holder and have since forwarded all communication I had with the thief to the cardholder.  Hopefully they find the bastard.  It's that type of sh*t that are going to make normal people (and governments) scared of bitcoin.Incidentally, the cardholder had no idea what bitcoin even was (not surprising) but was impressed overall upon further review That's my rant.  Happy bitcoining everyone! I think this is a great poll! Glad you like it! I will raise the maximum and lower the fee eventually.  Initially, and due to my current inventory, these numbers make the most sense. BitcoinGateway.com now allows you to purchase MtGoxUSD via credit card.  Currently there is a 10% processing fee and amounts are limited 30 mtgoxUSD to 100 mtgoxUSD. +1 on scala if you're bored 
I personally agree with nanotube's point here, especially in light of the fact that arbitrary data can already be disguised in standard transactions if a person is motivated enough.  I have not looked at the source code, but from what I understand I think that a much more pleasant (politically and technically speaking) solution would be to:by default disallow non-standard transactions that exceed 128 bytes (or whatever threshold is agreeable)?I would like to hear why the above option was thrown out by the developers.While I agree that bitcoin transactions themselves should be the primary use of the blockchain,  a good currency need not ostracize itself either. I agree that the question, as worded is kind of confusing.  I answered "Depends," here's why:1) as mentioned previously, it's expensive and computationally intensive to maintain a blockchain.  Therefore ending up with two blockchains that are doing very similar tasks seems like a waste of resources IMO.2) with regard to namespaces in the blockchain (bitdns or something being only one of them) I think this is a very important feature that must be included.  It would allow human readable and memorable names for underlying addresses.3) I think that building applications that require the bitcoin blockchain as a dependency is fine.  Building bitcoin such that it requires these specific applications as a dependency is not. As we do seek capital, I think it's important that our investors also share our mindset.  Bitcoin will likely be a bumpy ride and we want to make sure that our investors are in for the long haul and philosophically committed as well as financially.  Truthfully, when the time comes I think gaining an audience with Peter Thiel is a worthy goal.I tend to agree that something along these lines would be the best use of the $10M if there was no need for immediate return, especially the legitimate money exchanger part.Bitcoin is breaking a lot of very entrenched molds, and for that reason, when investors do come knocking I'm hoping the structure of investments will be slightly different than normal as well.Personally, I am wondering what sort of capital (BTC & $) all of us as a community could come up with.  Outside venture capital is always the most expensive money and it always has considerable strings attached.  If we can figure out a defined enough plan for a community venture where contributors of capital can see a return, I think this would be the best route. Ha.  Good point.  I was thinking the two could potentially operate under the same umbrella.  We'll see though. This is all very fascinating stuff.  I read themos+nanotube's proposal, ribuck's proposal, and rhorning's.  While I think I grasp the fundamental differences between them, I am not confident to weigh in.  Could I ask that someone more knowledgeable than I am on these matters create a table (wiki?) that lists the proposals as they currently are?I'm personally very intrigued by the idea of piggy backing on the existing bitcoin network, if it can be done cleanly and with minimal modification to bitcoin (as per nanotube/themos suggested).As Kiba pointed out, I am most excited for bitcoin to have it's intrinsic "use-value!"  And it couldn't come at a more needed time what with wikileaks, pirate bay, etc all over the news.Lastly, and this could be due to my lack of intimate knowledge of DNS, but will this work seamlessly with more secure DNS protocols as well? Also, is this designed to ultimately replace existing registrars or will this always be a "DomainShadow" system that is only used in the event of crisis (like wikileaks attack, etc)?Overall, great work guys!!! If we can get some pros/cons of each proposal down on paper, I'm prepared to up my bounty considerably and help out where I can (perhaps on forming an official DomainChain/BitDNS foundation?) I think reserving the top 1000 alexa domains by seeding the genesis block with those "registrations" would be an excellent show of good faith towards the world at large.  A council of bitcoin "elders" could be elected to hold the private keys to those initial 1000 domains, and turn them over when the time comes (for a fee, which will go towards bitcoin/domainchain community funds).   Could I ask why this forum does not support email notifications?  Is this something that the mods would be willing to turn on?  I would even consider paying you a few btc to do it . RHorning...thank you for the very detailed responses.  It's been helpful that you are so willing to lay down your logic so that some of us can play "catch up" as we wrap our heads around this project.I completely agree here.  Even though his "blessing" is not necessary, it could potentially save a lot of time and effort if we can at least get Satoshi involved in the discussion.  Does anyone here have enough of a working relationship with Satoshi? I know he is quite evasive these days. I'm going to put my thinking cap on here, because I think ideally if we could do this under one umbrella (either by expanding bitcoin to encompass domainchain or vice versa) it will strengthen both projects. I would like to ask for some clarification on exactly what we are proposing here.  From reading this (lengthy) thread, I gather that we are proposing:A decentralized domain registrar that maps a friendly human readable name (ie: chaord.btc) to an ip addressA parallel network bitcoin which will have it's own token currency (represent addresses).  Rather than mining bitcoins, you mine top-level address rights.  Is this correct?Am I understanding all this correctly? If so, it seems as if in this brave new digital world, bitcoins (BTC) represent a commodity like gold, and domaincoins (DCC) represent real estate.Lastly, I'm sure this has been discussed, but is there any way that the two system can be combined?  Can the domaincoin system accomplish all things bitcoins can, in addition to domain registration, or no?  IMO the best of both worlds would be if, somehow (not sure how), the domain coin system could use bitcoins as its underlying backing (or vice versa).Honestly, I feel that something like DomainCoins is the "missing link" that this community is searching for.  Because the data behind DomainCoins actually represents something (an IP address mapping), I think this could be the use-value that something like bitcoin needs to propel it to success! I don't know how to do this on IRC, but can someone create a #bitcoin-domainchain chatroom or something so that we can get some real time discussion going? +1 on DomainChain or BitRegister over BitDNS (no offense kiba  ) Yeah, I thought this feature would be useful for a number of reasons.  One would be in the case where network transactions aren't free, like you mentioned.  The other would be for backing up funds (but not freezing them).  And lastly (and possible most important) would be a way to migrate coins out of nodes that have been compromised.  If such a feature was standard, then everyone could still access their bitcoins even if a site like mtgox went down. I'm not sure if this has already been discussed, but I was thinking that the following would be a really nice feature.  Let's say that I have a mybitcoin account, or a standard client running on my computer.  The account wallet.dat has 1000 BTC in it.  I would really like the following:be able to export a portion (say 400) BTC to a new (partial?) wallet.dat fileThis would allow for a number of things:Allows users of service sites (mt gox, mybitcoin, etc) to back up portions of their account.Allows p2p transfers (among trusted individuals) without immediately needing to pass through the network.Since with bitcoin, every user pretty much runs their own bank, this is the equivalent of being able to write a cheque to yourself (eg to another account that you have at a different branch), and never cashing the cheque (submitting it to the blockchain) unless the original node experiences problems.  I hope what I'm saying here makes sense?  Having a legitimate transaction on "standby" (not in any block chain yet) for the majority of your "balance" at a site like mtgox/mybitcoin would be really neat.So essentially what I'm proposing syntactically would be something like "bitcoind generatewallet 50" would generate a valid wallet.dat file with a balance of 50 BTC (if it is ever "merged" into the block chain).  Is this possible? I'm looking forward to this problem.  If we can get there, not only will bitcoin have been successful, but the vast majority of the socio-economic problems in the world (eg, government/central-bank caused) would probably cease to exist since they would be unable to fund themselves .   I pledge 2000BTC if we can have a secure and reasonable usable prototype within 3 months.   I would like to be looped into this project.  I think that something like BitDNS can provide the intrinsic "use value" for bitcoin.  I'm a firm believe that bitcoin in its current state is a solution looking for a specific problem.  Perhaps a distributed dns is that "problem."  This is exciting! I'm not entirely convinced one way or the other, but yeah, that's why I'm being super cautious at this point. Wow, lots of activity here since I last posted!  I will attempt to address a number of issues:1) BitcoinGateway.com is currently a one-man shop (me).  However, I am not interested in keeping something as incredible as bitcoin small.  I am looking into the possibilities seeking investment capital and going for a home run.2) I'm also looking to start a bitcoin-auditing company that verifies the integrity and security procedures of bitcoin businesses.  BitcoinGateway.com would be only one of the member businesses.  I see this as a mechanism by which the underlying software of companies like bitcoingateway.com and others could actually open source it, subject it to scrutiny, etc, yet be a "verified implementer."  Eg, sure a fraudster could take the software and implement his own bitcoingateway, but his site would never be approved by the auditing company (and therefore not frequented by customers).  This way, however, we could all gain the additional advantage of open source software, transparency, etc.3) About credit card number encryption.  If you are a current or prospective customer, I am happy to discuss the measures I am taking in private. (no need to open my playbook on this forum .  To nanotube and sharp's points, I will also work on a public statement of my security philosophy. Edit:  as soon as any credit cards are verified/denied they are moved to the Authorize.net CIM (PCI compliant) servers.4) With regard to API.  The short answer is "yes."  I will be creating an API.  However, the timeline for the API is unknown at this point (probably depends on whether I can recruit some outside talent .Thank you all for your support.  Together we can change the world, one bitcoin at a time! Just to clarify.  Unfortunately, we can only accept US orders right now.  It was pointed out to me that according to Alexa.com:  Visitors by Country for Bitcoin.orgCountryPercent of Site Traffic Russia25.4% United States16.0% Switzerland7.1% India5.3% Australia4.3% Canada1.9% OTHER40.0% Canada1.9% OTHER40.0%Needless to say we will be working on an international solution as quick as possible 
BitcoinGateway.com is back OPEN for business!  Buy yourself some bitcoins and send your friends! We will work on new solutions soon...have to start somewhere   By soon I mean Tuesday.  Sorry its taking so long. Site is back up and accepting signups, however purchasing of bitcoins by credit card is still temporarily suspended (family time is eating into my bitcoin time ).  Everything will be up and running soon though.  Hang tight. I'll look into it.  Thanks for the suggestion!  I definitely imagine that something more sophisticated, similar to iovation will be necessary in the future.In its current form, BitcoinGateway.com should be back up this weekend.  After that I'll focus on a completely new version that will be fully automated and incorporate things like iovation (and perhaps more) . Definitely.  I'm spending the next couple days automating some things so that I can handle much more transactional volume.  Next week I'll throw a link up to bitcoin2cc.com on the SELL page. Thank you for your kind words.  Incidentally, I checked out bitcoin2cc.com today...nice work! I'm wondering if there might be some synergies there with bitcoingateway, eg providing my customers the ability to "cash out."   I said that I sell "digital information tokens", then used a lot of big words.  Ok, so after processing a number of transactions, and finding a couple issues/bugs (nothing major), I have decided to bring the site down for the weekend.  My intention is to address some minor work-flow issues on my end and bring the site back up by Monday (Thanksgiving is in the way).In the meantime, I want to thank those customers that tried out the service.  I hope everything met (or exceeded) your expectations.I will update this thread when I bring the site back up.--Chaord Kiba -You should receive your 100 from me shortly (sent about 5 seconds ago). Shiesh...well, long days journey into night, and the site is back up.  Sorry everyone. Hi guys,Just a heads up.  BitcoinGateway.com's Linode seems to be down right now.  I'm not sure if it's them or me (probably me), but I'm working to resolve the situation asap.  Sorry for any inconvenience this may have caused.--Chaord Where do we send our portion of the bounty? I'm in for 100BTC (I'll consider it a marketing expense for bitcoingateway.com ) Hi guys.  BitcoinGateway.com is my site.  It's currently open to the public (and you guys) but I haven't started advertising it actively yet (so that I can work out the kinks).  Any feedback is appreciated.Oh, and Bimmerhead -- check your email --Chaord Hmm...everything seems to be working fine on my end.  Could you please email admin@bitcoingateway.com with details of the server-not-responding incident you received.  Sorry for the inconvenience if it was on my end. The default transaction amount when you click "buy" is 50 BTC, the minimum is less (closer to 10 currently).  Any fees are included in the quoted price (eg my prices are slightly higher than the spot rate on the markets).Yes, that's precisely what BitcoinGateway is designed for, repeat customers.  Once a card is registered and verified it's as easy as clicking "buy", putting in the number of BTC.Thanks for the referral!  Incidentally, I'm working on a referral system where you could get a BTC referal fee as a % of the BTC that they purchase. My goal is to be able to process transactions of up to 300 BTC at any given time (hopefully more later).You can email me if you'd like to come up with some sort of alternative arrangement, although speaking with the bank directly is probably what I will prefer. Hmm, hadn't thought about that.  I'll have to look up gift/prepaid cards and see how the charge-back stuff works.  If it's not possible for customers to call the issuer of the gift/prepaid card and dispute a charge then I may be able to accept them without much verification at all.  However, if the charge-back risk is there I'm inclined to say no.Of course, if you are a trusted member of the bitcoin community, you can contact me directly and we may be able to work something out :-) I did consider that (and may still implement it), however the important thing here is that I call the billing phone number for the credit card (whether it's a mobile phone or not).  Unfortunately such a long procedure isn't incredibly scalable, so if business/demand is good I have some automation techniques I can chase after as well (eg, a random pending charge between $1 and $3 and asking the customer to check their statement and put in the exact amount).  Unfortunately fully automated might draw people who have actually phished for full bank credentials and such.  For this reason I'm sticking with phone calls for now.   Thanks for the feedback!
Hi guys,It's been a while since I have posted on the forums.  But just to clarify, I have not lost faith or interest in bitcoin.  In fact I have spent the last month creating a new bitcoin-enabled website https://www.bitcoingateway.com  BitcoinGateway.com is open for business!The purpose of BitcoinGateway is to allow normal credit-card bearing consumers to purchase bitcoins and automatically send them to an address under their control (eg, a character address at http://www.dragons.tl/  or an account at mtgox, etc).  Generally speaking these will be the non-sophisticated users of bitcoin (otherwise they would just access the markets directly).Of course, when taking the plunge and accepting credit cards for bitcoins, there is inherent charge-back and identity theft risk.  For this reason I have implemented an extensive customer verification procedure.  Whenever a new credit card is registered with BitcoinGateway.com, the following steps are taken:Require all normal customer address/billing informationAdditionally, require customer's billing phone numberAdditionally, require 1-800 customer service number on back of credit-card (issuing bank for the credit card)Confirmation code is given/emailed to customerPerformed by BitcoinGateway.com:  Call the credit card's issuing bank, and verify the billing phone number given by the customer.If the bank records match the number given by the customer, then call that billing number. (record this call)Request the confirmation number originally given to the customer (verifies that the actual bank customer made the BTC purchase)Process transactionThe above goes on behind the scenes, but it does delay the processing of initial transactions.  However, the hope here is that it will weed out the vast majority of charge-back and fraud risk (and therefore, keep prices low).As always, feedback/comments are welcome and appreciated.  Either post here, or email me at chaord@bitcoingateway.comHappy bitcoining!--Chaord Hi guys,People can finally buy BTC via credit card again at my site https://www.bitcoingateway.com  I'll start a new thread http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1888.0 about it as well, but I was overdue to clue S3052 in on the launch.  There's an extensive card verification process that I do (to avoid chargebacks and identity theft), but alas retail customers can start buying bitcoins again!Feedback is welcome and appreciated.--Chaord Yep . I couldn't agree more with the premise of this thread.  Incidentally, a recent passion of mine has been the study of healthy organizational eco-systems.  I have thought a lot about what type of organizational structure would best serve bitcoin as a whole and also it's individual participants.  I truly feel that Dee Hock, the founder of Visa, Inc. has the key.Some quick facts:Visa is the largest for-profit organization in the world. Visa is a non-stock, member owned company.  It is owned and governed equally by it's over 20,000 member banks.Member/owner banks have maximum autonomyVisa is governed by all, yet dominated by none.Visa obviously must comply with all national governments, yet is not bound to a specific one.Visa is one of the most recognizable and trusted brands in the world.Visa had to overcome insurmountable odds and adversaries, just like bitcoin will!Many would argue that the key to Visa's success is not it's product/service, it is it's dynamic, adaptable, and principles grounded structure in pursuit of a common purpose.Dee Hock wrote an unbelievable book chronicling his fascination (and obvious success) in creating a Purpose-driven, Principles-bound organization.  It's called One from Many: Visa and the Rise of Chaordic Organization  (hence my choice of nickname on this forum ).  It is by far the best leadership and organizational structure book I have ever read (including graduate school in business).  I highly recommend that anyone serious about forming a game-changing organization around bitcoin-concepts read his book.  What's I find particularly fascinating is that Dee Hock embodies in his organizational principles nearly the exact same things that most bitcoiners hold dear, yet he does it without ever getting into a discussion of political philosophy.As someone who would love to take the "plunge" into promulgating bitcoin professionally, I am certainly interested in setting up an official organization like this.  I think what we need right now is very simple: a core group of people willing to commit to and serve each other professionally.  Forming an actual organization, complete with organizational documentation (purpose & principles) and the ability to contract with individuals and other businesses, is the best way to move forward.If you are interested in doing this at a more formal level, please email me at chaord.btc@gmail.com Please include some details about yourself, and an indication of resources you currently have at your disposal (time, expertise, assets, money/bitcoins, etc) that you are willing contribute towards a shared purpose.  I will aggregate responses and set up an initial conference call where we can define our principles, declare our purpose, and design a structure that will be advantageous for all participants. Sound good? Ok! Let's do it! Kiba -I'm definitely interested in creating some more formal organizations utilizing both btc and the values/principles common to most bitcoiners.  In fact I'm half way through detailing exactly how we could create some for-profit, member owned companies.  If you like, I'll loop you in as I work on itI think at the end of the day it's going to take some well structured, reputed, and autonomous official organizations surrounding the bitcoin community and funding its first flight towards freedom . he's probably going to ask Satoshi, "So, can you rig this with a nice backdoor for us?" or "Bitcoins at $0.06/coin are more than we're willing to pay.  How about we fund you to start a new network with a block reward of 51 coins every 9.5 minutes?"  lol....either that or maybe he'll go rogue and want to help us  I will try it too. There are a couple other threads discussing this.  Overall though, I agree that bitcoin could make a great complement for file sharing/downloading. Could this be the base project for a bitcoin enabled file sharing service as discussed in the other thread? I would be very interested in joining.A precise definition of bad is inherently subjective.  However, this is where arbitration (common law) could shine.  So perhaps a member must also be willing to subject himself to arbitration by other willing (emphasis on willing and voluntary) peers subscribing to the same service? I think this is the crucial point.  There is so much noise in information these days that it's high time people be rewarded for conciseness and accuracy.  I can't think of a better way to do that then a pricing system for unique information.  It may not be used for the typical "my baby just took her first poop," but it might be used for a quick analysis of a current event, some new scientific discovery, or trading. While I generally agree that it is (and should be) the site operator's discretion as to which bets should be taken, I wonder if the rules could be very simple.  The simplest rule I can come up with is that "all bet outcomes must be exogenous with respect to participants."  I think if you simply focus on verifying that topics are truly exogenous, all the unethical or dangerous things will fall by the wayside.  If any participants have a say in the outcome, the bet is not exogenous, and therefore should be banned.Allowing anonymity while enforcing exogenous bets is the biggest challenge IMO. Thanks for the very detailed post!  This was precisely the discussion I was trying to bring to light.  I think some of the solutions you have proposed could work.  Additionally, I see this as potentially generalizable to all information, not just files.  But let's stick with file-only just to keep the discussion on track.The bottom line is that this system at least has the potential to reward originality.  A well known musician might post a music video on there, and because he is trusted and supported, lots of people could choose to seed his video (without modifying it from its original format).  However, a dj or someone else might want to modify the file format (or overlay some new beats).  That new file is then, again original content.  The DJ can seed his new original content and if he has many followers they would seed it as well.There's no way around the fact that information travels quicker and quicker these days, and I would assert that the more popular information is, the less original it is, and therefore the marginal value of it is also less.  I think by focusing on rewarding originality with an embedded pricing system we would have a system that could cut the crap.Ahoy!!! It looks like there are some open-source bitcoin clients, the developers of which, would be willing to create add-ons and features for a bounty.  Whether they will do it for a bitcoin bounty is unknown at this point.  However, if we want it done in a timely manner we might want to pay them in USD.  I'm not near as capable as some of you guys from a coding perspective, but I would consider investing/donating to a project like this. Well, it's only a matter of time before some crypto-currency is used for the "shady areas" of the internet.  IMO we may as well seize the moment and have that currency be bitcoin, since we already have the exchanges in place . You've hit the nail on the head here.  Prices are a great way to incentivise appropriate allocation and also weed out desirable vs undesirable information.  So the big question is, can we structure it such that it works on top of BT?  Will the incentive be strong enough for people to migrate over to bitcoin compatible BT clients? I would  I think that picking incentives and making it incredibly easy are the crucial aspects.  Ideally I would want most of the bitcoin transactional stuff hidden from users.  Additionally, if designed correctly it could be a "zero sum game" for most uses:Seeders of good content get their bitcoins backSeeders of bad content lose their bitcoins to power users/early adoptersNormal users (not power users) download for free like normal.  They pay/receive an equal number, canceling out. Some users may decided boost their download speed by merely upping their bid I also agree with gavin's point that the mainstream is looking for something easy like iTunes, yet with more selection and no rules.  This could do that if we were smart. So I was reading this http://torrentfreak.com/harvard-develops-p2p-client-that-uses-bandwidth-as-currency/  about how one particular filesharing system is attempting to use bandwidth as a "currency."  I'm wondering if we could modify a p2p bittorrent client to use bitcoin as the internal currency and start using it amongst ourselves?  If it's successful, I think it would have the potential to turn viral.I envision something like this:In addition to merely seeding a file, you specify a "wager" in btc that that file will be popular.So essentially you are betting that your file will "earn" more btc than your wagerInitially the flow of btc is OUT from you to the first downloaders.  Yes, the downloaders are pretty much being "paid" to download and seed your content. Then, once your wager "thresh hold" is reached the flow of bitcoins reverses and comes back to you.  Hopefully earning you more than you originally wagered, or if your content sucked or had a virus, you probably took a loss I know that there are some holes in this plan, but what I'm proposing here is that we put our heads together and see if bitcoin can be a better file-sharing currency than anything else out there.  If so, I think something like this could take off. I'm entirely indifferent.  I don't talk much in the dev chat anyway.  Archive away!  I've said it before, but heck, I'll say it again because I think it's very important .  I simply wish that there was some useful application specifically for a "network verified" bitcoin (since a bitcoin is just a piece of data).  For example, if a PhD in Computer Science did a study and determined that a Bitcoin is the best seed value for a random number generator.  I think when a use-value for bitcoin as an input to some productive cycle (software development?) is found, it will be a huge boon for the bitcoin community and also it's extrinsic exchange value.Of course, adding businesses and such that accept bitcoin directly helps it's exchange value as well. +1 agree that it is not money.  However, if it was a pure commodity then it would necessarily require some (even minimal) use value, beyond an exchange value.  Right now bitcoins have a 0% use-value and a 100% exchange value (eg, if they could not be exchanged for something else, they would merely be taking up space on our harddrives and are inherently useless, like random chunks of data).
Yes, this is very cool.  I wish it were available tomorrow  Creighto -So, if I can summarize, what you're essentially advocating is a decentralized, encrypted, anonymous, message (and payment) system utilizing mobile devices and an unregulated frequency spectrum?  If I got that right, then we are definitely on the same page!  It would be amazing if everyone had one of these devices tomorrow (eg, if adoption was instantaneous).  Any idea when the hardware for Dash7 + android will be available? I concur that a killer app is necessary.  I personally have never paid any money for anything on facebook.  Is there a way for us to assess the market?  Are any facebook app developers out there actually profitable from their internal currencies? If so, who?  I'd like to know how much USD is currently flowing through facebook applications.  If it's substantial we actually could have a very good value proposition for the developers, by decreasing their dependence on PayPal. I would prefer trying to start our own internal VC like ycombinator over kickstarter, but that's mostly because my video editing skills are piss-poor (nonexistent).  No reason we couldn't do both if we have enough funding though. I like it!  I assume you mean funds denominated in the national currency in exchange for a percent of revenues, denominated in bitcoins?  I think this would be ideal as it would give national funds required to aggregate talent and other inputs.  Perhaps we can get a "show of hands" for who would be interested in doing this? Ideally if we could raise a pot of $100-200K, I think that could go a long way towards starting numerous prospective companies in a timely manner. This is actually very comforting.  However, if all of us started operating reputable bitcoin4cash businesses, I wonder how many people would be able to pay bills, mortgages, food, etc.  Incidentally, have you asked your customers what they intend to buy with the bitcoins that you sell them?  I know that is a difficult question to broach in a privacy oriented business, but I only ask because it would be great to know how many people are puchasing bitcoins from you solely as a speculative buy and hold investment (commodity) versus those that intend to buy something from the marketplace.  My gut tells me that most of the exchanges taking place today are for speculative or investment purposes, not for the cash-->bitcoin-->marketplace cycle.  Of course this is nearly impossible to prove That being said, I would consider offering a $20K USD bounty (and potentially more) for the development of a particular product/service for which bitcoin is the only viable solution/offering with the potential to go viral.  An example would be the paid-forum idea mentioned above.  I guess what I'm saying is that I personally am convicted enough that until a simple use-case for bitcoin is found that cannot be easily served by any other competing currency, it's going to be nearly impossible to get bitcoin to take off.  I am willing to fund, and find more funding (VC?), for such a use-case.  I know it's out there .Goldsmiths probably never thought that they would become bankers, and that their raw input (gold) would become money for the world.  We are in the opposite boat.  We have the money that we want the world to use, are unwilling to use force to make it so, and are therefore relegated to finding the product/service whereby bitcoin is the only suitable raw input. Fair enough.  I would actually argue that both strategies are on the meta side.  I'm focusing on giving bitcoin an intrinsic value even if it's exchange value is limited.  You're focusing on giving bitcoin exchange value.Maybe we should start a Bitcoin Network, LLC to drive adoption of bitcoin. You can be the chief extrinsic officer, and I'll be the chief intrinsic officer.   Truth be told, I'm quite serious.  I think if there is any way whatsoever that someone can make a full time living solely on bitcoin, I'm in. This is great news with regard to mybitcoin's merchant services!  I think that will go a long way towards fueling adoption in the long run.I still think, however, that the thing keeping bitcoin from taking off (virally) is that there is no specific use-value for bitcoin that only bitcoin can do best.  It got me thinking, there is something that bitcoin has been used for all a long that we haven't actually set up beyond the forum.  Payment for good information!  People have been putting bitcoin addresses in their forum signatures for a long time, and good, helpful posts seem to be rewarded at last to some extent.Maybe we should just keep it simple and build a decentralized, secure forum, much like FMS on freenet? http://blog.locut.us/main/2008/5/11/fms-spam-proof-anonymous-message-boards-on-freenet.html  Rather than a "web of trust" we are replacing it with a "web of prices."  By "keep it simple," I mean build a system such that geeks (like us) would run nodes (normal toplevel domain gateways) and mine currency for our users while also providing them with security and safe passage into the "forums in the clouds."  Nodes would compete for users by distributing the currency they mine to their users.  Additionally certain nodes might offer better UI access to the "forum in the clouds" via mobile apps, sites, interfaces, etc.Because posters would have to essentially pay to post on these forums, they would be the place to go for "spam free, important, good information."  Much like we reward one another on the current bitcoin forums for good posts and information, a level of reciprocation could be built in to social norms and potentially even automatically implemented by nodes operators.By limiting post sizes (or maybe paying per character of text) this would result in concise, well formulated thoughts.  Additionally, by using a pay to post structure, I doubt people would reciprocate the postage fee back to the poster if they post porn or something.  You would choose your entry node according to the principles that it publishes to adhere to. Maybe you chose a node that automatically reciprocates postage fees for anything BUT porn/spam?Anyway, I just wonder if something as seemingly simple as this could be the viral concept that bitcoin needs.  Many people are intrigued by the fact that there are these "uncensored parallel internets" out there, like freenet, i2p, etc.  By bringing introducing pricing while maintaining privacy and freedom we could be bringing the uncensored internet to them in a safe way.  It could be "the place for breaking news and uncensored info."  I think a good rule of thumb is, "you get what you pay for."  That rule still holds for information.  Maybe what the masses need is an easy way to pay for good information and filter through all the bullsh*t .I would use this service. Yeah, the more I think about this I think there could actually be a market...if the technology is close. While I agree with nelisky that it might be too early to target the "vice" industries, I also like jimbobway's initiative on this.  Additionally, I don't think many of the current bitcoin holders would mind another bullish move in the bitcoin market as outsiders buy more bitcoins.  As long as we make reasonable efforts to not sacrifice our own exchangers in the process, I am offering to help out with the calling/emailing of these "backdoor payment gateways."  Let me know how I can help. Ok, so this is a question for those in our membership who are the most paranoid (or maybe merely the most technically savvy).  I recently have been reading up on the whole "video your government officials (cops)" movement, and the more I think about it, the more it makes sense.  It's a non-violent way of potentially keeping these bastards accountable for their actions.  That being said, I thought about what would be my ideal product:A spy watch or other jewelry with:battery life and storage to record audio for 24 hrs ORbattery life and storage to record video for 12 hrsall recordings are encryptedIf you can't tell, the goal would be to have it record my daily life entirely, encrypted, and then when I go to bed have it charge and uploaded to the internet (cloud storage, bitcoin?, freenet, etc).   Additionally wherever you decide to store it could delete it after X days (according to your payment plan). Because it's encrypted, it's like having an insurance policy at all times. So the goal is if you're put in the slammer or are being harassed by some cops you'll have it all in evidence so that they'll think twice about being dicks.I'm new to the spy/surveillance industry.  I don't want to have to wear a spy watch AND A backpack full of batteries .  I'm thinking that if such a product existed we could totally get the mainstream on board and these things (and decoys) could take off like the Lance Armstrong "livestrong" bracelets.Any idea if there is a product out there that is even close to being capable of handling such a task? To be honest, I'm kind of surprised that there isn't some open source, trusted certificate authority.  Yet, when I started searching around this really does seem to be a missing piece of the puzzle.  Is it possible to build an opensource, decentralized certificate authority?  Or is that an oxymoron? I am offering to head up this project from the business and organizational structure perspective.  Of course there are certainly some areas that I lack the expertise to pull off all of the technical stuff, so a community approach, at least initially might be helpful.  If we are serious about doing this, I think some strategic questions are rapidly approaching.  I started researching the competitive landscape today.  There are many companies and organizations that focus on internet-centric learning (http://edufire.com, http://www.collegeboard.com, http://p2pu.org/, http://www.uopeople.org, http://http://academicearth.org/).  Now the problems I have with these is that a) they are either state affilliated or b) they issue certificates AND content, thereby making them not content agnostic or c) they are not academically competitive (from a reputational standpoint)I think that ideally what we would do is create the cert infrastructure as an open source project with a well documented and easy to use web API.  We then form an escrow company that implements the API and also offers to assist content providers in implementing the API into their offerings.  [Edit:  Ideally I feel like a copy of issued certificates should be stored on a P2P datastore? Yeah...I mean if this were to take off and became the de-facto standard for continued education (or homeschooling), I think there would be agencies that would pop up for all sorts of certifications:  grades, identity, attendance, etc.  It also works for mentoring relationships.  A top-notch business person could open slots for a couple "apprentices."  Depending on the type of apprentices (rich, poor, educated, uneducated) he wants, he could publish pre-requisites.  Those pre-requisites could be anything from "grade certificates" to "sign-off from my secretary" (who, incidentally has her own seal).However, certificates alone are not enough.  Theoretically twitter, facebook, or linked-in could easily allow their users to "give" certificates to people they trust.  What I am trying to do here is couple it with a market, and a publicly auditable market at that.  This has the effect of allowing participants to ascertain the true value of a certificate...whether that be from a college level course, or an endorsement from a well known business professional.I picture these certificates stored as XML, but perhaps with their own extension.  At any time, anyone should be allowed to check the validity of a certificate (prove that it is not counterfeit).  I also feel like, if you have the public key of another individual you should be able to see all the certificates that individual has earned (or at least the ones he makes available for public viewing).The biggest difference between Verisign and what I am trying to do is that Verisign doesn't hide the fact that they are in the encryption business.  On the other hand, I want to merely make viewing, verifying, and earning these unique digital certificates as "laymen friendly" as possible.  Sure, it's using some advanced stuff, but it also needs to be intuitive and friendly.A couple other thoughts/concerns:would there be certificate farming? eg, would some people set up whole new identities, enroll in  classes, be good students, and then sell their pseudonyms to a rich student who want to skip the pre-reqs?  Personally, this doesn't seem all that bad to me.what are the risks for a company acting as an educational escrow/cert authority while remaining agnostic to the content of the courses and such?  I feel like a government might not like me proxying educational payments between a radical muslim offering to teach his followers for a fee So, in light of the above, I feel like it is necessary, like bitcoin, to be opensource, decentralized, and foster competition amongst the escrow/title companiesYeah, I imagine that some existing institutions (universities, department of education, etc) would try to impose their committees on the system.  However, since this is a free market and there is no reason that a competing, more streamlined, and just as reputed committee couldn't form.  I think some level of bureaucracy is probably needed in education.  However, the market will be good at keeping that level of bureaucracy to a minimum .Also, what do you guys think about the whole "teacher's posting collateral" idea? I feel like this would be a great boon for the program.  Subject matter experts can offer their expertise, and if they are not very well known (or in a field the market doesn't know about) or have no followers they can post teaching collateral (or their sponsoring company/committee could if they are a part of one) which would give the market some initial confidence in them.  In my mind, I'm picturing a system that once again makes it lucrative to be a good teacher and share your knowledge with willing learners.[Edit:  There is also no reason why some of the "courses" and "teachers" couldn't merely be "content" and "servers," much like automated tutorials.  An automated photoshop tutorial (with an small test at the end) could serve as a pre-requisite for a graphic design course. Yeah, I mean basically I'm proposing an education related verisign, combined with a bitcoin escrow service.  What do you think about the free market aspect of it? eg, where both teachers and students have something on the line?Additionally, like Noagande mentioned, what we're trying to focus on and emulate here is Bitcoin's "proof of work" idea but in a more human-centric sense rather than a machine proof-of-work.  That being said, other concepts from bitcoin, IMO are still valuable, such as decentralization, yet still publicly auditable, opensource, etc. In a private discussion with Noagendamarket, we stumbled across what we feel might be the perfect identifying (eg, intrinsic use value) for a system like bitcoin.  As mentioned in some other posts, typically the only industries that one can think of which truly value decentralization, anonymity, etc are porn, gambling, and drugs.  These are not mainstream friendly industries   However, what Noagendamarket and I realized is that there is a perfect industry in dire need of something like bitcoin...and it's been under our noses the whole time!  Drum roll please:  education!While education (and I'll speak more to this in a bit) is the overall industry, the actual product/service that I think bitcoin would be perfect for is an educational escrow and digital title service.  Think about it, with advances in cryptography (digital certificates) and a decentralized, yet publicly audit-able system like bitcoin, it's the perfect combination to start building a true free-market in education!  The service I'm proposing would remain completely content/course agnostic and be purely responsible for escrowing an internal educational currency (bitcoins) and proof-of-learning certificates (digital certs) between students and teachers.First let's talk about the escrow service.  IMO, as long as there is a teacher and a student willing to pay that teacher we have a market.  While I do not propose to know the outcome of a pure free market, I can speculate that a free market in learning would have some serious improvements over the current educational landscape.  For example, I'm not a cryptographer.  Most of what I know about encryption and hashing I have either learned from these forums or I have merely read about.  That being said, if Satoshi himself offered to teach an online class on cryptography I would be ecstatic.  At a very basic level, I envision the following:A mentor/teacher lists some information about a course that he would like to teach to any customersAdditionally, if the market has not given the teacher enough brand equity (reputation) yet, the teacher can post a teacher's deposit in escrow. In addition to paying their own student fees, students (and maybe other third party auditors) then would decide how much of the teacher's deposit he "earned back"Students could bid on slots in the course.Courses could be as short as one test (multiple choice reading comprehension) or as long as a couple years, on any subject.  It doesn't matter.  Reputation of courses/teachers will be reflected in prices and popularity.Anyone can be a teacher! Anyone can be a student!The market might figure out a better mechanism...this is just an example Example: I want to teach Calculus.  I have no formal teaching credential from the state, but I sure as hell could teach someone calculus over the internet.  In fact, I'm so confident in my ability to teach you calculus, that I will even match your student fee 100%.  That means that at the end of the course, you would get to decide how much of my "deposit" I get back.  If I turn soft and just pass you without teaching you the material, you might give me all of my deposit back...but my reputation as a teacher (and therefore the price I can earn per course) will surely suffer.  Additionally, no third party curriculum agency would vouch for me.Essentially this results in a system where all parties have something on the line, in a good way.  Teachers are truly investing in their students.  Similarly, students are investing in their teachers.  It's a win-win.  Poor teachers would be weeded out, and logically so would (and should) incapable students (or they will merely take different classes that they will do well in....the market will adapt).So, many of you may be thinking to yourself, "how will teachers make sure that their students are qualified?" or "what about unqualified rich students who just keep buying their slots in classes?."  The answer to this, lies on the "digital title company" side of the proposal.When a student completes a course (to the teacher's satisfaction) he is awarded a digital certificate of completion.  Similar to the bitcoin blockchain, I envision this as a pseudonymous publicly auditable asset that the student owns from that day forward. Of course, as the market evolves there would be curriculum committees, and other auditing committees that would help teachers build a brand, maintain grading standards, etc.  Depending on how the market evolves, the certificate of completion (eg proof-of-work) might actually be signed and awarded by a committee rather than the teacher himself.  Additionally, now the foundation would be layed for pre-requisite certificates.  For any course that a teacher wants to teach, he could list pre-requisites (certificates) that the students must possess first.The bottom line, IMO is that we could utilize the properties of bitcoin (opensource, decentralized, auditable, pseudonymous, etc) to develop the first platform for a true free market in learning.  This would probably be popular with homeschoolers and corporations alike because they can play directly into the market, rather than sit on the sidelines observing bureaucrats screw it all up .I hope I have done an ok job explaining how I think this could be the industry identifier necessary to get bitcoin over the hump and into mainstream.  If I have not, please let me know and I'll give examples of how it could work.I would love some feed back on this, because I'm very much considering trying it (startup, business plan, try to get funding, etc).  I realize that the "title" aspect of it is outside of bitcoin's current scope, so that is something that would be developed separately.  However, is bitcoin currently capable of handling complicated escrow payments and such (multiple signatures necessary to release escrow)?Looking forward to hearing what you guys think. I'm not much of a poker player, but I was thinking that a nationwide network of physical poker rooms would be a great way to run a bitcoin/cash exchange.  If set up correctly from an operational standpoint, from the state's perspective they wouldn't have anything to go on, unless of course friendly poker rooms are illegal in that state. Ha, there may have been.  As far as I know no one is actually attempting to implement one though.  The question is "how?" and "is there demand?" What about a bitcoin futures/prediction market? http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prediction_market This looks pretty cool.  Thanks so much!
Ha, what a joke! I kinda figured he would say something like that. He, along with most of the "mutual credit clearing" folks, in my opinion are just fiat advocates in disguise.  They essentially think that scarcity is not a required property for a medium of exchange.  The one thing I do give them credit for, pun intended, is that they are at least usually all for decentralization.  Beyond that, however, the reality of their economics seems pretty screwed up. Pretty interesting stuff.  I'm actually familiar with Greco and his research.  He definitely has done quite a bit with regard to alternative currencies.  I'm curious what his ideal relationship between bitcoin and a local currency system would be. So, I have been following the scala language http://www.scala-lang.org off and on for about a year or so.  Additionally, I have been very impressed with the scala web framework, liftweb http://www.liftweb.net   I've been looking for an excuse to start up a project comprised of scala, bitcoin, liftweb.  Has anyone attempted to do this by chance? Also, would anyone be interested in working on this with me?  I'm open to many different business models, including but not limited to:a mybitcoin knock-offanother mt goxa web-based, SSL, interface (eg, using EC2) allowing the mainstream to set up their own hosted vpn/freenet/tor/i2p/bitcoin nodesyour favorite suggestion hereIf you're wondering about the 3rd bullet, it's because I think at this point most of the mainstream is like me and has only one computer (laptop), and therefore would rather access/host all their p2p needs through the web rather than burn their precious cpu/battery  Wow.  I don't know how this thread slipped by me.  Hugolp, you're explanations were very helpful. Thank you!I would be very interested in trying to build a physical nationwide network with something like this.  If done simply enough, we could probably get mainstream (eg, savvy, but non-hacker) people on board.Is anyone looking into this further? Did any of you see this a while back?  http://blogs.teamb.com/craigstuntz/2010/03/18/38566/I am by no means a cryptographer, but it seems to me that if fully homomorphic encryption ever was fast enough, us privacy freaks would have truly found our holy grail.  Looks like right now it is just being shown as possible, but it is still way too slow for production use. Interesting calculations.  Currently I'm down to one computer myself (laptop), so it's not really worth generating for me.  However, I'm wondering whether this is going to be a problem for the network's continued growth and stability? I know there are many threads discussing how there is in fact incentive to continue to generate, even when all 21M are found.  My concern is that those 21M coins are going to end up being majority owned by a minority of individuals.  Will bitcoin end up with the same pareto properties as other economic and social systems, where 1% of the people end up owning just over 50% of the resource?  Is there any way for us to get an accurate gauge on this? Sorry Insti, I'm going to have to agree with FreeMoney here .  Free speech must also be accompanied by freedom to be silent.So operationally and technically though, could something like this be pulled off? Are all the pieces of the puzzle out there just waiting for someone to put them all together? Or are there some major technological/implementation hurdles that I'm not seeing? One idea that I keep coming back to as being well suited for bitcoin as payment would be a decentralized freenet + twitter + flattr = bitcoin success?.  I'm not too familiar with freeneet, so for those of you who are, please speak up and tell me whether this is possible.  One of the things I like about freenet is what it stands for (eg. information freedom), however, one thing I don't like is the fact that I cannot control what information is stored/served by my node.  In a sense, freenet is not very autonomous from a node's perspective.  I would really like a decentralized information system with the following properties:Simple enough and marketed to mainstream content providers and readers.Decentralized and open source like freenet.All data stored in nodes is encrypted so that even the owner of the node cannot tell exactly what he stores/servesUnlike current freenet, the owner can "follow" certain sites and be assured (because it's open source) that his node will only be mirroring the sites that he "follows" and perhaps also the sites that those sites "follow."  Similar to FOAF.Content providers (ie: nodes) can be paid in bitcoin but perhaps using an api similar to flattr.With such a system, you can choose to store/serve sites like wikileaks or other information that you support while at the same time withholding your resources from those you do not (eg child porn).The odds of getting the mainstream to host their own personal nodes is pretty slim IMHO, and the more feasible solution might be for the mainstream to "rent" a node from a "certified node custodians" who will implement the customer's encrypted node in one of the various cloud platforms.I think if done correctly this could actually be a profitable venture.   Additionally, I would love to shift my career in the bitcoin direction and am interested in creating a bitcoin related startup.  If any of you are interested in collaborating, please PM/email me.  In the mean time, I'd enjoy hearing some responses/critiques of such a system.  I like Red's idea as an online privacy currency for posting and such.  I also really like the idea of charity.  Of course, I think an ideal scenario would be something that addresses a known social cause in an entrepreneurial manner (eg. social entrepreneurship).  This gives the marketers and promoters a profit motive and gives adopters a social motive. http://www.thehealthcareblog.com/the_health_care_blog/2008/08/creating-curren.htmlRegardless, for something like bitcoin to be known and successful before it is used for the shady industries and shut down by governments, the adoption rate needs to turn viral IMHO. Somewhere in this forum ( I have searched, but to no avail) I came across a funny high-level way of describing bitcoins:"It's like a bunch of farmers grow crops, then burn the crops and take before and after pictures of the burnt crops.  They look at each other's pictures and collectively agree, "yep, you burnt those crops correctly."  Then they decide to trade those pictures amongst themselves as a currency/commodity/collectible"So, I know the above example seems harsh, but it does point out the lack of intrinsic value nicely.  Please, let's not discuss whether you think bitcoins have intrinsic value or not; there are many other threads discussing this.  Instead, what I would like to brainstorm about is the following: are there any upstanding social or commercial causes [Edit: with a large market] for which the properties of a system like bitcoin's are perfect for? Those properties being: decentralized, anonymous, global, etc.  Perhaps there is some giant market out there that the product/service which is bitcoin is absolutely perfect for.  Something that bitcoin is so perfect for that bitcoins become identified with that industry, much like gold first became identified with the ornamentation industry.  From that, perhaps bitcoin as a product/service/commodity will gain the intrinsic value enough to overcome its obstacles and be accepted into the mainstream.Sadly, the only industries I can think of that readily desire bitcoin's inherent properties are the very industries that governments like to control or keep off the radar:drugsporngamblingThere has to be an non-shady industry in good standing with the mainstream just asking for a product/service like bitcoin.  If not, we need to create one.  Any ideas?  Perhaps there is some social cause that even governments agree anonymity, decentralization, etc is the best policy?  We need bitcoin concepts to be valued and ubiquitous before it is used heavily for the "shady" industries, IMHO.  Either that or maybe we should face the facts and become the porn kings and druglords of the internet. At least we'd gain a wide user base very quickly. Ha! This is actually starting to converge with this thread about the hypothetical "BitBox."  http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=911.0 I completely agree with you here.  Sadly, there are not enough cryptoanarchists or anarchocapitalists in the world to make bitcoin profitable and robust solely amongst themselves.  That being said, the best place to focus our efforts of "mainstreaming" bitcoin might actually be through a more generalized movement.I think that you hit the nail on the head with your statement about marketing.  However, I think it also boils down to value.  I have a hard enough time convincing my girlfriend about the value of bitcoins, and she has to hear me talk about this stuff day in and day out.  Unfortunately the value innate in bitcoins (possible anonymity, decentralization, known limited supply, etc) are things that only we as crypto-anarchists find valuable.  Even if my girlfriend actually agrees with me, I'm hardly going to be able to convince her to spend $100USD on bitcoins when she can go out and buy a lot more cool things with that $100, like say buy a new dress.  That leaves me with a couple options:1.  I convince her that buying bitcoins now will allow her to buy 2 dresses in the future.  When in the future? I don't know2.  I show her that "everyone's doing it," but in this case it's only me and she already knows that by definition if I'm doing it, everyone else is not.Alternatively, I could figure out a business model for bitcoins that make them valuable to the run of the mill mainstreamer.  However, because bitcoins themselves have no intrinsic value, I can only offer existing goods and services for which there is a known direct demand, eg. intrinsic value.  Since the good/service is the same regardless of bitcoin/usd payment, the easier choice for the consumer (and they generally choose the easier path) is to simply stick with USD.Therefore, I have come to the conclusion that until a new product/service is offered, for which bitcoin and all its glorious properties is not only a good fit, but the only fit, the market for bitcoins will be limited to us crazy crypto-anarchists. Yeah, I bet you're right.  It's really a shame.  I think that is the current bottleneck for bitcoins. By this, I mean I think there are enough anarcho-capitalists (or close) out there that truly think taxes stealing that would start the migration.  Yet, because the KYC laws are still a hurdle it's just easier for them to stick with USD for now.  I think most people are both not knowledgeable about their nation's money and too lazy to do alter their interactions with it.  Once bitcoin can show a path towards increased savings (ie: disposable income) I think people will come en masse (for reasons that, to protect us, they probably shouldn't tell us). Yes, I know it has to do with money laundering, which is why i started the thread.  I was speculating about the taxes with regard to the gift cards vs reloadable cards, since it seems like gift cards can be completely anonymous despite the anti-moneylaundering laws.  The reloadable ones, on the other hand, seem to trigger that KYC reporting.  It was definitely a shot in the dark though. Ha! I completely agree!  In fact, last time I checked, because it's taxed multiple times (earnings, sales, fees, etc) I think we end up paying some ridiculously high percentage in taxes.  Much more than the "official" tax rate.  It will never happen, but I feel like Rothbard's per-head tax would be the most fair...of course no taxes at all make the most sense. Sorry, bad habit from business school .  What I mean was that anyone who is paid by their employer via W-2 would be buying the walmart gift card after taxes have been withheld.  The government already has it's share earmarked so it doesn't really care what you do with the rest of the money.  On the other hand if you are paid as an independent contractor, there will not be any withholding, so you could theoretically buy more of the cards, and disguise some of the purchase/reloading as a business expense.  Either way, the KYC laws really tick me off! lol. I was wondering the same thing.  I bet they found some loophole when it is a "gift card."  Only thing I can think of is that a gift card typically is bought with after-tax dollars, whereas a reloadable card could be easily reloaded with before-tax dollars. I like this idea a lot.  I've been trying to think along these lines too and keep getting stuck with actual implementation.  Is there a framework out there for a true centralized, yet community controlled site? Theoretically if we were to build the Trustbook, it could eat its own dog food and the most trusted members could be elected to have access to sensitive things like DB's, servers and such.  I think this would help considerably as we set up more and more bitcoin websites/exchanges/businesses, as it would give a way to both verify the trustworthiness of the owner/operator but also the authenticity of that person as well. Yeah.  I thought the system was pretty simple and smart too.  I agree though that the serial number would probably need to be longer than 6 digits.  The cool thing is that even if you run out of blank space to write more numbers, you could simply print off another one and start adding more. Hmm...well if our exchangers and market makers are going to actually make a living offering this service, maybe we should recruit some drug lords as consultants Edit:]   No offense to bitcoin, but MJ at least had considerable intrinsic value from the start, generating a lot of demand.  Bitcoin has the opposite problem.
Yeah, I guess I'm just frustrated that in order to stay out of trouble one "should" pay taxes on their bitcoin income and such.  If businesses and people could be reasonably assured that they won't get caught if they don't pay the man, I think bitcoin would take off and the world would never been the same (in a good way .  Until then, it will always be easier to transact in the government controlled currency. Sorry, I reread my post and it may have not made much sense.  I know that it is no threat to bitcoins directly, and it is possible for a third party to do these things.  Let me try to rephrase.  I feel most current holders of bitcoin hold them precisely because they can be anonymous.  If a bank comes in and offers "credibility" to bitcoin at the price of the your privacy, I don't think that bank would get much business from us.  You may say, "well, there are people that use bitcoin who don't care about anonymity and they would like to have a bank like that."  However, my point is that the people who don't care about anonymity and plan to bend over and expose themselves to government scrutiny anyway would rather do it in an easier manner...by just using their government's currency.Essentially, I feel like bitcoin is in a catch-22.  Expansion ultimately triggers the KYC laws, but the KYC laws turn off most of bitcoins current user base.  People who are not turned off by KYC would probably just rather use alternative investment vehicles.Perhaps a new business model is required to better protect our exchangers.  Otherwise the community is just going to keep playing monopoly with itself, because the risk is too great for an exchanger to make his livelihood serving anonymous clients;) Even though we do not officially advocate "asset concealment" using bitcoin, I feel like many of us deep down like bitcoin for its potential in that arena.  Personally, I would love to have a bitcoin debit card, complete with the near universal acceptance of visa/mastercard.  I would be able to change the bitcoin address associated with this debit card whenever I want.I am in the camp of people who feel that real world local prices will continue to be listed and paid for in the dominant local currency (whether it be USD or sea shells), not bitcoin.  Therefore, I tend to think that bitcoin's success is dependent upon the ability for a bitcoin user to transfer in/out of his local currency.  Unfortunately it is this transfer process that triggers the KYC and money exchange laws.  And further, once those laws are properly adhered to, I feel like most of the advantages of bitcoin disappear (anonymity being paramount).There are some incredibly bright people in this group.  I'm wondering if we can have an "thought experiment" about how we could transcend the KYC laws, yet still offer functioning debit cards? Is this even possible?I hate to say it, but I feel like unless bitcoin can be safely and effectively launder your assets (whether your consider this morally wrong or illegal is for another thread), people as a whole are more likely to stick with the alternative s such as LR and the others.  I would like to have a practical discussion about how to do this on a large scale, where exchangers wouldn't be in constant fear of incarceration or other penalties.  Cash through the mail and pre-paid visa/mastercards, and even paypal just isn't going to cut it for much longer, in my opinion.   I too am in favor of as many processes/mediums/methods as possible.  Incidentally, the guys at http://www.kilowattcards.com/template/index.cfm came up with a pretty cool paper solution.  It actually seems quite similar to bitcoin.  Basically, the paper notes have a serial number on them.  When you give the note to a merchant, or anyone with internet access, they type the serial number in, and get an additional 2 digits.  They cross off the first two digits, and hand write the new digits at the end.  This forms  the new cereal number and prevents double spending.  When the merchant trusts  you he might just skip the verification process or save it for later in the day. Unfortunately this solutions still requires at least some internet capability to prevent fraud. I'm definitely interested in a bitcoin futures market.  Perhaps we should open another thread to discuss how this could be done? Haha, good examples are not my forte.  Perhaps ridiculous examples are. You are spot on with investor sentiment here.  Well said.I definitely would be interested, as long as there is a use value for which bitcoin data is superior to any other string of seemingly random 1's and 0's . Edit: Actually, I'm interested either way.  Let's hear it. Thanks! By intrinsic value, I mean that gold can be used for something other than coins or currency (decoration, electronics, etc).  Even currency printed on paper, the paper itself could be burned for heat or to make a giant papier mache house (lol).  In both of these situations, obviously, the use value of the currency is nearly negligible compared to the exchange value.  But the point is that there is a use value, however small.  So before a "medium" can be elevated to a "medium of exchange" history has required that medium to have at least one use.  What I'm wondering is whether this requirement is law or merely a historical suggestion?Of course, if we can find a non-exchange use for the Bitcoin data, my question would be quite irrelevant.  For example, (i'm speculating) in the industry of data destruction (analogous to the paper-shredding industry), maybe bitcoin hashes are superior to seed data for permanently deleting valuable information?  I'm reaching here...but I hope my point is clear.    I would like to promote this idea as well (or something similar).  What happened to Stone Man simply should be nearly impossible from the start, regardless of backups. Has the ability to "subscribe" to certain threads been turned off? I seem to no longer have a link I can click to be "notified" of replies and such.  Any ideas? Your points are well taken.  I'm sorry if I overstepped.  And you're correct, my intentions were good.  I merely did not realize how easily such general data could be used to track down an individual, especially if the tracker is determined and well funded.  My bad!That being said, it seems like most of the eminent risk is going to fall on our community's entrepreneurs.  They are either going to have to raise their prices to offset the extra risk they are taking on our anonymous behalf, or we need to come up with a whole new entrepreneurial framework where these risks can be spread among the voluntary participants.  Either way, I'm in! Well said!  That is precisely one of the reasons why we are having this conversation.  However, I'm still having trouble getting over the fact that even if paper USD completely loses all exchange value, it still has at least the intrinsic value of the paper it is printed on.  Granted, this would be a near zero value.  It could, for example, be burned to provide heat/warmth.  Now that's what I call going up in smoke!  On the contrary, I can't seem to find any intrinsic value for bitcoins whatsoever.  Is this correct?  Historically all monies have started first as some commodity/good with at least some intrinsic value.  Are bitcoins, however, the very first money with purely extrinsic initial value? Theymos, thanks so much for this data.  I think it really helps those of us that are mathematically/economically inclined but less knowledgeable on cryptography.  One last follow up, is there a closed form equation that you used to generate that data or is it all bitwise math? Haha....that would have been my guess too.  I'm tempted to also say "unmarried" and "disgruntled."  LOL. I was not kidding, but I definitely expected reactions like yours.  By the way, I just stumbled across your lottery thread.  Well done!So basically what you're saying though, is that no one on this forum will voluntarily give any demographic information to the entrepreneurs that want to serve them? I highly doubt that.  I for one am not as concerned about anonymity as I am about plausible deniability and traceability, but I digress.  I guess we'll just hang our entrepreneurs out to dry for the time being and let them grope in the dark Statistics of this nature may not even be very helpful for the bitcoin community, since there is no way to know whether a sample is actually representative. Since it looks like you can only create a poll for one question at a time, I figured I would post here first.  I'm interested in gathering some market data (anonymous of course) about the Bitcoin Community.  Of course our ultimate goal is to make bitcoin as ubiquitous as possible, but that doesn't preclude the possibility that our current community isn't worth marketing to.  I was thinking of trying to collect data along the following lines:Age or Date of BirthGenderNationality (optional)This might be a perfect thing for something like the faucet to implement (ie: a small survey in exchange for bitcoins).  I think the data would be helpful for the entrepreneurs in our group seeking to offer valuable services.  We could also just do the survey right here on the forum (linking to a surverygizmo site or something).  What do you guys think? I'm happy to set up the survey if there is enough interest. Thank you for the clarification. So none of us actually know why the 21 million was chosen? Just to be clear, I currently have no interest in starting my own fork or network (I like you guys and think what we have so far is solid).  But I could picture some venture capital funded startup wanting to start their own.  Even if they left everything the same except added a token identifying their network (ie: their network is entirely independent of ours), but they managed to gain 1M users in a year, I want to know what would happen to the value of our network's coins?Essentially this would mean that there would, in the future, be 42M practically identical coins, half on a small network and half on a large network.  Would they pull our value up with them? or would our value plummet as people jump ship for a larger network with the same coins? Yeah.  I feel like every thread eventually devolves into something along the lines of "how do we trust others creditworthiness?"  With regard to the options, yes I agree that shorter time-frames make more sense.  Of course a full continuum would be ideal. I'm not sure I agree with this, unless you mean that the stakeholders will likely still consider their bitcoins to have value temporarily.  However, if it is well known, even amongst stakeholders, that a superior currency exists they will gradually migrate towards it (even if they tell each other otherwise).  Therefore, in the long run (could be days/weeks/years) bitcoins would become worthless, it might just be more orderly and gradual than instantaneous, but ultimately someone will be stuck with a bunch of worthless data (no offense to Satoshi and the devs).  And I'm just pointing out that this is not the case with a physical currency/commodity like gold.  Even if the entire world abandoned gold as a marketable commodity, the person left holding all the gold could still use the gold for something.  Gold still has a, albeit limited, use value even in the absence of an exchange value.  I can't come up with a use value for bitcoins if there is no exchange value. I agree that this is the more likely scenario, at least in the short run.  So does this mean that by investing in bitcoins, we are basically betting on our collective ability to write bug and exploit free software?  I think that BETS, or something similar is a great idea!  I would be interested in getting involved in a BETS project.  However, since LETS type systems are mutual credit based, and bitcoin is closer to a commodity, I think the best of both worlds would be a Mutual Credit Clearing Network.  By this, I mean that goods and services are exchanged in the BETS system on credit (denominated in bitcoins of course), and each account is periodically settled in bitcoins.  This essentially means that each BETS account is a margin account.  Parties can then decide whether to transact with one another (or at what price) based on the counter party's history of maintaining their margin.For any given time-frame in a LETS system there will be some accounts with trade surpluses and some accounts with trade deficits.  Most LETS/GETS type systems focus much of their time and effort in determining "how much maximum credit" to grant it's individual account holders so as to keep the system stable.  However, I think that the history of markets has shown that a more incremental solution is better.  I have not checked the facts on this, but I have never heard of a clearing house going bankrupt.  But even if there are a few examples in history of clearinghouses failing, I think the list is quite a bit shorter than LETS systems and local currencies going belly up .
