In other words, you don't give a damn about people's preferences and the only acceptable set of values is your own. If people die from brain surgeries done by janitors in your world then so be it. This is the future under your system, and this guy is your hero:He believed in the same things that you do... for everyone else except himself, of course. Breaking news:http://www.businessinsider.com/boy-genius-online-poker-scandal-2011-4 One thing Venus Project is right about is that superabundance relative to today is possible, or should be at any rate. If they propose to have an computer that builds up anything that people ask, then sure, nothing about that idea is inconsistent with the idea of capitalism or of human action so long as they are not saying that capitalist acts between two consenting adults will become illegal. In this scenario the god-like computer will simply be fulfilling the role of a "super entrepreneur".Eventually prices will be cheap, but prices will still exist. Even if a car becomes very cheap to build, it does not follow that each person will be able to own 50 000 cars each. So long as the universe is finite then there will be prices, and this is not something imposed upon us but rather something that follows as a necessary consequence of the fact that there is real scarcity in the world and there always will be, land is not homogeneous and neither are people, and each person has a different set subjective values. You cannot centrally plan knowledge that only exists inside the individual, like individual preferences and how they interact to allocate capital via the price mechanism.Again, I see no reason why a "super entrepreneur" type of computer could not exist so I don't deny that. I don't think we're there today but certainly I can only imagine where we would be if not for all of the waste and misallocation caused by wars and central banking. Venus Needs Some AustriansZeitgeist Movement along with the Venus Project (forum discussion) Who doesn't want a better life? Who's "we"? Yes, the central planning of the price of money has caused a great deal of disruption and misallocation. You hurt the many when you place the power of money in the hands of a select few.Which economic institutions are you referring to, here? If you are referring to the problems caused by governments then I agree, but unfortunately there are laws of physical nature which impose a real cost on the exploitation of resources. It takes physical labor and capital to exploit resources and convert them into a form usable by people. It's not free.Well, we can trade with people and exchange in mutually beneficial exchange. This is what I call capitalism. Or, we can force a person to do what we want. This is what I call statism. Either you use force or you don't. Maybe you don't use force in every sphere of life, but I don't think it's possible to "partially" force someone to go to jail or to pay their bills. How is this a false dichotomy?Hell yes! It seems we want the same things, but this is what I call capitalism. Maybe we're simply talking about the same things? I found this article interesting:http://www.overcomingbias.com/2011/04/evading-sharing-rules.html Sent away! I didn't think 50 BTCs would be worth as much as they are now ... I should have loaded up back then   It doesn't look like I already sent the 50, so, where do I send it? Sweet! I'm only asking cause apparently I pledged on page 2, but I didn't visit the forums in a long time and I was never PMed about it. So what was the final outcome? Cause the thread title still says 13622 and growing... I'm confused. Did Satoshi ever give his OK? It seems that the community has more or less accepted this? A question for the RBE folks: How is any economic system not ultimately based on resources? If we're not living in a paradise as promised by RBE proponents, it's not because there's a conspiracy to hold back resources (although there is a lot of waste caused by governments). Prices are not arbitrary; they reflect actual availability of resources as well as demand for those resources. Simply asserting that "resources are abundant" will not magically make it so, and to the extent that any practitioners of RBE follow the principles of mutual exchange and trade then they are actually following capitalism (though probably not what they think of as capitalism). To the extent that they go against the principles of mutual exchange and trade then they are simply following statism, which might be fine for them but isn't fine for me. We have enough of that as it is. what would happen... if people stopped imagining new ways to rule over their neighbours and simply let others live in peace, building up a society through voluntary exchange and freedom? I agree with you here, RHorning. There would be less of a case for actual on demand deposits within a Bitcoin economy. A banking system based on shares and time deposits (i.e. bonds) would be honest. No need for a full bank run; only 10% would be necessary in this case. I already went through all of this in my previous posts, though. What exactly is it that you believe is a myth or bunk? Money cannot simultaneously be lent out and kept as an on demand deposit. If one bank lent out too many BTCs and has a deposit call, then another bank has to have correspondingly greater reserves in order to lend that bank BTCs. The banking system cannot in aggregate practice fractional reserve banking to a significant degree and remain stable over time. The market will determine where that point is, but I doubt it is as high as 90%.Sure they can. What they can't do is simultaneously create such a paper and let the depositor withdraw the capital backing said paper! That would hollow out the bank. In order for a bank to create a paper and remain honest, what it needs to do is this:Bank receives 100 BTCs from A. Bank gives A a paper in return, only redeemable at a future date.Bank lends those 100 BTCs out to other people as loans. What it cannot do is this:Bank receives 100 BTCs from A. Bank credits A with 100 BTCs at its bank which can be withdrawn, spent, or transferred at any time.Bank lends 90 BTCs out to other people as loans.A withdraws his 100 BTCs <-- They no longer exist.It cannot do this unless it sells the 90BTC of loans to another party in return for real BTCs which it can then use to back its deposits. It cannot back its deposits with paper, because the depositor does not want paper, he wants BTCs. That's what he agreed to and that's what the bank promised.Yes, the bank can now borrow BTCs from another bank in order to pay out the depositor, but a banking system cannot do so in aggregate. Loans need to be backed by savings.To summarize:It is fraud to place two property claims on the same BTC. To say that the depositor owns a physical BTC at the same time as a lendee owns that same BTC, while telling the depositor that the BTC is solely and wholly his and can be withdrawn, spent, or transferred at any time, is fraud.It is NOT fraud to give the depositor a paper which represents future BTCs and tell him that he no longer owns any physical BTCs, because he gave them up in return for the paper. It is furthermore not fraud to then lend these BTCs out, since they no longer belong to the depositor but they belong to the bank. This is otherwise known as the depositor purchasing a certificate of deposit or bond with the bank. Given that I actually agree with you up to that point, how is my line of reasoning bunk? My point still stands. The supply if Bitcoins is limited: The banking system in aggregate cannot find enough Bitcoins if it loans its on demand deposits out! Why should the depositor accept quasi-bitcoins in the form of banking credit instead of the actual thing? On demand deposits simply cannot be loaned out if a banking system is to ultimately remain stable. Sure, some banks can try to do it, but then they better not call them "on demand deposits". Some might get away with it, but sooner or later, someone will find themselves between a rock and a hard place. Deposits can be loaned out, but not with a guarantee of redemption. That is simply impossible as Bitcoins cannot be created out of thin air.  In order to fall far enough to break your neck, you need something to propel you up that high in the first place. Fractional reserve + legal tender + money inflation is a good way of doing that, but credit based on real savings in a free market would find it much harder to do so. The people so scared of monetary deflation forget that a great inflationary expansion must occur before there can be a deflation! Communism in theory uses fatally flawed concepts. If ever we are to have communism on this world it will be in the form of vast material wealth that will leave nobody wanting for basic goods. Scarcity (and therefore economics) will always exist up until the point we can create new universes, or something like that. Maybe it will exist even then.Communism in practice... 'nuff said. In my personal experience, the people I've encountered who support those ideals tend to argue with emotion, dismiss ideas out of hand, and blindly assert facts without backing them up. No wonder the methodology tended to be so violent. Communism is the perverted offspring of folk economics, a dead philosopher's ideals, and the power of the state.Economics != Philosophy. Austrian economics does not say what ought to be, but it does tell you what happens. Are you a libertarian who's unfamiliar with the Austrian school or were you just joking around? Whether you agree or disagree, I recommend you at least do the research. Go over to the Mises forums, ask your questions there, and then feel free to disagree with the people who respond to you. At least have an open mind about it. Once you read more, you'll also find that there is actually plenty of empirical support for it, as well.A copy/paste of something refuting something you admittedly are very unfamiliar with does not a valid criticism make The criticisms there aren't very strong and misunderstand much of the Austrian School's points, like the whole "unscientific" thing. People who claim that don't really understand what it's about, and "a priori" are used in mathematics and geometry as well.For the record, I agree with that one criticism that states that Austrians overplay their differences. There is nothing strange or unusual about the Austrian school of economics once you learn what it's all about, except perhaps the name. I'm in for 50 given Satoshi's OK 
I could say the same thing about your worldview. Are you unwilling to continue the discussion because you realize you are standing on a house of cards, or is it simply because it is your own mind that is closed and is unwilling to learn, which is why you simply dismiss ideas that you do not understand? I noticed you only responded to the first half of my post and completely ignored this, Red. It was an invalid metaphor.The so-called "rich guy" traded in his present consumption for future consumption by saving his bitcoins instead of spending them right away. He made a calculation that future Bitcoin use would be higher. He had to trade something to get those Bitcoins in the first place; this is not "doing nothing"! There is no reason that he remains the "rich guy"; Bitcoins could very well fade away and be replaced by something else, in which case your rich guy winds up flat out broke.He did in fact add to the economy: By hoarding Bitcoins, he is signalling that he believes Bitcoins to be more valuable in the future. He also takes on very real risk by doing so. If you believe he is wrong, you can short Bitcoins by borrowing them and then return them when their value has dropped.Without these early adopters, there is no way that Bitcoin could ever get off the ground. I would say that they are performing an extremely valuable service by driving adoption of the currency. They are also taking on significant risk by doing so, as they could easily end up with worthless Bitcoins. Are you saying that people should take on risk without getting anything in return?This is no more a transfer of wealth than it is a transfer of wealth that a lot of people at Apple are probably very wealthy now due to stock options, the same as people at Google. Demand for their stocks increased, thus rewarding the guys who got in earlier. This is not a transfer of wealth because it is entirely voluntary; it is "risk & reward". People deserve to be compensated for risk, and their compensation is entirely through the voluntary actions of others. There is no coercion here. There was always the risk that Google/Apple would fail and those stock options would be worthless, as with countless other companies whose names you don't even know about because they did fail.Feudal systems were built upon slavery and the idea that some classes of people were better than others. OlliPro's latest build is still faster, but this one comes close. 4700khash vs 5000khash Sweet, over 5000 khash/sec with the latest release! I believe that's a little more than double over the stock build. The money supply is actually decreasing, in spite of fed actions. The next step will probably be to directly buy treasuries to spur on inflation.This is an untrue statement. Money spent into existence alters the price structure into something different than what it would be if that money had not been created. The people whom receive the new money first benefit the most, as they can still take advantage of lower prices in the market. By the time the money filters through the economy and raises the general level of prices due to more money chasing the same amount of goods, the non-recipients of this new money are left with less purchasing power than before. This is always true, unless the following conditions hold:* Everyone's cash balances and debts are simultaneously and synchronously increased by exactly the same proportion. * The newly created money is never spent and never entered into circulation. "But in general, deflation steals from the cash poor and gives to the cash rich.Inflation steals from the cash rich and gives to the cash poor.That is why deflation causes uprisings but inflation causes malaise."This is an invalid argument if applied to price inflation/deflation. Those phenomena are caused by supply and demand and have nothing to do with theft or fraud, unless you are implying that it is somehow theft if I buy 1000 shares of Apple and the price goes up as a result. Ok, I updated the first post. I really wanted to get rid of my party poker chips, but it turns out I need to send them a government ID to be able to activate gift cards and player transfers. Blech!   The poker chip coin store is closed. Sorry guys!  I'm glad that there's guys like Red out there keeping a sharp eye out on things! This thread also makes me appreciative of open source software, since there's so many smart and interested people on this forums that can validate the software and place an additional degree of trust in it. Not sure that Bitcoin could be too successful if it was closed source! Windows 7 64-bitAMD Phenom II X4 810 2.61GhzI get 4200 - 4400 khash/sec using the SHA state cashing build above (Intel build).Using the VS build I still get 3100 khash/sec. This one blows the other one out of the water, even on my AMD. When's the next one? Definitely looks interesting! I still think that the money supply itself should remain fixed and that credit markets should satisfy the demand for money; however, drawing the coin increase to a slowdown rather than a complete cutoff may be a solution for the slight monetary deflation that will occur from the lost coins. You can't just throw someone into an ice-cold lake. You gotta ease their minds into it. I find it's easier to get people to listen and learn when you start from a point of common reference. Agreed about planting seeds  I still prefer windows 7 for many things, but I am liking Ubuntu more and more. If only some things weren't such a pain in the ass to use (Tor: Windows 7? 1 minute install. Ubuntu? WTF...) ""I ran bitcoin for two weeks and all I got were two roasted balls!" "FTW I have no problems with Bitcoin's economic model (remember: money is not like other commodities) nor the decreasing rate of minting, but it would have been cool if done in less of a 'lottery' fashion and distributed equally among the users. It would be great if my laptop could generate even 0.1 BTC a day, for example. Nice, I finished reading it and I did enjoy reading this article. Any chance of getting it cross-posted to Mises.org or another site with less of a stigma attached to it? I've found that unfortunately, the quickest way to get labelled as a loon is to refer someone to a site like LRC. It sucks but I prefer to be able to inject ideas into people's minds without them shooting the messenger!
I don't read LRC or refer others to LRC, myself, for that reason. However, I find that sites such as Mises.org are able to present these same ideas in a way which can be communicated effectively to mainstreamers without coming across as "kooky" or "loony".  Nice; perhaps it's only necessary to immediately flush transactions that are "self-originated"; i.e. if you spent or received some money? But it would go up less if you were the one with the fast client and everyone else had "normal" clients. If you distributed such a fast client to everyone, then yes, the benefit would cancel out. ^^^+ complete server/client seperation, and an independent way of storing BTCs for the purposes of importing and exporting. I've also read that if someone has 50 BTCs, exports them, and then spends 1 BTC, then ALL 50 BTCs backed up are no longer valid. The backup tool should therefore ideally have a good way of visualizing this. I also agree with this. I've brought up the point in the past; the question is likely developer resources. If you guys are willing, go ahead and start working on this; I'm sure satoshi won't refuse the help  On my desktop, I have a dual boot between Ubuntu and Windows 7. The SSE2 build brings Windows 7 speeds up to around the same as the Ubuntu build. If you are a merchant, you will be your own server, no? Now if your own server gets hacked somehow with a dummy placed in between, this could be a problem...  Yep, Babylon is referring to a credit boom which eventually leads to a credit bust. He is right that it is "bad" when things bust, but he must also then recognize that the "bad" began when credit was extended too easily in the first place, driving up prices in the first place.Without such easily available credit, prices wouldn't go as high in the beginning, and it would be easier to save up and purchase goods with savings instead of credit. The problem with a credit bubble is that as prices go higher, more credit is required to purchase the assets, which drives up the prices, which requires yet more credit.Under sound money, credit would be limited by savings and investment, and the nature of sound money means that as society gets wealthier and goods get cheaper in real terms, they also get cheaper in nominal terms as well. Price deflation is a good thing whether you're a creditor or debtor. If you borrow money and prices get cheaper due to an increase in total wealth, it means that your share of the pie is fixed. You borrow 1% of the pie, you pay back 1% of the pie. You don't start out owing 1% of the pie and end up having to pay 10% of the pie.This is instead a problem of monetary deflation. If the supply of money decreases while the total wealth in society remains fixed (or also decreases), then what happens is that if the borrower borrowed 1% of the pie (i.e. one house), and prices declined by 90% due to a large credit bust, the borrower would end up having to pay back 10 houses to the creditor. The problem here is that the price decrease is due to a monetary contraction, not an increase in society's wealth. Therefore, he actually has to pay back 10% of the pie. This is where the imbalance comes into play.The difference between these two forms of deflation (and the circumstances under which they arise) is where many people get tripped up. They look at Bitcoin, see that it is price deflationary, and then attribute all the problems of monetary deflation when they are talking about two different things. There is a speedup for me, but it is not faster than the ubuntu 64-bit version. I am surprised; with SSE2 I expected it to fly :S This is actually an interesting way that the government (or some rich dude, for that matter) could take over Bitcoin:1) Print up a few million dollars2) Purchase Bitcoins using grossly exaggerated bids.3) Destroy said BitcoinsIt's expensive (and stupid), but it would distort the markets for sure. Haha, please do Won't this just end up with the philanthropist buying up all the Bitcoins? I believe you are confusing monetary deflation and price deflation.Monetary deflation: The supply of money collapses, usually because far too much money was created in the first place. This situation sucks, but is a necessary adjustment since the previous boom wasn't real. We are seeing some of this today. Price deflation: The amount of real goods and services in the economy increases, relative to the supply of money. Therefore, you need less money to purchase these goods. This is a net win for you, and for society, because there is more real wealth to go around. People don't default, hoard, or stop consuming in this situation; in fact, the increased production ultimately allows for increased consumption. Under Bitcoin, price deflation will be the predominant factor.You need to understand the difference between the two. The word "deflation" simply isn't enough to go on, and most of the negative things you hear about deflation are related to monetary deflation, usually under the circumstances of a credit bust. That "deflation" is actually great for young people looking to buy a new home. The housing prices never should have been so high in the first place.In fact, if housing prices dropped to $1 (but the quality was the same), that would be even better for society as a whole. Imagine how easy it would be to get a house, then. Arbitrary paper numbers are not real wealth.  Are these also diacreticals? They appear normal. I think we just need to be clearer on the differences between price deflation and monetary deflation. The first is a good thing, the second is not. Many of the issues that you raise are actually issues that occur under the second, not the first.I certainly don't mind if someone implements a commodity currency that tracks a basket of goods; indeed, I believe a more resilient digital economy will come about if people use more than one currency. The trouble lies in exchanging said currency for the basket of goods, which is the advantage of something like Bitcoin.Haha, I know the feeling. I hope I don't seem like I'm trying to come down hard on you, because I'm not, but I want to be sure that we're actually arguing over the same thing so that I can properly respond to you. Not only in my opinion, but substantiated by many bodies of works, the most stable money is one that avoids both monetary deflation and monetary inflation. This is achieved both by having currency competition (so that good money can be chosen over bad) and by having sound money whose supply remains stable, in order to not redistribute the pie. When both factors are in place, it will be difficult to have a huge inflationary credit run up that then leads to a huge deflationary bust. You need exogenous forces such as legal tender to really make that happen.If you were to say that Bitcoin's slight monetary deflation is a slight problem, I'd agree with you. Until we find a better solution, though, I think we can deal with it by ensuring robust replication and backup solutions.Price deflation, however, is not a problem. We need to be very clear on the differences between the two before we can continue the debate, because I feel you're linking the two when they shouldn't be linked. I'm not really interested in beating around the bush. I'm still waiting for you to tell me why your proposed solution is better than the current system in place, and how it will avoid pitfalls such as distortions through inflation.So the extra islanders exchange their labour in return for goods, and prices drop; again, what is the issue here? Are you proposing we just grab what belongs to the current islanders and give it to the newcomers? There's nothing wrong with the newcomers satisfying their demand by performing labour in exchange for other goods of value.You need to explain it in more than just "It's my hunch that this would be better. It would be better, no?". Couldn't you back it up with a bit more than "I think this is better because it feels better"? How do you propose actually implementing such a system, and how does it lead to a more efficient market and more total wealth?Why not implement both systems and let the customer decide? You say you don't like competing currencies, but competition is the only way that the weak ideas get weeded out and the strong ideas survive. Competition is how the customer is better served! There's no need for a monopoly or a winner-take-all, not even for Bitcoin I made the point earlier on that the coins must be distributed in some fashion. If we were to fix the supply now, who would have the rest of the coins? Maybe we should have fixed it at 0 coins? Obviously, when you start from a base of 0, you do need to have some inflation to bring the system into existence. This type of inflation is based on resources expended to create the system and there is not necessarily much profit in doing so, since it takes real resources to be done. We can argue the different ways we can create the system, and I don't mind doing so; I don't claim that the current way is perfect, though I do think it's a heck of a lot better than monopolizing the means of creation. The current way gives plenty of time for new users to help create the currency, thus encouraging adoption. It helps prevent scenarios such as the first 100 forum members grab 100 of the coins, thus other users don't see any point in buying coins since there isn't much of a market for them, and they can't generate them themselves. The whole point of coin generation is to get around this chicken & egg problem and function as a demand generator, to help grow the network. This is why we don't fix the supply now, but we fix it once the demand to trade for Bitcoins far exceeds the demand to generate them, because a whole ecosystem has grown up around the currency. Eventually, though, once the market reaches critical mass -- and Bitcoin is far from there right now, but is doing better than any other similar idea that I've seen -- once it reaches a point where market supply and demand is self-sustaining, then there is much less of a need to seed the network in this fashion, as it is now able to stand on its own. Once the initial supply is large enough that Bitcoin is able to perform all of the functions of money adequately, then there is no further need to expand it beyond that point, other than perhaps a precision increase for future proofing. Something that I'm curious about actually; is the process of processing transactions / generating new coins the same? I can see the rationale for compensating for transactions at some point, because the cost to generate a new bitcoin will at some point exceed the additional value gained from said bitcoin. Regular old BTC client running on ubuntu (2150-2500 khash/sec) managed to produce a block last night My 300 khash laptop got lucky and produced one the first day I used Bitcoin. Interesting, though it doesn't seem to work with your user name? Is the star burst supposed to appear over the D? For me, it appears after the D; I'm using Google Chrome on Windows. How does it make business and personal planning easier?Again, why? It's not enough to say "we should do this because we should."Ok, I'm glad to see that we see eye to eye about CPI and related measures. However, first, how does maintaining a Bitcoin/user ratio maintain price stability, and second, why is it more desirable than a fixed supply?He's not made wealthier for doing nothing. He's made wealthier for making the decision to hold Bitcoins in expectation of increasing demand. This is not "doing nothing". At every moment he must make a decision, "Should I continue to hold on to my Bitcoins? Or are my needs and purposes better served by spending them in exchange for something else?"There is also no guarantee that he will be made wealthier. If too many people hoard, then it will be hard to buy Bitcoins, which means that less people will use Bitcoins, which means that the value of Bitcoins will go down, which means that the hoarders ultimately lose out. The value of Bitcoin is not set in stone; it is determined by what people are willing to exchange for it. This is a self-correcting equilibrium.Ok, now we have a metric. You are proposing that the ratio of Bitcoins to users should remain constant. Why would this be superior to the current system? How would you determine the # of users? How would you distribute the coins?I can't read your mind; I'm sure you are convinced that what you are proposing is a great idea, but you need to formulate this in writing. You make statements such as "Bitcoins will be the best money if the supply flexes with the user base", but that doesn't actually explain anything to me. You are telling me what you think, but not why you think that way.If the value crashes because people speculated and drove the value too high, then what's wrong with that? That's how things should work. Would you prefer that oil prices still be near $200 a barrel? Some speculators lost out, again, so what?"If you just want them to become a digital commodity, then expect there to be swings in demand and value, which would make it less preferable as money."How would fixing it to the # of users alleviate this, and how could we accurately measure this? Why are swings in demand and value a bad thing? If anything, they are how a market, through the collective actions of individual players, allocates capital most efficiently. This is based on the axiom that every trade is made in order to make each individual player better off. If Bitcoins rise and fall in value, there are good reasons for it, and we should not try to "hide" this or fight against it.
Why are you asking the question? What does the answer tell us? I can't read your mind, so I don't know why you think that an expansionary supply is good and a fixed supply is bad.Surely he can exchange his labour in return for gold or whatever else he needs?You have yet to tell us why what you are proposing would be a better system, and what is wrong with the system as it is.You've given a value statement, but you haven't explained why the number of coins needs to grow with the user base; what's the reason behind it? What bad things will happen if things are not changed in the way that you suggest? How do you suggest implementing this? How do you decide how much every new user should get?I believe that if Bitcoins become popular and are being used 10 years from now, their quality of stability will add, rather than detract, to their attractiveness. There is no guarantee that this will happen, but, independent of all other factors, monetary stability is a plus. Right, he's somehow assuming that Bitcoins will be forced on us all and the developers will become our lords, somehow. It just doesn't work like that in a free market where anyone can easily come up with a competing system and easily switch to it. Well, the coins have to get into distribution somehow. We can't just say "here's the money supply" and be done with it. The way it's done now rewards the early contributors to the system, yes, but without those early contributors, there would be no system. We can discus a better way of distributing the initial set of coins, but they must be distributed somehow.I don't quite understand what you are trying to say here. Are you saying that as demand rises, Bitcoins can be exchanged for things of more value because people demand them more? Well, that is true by definition.Yeah. The biggest thing you are missing is that Bitcoins are a voluntary system. If the developers are dishonest, the value of the currency goes to zero. If the early adopters hoard, then other people can make a profit by selling their more valuable Bitcoins. For every action, there is an appropriate reaction. The color purple is bad. Unless of course, you happen to have a lot of purple dye on hand. In that case it is invaluable. Early users that hoard the purple dye are rewarded for doing nothing to help the purple dye ecosystem. They are simply "lords". See, I can assert things if I want to, too. Doesn't make what I say any more than my own subjective hunch. What does this have to do with what I've said, or Bitcoin? I haven't said anything about credit. Honest credit is a legitimate function of a free market economy. You could say that, but that is your hunch based on your imagination, not an objective truth about the future. I already have, along with many others. Perhaps you'd like to read "Deflation and Liberty", by Jörg Guido Hülsmann? ^^^   I see the usage of CPU resources as a potential roadblock to Bitcoin - better alternatives here may be found. If legal tender collapses, that's a potential roadblock as well, since that takes away some motive for wanting to use things like Bitcoin. In short, there are many things that could happen between now and the future, but you know what? The best way is to experiment and try. If you're right, and an expansionary money supply is what people want, then people will choose it. If I'm right, and a stable money supply is what people want, then Bitcoin will prosper and grow. Either way, the consumer wins, and therefore, we win. Without competition and the test of the market place, we could never know what the consumer wants for sure. There is nothing shameful about this; it's all part of the process of creative evolution, and Bitcoin has already captured an important part of that history.I'll have to disagree that Bitcoin is like a ponzi scheme; there is nothing pyramidal in its nature at all. I believe this criticism stems from a flawed theory of value. If the currency really takes off, then 1000 BTCs could be worth quite a bit in the future. One problem I see with this approach is that the wallet file might be completely unreadable in the future, and thus not spendable.   Why would we want to retain a steady, neutral value of Bitcoins? This would mean we would artificially decrease the value of each Bitcoin when more of them were demanded, and artificially increase the value of each Bitcoin when less of them were demanded. This seems completely inverse to what supply & demand is telling you.Ideal in which sense?How is 0% inflation defined?GDP is a poor and unreliable indicator. How would you track the number and value of transactions taking place? How would you quantify non-monetary aspects of the transaction, that can only be measured subjectively by the actual players involved?I'm sorry, but I don't agree. I've seen a lot of "we should do this and that" with no backing arguments. I'll need a little more than just assertive statements to be convinced.  You've given a value statement, but you haven't explained why the number of coins needs to grow with the user base; what's the reason behind it? What bad things will happen if things are not changed in the way that you suggest? How do you suggest implementing this? How do you decide how much every new user should get?"Therefore, the more popular bitcoins become, the more valuable each coin will get."Which is what simple supply & demand would dictate. Let me give my own value statement in the form of a question, in return: What would happen to the purchasing power of all existing gold users if we could somehow conjure up a 400oz bar of gold out of thin air and give it to every citizen who immigrated to North America?I recommend you read these threads for further info:http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=376.0http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=382.0http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=57.0And here is some further reading:http://blog.mises.org/6828/the-principle-of-sound-money/http://mises.org/Community/blogs/lilburne/archive/2009/06/19/224252.aspx Thank you. He might not be making the conflation intentionally; after all, the discussion is conflated when we learn and study about economics in school. Many people are simply not aware that they are talking about two different things. I admit that I've tripped over this many times in the past, myself. No, I wouldn't, because general price inflation without monetary inflation means that society as a whole is getting poorer and worse off. There might not be anything immoral with the situation on the face of it (unlike monetary inflation as practiced), but it is not desirable. Subscribed; definitely something to debate. Even on the pc, downloads will eventually reach an unwieldy point. It's an inconvenience to first timers even today. This could also help with privacy if it "flattens" the older transactions. Actually, you were right and I was the one that screwed up, by missing 3 zeroes. My bad.A trillion dollars is truly a huge sum.. The funny (and sad) thing here is that carbon is a fundamental element of life. Sure, too much of it in the atmosphere in the form of CO2 isn't good, and sure, humans are adding to atmospheric concentrations, but compared to all the other problems on this earth, I think this one is pretty far down on the list. A small boost could even be beneficial.I'm all for clean, green technologies, but it seems that whenever CO2 taxes are implemented, some people get rich and a lot more people get screwed. Thanks to those who have flipped a few coins my way as well, especially Mr. 1337!  This is quite an interesting post... this could be a valid use case for RipplePay and would provide a layer of trust for the extension of credit using Bitcoin. I think the routing would be complicated once both interest rates and transaction fees come into play; how do you figure which is the "least cost" path when it is dependent on how long it takes you to pay back the debt? Could get messy... but I'm sure there are ways around this. It's my experience that someone throwing around phrases like "fanatic" has already made up his own ideas in his mind. Still, we can try to have a reasonable discourse  I also agree that the correct view is that the free market should determine it. However, I am curious how you can see price deflation and monetary deflation as equivalent. Do you want to explain why this is, and how you arrived at this conclusion? Furthermore, I'm not clear on how you see monetary stability a bad thing, and you are implying that it is. I unfortunately can't answer this question cause I have no idea . I think one of the mods would probably be able to help out with this one! I've also seen a couple of threads related to this; could it be that "proof-of-work" only appears once coins have been generated?
As a footnote, the Austrians is not one of monetary deflation in normal times nor as a proscribed policy. Their position is that credit bubbles should be allowed to bust, but money should otherwise be honest and stable; that is, neither inflationary nor deflationary. Are you confusing monetary deflation with price deflation? Because Bitcoin is neither inflationary nor deflationary, in a monetary sense (once most of the coins have been created; for now it is somewhat inflationary). At the most, you can say it is mildly deflationary from loss of coins, but it is too early to tell how much of an impact that will have. If it is predictable, then interest rates can take that into account. 2500 on desktop (linux), and 300 on laptop (could be 600, but it would overheat) (Windows 7)http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=161.0  Well, it's resolution that matters, not quantity. We have enough gold in the world. With modern technology, there is no reason you couldn't own part of an ounce of gold or transfer parts of a gram of gold around, and you can indeed do this today. I am... would it be even faster on SSE3? Why can't the borrower sell services to the lender? OTOH, other people can borrow from the lender and the borrower can sell services to them. Any debt can eventually be paid off as the money cycles through. I think you made a pessimistic mistake in the calculations.I get 10 trillion / 21 million BCs = $476/BC. The smallest possible unit would be worth 0.000476 of a cent. It's not really necessary. Each coin right now is divisible into 100 000 000 parts, so in reality we have 2 100 000 000 000 000 (2.1 quadrillion) coins. Even with a total value of 10 billion dollars, the smallest part is only worth 0.0004762 of a cent. Even if we lose 99.99% of all coins (a heck of a feat), then the smallest part will be worth 4.762 cents. A loss of resolution, to be sure, but not the end of the world. There is already talk of extending the precision which would make this problem moot.There is also no need for us to "know" whether the coins are lost or not. My problem with the whole idea of "checking ownership" is that it's exactly the type of feature that could be open for abuse. In any cash system, people should be able to hold on to their cash for as long as they wish without worrying about whether the system will yank their coins out from under them. Losing coins or not spending them has the same effect on supply and demand. Imagine if you had a ton of gold and either buried it in the ground or dropped it into the ocean in the middle of the sea. You are removing that gold from circulation. It has the same effect on supply and demand, so long as you don't pretend you still have the gold and use it as collateral or make loans based on it 2100000000000000   Hah, I wanted to see it with the ads.  What is this custom SSE hash code? Successful transaction with methodeux. This is actually a pretty interesting idea. I might start doing something like this in my spare time, just for fun  I also like the part about why you shouldn't lend people money to spend it on consumption, i.e. to go on vacation. I happen to know some people that behave exactly like how the two jokers behaved when they "wanted to go on their vacation NOW!"  It does have its flaws, but it's still a good introduction. It's biggest flaw lies perhaps in the presentation of inflation in the form of steadily shrinking fish; surely people would have noticed Still, it's relevant to the idea of fractional reserve and how banking can both become dishonest and stay dishonest for long periods of time. The first chapter about loans and capital accumulation are also good as a primer if you don't want to read something like economics in one lesson. Cross-posted from "http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=57.60"I would recommend everyone read "How an economy grows (and why it doesn't)" by Irwin Schiff. In graphic novel format, it's an easy introduction to the basics of economics and on how an honest banking system becomes dishonest. It's quite relevant to this thread and other threads about Bitcoin, actually."How an economy grows (and why it doesn't)"http://freedom-school.com/money/how-an-economy-grows.pdf I would recommend everyone read "How an economy grows (and why it doesn't)" by Irwin Schiff. In graphic novel format, it's an easy introduction to the basics of economics and on how an honest banking system becomes dishonest. It's quite relevant to this thread and other threads about Bitcoin, actually."How an economy grows (and why it doesn't)"http://freedom-school.com/money/how-an-economy-grows.pdf Agreed about including chain in the download, or at least improving the download algorithm.I still stand by coins remaining a person's property until the end of time; there should be no need to periodically "claim" coins to preveotn them from taken and given to someone else. Deflation in terms of lost coins shouldn't be too big of a deal; even if it happens, it will be on a % basis so the value will simply adjust upwards in compensation. Physical gold gets lost all of the time. We'll just have to make sure that backup and replication schemes are easy to use (perhaps even on by default) in order to make it difficult for this to happen.Please see the other threads about deflation as these concerns have been addressed  If Bitcoins become wildly popular, and the money supply in the aggregate becomes worth 1 billion USD, then every 10 nanobits (10 nanobits being the smallest resolution possible with the current scheme) will be worth only 0.0000004761 $USD. 1 USD = 0.021 Bitcoins, or 1 Bitcoin = $47.62 If Bitcoins become worth 100 billion USD, then every 10 nanobits will be worth 0.0000476 USD. This is still only 1/210th of a cent. There is still plenty of resolution here, even without extending the precision. 1 USD = 0.00021 Bitcoins, or 1 Bitcoin = $4762In short, we are a looooooong way away from this becoming anywhere near a problem. It will be a good problem to have  Once deleted, are the contents of the article lost forever, or can they be restored at some point?
I think we just need to deal with the loss as an effect of the network. What if somebody doesn't respond to a pong cause they're on vacation or away from the internet for some reason? Not too cool if they suddenly find that their coins belong to someone else. Once someone has coins, it's their property for all time unless spent.The number of bitcoins isn't an issue cause we can conceivably use millicoins, microcoins, nanocoins, etc... There's no need for a new chain. Simply change the default unit to be millibits, nanobits, etc... (as I saw suggested elsewhere).Increase the precision in the specifications so that the network can support increased precision. This is probably a function better left as part of a reputation system rather than within the monetary system itself. I am quite partial to something like this, actually. It really captures the digital nature of the currency. The last one also looks like a sideways lemma, the symbol for infinity. The US can seize any domain it wishes under the idea that it's the property being charged, not the person. I don't believe they even have to find the person themselves guilty of any crime. This doesn't just apply to internet domains. I have. I like the idea, but it's moving far too slowly. What we need are some good old FEZs here in NA; I wonder if economic destabilization will provide enough of an impetus to get this rolled out; it's an intermediary step between change through the political process and full-brown secession. Donated  I didn't see a cancel button there.Couldn't a client just send a burst of small transactions in order to avoid the transaction fee? If/when 0.01 BTCs become valuable, then the charge might also be something to adjust. One of 'em was me. I decided to start giving out a few BTCs to people whose posts I appreciated  Yep, but the advantage is that it's very easy to reroute traffic and no worrying about which app is leaking. I just wonder if there's a technical reason why it's not as easy to do this with tor/i2p. I read an interesting commentary today that has some relevance to Bitcoin.Will that be cash or...cash?http://www.financialpost.com/Will+that+cash+cash/3289091/story.html I remember using this in the past, and one of the advantages it had over Tor and I2P is that it automatically encrypts and reroutes all network traffic without requiring any application configuration. I believe it does this by creating a virtual network adapter and sending all traffic through the adapter.What do you guys think about this? I think Tor/I2P could learn from the network adapter approach, as it gets rid of the whole problem of having to configure applications and wonder if any applications are still "leaking" completely.http://www.iopus.com/ipig/ I guess it isn't enough to publish his address, since he might then transfer the money to others who have no idea that the money was illicitly obtained...  I think that defence via opportunity costs, distribution, and decentralization will be more effective. Just shrug the state off your shoulders instead of trying to fight against it. See: P2P filesharing networks. Those who tried to fight against the state usually got wiped out, whereas those who defend themselves by using decentralized networks survive. The state is good at attacking single points of power, so the key is to have that power distributed so that the only way that the network can be shut down is by instituting totalitarian controls over the internet.In the physical world, I'd like to see initiatives like seasteading, charter cities, and secessionism advance more, but change in the physical world is slower to come by. Governments only understand competition; they respond more quickly to that than they do to political processes. I think that is how we can see better government, and how we can get on the road to a future of no government without voluntary consent.  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AgorismDisclaimer: I do not recommend anyone break the law. You do so at your own risk.  I think we've advanced a bit further in our discussion. We've now come to the agreement that it is mainly government intervention into the market, in the form of legal tender laws and taxation (among other things) that keeps a dishonest currency stable and prevents it from collapsing. Am I right on our agreement on this so far?Let's say that we don't have government intervention into the Bitcoin market. I know we can argue on if and when it is going to happen, and I don't see it as a very fruitful argument because there is no way to really be sure on how effective government intervention would be or what form it would take. For the sake of a free market analysis, let's look at the situation without intervention taking place.I believe that you've made two main points as to how you see a dishonest banking system operate:* Loans are compounded upon loans, therefore increasing the amount of money chasing goods and creating general inflation.* The banks stay solvent by "not being stupid"; by ensuring that the ratio of deposits to reserves does not get so out of hand that it is possible for a single depositor to single-handedly bust the bank.I don't deny that it may be possible for a bank to loan out some of their "on-demand" deposits and thereby create some inflation by creating more liquidity than was saved. I also don't deny that they might be able to keep up the charade for a long time by advanced management of their reserves. What I do deny is that such a system can possibly expand without limit, either in the aggregate or for individual banks.I also think you made the same case yourself, in your answers above. Let's look at our "stupid" bank scenario again:Our wealthy depositor deposits 100,000 BTCs at a bank which engages in aggressive fractional-reserve banking. They tell him that the funds are available anytime, but in reality they keep some in reserves. There are 500,000 deposits total. In order to avoid being busted out by a single reserve, they decide that they need to keep at least 150,000 BTCs in reserve.Let's say that our banking system continues to give backless loans, which are used to make new deposits, which are then being used to create ever more loans.Let's say that our wealthy depositor is one of these guys. He takes out a 100,000 BTC loan from another bank, and deposits them at his bank. We must also assume that his bank will accept credit from another bank in place of actual Bitcoins. What happened then? The depositor now has 200,000 BTCs at the bank, but the bank still only has 150,000 BTCs in reserve. If they don't want to be "stupid", then they must somehow acquire additional BTCs. Since it turns out that the amount of real BTCs in the economy is fixed, this might lead to trouble for the bank. The alternative is that we end up denominating the depositor's account in the form of two currencies: 100,000 in BTCs, and 100,000 in (private bank) quasi-BTC currency. They would not be the same currency, since the second one would not be redeemable for actual BTCs but would merely be "BTC-backed". We then end up with an exchange rate between the two, and it is possible that that bank's currency will go bust.Without legal tender laws forcing people to accept private credit as equivalent to actual BTCs, or confiscation of actual BTCs in exchange for paper credit (much like what happened with gold in the 1930s), there is simply no way that such a system could perpetually inflate ad infinitum. As total credit increases, the ratio of credit to real BTCs increases. Therefore, the ratio of reserves to credit decreases. Even with statistics, a bank will eventually be caught since their deposits will be too large in relation to their reserves. We have also ignored the effects of interest until now, but interest also has a damping rate (on the demand side) on the expansion of credit since loan interest must cost more than deposit interest pays in order for the bank to make a profit.What I would like to know is how the government is going to force people to accept a quasi-BTC currency in place for the real thing. I have already shown how it is impossible for the banking system to expand BTC credit without hitting a wall somewhere. I don't think the government can go and confiscate BTCs and/or force people to accept quasi-BTCs in place of the real thing. A government would have to be totalitarian to have that kind of reach, especially in the digital sphere.Where the trouble lies is at the Bitcoin boundary with fiat currency, the physical world, and government regulation. These are all separate issues, and we could probably start another thread to discuss those. Also, BTC's don't need to replace the entire system, they just need to be good enough to compete with it  Currency monopoly is not desirable IMO.Agreed; however, I believe that the current world order is simply a stage on our continual evolutionary journey to the future. I have come to the belief over time that the only moral system of contract for humans is a voluntary contract, and the most efficient economic system is one that is based on such voluntary contracts and subjective value. All involuntary impositions are a form of servitude, to one degree or another. I don't think we're ready to live in a world without government and taxes, yet, but I believe now is a good time as any to increase the competitive pressure on government and to increase the choices out there.More interesting reading:http://blog.mises.org/12890/credit-expansion-vs-simple-inflation/http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anarcho-capitalismhttp://athousandnations.com/I've enjoyed this conversation with you; thanks for the good discussions so far! LOLThough, I'm not sure how an exchange can be "bankrupted". Any trade should always be zero-sum or profitable for an exchange; only the individual players should possibly lose out. That is, unless the exchange itself is doing their own trades and not simply acting as a mediator. InterArmaEnimSil , I believe our main point of contention is on how powerful the banking system in a free market will be vis a vis the customers. You appear to believe that the banks will be just as successful at practicing --in what we both agree is a fraudulent manner -- fractional reserve banking, without a lender of last resort (The federal reserve) and without a monopoly (taxation and legal tender laws). I don't agree with this, mainly because the current system would already be bankrupt without taxation and legal tender laws,and would also have collapsed long ago without a central lender of last resort with the power to manipulate the money supply at will. Sure, there is a small statistical chance that everyone becomes fools, but do you really believe it? You are not fooled, are you? Do you think everyone is less intelligent than you or less able to see, particularly those people who have amassed a large sum of wealth and therefore have a lot to lose? Part of this is related to education; if people are ignorant, educate them. Part of this is also related to a sense of loss; the more you have to lose, the more you will educate yourself, guaranteed. Some people might not have a sense of self-survival, but most people do.I'll go over a few points below:This is a different problem altogether. Did you read my Agorism link?  Such laws will only be effective to the degree they can have force in the digital world. This is not to say they will be without effect altogether; this is a real problem that the Bitcoin network will have to face should it become popular.I think we're using different definitions of the term "lender of last resort". To me, a "lender of last resort" implies a sort of bank with basically unlimited pockets that can always lend to any other bank on request. Such a feat is possible with fiat currency, and perhaps possible with Bitcoin credit, but impossible with actual Bitcoins.There is an implication within your posts that the banks are somehow a "collective" and form a homogeneous whole. I don't think we should treat the system in this way. Every bank will be a customer of another bank for some amount, and out of their own interest of survival they will scrutinize the other bank's operations a lot more closely than the "average joe" might. The worst case of your scenario can only happen should one bank somehow gain a monopoly in the Bitcoin world, but there is no artificial force preventing other banks from springing up, nor is there an artificial force people to accept this bank's rules and dictates. Decree = value  No decree, it would be the end of days as far as the fiat banking system is concerned.Now, this is a nice thought.  If the banks got careless, and a consortium of people could accumulate 21,000,001 bitcoins total across all their bank accounts, then they could call the bluff of the entire system.  That's certainly possible under bitcoins, and impossible under the dollar system.  Of course, the public would probably believe those individuals to be "hackers" or frauds, rather than accept that their entire banking system was a joke.How can you fraction something and still have 100% available at all times?[/quote]The on-demand deposits would be available at all times. The time deposits would not be, by design.I don't know that this is untrue. In an honest banking system, people must give up liquidity in other for others to gain it. There is inflation if you sum the amount of credits + real bitcoins and consider this the money supply, but what effect does this have on the general level of prices? I would argue it only affects prices to the degree that the banking system is dishonest, because the money in circulation should remain stable.There is no need to change the law.The banking system is not homogeneous, and we don't need anywhere near 21,000,000 bitcoins to attack the banking system.All we need is a few players with some degree of wealth, and with some intelligence. Take for example, a wealthy Bitcoiner who has 100,000 BTCs in Bank A and 100,000 BTCs in Bank B.Bank A has total deposits of 500,000 BTCs. So does Bank B.Bank A is honest and keeps 100% of on-demand as reserves. Bank B only keeps 10%.Our wealthy Bitcoiner gets suspicious of both of these banks for some reason and withdraws. Bank A's capital is down to 400,000, nothing bad happens.Bank B busts because it only has 50,000 BTCs to give him.Bank B can try to borrow money from other banks, but there is a limit to what they will be willing to lend.You seem to be implying that the entire industry can cartelize to keep things going, but there are several arguments against that:http://mises.org/LIBERAL/CH2SEC7.ASPhttp://mises.org/media/3686Sorry, I didn't have the time to write a more eloquent reply, but I think that is our remaining point of contention: How successful the banks will be at fooling the people. Please also read the threads about fractional reserve banking:http://mises.org/Community/forums/t/6197.aspxhttp://mises.org/Community/forums/p/17430/339679.aspx#339679http://mises.org/Community/forums/p/8938/273181.aspx#273181P.S. No worries about the misquoting! Quoting can be a pain in the ass in these types of forums. I just got a bit confused, cause I thought I had written those quotes and then I wasn't so sure anymore  This is indeed an interesting idea. I'm curious what the devs would think about this idea. It could always be implemented on the test network first.
Between Windows, Linux (on same PC), and my laptop?I don't want to lose payments cause I dropped a few addresses  b-b-b-bump Nice posts, guys.I think that Bitcoin has already passed the first test; thousands have already been traded on the exchanges! That surely shows that it has the potential. Does the protocol support sending from a spoofed address? I have learned a lot myself, just from posting in the forums and commenting on the blog. Have you read this site before? http://mises.orgYou might find it interesting. Mises was the first guy AFAIK to posit that it was impossible for central planning to fulfill people's desires better than a free market due to the calculation problem.They approach economics with an axiomatic approach; humans act, humans value things differently, and it is impossible for a central planner to calculate what a few billion people will do because it does not know what those people think or what those people want; indeed, in order to truly centrally plan an economy successfully you'd have to be able to essentially simulate humans to find out their subjective preferences and desires, even if you had an extremely powerful AI. Otherwise, the most an AI could do is fulfill the role of an entrepreneur and try to please people as they tell it what they want  Electricity is included in my rent, and electricity is cheap where I live anyways; far below market prices. Uh oh...Step 1: Government subsidizes electricity.Step 2: Bitcoin miners move in.Step 3: Government seizes Bitcoin miner's assets.Rinse and repeat... I think that the overall network is generating the same amount of blocks regardless of the difficulty; the difficulty is intended so that the network generates a block in a relatively constant amount of time. Therefore, this confirmation time should always be around the same.Satoshi or anyone else can correct me if I'm wrong  Yep! I wrote about this in more detail on another thread here...A Bitcoin bank will only be able to expand credit to the degree that it is demanded, and even then, I believe it will only be stable over the long run if "on-demand" deposits are full-reserved, and only "investment deposits" are fractionated. Domain seizure:http://torrentfreak.com/pirate-bay-and-megaupload-escape-domain-seizure-by-us-100707/ Some banks do, but the FDIC honours accounts. Today there's also a  mentality of "too big to fail". Holy....Satoshi, what happens if the rush dries up for a bit; some of the slashdotters or whoever get tired? Does the difficulty ever go back down? Why? Banking system today: Runs out of cash? No problem, just get more at the Fed.Bitcoin banking system:Runs out of Bitcoins? Oh, fvck....The dynamics of a hard-money banking system are different. There could be profit made off of keeping Bitcoins in trust, but I suspect this would look more like a backup service than anything. As for investing, well, the anonymous nature of Bitcoins makes that a bit hard. We need a good distributed trust mechanism to complement it for that  Except with Bitcoins, there is no force to keep people captive to a system that they know is ripping them off and no monetary pumping to paper over losses. No taxes, no legal tender laws. Anything operating in the Bitcoin economy survives (and fails) on its own merits alone.So we both agree that the laws suck. However, these laws are just arbitrary points that have nothing to do with market forces and the banking system only survives because there is a lender of last resort. Such a lender of last resort cannot exist in a hard money system such as Bitcoin.Fraud should be illegal, yes. If a bank says "Hey, we only keep 10% of your money on hand, so it might not be there when you want it!", then it is no longer fraud, but good luck attracting depositors Again, if it were not for legal tender rules and taxation, fiat currency would have a value of 0 with the kind of system we have in place today.Those senior citizens know something many people today don't, because they lived through it.Don't like the word "private" fool you: The Federal Reserve as as much an arm of the government as is the Treasury, Congress, or anything else.Why would nobody ever question them? Why would anyone even pay any attention to them? They can say they have 10 million Bitcoins, but who cares? There is a limit to the amount of lying that can go on. "You can fool some of the people all of the time, and all of the people some of the time, but you can not fool all of the people all of the time.""However, I also believe that, under bitcoins, no one would *EVER*, or almost ever, request real bitcoins. " Why not? It's much easier to do so than it is to request a bar of gold, or even 1 million in physical cash.You cannot have continual "virtual" inflation without a corresponding decline in the % of real reserves of Bitcoin. Such a system is inherently unstable since it increases the risk with every passing day.Don't forget that banks are customers of each other, too. Maybe the average Joe won't care, but the larger the balance, the more people will care. I will bet you that banks will care that their deposits are being held in good hands.I think it will be much easier to demand real bitcoins; in fact, I would expect that those with large balances (other banks, rich players, etc...) would follow their holdings with close scrutiny, as they have the most to lose from fraud in the banking system.To summarize, I think we both agree on the mechanics of the banking system. Where we disagree is if everyone can be fooled under a Bitcoin banking system. I don't think they can. Even if 999 average joes with 50 BTCs each are fooled, all you need is ONE guy with a hundred thousand BTCs to keep the entire banking system in line. This isn't to say fractional reserve banking won't happen, but it will balance at the point where the supply & demand for money balance out. I fully expect that it will take the form of on-demand deposits which are 100% reserved and time deposits which can be fractionated. It cannot continue beyond the point of equilibrium without an ensuing credit bust. The only reason fiat hasn't busted is because the american citizen must use it to pay taxes and all other debts. There is a legal monopoly on the use of force which enforces the survival of fiat. Without such force, there is no way that a banking system that looks like the way things are practiced today could survive over a long period of time.P.S. I thought I wrote those points? How come all of those quotes have db's name in them  Please read: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AgorismYour most important sentence: "However, the law would remain that even though loans were made in amounts expressed in bitcoins, those loans had the backing of other loans, not actual bitcoins."There is no law when it comes to Bitcoins, other than the law of human action. Sovereign fiat might create new money with impunity, but then again, sovereign fiat is required to pay taxes and it is legal tender. Bitcoin shares none of these "advantages". Nobody will accept "loans upon loans upon loans" if they are not required to by force of law (and they defacto aren't; please read the Agorism post ), as the further this goes, the more unstable things get. I'll reply in more detail to your other post. Don't forget to amortize your fixed costs. Those parts don't last forever and eventually need replacing. If you are qualifying "capitalism" with "state capitalism", then I agree with you. Too bad that's the most common definition of the word these days. I believe that we've reached the point in our discussion where we see what is, and we agree on what ought to be, and the direction where the market goes is really something that cannot be predicted ahead of time. I just want to say that there's a reason that the US government went off the gold standard, even though everything you say applies to gold as well: Real gold keeps its value (as will real Bitcoins), and people eventually catch on to the game. I don't have time to reply to your post right now, since it's almost midnight , so I'll leave you with some interesting reading to peruse at your own leisure:Here are three interesting threads that I found that you guys might be interested in:A big one:http://mises.org/Community/forums/t/6197.aspxhttp://mises.org/Community/forums/p/17430/339679.aspx#339679http://mises.org/Community/forums/p/8938/273181.aspx#273181 smutfairy???Time for another bootstrapping mechanism 
... when Bitcoins are used by at least 10 million people, are at a supply of 10 million, and represent an economy of 10 billion?1BTC = $1000 USD?    Is this a time deposit or an on-demand deposit? I do not see interest being paid on on-demand deposits. That could imply that the bank is using that money and that it's not really there.Agreed, the bank is lying to you. I hope it is clear to everyone why this is unstable, and can even be considered fraud. If the bank tells you that the deposit is on demand and always available, then it better always be available. If it's not, that's a contractual failure and fraud.If your money is used to buy a bond, on the other hand, this isn't fraud. You know that the borrower can default and that there is risk, and you know where your money really is (it's with the borrower, not the bank). No lying.Fractional reserve is OK so long as the banks aren't blatantly lying about what they're doing. Without a government ready to print additional bitcoins to bail out banks, you can bet that they will be more careful about what they're doing, since if they get caught in the lie, they're fvcked.I understand what you mean, but what I mean is that there will be no backstop called the Federal Reserve to bail out the banks when they go bust, and trust me, the greedy ones WILL go bust.Yes, I agree with you here. However, I would demand honesty from the banks. I can surmise others can do the same. We can never be entirely sure what's going on; the banks could lie, they could be running a pyramid scheme; what we DO know is that honesty is in everyone's best interests, because there is no Federal Reserve to just paper over the losses when the shit hits the fan. I cannot surmise HOW this will be, but I do know that it will be in everyone's interests to see that it is done.You're forgetting that Bitcoins are not an inflationary regime. It will be much more difficult to keep the correct number of Bitcoins on hand when you can't just print them willy nilly. A bank might be able to find an optimal number, and again, there's nothing wrong with this. I just think that for the banking system to be honest, they need to fess up and seperate time deposits from on demand deposits. If people want to go with riskier banks that do fractional reserve with the on demand deposit, that's their business. If it takes a few busts to scare people off from that, then so be it I essentially agree with everything you say, but I see the dynamics as being different because there's no Big Daddy to bail the kids out from their mistakes when they mess up, yet again  The higher the value goes, the more tempting it will be to spend them. This is what ultimately keeps the price in line with supply & demand in a non-propped market.The unpredictable question is... if, where, and when?  I based it off of this:  Quantum computing and encryption: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/2768807/quantum-computing-and-encryption-breaking And alternatively, the JSON API itself can be password secured; would there be a man in the middle attack possible, though? Lots of security issues to address, but great stuff. I can't wait to see this in action! Hey Martin,"Look into packaging the program up into a simple executable which you can run instead of bitcoin, and it will run in the background and kill itself when the bitcoin process dies."My only concern with this is that we need to open the JSON API, which is insecure. So easy for a trojan to wipe out a user's wallet.If this feature were embedded directly within Bitcoin, there would be no need to open the JSON API, and security measures could be taken (such as a captcha to be entered before a pay could be fired, or a password).I am not, however, a security expert. What do you think? 50 BC = $2.50? Surely this isn't sustainable even at the current difficulty Then again, all about supply and demand. If this is what the market demands, then go get your PCs ready, cause there's a gold rush in town! The desktop goes up to 61C CPU max. I should clarify that if I stop and start it 1 second later, the hashing goes back to fullspeed and stays there for a while, so I don't think that's the issue... Yep, but then you couldn't take advantage of remote checking services unless you provided the password to decrypt the wallet. But that's no different than just giving them the coins.I fully expect that both types of services will exist. Not true. If I deposit 100 bitcoins at a bank, the bank lends out 90, and I want to withdraw my 100 bitcoins, the bank is screwed. Even if they lend out 25, the bank is screwed. On demand deposits simply cannot be loaned out if a banking system is to ultimately remain stable. Sure, some banks can try to do it, but then they better not call them "on demand deposits". Deposits can be loaned out, but not with a guarantee of redemption. That is simply impossible as Bitcoins cannot be created out of thin air. So long as on-demand deposits are not loaned out and time deposits are loaned out, we're fine. Alternatively, on-demand deposits can be loaned out, with a "maybe" promise of repayment. Try and see who will go for that  You might call this fractional reserve banking, but then we're just arguing over semantics.  This post is meant to delve into the monetary aspects of Bitcoin, and the differences between Bitcoin and the dollars in your pocket. Please feel free to correct and add to the discussion.What is fiat money?From Wikipedia:Bitcoin clearly does not fit definitions #1 nor #2. In my opinion, definition #3 is misleading, since nothing has intrinsic value. Sure, Bitcoins might not have value if not used as money, but it does not follow that because they have no value if not used as money, that they therefore also have no value if used as money.Therefore, Bitcoin is technically a fiat currency per definition #3, but I see this as a "weak" definition, and not a strong one.If Bitcoin is not the same as sovereign fiat currency, then what is it?Bitcoin is a digital currency which shares many of the properties of money, namely, scarcity, fungibility, and a means of exchange. The pattern of digital bits and the mathematical conventions in place enforce these aspects. Bitcoin is far more similar to a digital version of gold than it is to a sovereign fiat currency.But what backs Bitcoin? How can it have any value if it is not backed?I would ask "What backs gold?" The answer is that the question is starting from the wrong assumption: Bitcoins do not need to be hard-linked to anything else. The need for a distributed, anonymous, and decentralized currency drives initial adoption. The value of Bitcoins will be driven by supply and demand; in essence, it is backed by what people are willing to trade for it; the same as gold.What is the difference between monetary inflation/deflation and price inflation/deflation?Monetary inflation and deflation occurs whenever there are changes in the supply of money. Increasing the money supply is the definition of monetary inflation, and decreasing the money supply is monetary deflation.Ok, but what is price inflation/deflation?Price inflation/deflation is what most people commonly refer to as "inflation" or "deflation", and it occurs when the general level of prices increases or decreases. In reality, price inflation and deflation is a consequence of the change in money supply, it is the effect and not the cause.Prices can go up and down without there being changes in the money supply. For example, computer prices have been steadily declining, but this is due to increasing efficiencies and not decreases in the money supply. Oil prices have risen greatly over the past decade, but this is in part due to increasing demand in China and elsewhere, and is not solely due to monetary inflation.Finally, the important question: What are the dynamics of Bitcoin, and how do they differ from sovereign fiat currencies?To be fair, any currency should treat all holders of the currency equally. Whatever happens should affect everyone equally. Let's look at the differences:Sovereign fiat currency:* Regime of monetary inflation* Monetary inflation is great enough to cause price inflation* The new money is never distributed to everyone equally, therefore, some people's holdings depreciate faster than other people's holdings. This entails a real redistribution in wealth between holders of the currency, and receivers of the newly-printed currency.* As governments have a monopoly on the printing press, they can expand the supply of money far beyond the demand, thus setting up the stage for a credit bubble and bust.Bitcoin currency:* Regime of exponentially decreasing monetary inflation, then monetary stability. The inflation is distributed equally among hashes/second, with some variance due to the randomness of the problem to be solved.Once the supply is stable, there will be a slight monetary deflation as Bitcoins are lost. This deflation will redistribute wealth equally to all other holders of Bitcoin.* As the money supply does not inflate, prices of everything in Bitcoin will slowly decline. This benefits all holders of Bitcoin.* New money creation is always distributed equally, in proportion to resources expended.* There is no monopoly on the ability to create new Bitcoins, no government enforcement, and no arbitrary allocation schemes. The currency's value is driven entirely by supply and demand.Bitcoin appears to be similar to gold in terms of monetary dynamics!This is true. The main difference is that gold is a very slightly inflationary regime, but again, it benefits people based on resources expended. The inflation rate is also very low. Gold also has commodity uses apart from its uses as money.Bitcoins, on the other hand, will be a very slightly deflationary regime. Should the currency be successful and the value skyrocket, I fully expect that very robust backup and replication schemes will be put into place.But Bitcoin is not a commodity! It is impossible for it to be used as money!Not true. Bitcoin is distributed, anonymous, and decentralized: All features that the market is looking for. This does not preclude a better alternative coming along, but neither does it disprove Bitcoin! I see Bitcoin as the next step on our path to a digital future, and I believe that it can succeed.Discuss?Please feel free to comment and/or add to the discussion! I've noticed that after running Bitcoin for a while, the hashing seems to slow down by a significant amount.For example:310 khash/sec -> 250 -260 khash/sec2450 khash/sec -> 2150 khash/secNoticed on two seperate machines, in Windows and Ubuntu. Any idea why this could be happening? Has anyone else noticed this? Fractional reserve banking is unstable without a monopoly over the ability to print currency, due to the >0 possibility that a bank runs out of reserves. The way banking in BTC will likely work is that you will have On-demand deposits, and time-deposits.On-demand deposits will be stored at the bank, and will not be lent out. You will likely pay a small fee for this service.Time deposits will be lent out, but cannot be withdrawn at anytime. You will also have to accept the possibility of loss.The Mises Forums offers a lot of info about fractional reserve banking; I would recommend reading there for more info on how it would work in a free market without a central authority (like Bitcoin). I believe I've seen this happen, too... it's a feature Using different addresses increases anonymity, but should ideally be a configurable option.  The omega would be interesting, but maybe that's just cause I remember it from an old game... Was it Populous? Perhaps we can come up with something representing the digital nature of the currency; perhaps a play on the word "bit" or something similar. LOL... haha, this one made me laugh  All the better to practice now, while the network is still young! Well, if it is not a real flaw, it's not necessary, but it would be good practice. This could always be done first in the test network. Agreed; one reason the Internet has been so successful is precisely because it offers resistance against strong centralized control. Anyone can read the views of anyone else and have access to such a wide range information, anywhere in the world. They will try, I don't doubt it, but I hope people see the value in a decentralized currency remaining free of centralized control, especially control by people who probably won't even understand the point and will only believe in whatever propaganda they are told.
What's wrong with BTC or BTC$?Still, no harm in it I guess. Any idea on a cool character? Perhaps the omega character? Transaction successful! Anyone else interested? I have plenty more chips at hand  Bitcoin 32-bitUbuntu 10.04 64-bitAMD Phenom II X4 810 2.61Ghz2150 khash/secBitcoin 64-bit is faster than Bitcoin 32-bit by 300khash/sec, or one old laptop! Bitcoin 64-bitUbuntu 10.04 64-bitAMD Phenom II X4 810 2.61Ghz2450 khash/secSo, somewhat faster than in Windows 7. However, ubuntu lags a lot more than Windows does when Bitcoin is going fullbore. Could this be fixed in the next release? We were just discussing what would happen if a flaw were found: Here we go, our first real test of the situation.   You do make a decent point about the IPv4 exhaustion limit. I believe Bitcoins have a total divisible count of  2.1 quadrillion (someone correct me if I'm wrong), so it's quite a bit finer than IPv4, but yes, there is still conceivably a precision limit. I suppose the precision could be increased at that point.I hope the second paragraph was a joke though. Major heads of state discussing the future of Bitcoin? The whole point is that it doesn't fall under state control. Those guys still print the Internet and would probably see Bitcoin as a tool of terrorism. The US DoJ has digital currencies listed as a "major threat".  Interesting. I've been looking for something like this: "Wuala protects your privacy: In stark contrast to most other online storage services, all your files get encrypted on your computer, so that no one - including the employees at Wuala and LaCie - can access your private files. Your password never leaves your computer."That's why I've hesitated signing up for many of these backup services: the files are readable by the company. I wonder how trustworthy Wuala's claims are. Nice job, Andy!  Really glad to see community members taking the initiative to drive projects like this. Yep, I don't doubt those tactics will be tried as well. The first two are temporary, but the last one is scarier to potential users. The devs might find black SUVs pulling up to their doorsteps one day, as well.  That could be one reason. There is a lot more at stake here (for the big players) than there was for BitTorrent. BitTorrent helps some users get around expensive CDs and DVDs; a costly problem for the industry to be sure, but one that still hits a fairly segmented part of the economy. Bitcoin, on the other hand, has the potential to undermine the entire taxation & fiat money system. You can bet your bottom dollar that a lot more resources will be thrown against it; I'm just waiting for the propaganda campaign to start I could be wrong, and they won't care or won't notice, or when they do it will be too expensive to mount an attack, even for them, but we need to at least acknowledge the possibility. Also, "I am not asking for the work to be decreased so hundreds of new coins will be flooding the network in an inflationary spiral, but rather asking that the value of the coins generated be decreased instead to compensate for the increase in the number of users" reduces the value for all other users compared to where it would be otherwise. I don't see the point of that. If demand for the currency rises, it is natural that its value, relative to other goods, should rise. We would just be repeating the problems of fiat to transfer this money on an arbitrary basis. I'll write a post with more detail about this soon. Hmm... 1.54 million $USD is really peanuts in the grand scope of things. It's going to have to be a lot more expensive than that by at least a few orders of magnitude for Bitcoin to be well protected against this sort of thing. Then again, as the value of the bitcoin economy increases, more nodes should join in, raising the bar. 61C CPU / 38C Mobo here with all 4 cores being used. Windows 7 64-bitAMD Phenom II X4 810 2.61Ghz2000 khash/secCPU temperature stabilises at 61CMB temperature at 40CI noticed something funny: After running for a long while, the khash/sec went down to 1750-1800. Is this normal? I see the same thing happening on my laptop where it went down to 275 after staying at 300 - 310 for a while. I don't have many Bitcoins yet, so it would have to be PayPal for me  There you go, then. So long as people see value in those things, the currency will have a demand. Market exchangers will act to bring liquidity in and out of the currency. Consider those things the "commodity uses". Will Bitcoin be ultimately successsful? An open question, to be sure. It certainly isn't off to a bad start. I think that Bitcoin is simply the next step on the path to our digital future. It will also help to optimize the file writing, because it seems kind of suspicious for the program to be using the hard drive so intensely. Trojan? Spyware? is what many people will be thinking. Not to mention, that writing 65 000 times to the same file isn't so great for HD reliability  I can confirm the block problem. I just installed Bitcoin on my tower, and it is really annoying to hear the hard drive crunch like crazy as it downloads the blocks. You have a point here; it would probably be good if there was a mechanism to regenerate lost coins, but I'm not sure how that could be implemented.As Bitcoins become more valuable, people will increasingly take precautions. Therefore, the loss should decrease as time goes on. Losing 5000 BTCs worth $5 isn't such a big deal; losing 5000 BTCs worth $10,000 is! I don't think it's directly comparable. There's no such thing as a "Bittorrent proof of work" that serves as the base for all value in the system. The CIA, Botnet, whoever directly attacking the proof of work is a valid scenario.Of course, they would need to have a pretty hefty supercomputer to keep up with 1 million + nodes, should Bitcoin get to that point.
Do you see value in a distributed currency without a single point of failure?Do you see value in a more anonymous way of transmitting and receiving value?Do you like the idea of being able to transmit value without having to pay an expensive transaction fee?If you answer yes to any of these questions, then I think you answered your own questions. A currency with a fixed supply has 0 inflation/deflation by definition. You are probably referring to price inflation/deflation, which is a seperate phenomenon and is unimportant as long as there is no monetary inflation/deflation. Even if you wanted to, there is no meaningful way to do it. Just look at how fudged the CPI numbers are. I'm not a minarchist (more of an agorist/panarchist), but otherwise interested in the same things as you Could you tell me more about anonymous distributed cloud storage and things like that? I'm a little bit behind the times when it comes to these things."Existing "anonymous" digital currencies suffer from the defect that it's virtually impossible to fund them anonymously. "This is what's made it hard for me to buy Bitcoins uptil now! Granted, my online poker method is not anonymous, either, but I consider it a bit better than Paypal. Agreed, the danger isn't necessarily from those trying to exploit the system (though the coin phishing and such is a valid concern), but rather from those seeking simply to destroy it. What do you do when a powerful adversary puts a few supercomputers to block generation and they intend to screw around with the block chain? They might not care about stealing value; they'd rather just destroy it. It doesn't really hurt anyone else if they do. If they never spend the coins, it's as if they don't exist, which means everyone else's coins are worth more. Coins can be fractionated to 8 decimal places, so transmitting small value isn't a problem.The danger would be if the big cloud attempted to undermine the network by screwing around with the block chain, instead of simply generating coins. I don't mind contributing to a bounty, especially to get the local HTTP server implemented (or another mechanism that allows website integration, but I prefer local HTTP server since it does not require plugins nor extensions). FreeMoney: You are my competition, haha methodeux: Great! I sent you a reply. Really, nobody wants to sell me bitcoins for real money poker?  Nooo... Guess i gotta bust out the paypal... Doh... Just thought of an easy way this can be hijacked. Someone could just create a new address, send all their bitcoins to it, and tag it with a good result...That sucks. It's going to be hard to get anonymous btc loans or other services without knowledge of rep. It's not that important for bc right now; perhaps someone has already thought about this and figured it out. Let's keep the discussion flowing, guys! I propose an idea for a distributed reputation system for Bitcoin. It is based on a "marking" of the public transaction history. Here is how it would work:Every Bitcoin transaction can be voted either positive, neutral, or negative. Only addresses directly involved in said transaction can tag said transaction. Comments can be attached to the vote.An address' reputation can be the sum of (positive votes x BTC amount) - (negative votes x BTC amount). Each address owns their own votes.Since the transaction history is public to all, transaction amounts can be easily verified. All that is needed is transaction tagging. In order to avoid coupling this functionality into Bitcoin, it should ideally be part of a standalone package and call Bitcoin externally (or at the very least, should probably not be part of the Bitcoin core API). That is why Bitcoin needs to be standardized into an API so that third-party apps such as this can be developed; I understand that JSON is a step in this direction, but it has security risks and cannot be public by default. Perhaps what is needed is a tiered approach so that public data can be publicly exposed by default, whereas the full JSON lib needs to be unlocked.This is just an idea that popped into my head, and I thought that I should write it down. What do you guys think? Please write down your own ideas here, as well! "It would also be alright if Bitcoin only used a low percentage of one thread at a low priority during this scenario."Doing otherwise will cause my laptop to shut down  Is the exchange rate right? 5000 BTCs for $1 USD seems 25x too little..., even going by 0.005. At current exchange it should be $70 USD? Anything which accepts payment in return for services or digital goods is a great candidate for Bitcoin. KeePass is another example of a portable program that can just be dumped on a USB and utilized from the get go. Damn; and I've held off on buying some simply because I don't want to use paypal. Comeon guys! I'm willing to trade poker chips in USD$ for bitcoins!Agree with you, unsecured Bitcoin loans are pretty much a non-starter for now, and likely will be for a long time until we have a good distributed reputation system in place, and even then they will still be expensive due to the risk. I like this post: http://mises.org/Community/forums/p/6197/345624.aspx#345624This is how I see how banking can work under the Bitcoin models (again, I don't see how fractional reserve could be stable with on-demand deposits without an inflationary lender of last resort): Agreed; it could be a checkbox option in the installer. I think the effects of that "illusion" could be debated all day. I need to do a lot more reading up on the topic, myself Here are three interesting threads that I found that you guys might be interested in:A big one:http://mises.org/Community/forums/t/6197.aspxhttp://mises.org/Community/forums/p/17430/339679.aspx#339679http://mises.org/Community/forums/p/8938/273181.aspx#273181 If someone deposits 100 at a bank, the bank loans out 90, and the original person can still spend his 100 or withdraw them, then money has most certainly been created. I am not seeing how this cannot be the case. I also don't see how this is possible with BCs, so not sure how the two situations are the same. That's not what I meant. Of COURSE the user should be alerted and should have the choice. I am saying that the software should simply be capable of updating itself 
I'd also like to add that the wallet itself should be auto-backed up every now and then. It would suck if someone lost all their coins because their computer shut down while Bitcoin was in the middle of making a write. Is there a roadmap in place for future development of Bitcoin? Let's discuss the features we believe would improve adoption and usability of the client:* Seperation of Bitcoin API into a standalone embeddable moduleI believe this is important so that third parties can port Bitcoin to different platforms, with different UIs, etc.... look at how many platforms we now have for Bittorrent, and the functionality is also embedded into different applications.* Flat file format for coinsCoins should be exportable into a flat file format, which will be readable by the core API and thus re-importable to other clients. This flat file format should be encrypted natively (though people can choose to embed it in another encryption format, thereby providing double encryption).* Full security audit of BitcoinThis will be needed in order to provide a measure of trust.* Increased anonymity/privacy featuresSimply integrating with Tor/I2P, like BitTorrent programs allow, should help. Experts in these domains could point out simple optimizations that could be done and would not slow down the network significantly.* Protocol obfuscation/encryptionThis is a simple manner of survivability, in case ISPs or other agencies attempt to monitor, filter, or block Bitcoin traffic.I believe these are the most important features. Other features could be implemented by third parties as they embed the Bitcoin module into their apps. Witness the vast proliferation of Bittorrent clients, each with their own sets of features on top of the base Bittorrent featureset.Other things that will help to drive adoption:* Increased exchange methods. It is not that easy to get Bitcoins right now! * Increased payment sites. This is a manner of advertising Bitcoin and getting people to accept it. Again, if Bitcoin was a standard module that people could just drop into their web apps, this would be much easier.Satoshi, what do you think about development bounties and the like? I wouldn't mind donating a few resources to help get these things done more quickly. I would code myself, but my C++ is rather rusty  Agreed; coins should be exportable into a flat file, which could then be encrypted using a tool like KeePass. Auto-update should also be seamless; it should not open a webbrowser asking you to download a file, but instead it should update itself.  Perhaps as an import/export function, that exports the coins into a file which could then be sent over email, stored on USB, and even imported into another wallet. FreeMoney is selling USD$ on poker sites for Bitcoins. See below for details. AMD-64 X2 TK-53 1.7Ghz1 Core: 310 khash/sec2 Cores: 590 khash/sec (and an overheating laptop) Hi llama,I read your post and I don't disagree with what you've said. I am not that concerned about bank runs to be honest, so long as the banks don't blatantly lie and say that they always have funds available; in order to be non-fraudulent, deposits must be either locked in and maturity matched against any expiring loan, or they must be backed by assets at the bank which remain at the bank. In fact, with Bitcoins this will be naturally enforced because the banks cannot naturally create more Bitcoins than they have.My real issue with fractional reserve banking, in combination with legal tender and central banking, is the way that it multiplies the supply of money and steals wealth via inflation. I submit that interest on money creation is illegitimate. If the banks are the creators of money, the only legalized money creators (others are called counterfeiters), and they collect interest on this created money, then what is the natural flow of wealth in a society that legitimizes such inflation? Under a "hard" money like gold or Bitcoins, you already receive natural interest just by holding the currency, via the natural expansion of production and productivity covered under the currency. Interest would still exist, of course, but it would be relegated to its proper role of dealing with risk and time preference, rather than of keeping up with inflation and spiraling debt payments!Besides, banks pay YOU peanuts, barely enough to keep up with inflation Since it is impossible for the bank to create BRs out of thin air, the way that it's done now in fiat currency, then the money expansion aspect of FR is prevented from taking place. I would love to see an explosion of Bitcoins on the web; I think slowly, more and more people are becoming aware of it. It is already far more successful than alternatives such as Ripplepay (at least the last time I checked). Let me add that I do not propose any outlawing of fractional reserve banking, as that would be completely against the spirit of voluntarism and of the open-source nature of Bitcoin.  So long as they fully disclose that the entire deposit is at risk and therefore subject to complete loss if only % of depositors ask for their funds back, or deposits are maturity matched and locked in for a specific amount of time, then it is not fraudulent. I believe that the first scenario is inherently unstable, like a marble on a pinpoint.As Bitcoin is entirely voluntary, the wost offenders would see their note value drop to 0, if indeed people do accept promises for Bitcoins rather than the Bitcoins themselves, which is necessary for the money multiplier aspect of fractional reserve banking to work. llama, Thanks for clearing that up, I had my understanding of the money creation process confused. It is however, still the same result in the end. $100 of deposits becomes $1000 of money, with a 10% reserve requirement.For example, I deposit 100 ounces of gold into the bank, it lends out 90 ounces of gold, and gives me a deposit slip for 100 ounces of gold. It appears that so long as my 100 ounces are locked away as savings, then no fraud or price distortions have been committed on fractional reserve banking's part.The issue here is that under fractional reserve banking, the original deposits are all withdrawable and spendable. If I then go and withdraw that 100 ounces of gold, and the bank allows me to, then the bank has committed fraud against every other depositor of the bank! How? Well, it is impossible for ALL of us to withdraw our deposits, since the bank has loaned most of them out! Let's say the bank knows this and gives me paper money, redeemable for gold, and hoping that I'm not prescient enough to demand real gold instead of paper. If I now spend these ounces, I distort prices by causing inflation. Why? There were only 100 ounces before, but now there are 90 additional "phantom" ounces (and up to 900 additional phantom ounces should the process continue). The bank has stolen value from everyone by increasing the supply of money, all other things being equal.Let's look at the same scenario with Bitcoins:I deposit 100 Bitcoins with bank XYZ, and it lends out 90 Bitcoins, and gives me a deposit slip for 100 Bitcoins. I withdraw my 100 Bitcoins the next day. Again, it is impossible for the bank to meet my demand without giving me someone else's Bitcoins; again, fraud. Either the bank has to give me a Bitcoin-substitute (like paper money for gold) and hope that we're stupid enough to accept it or the bank has to go bust. That is why I believe that it will be hard to commit this type of fraud with Bitcoins because, unlike gold-backed paper, there is little reason to accept a Bitcoin substitute over the real thing. This is where the problem in fractional reserve banking lies; though now that I better understand the money creation process I must be specific and state that it's not the fact that a fraction of the reserves are lent out; it's the fact that more promises are issued than there are reserves to support those promises. Nice job! You are doing the Bitcoin community a great service by doing this... thanks! Hi llama,Agreed, though what you describe isn't fractional reserve banking. If you invest in stocks and bonds, those investments are not money proper. It's regular investment risk, which carries with it its own chance of getting wiped out, but you never get the kind of distortions that you do with fractional reserve banking, because you never have "phantom" bitcoins entering the economy and distorting prices.Here is an example with gold:Situation 1: You go to a full reserve bank and deposit a one ounce gold coin. The bank gives you a deposit slip, showing that you have one ounce on deposit. The bank then puts this ounce of gold into its reserves. It prints a bank note, worth one ounce, and lends this to somebody. Note that with full reserve banking, it doesn't even have to print a bank note. It could also just lend out the gold coin directly.So far, the money supply stays the same and there are no price distortions. You gave up one gold, the bank lent out a bank note redeemable for an ounce of gold. No problem.If one of the loans goes bad, then the bank does not lose all of its reserves. If 50% of the loans go bad, then everyone might have to take a 50% haircut. It would require every single loan made by the bank to go bad in order for you to lose your entire deposit.The bank can only safely let you withdraw your deposit once a loan has been called back in. For a large bank with thousands of loans, this sort of maturity matching shouldn't be too difficult.Situation 2: You go to a fractional reserve bank and deposit a one ounce gold coin. The bank gives you a deposit slip, showing that you have one ounce on deposit. The bank then puts this ounce of gold into its reserves. It prints ten bank notes, worth ten ounces, and lends these to somebody.So far, the money supply has been increased by 9 ounces. You gave up one gold, the bank lent out bank notes redeemable for ten ounces of gold. This is a problem, because ten ounces of gold don't actually exist. The money supply was increased by 9 ounces net, which ends up robbing ALL gold holders of the value of their gold. This is therefore a form of fraud and theft.If one of the loans goes bad, then the bank loses the same amount of reserve as it does in the full reserve bank. The problem is that there are 10 times as many loans outstanding. Out of these total amount of loans outstanding, if only 5% of the loans go bad, then everyone might have to take a 50% haircut. It only requires 10% of the loans made by the bank to go bad in order for you to lose your entire deposit. The bank can never safely let you withdraw your deposit since it has 10 times the amount of IOUs outstanding, but it does so anyway. This is fraud against the other depositors, since there is not enough capital outstanding to cover all of the loans.Replace gold with Bitcoin. With Bitcoin, it's harder for situation 2 to happen, because I don't see why anyone would accept a substitute for Bitcoin (the substitute being the bank's paper) as money in the first place when you could use Bitcoin directly. Unlike gold, it's easy to transport and transfer large sums of Bitcoins. Some banks might try it, but any bank paper would rightly be viewed with suspicion, since they might be engaging in fractional reserve banking. People would be much more willing to accept Bitcoins directly, and if a bank is loaning out Bitcoins directly, then they cannot engage in fractional reserve banking.  In my 3 year old laptop, I run it on 1 out of 2 CPU cores because otherwise it will overheat. Still good for 300 khash/sec  Even if there weren't, the law is so complex that any excuse could be concocted.Your best bet here would be establishing a reputation and staying within the shadows of Tor or whatnot.A reputation system for websites and nodes: The perfect complement to Bitcoin? What determines this compatibility? What if some people decide to fork the software? For now, Satoshi more or less has Bitcoin under his control, but what happens if/when popularity explodes and anyone can edit the code?This is not a criticism of the open source model; I am just uncertain of what happens once you start having a proliferation of different clients. The changes don't have to be radical, they could be subtle and subversive. You know who I'm talking about."Bitcoin is a fixed currency! That means deflation! Deflation is the boogeyman! Therefore, we MUST create new bitcoins in pace with node growth and maintain price stability!""I don't like how feature X is implemented in Bitcoin. I'm gonna fork the project and who cares if the current nodes get confused!""Bitcoin is prone to speculative attacks! Therefore, we must prevent one node from accumulating too many bitcoins in order to maintain price stability!"I could go on and on...In my opinion, since unlike government fiat currencies, Bitcoin is entirely voluntary and not obligatory, the moment someone tries to make Bitcoin behave like a fiat currency, it will lose all value and all holders will have their holdings wiped out. That should be reason enough not to intervene, but people will still have their arguments and try... I would be more worried about these shadow interests developing a rival chain rather than them giving away free money for bitcoins... the second option makes bitcoin users richer, whereas the first one could invalidate the whole value of their coins. If you believe Bitcoin is overvalued compared to some other currency, there's no need to short sell, so long as you actually have Bitcoins. Just sell the Bitcoins you already have in return for that other currency. When Bitcoin comes back down, exchange back for Bitcoin. If you were right, then you profit!If you don't have Bitcoins, then maybe by that time there will be a Bitcoin bank that will lend you some, in exchange for another asset  Non-credit bubbles also provide excellent arbitrage opportunities. Let's say Bitcoin quintuples in price relative to Pecunix. If you believe that Bitcoin is overpriced relative to Pecunix, then you would sell Bitcoin to buy Pecunix. If you are right, you will profit.The interest of everyone to make profit drives the price toward its "proper" value, and makes it difficult for a mass coordination of price action to occur. If there IS a massive coordination, unbacked credit is usually to blame.What could even happen is that we could see wild swings in Bitcoin value relative to say, USD, but in reality it is the USD that's unstable, not Bitcoin. Humans are not oracle machines, therefore errors in judgment can be made. Bubbles can self-feed on themselves. However, these types of bubbles are not very harmful compared to the types of bubbles caused by fractional reserve banking.Look at it this way: Bitcoin is like the digital equivalent of gold. You cannot create more Bitcoins than you can "mine" out of the digital ether. You also cannot lend more than you have.To really mess things up, you'd have to create a Bitcoin substitute; a "paper" money for Bitcoin. For example, let's say a bank had 1 ton of gold, and lent out paper representing 10 tons of gold. This is what fractional reserve banking does. It works fine (aside from the massive price distortions in the economy) until everyone decides to redeem their paper for gold. Oops! People want to claim 10 tons, but only 1 ton exists! Looks like 90% of the people get screwed  and end up with no gold (or no Bitcoins).So long as you are dealing with Bitcoin proper, and not a Bitcoin substitute, this kind of destructive credit bubble cannot occur. Whether the value goes up or down, you still have your Bitcoins. It would take a total loss of confidence in the entire Bitcoin system to wipe you out.
