I thought of a simpler way to force divergent balances to be incompatible while still retaining transaction protocol compatibility. Treazant will first copy the wallet and synchronize to block 109,999 without transmitting transactions. For each public/private key pair address that contains bitcoins, two new public/private keys will be generated. Both Bitcoin and Treazant will get a copy of both new addresses, but the treazants and bitcoins will be sent to opposite addresses. Neither the kludgy double signing idea nor the alternative encryption idea will be used.Yes, you will be able to double spend Bitcoins/Treazants which you had before the first Bitcoin four year reward halving occurred at block 210,000. Don't delete your transaction history from when the Bitcoin reward halving occurred and I'll let everyone know when treazants are usable and worth more than nothing. Now that I've had some time to think about it, the solution which I mentioned should be pretty simple to implement and I will definitely have it done before I can get my hands on ASIC hardware. When the client starts up, if there is a Bitcoin wallet, it will open the wallet in read-only mode and for each of the Bitcoin addresses it will generate a new public/private key pair address first using a yet to be determined cryptographic algorithm, which may either be the same ECDSA algorithm that Bitcoin uses or a different cryptographic algorithm that will produce the same length address and then afterwards it will sign the transaction again using the original Bitcoin private key. The order is critical to guarantee that when the currency is eventually sent, the transactions will not be incompatible with Bitcoin. Afterwards the client could either continue to use twice signed addresses or just use single signed addresses. Please let me know if you have a recommendation for which cryptographic algorithm I should use or if you know or if you can think of a more elegant solution. Thanks! 209,999 blocks have already been pre-mined. If you had bitcoins before the reward split and if you haven't thrown away your wallet, then you have treazants.Edit: Party's over. It was fun while it lasted. It just occurred to me that transactions on the bitcoin block chain could be rebroadcast on the treazant block chain not only by the sender, but by anyone. And the opposite is also true, treazants produced before the block chain split which are spent after the split, could be rebroadcast on the bitcoin block chain. This wouldn't always be true, eventually divergent confirmation paths would stop the double receiving, but only after much potential harm. If I'm wrong, please let me know. Thanks for all your support. We had a good run. Edit 2: It could still work if the encryption method was changed or a salt was added at and after block 210,000. Doing so would be good practice in case Bitcoin were ever close to being compromised in the distant future. Treazant is for folks who prefer for the Bitcoin reward to stay constant forever. Block chain confirmations will resume once ASIC hardware starts to arrive. The client only requires a few very trivial modifications to work. The one piece of the puzzle which would be useful, but is not required, is functionality to export wallets from Bitcoin and import them to Treazant and vice versa. If you haven't sent any outgoing transactions after the reward halving yesterday, then a simple copy and paste backup and restore should work fine. Minor modifications to accommodate the larger supply of currency will occur at block 420,000 and as needed at each subsequent 210,000 blocks. But not necessarily the value, quite yet. Always backup your important files before a big change!Regular treazant transaction confirmations will resume promptly upon the arrival of ASIC mining hardware. Liberty Reserve account holder U0617086 Valentina Izmailova (possibly fraudulent name) and IP address 67.212.80.94 (possibly proxy) steals money from friendly Internet users by stealing your email password by sending a message with the subject "Your account will be suspended". Please make this your status for a little while and if you happen to find him, give him what he deserves. Thanks! You're thinking of troy ounces. One ounce of gold is worth about $1226.00. There are 31.1034768 grams in a troy ounce, so a gram is worth about $39.42. A dollar is worth about 0.000815661 troy ounces or 0.025369883 grams of gold. I think the person who created the page just posted some quick terms without defining them. It's a perfectly valid term, although I would personally change it to Chain Branch. It's not a very complex term, but I'm having a hard time thinking of how to succinctly define it off the top of my head. I don't have time to work on it at the moment, but here is a sentence that I wrote while I was trying to think of how to lead in to defining it. I hadn't gotten to the chain branch part of the definition yet. This definition is somewhat descriptive of the term Proof-of-Work, which is another term that should be added. There are plenty more definitions which haven't been included yet. I'll add some more at some point when I've got some time and if I don't forget.Edit: It just occurred to me that the Bitcoin difficulty increases at much smaller increments than x2. Bitcoin doesn't attempt to only get consecutive zeros, but tries to get the hash below a certain number when the hash is expressed as a number. I bet they'll smile when they come to check out the project and find this thread.  Я не читал всё до этого, но когда я начинал использовать Биткойн, не был Линукс версии, так я использовал Wine и он работал хорошо. Я не пробовал в последние время. Yeah, he was joking, but I think it's a good idea and can be done non-controversially. People have to go to a bid/ask currency exchange to buy or sell bitcoins over the Internet. General market trading terms are very related. It's quite difficult to generate a block right now. If you've got lots of other things running, then from a practical perspective I think it would be better to get not generate bitcoins. My guess is that it's not so much the process priority that's the problem as much as just the processor thrashing between tasks because it's got so much going on. The more tasks you have running concurrently, the more important it is to leave a portion of your total CPU below the maximum in order to keep your system running smoothly.If you've got a specialty, you could offer your services in the Marketplace section or if you've got unwanted electronics or other item, you could offer to sale it. Trading for or buying bitcoins is probably easier, faster and cheaper than generating them on your computer. I propose that we add a number format to the forum text editor and a localization option to the profile settings so that everyone can see numbers however they want.  And the formatting should be allowed in the subject field.  I posted a few quick definitions when I first saw this thread. I was thinking about adding it but I didn't get around to it. It just needs to clearly and neutrally express both definitions and perhaps mention that the primary definition has been hotly debated on the forum. I'm not really interested, so I didn't read the much of the thread, but I did read the last comment. If you're looking for a random number, just use the hash of block x. Blocks take roughly ten minutes to generate, so you can pretty well estimate about how long it'll take to get to block x. Just be sure to specify whether you count the genesis block as block 0 or 1 since it's changing and whether you'll be looking at the hash that's available while block x is being hashed or the hash of block x. And if the payout is large, you should wait for at least about a day after the payout to ensure that the hash is pretty well confirmed.Donations Welcome!  So a very strong node could continuously reverse the last x blocks and only allow transactions which include a transaction fee over a certain amount, right? Bitcoin is much harder to crash than your average web server. Bitcoin is harder to manipulate than your average decentralized message board. The checksum is just the hash at a single particular block such that new chains can be started and can grow, but once a client with the checksum included reaches that block block number, it won't accept any hash except the checksum.Is that correct?So if someone wanted to create an alternative chain with the same genesis block, they would need to checksum a block after the genesis with a different hash before they connected to the live network. If they ever reached the checksum in the official client, they would need to make sure that checksum was not included in their own Bitcoin client.How is the strength of the chain calculated? Is it length and checksum only or does it measure a single block at difficulty 500 as more valid than ten blocks at difficulty one? I presume that it's probably length and checksum only which would mean that all transactions before the checksum are pretty well safe forever, but blocks after the checksum are only as strong as the current strength of the network until the next checksum comes along. Yes. The only exception would be if an unpatched client made another fake transaction and managed to verify it. They would be able to spread that fake block to a few other nodes that haven't upgraded, but the upgraded clients seem to have more power than the unpatched clients, so the bad link would not last long and would not be spread by upgraded clients. I show respect to whomever I don't disrespect. Anyway, it was just a silly post. I am quite certain I haven't traumatized his tender sensitive soul. If he were not able to take it, then like most people, he would have adapted his outward personality long ago in such a way so as to reduce his susceptibility to receiving such feedback. The fact that he has grown to adulthood without adapting his outward personality, demonstrates that he is at very least, reasonably comfortable receiving pissy feedback from people on the Internet and very likely AFK as well. I kindly thank all of you who continuously show dignity, respect and civility to whomever (jgarzik and/or me) you feel does not deserve it. 
Silver coins are an example of commodity money. Commodity currency is the currency of a country which heavily relies on the exportation of some particular commodity. Sending payments to fake addresses provides a way to broadcast short encoded and optionally encrypted unalterable messages to the world anonymously. Have security codes for the organization committing genocide, but scared you'll be killed if the publisher accidentally reveals your identity?  Publish them with Bitcoin.  What does != mean? He obviously just misread you statement. Couldn't you have simply pointed it out kindly instead of replying in crypto computer jargon? Gosh, you're so rude!RHorning, here it is again, edited and with emphasis added... by me. Don't you worry jgarzik, I'm not trying to take credit for the formatting of your copywroten post. If it was used for evil, sure. But not within the constraints of a voluntary beneficial system as I implied. More importantly, about how long should it take 10 Mhash/sec to verify difficulty 1 blocks?After the 64-bit Linux hashing bug was fixed I generated a block or two in short order, but since that one or two blocks, I have not generated a single block. It's starting to seem a little fishy.I'm currently testing Bitcoin on two Linux 64-bit computers. Is there anything in the code blocking early block verification?Edit: Never mind. I used the Bitcoin Generation Calculator and divided out the difficulty. Everything is fine here, I've generated a couple blocks with 4way. About to start testing without 4way.Another Edit: My test only verifies that hashing works. It does not verify whether I'm really getting the displayed speed. o_O... good luck hashing, you're gonna need it!Here are the results from my very poor memory on an i7 860 2.8 GHz with Ubuntu 10.04 amd64. Some of the numbers may be a bit off.Without 4way, with HT, 4/8 virtual cores, 4.5-5 Mhash/secWithout 4way, with HT, 8/8 virtual cores, a bit less than above, but basically the sameWith 4way, with HT, 8/8 virtual cores, 6.5-8 Mhash/sec (It may be my imagination, but it seems noticeably more variable.)With 4way, with HT, 4/8 virtual cores, 5-6 Mhash/secWithout 4way, without HT, 4/4 physical cores, 4.5-5 Mhas/sec (But a bit slower than the first result.)With 4way, without HT, 4/4 physical cores, 5-6 Mhash/sec By golly! Would you look at all these threads I just happened to run into again!  We want to keep the older clients connected so that when the correct chain overtakes the incorrect chain, they will switch back to the correct chain. Although I don't know the specifics of how far back in the chain the old chain will accept a branched chain. If you know another language well enough to translate the upgrade instructions, please post them in the announcement thread or somewhere else if the moderators suggest otherwise. Инструкции по обновлению очень важны! Кто-то пожалуйста, переведите это сообщение! You might want to add columns for whether hyper-threading is enabled, number of physical cores and how many cores Bitcoin is using. Without 4way, I get very slightly better results when I have half of my virtual cores hashing. With 4way, I get significantly better performance when I have all my virtual cores enabled. I think I get about the same amount of hashes when hyper threading is turned off with or without 4way. Until the exchange rate hits what?  Could someone please have a look at the blocks round about 63534? I'm downloading from 0 and I seem to be stuck on that block. I restarted the client and it got unstuck. Ya know, in a way, this actually temporarily decreases the difficulty to generate blocks until everyone upgrades. Yeah, it'll be slower, but that just gives each client more time to try to generate the difficult hash. I can't stand the suspense! Do any Jr. Members or higher happen to have an unofficial SVN rev 134 Linux 64-bit build compiled that they'd be willing to share? Yeah, I know the official build is about to be released in a few minutes. It's not terribly important.Edit: Updated the SVN version number as per satoshi's comment a moment ago.Ah, never mind. Since the SVN version was just updated and the Windows builds were just released, I'll wait.  So long as a the person who creates it has a patched client and downloads the whole chain, optimally from another computer on their local network, then it should stop at the right place automatically. Here's something for your Signature if you're interested.Code:[i][color=red][b]*** WARNING ***[/b][/color]  DO NOT TRUST ANY TRANSACTIONS THAT HAPPENED AFTER 15.08.2010 17:05 UTC (block 74638). We are investigating a problem. ([url=http://bit.ly/afalQU]more[/url])[/i]I shortened the URL since the signature can only contain 300 characters. Also, can we get some color on the news warning? It's not very noticeable. Will the bug fix include the 4-way SSE2 patch of 0.3.9 rc2? Thanks for letting me know that it is included, theymos. Please release another release candidate when you have a moment if it is not included.Only the blocks including and after the invalid block are invalid. All previous blocks are valid. I accidentally clicked on the Show new replies to your posts. link at the top of the page which I never paid much attention to previously. I don't think we'll run into a problem within our lifetimes with optimistic Bitcoin growth and pessimistic growth of bandwidth and disk space. While Bitcoin is not running, you put it in your Bitcoin data directory. ~/.bitcoin on Linux. If you want to re-download the whole chain, you just delete the file from the data directory while Bitcoin is not running.I'm going to be move my blk00x.dat files and blkindex.dat file out of by data directory and restart the client. Those are the correct files, right?Edit: I'll also backup the whole directory, like I usually do before upgrades.
I prefer to just re-download them.Block verification after the patch but before everyone upgrades is going to be SLOW! It'll probably cause the next difficulty adjustment to decrease significantly. Of course everyone will probably have upgraded by the time the next adjustment rolls around, so we'll probably roll through it relatively quickly. Or just a quick re-verification of all blocks. After all, it is 5x faster than it used t be.  Both threads have a link to the other, so usefulness of information doesn't matter. I think the other thread is more appropriate which is why I suggested this one be locked. If a moderator thinks this one is more appropriate, then they should lock the other. Of course if the moderators want both threads going at the same time, that's their prerogative. It's just a suggestion and not really a big deal either way. Let's not keep two different threads open on this subject. Let's move our conversation over to the thread in the dev forum. Moderators, please lock this thread if you agree. Whether to stop generating depends on the possible solution. If there are ever bad blocks, I can imagine an officially patched Bitcoin could be hard coded to exclude bad transactions contained in the block chain so that although the bad transactions would still be sitting in the chain, they would be ignored. I recommend people keep on generating if you were previously generating but be cautious about transactions until we hear back from Satoshi.The recommendation is to stop generating. That's a fabulous idea! I think that the current capability of artificial intelligence could probably be adapted learn to verify the authenticity and originality of two high resolution scans of both hands, which could be combined with a password to create a unique key. People could then scan their hands and enter their password whenever they wanted to be verified, but perhaps be required to scan their hands at least yearly or every other year to confirm that they're still alive. They could perhaps be allowed to reset their password once per year or every other year in case someone had previously been forcing them to be verified and didn't let them know the password. The main potential weakness is that although you'd have good hackers trying to strengthen the verification, you'd also have bad hackers trying to crack the verification. It would work so long as the general population and the good hackers had confidence that the bad hackers wouldn't be able to crack the system to allow unlimited verification. Most any solution would be susceptible to vulnerable people being taken advantage of, but that's really the problem of the local government and law enforcement. The system could have a voting system built into it so that people could set their vote for which hardware and software would be allowed. They could change their vote at any time so that whenever it comes to light that some hardware or software is better or worse than other hardware and software, good versions could be added and bad versions could be excluded. (I posted this as an edit of my last post, but since you, Red, posted before I got done writing it, I thought I'd make it its own post in case you don't glance backwards.)Red, I have also traveled a bit and although there are some things I really like about other places, I overall much prefer home.I lean pretty much as far left as I figure can realistically be compromised upon given the current polarized political environment in the United States. If Republicans didn't exist to keep the Democrats in check, then Democrats would splinter into far left and center left factions and although I'm far left now, if the current restrictions didn't exist, I'd probably move to the center left which would be the new conservative.This next election is going to be about as interesting as a mid-term election can be, since both parties seem to be about equally confident and the majority balance could change. Good luck to ya... but I hope ya'll fail! *Edited Again and Yet Again* I think I'm done now. I wasn't sure whether it was directed at me or not, so I replied just in case. No worries.  Watch, we'll get a great new currency widely adopted and suddenly life expectancy will triple.  Red, my comment to you may have been misdirected. You asked about cooptation and I think somebody asked somebody about Universal Dividend and I thought it was you but I don't feel like searching through to verify whether that's correct or not. I was interested in the topic and wanted to write a reply to the question that I'm now not sure even existed. Anyway, if any of my comments confused you, or anyone else, sorry. Take them for what they're worth whether they're directed correctly or not.I wouldn't say enlightening is the right word. I found it very intriguing. I do lean left, but I'm definitely not a socialist. It's not because of the negative connotation of the word socialist that I'm not a socialist. In fact it has quite a positive connotation to me personally and I very much respect socialists. The Democratic philosophy just appeals more to me than socialism. Some conservative principles also appeal to me, but unfortunately the word Republican holds a negative connotation in my mind. But I live in a very conservative area, so I very much like many Republicans personally.I don't mind other people being rich and I'm not out to give everyone an equal amount of money. But I am in favor of giving all people as much of a standard minimum dignity as possible no matter their situation. I'm not talking about Basic Income, but rather compromises reached by congress working together or not working together. I'm quite satisfied with what congress comes up with because we elected them and they're just doing the best they can for the most part. Now that's not entirely true, because I'm much less satisfied when Republicans have the majority, but even then I wouldn't say I'm terribly dissatisfied. It's just that I'm quite polarized and like it when we (Democrats) are in power, making our progress. So nationally, I'm quite satisfied right now and I don't want banks or the Federal Reserve or the government to fail.But Bitcoin is very interesting in that it offers a playground of sorts to try out fiscal theory without risking the wellbeing of millions or even billions of people. I'm quite practical minded when it comes down to real politics, but low risk experimentation to find and create superior solutions is wonderful.Concerning the rate of inflation in the current implementation as compared to my ideal implementation, the actual impact is not that different in either case. In one case you have a certain amount of very divisible coins in some people's possession and in the other case you have a slightly different amount of very divisible coins in the same people's possession. The exchange rate might be a bit different, but for all practical purposes, they're going to be just as useful in either scenario. But just because they're effectively the same on our very small scale doesn't mean I should just say they're pretty much the same while we're having a conversation about the topic. Sure, some of my hyperboles might be a bit extreme, but I'm just trying to express concepts that would actually be quite meaningful if they were applied on a much larger scale. I don't think that the Basic Income would really work with the current implementation of bitcoin, but I still find it interesting to think about how it could be implemented and what the effect of it would be if it was implemented. It's a lot harder to plan for inflation when the rate of inflation starts EXTREMELY HIGH and stays EXTREMELY HIGH for the first four years, curving continuously down with huge drop offs every four years than to plan for an inflation rate which is constant from the beginning to the end of time excluding the very first bitcoins created. bytemaster, nothing I described attempts to make people equally wealthy. There would still be rich and poor, just not starving. Bitcoin has infinite inflation over a few years. A constant inflation rate has infinite inflation spread out over infinity. Bitcoin therefore has an infinitely higher inflation rate than an constant rate of inflation. Why do people accept an infinitely higher inflation spread out over a few years instead of an infinitely lower inflation rate spread out over eternity? If you are not a botnet operator, then you would be guaranteed to generate a larger portion of the total number of bitcoins given a constant inflation rate as opposed to the infinitely higher inflation rate that we are currently experiencing. Yep. Thanks Red. That probably is the best solution currently available. Improvements to the certificate authorities would incrementally improve the whole verification system. What we need are organizations which rate the certifications based on how hard it is to create fake certificates.Also, it would be important that they not only verify that the certificate is linked to a real identity, but that the solution would prevent multiple valid certificates created. For example, it wouldn't wok if I could create one certificate with an approved CA using my passport and social security number and then create another certificate with another approved CA using my driver license and utility bill.Privacy would be a concern, but I think that's secondary to the other measurements. Are you suggesting that he was trying to take credit for authoring the document? Would you PRETTY PLEASE post the document on the wiki with proper attribution and a copyright claim for clarification to us less familiar with "This is standard copyright stuff, as practiced in major open source projects."?  Please also add a written copyright to the original document. Seriously.If it's still on the wiki, would you like it removed? I'll be happy to do it myself.Edit: It's really your own fault for not accurately gauging the copyright expertise of the Bitcoin forum community. It should have been transparently clear that such a mistake would likely be made and it's your own damn fault for not adding a written copyright when you're the expert. It's equally your fault and ours that you're getting pissy replies to your idiotic mistake and subsequent replies. If you don't understand, then you're no doubt and aspie and we forgive you for the mistake. Nothing has monetary value inherently. Inherent value is a measure of how much value it has to people in general. Air and water are essential, so they have high inherent value, but they're so abundant that they have low monetary value. Metals in general are less essential than air and water, but they have significant value to people in general, so their inherent value is also very high. Because metals are much more difficult to obtain, their monetary value is much higher than air and water. You're welcome. Exactly! I really want to figure it out, but a practical solution may not exist.  Correct, a simple private key pair is not sufficient.I realize that the second example is a joke, but willingness is a necessity, not a preference. Only people who volunteer and want to be verified will be verified, but there will be some people who want to be verified more than once. Also, your solution is by no means cheap.One idea is to do periodic DNA tests which can be used as the private part of a cryptographic pair. The DNA labs would have to be independent and be audited by independent auditors who also audit one another. This pretty well solves the problem, but much too expensively and too difficultly. The challenge is now for someone to come up with a better solution according to the metrics of high practicality, low difficulty and low cost. Red, I just happened to find the correct Wikipedia articles in English. Universal Dividend can also be translated as Citizen's Dividend and it's only one part of the solution. There is also Universal Allocation from the French, which is called Basic Income in English on Wikipedia.According to the English Wikipedia stub, Citizen's Dividend (Universal Dividend) is just the state paying a dividend on state owned assets like Alaska does. But all the principles are quite inter-related, so here's my understanding of how the currency creation principle works. The basic idea is that the percentage of income created over an average person's lifetime should be as equal as possible from generation to generation. The percentage of increase could be any amount so long as it is constant. But as long as you are increasing income, you might as well do it at the most effective rate to promote healthy economic growth. The problem with no creation is that the currency tends to migrate to certain communities, which isn't bad in and of itself except that it leaves insufficient funds in other geographic communities for healthy economic activity.Running businesses requires steady supplies of money and products, if you have too much or too little of either, economies can grind to a halt. This can be demonstrated by natural disasters like the earthquake in Haiti along with the corresponding relief effort. Yes, people need immediate help, but sudden instability of products and money causes the whole economy to fail. So although there is rice on the boat, money in the hands of the biggest suppliers and lots of labor is available, the amount of rice is varying so much that its price is spiking up and down making the supplier's job difficult, but he can at least take out a loan to survive the turbulence but the retailers are running out of money without the ability to take out a loan, so they can't afford to make the trip to check whether the supplier has rice available and the laborers have spent all their money on over priced rice which is no longer available. So everyone just does their best to survive until the economic wheels start moving again.The five percent inflation is simply the best percentage rate to grease the economic wheels, but there's nothing magic about it being five percent. If you were an expert in the relation of currency expansion to healthy economic activity, you could just as readily suggest 3.5% or 7.5%, but it's not fair to have the average inflation rate be 7.5% while you are acquiring wealth and 3.5% after you've acquired your wealth.Now to complicate things further, Basic Income (Universal Allocation) states that the current western monetary work ethic is a fairly recent human invention which developed during the industrial revolution. The idea is that this idea of individuals working to obtain as much monetary wealth is unnatural and unhealthy. The natural order is to have an extended family unit, where everyone is contributing fairly equally according to the needs of the family and everyone in the family receives the basic necessities of life (not to mention healthy social interaction). Basic Income suggests that because mankind now has enough basic necessities to go around, every individual should get an allowance to cover the basic necessities of life regardless of their monetary economic activity and that the result will be that everyone will be useful members of society. Some members of the family will work to obtain extra monetary wealth so that the family can maintain and improve the family's quality of life and other members of the family do domestic work so that the children will grow up to be contributing members of society instead of going postal at school or at work.The five percent inflation does affect the wealthy, but not really. Chances are that if they obtained enough money to be wealthy and if the economy is working properly, they'll most likely continue to earn more than 5% percent of their acquired wealth per year. Whereas if the economy was unhealthy, they would more than likely make less than in a healthy economy. Yeah, they're losing wealth, but at the same rate as everyone else and since they're already good at obtaining wealth, they'll no doubt obtain a larger portion of the created wealth, which means more proportionate money in their pockets.Basic income, on the other hand, would no doubt affect their mass of wealth noticeably. But the argument goes, that if the whole of mankind in more healthy, then then not only will the poor be better off, but the rich will also be substantially better off even though they might sit and pout that a mother can sit at home with her kids and do absolutely nothing but watch TV and drink beer all day while he's been working his ass off all day so that he can have a fancy car and a big empty house.Edit: I made a few minor wording corrections. Transactions are verified by generating blocks, so although I don't think it will happen, blocks being too difficult to generate would cause the economy to grind to a halt.
What is the best way to tie one person to one identity in a global decentralized system such that on average, over consecutive daily, weekly or monthly intervals, each identity only represents one willing and real participant in the system? Is it even possible?More participation practicality, less difficulty and less cost are the kind of measurements which determine how good one method is over another.If a good solution is possible, I would really like to figure it out; so please contribute even if you don't have the whole solution.In a centralized system, you can simply gauge simple participation which is difficult to scale to multiple accounts and then continually check for cheating. This is essentially what many closed websites do. They're not closed in the sense that they're trying to keep everyone out, it's just that they're trying to tie one person to one account to promote and maintain a particular cultural environment.I originally posted this question in another thread. I have reposted the question in this general forum because the question is very important to me and I would like feedback from the whole range of forum participants. FreeMoney, your contribution is being watered down every ten minutes, and at a rate much much higher than 5%. The point is that the creation of the money has to happen at some point, so why distribute a MASSIVE amount up front and then ZERO later? Well, the incentive is clear, the early adopters want to force their advantage on later adopters. But it's voluntary, so later adopters have no incentive to accept such blatant inequality. The sum of future participants is much greater than past participants. Future participants will contribute much more to society than you ever will, so why should they be shafted? The goal is not to devalue your money. Since the money has to be created at some point in time, the rate of creation might as well be equal over time to give all participants an equal opportunity. Despite what you think, your efforts are not inherently more valuable than future generations and future generations will not accept the inequality of the past. You can either force the masses to adopt Bitcoin after you have obtained your wealth or you can wait and watch for it to fail once the next generation starts to take over.Willsway, the project is open source. The future generation can join together to create an improved currency with very little effort. Identical goods and services offered by future participants are just as valuable as identical goods and services offered by current participants. tl;dr: What is the best way to tie one person to one identity in a global decentralized system such that on average over consecutive daily, weekly or monthly intervals, each identity only represents one willing and real participant in the system? More participation, less difficulty and less cost are the kind of measurements which determine how good one method is over another.Edit: This question is important to me and I want wider feedback, so I reposted the question in the general forum.Galuel, I had never heard the word cooptation before and because of your non-native English, at first thought it was a misspelling of cooperation. You were correct in how you used it and I don't know how widely the word is understood by native English speakers, but if Red's and my understanding is representative of average native English speakers, then for future reference, you should define it before using it, or use a similar more widely understood word. For everyone else's sake, cooptation (alternately spelled co-optation) (to co-opt as a verb) as used in this thread, means assimilation, naturalization or initiation. And cooption is a cooptation, which I assume is an instance of cooptation. The definition was taken from Wiktionary and like I said, I can not recall ever having encountered the word before this thread.I am quite interested thinking about how cooptation (hehe, I'm using a new word ) can be most effectively performed within the constraints of a decentralized global organization. In a centralized system, you can simply gauge simple participation which is difficult to scale and then continually check for cheating. This is essentially what many closed websites do. They're not closed in the sense that they're trying to keep everyone out, it's just that they're trying to tie one person to one account to promote and maintain a positive cultural environment. Willsway, if future inflation is stealing from past participation, then isn't it fair to say that past inflation is stealing from future participation? The current inflation rate is EXTREMELY HIGH. Do the means justify the ends? It's EXTREMELY beneficial to the past participants if it is adopted by the later participants. But why should the future participants accept to have had the high inflation stolen from them simply because they didn't know about the project or were not born yet? Isn't it in their advantage to group together and start the whole process over again so that they can also have the opportunity to steal from future participation? This discussion about whether bitcoins are a commodity is way off topic and dragging on, so I moved it over to its own thread. I say that a commodity is a raw material of fairly uniform quality which is bought and sold in bulk and used directly to manufacture a wide variety of goods.You can find definitions that say otherwise, but I consider them bastardizations of the true definition of a commodity.I do not consider bitcoins to be a commodity.What is your definition of a commodity? Do you consider bitcoins to be a commodity?This topic was being discussed over in the animated movie thread and in these other threads which I just ran into again.creighto, I concede that my gold coin example was a poor one since a gold coin is only made of gold and can still be used just as effectively as a raw material as gold bars. I was saying that the coin-ness of the of the gold coin is not a commodity, but yeah, bad example. It's already not interesting to mint bitcoins. Also, for the average person, I think they're hardly profitable. Even if the average person can sell bitcoins at slightly above production costs, it's difficult to invest more than pocket change worth of electricity per day. Profit on pocket change in exchange for hearing your fan running full blast all day everyday is not very interesting to the average person. If there is a sudden spike in new users, they're not going to all show up at the beginning of a difficulty cycle, stay until the cycle until it's over and then all leave. Most will not last a week generating bitcoins on our already boring to generate network, so as all these flaky new users quit generating, we'll have half a week without them and half a week with them. Those that do stick around will help adjust difficulty back to what it should be.And like I said about the worst case scenario, if we're going on a week without generating a block, then we start including some transaction fees and somebody from the community rents a cloud to get to the next adjustment.In short, I don't think there's much anything to worry about. But you're welcome to go on worrying about it.  I agree. I have a second computer with which I can test difficulty 1 block generation, but I never actually do it. If there was a button to do it, I would. Galuel, I was thinking about per individual when I said "and possibly to have that rate modified by difficulty of generating a verified block." In the current system, the best way to estimate an individual is by the amount of CPU cycles of an average individual. Unfortunately that average increases with time. Of course a different system could use other measures to determine the actual user count. One of the documents I read mentioned different suggested inflation rates and the 5% was recommended over the others and that's why I mentioned it. I also read about other related stuff, but I'll save that for another time. The article you pointed out was a good starting point for the topic. Red, I don't see any way of reliably linking one account to one human in a decentralized system. Once you settle for a centralized system, the possibilities for economic policy is pretty much limitless. Of course it's always going to be limited by the degree to which people trust or are dependent on or are at the mercy of the central authority. Yeah, I guess if I had a my mobile wallet encrypted and backed up at home, then there's not really any risk of having the bitcoins stolen. I've flip flopped many times as to whether I'd prefer a mobile client or a secure personal web server and y'all have just change my mind again.  If somebody else builds a functional native Maemo 5 Bitcoin, I'd definitely use it. Currently I'm not really interested in helping to get it to a functional state, but that may change at some point. I think there is a limit to the amount that the difficulty can increase at each step.The more the bitcoin network grows, the less likely it is to have large spikes in difficulty. The likelihood of a jump of that magnitude from a single entity is very unlikely. If that kind of jump does occur, it will more likely be from a large interested demographic discovering Bitcoin all at once, such as if it was featured in a major magazine. Bitcoin will cope with such increases and subsequent decreases just fine.In the very unlikely event of blocks taking hours or days to be completed, the transaction fee feature would quickly be added back to the program and people would start including a ฿0.01 transaction fee with each transaction they sent. The mega-minter would have a modified client which would monitor how many bitcoins in transaction fees were available and once it was enough to be profitable, they would turn on their mega-hash-cruncher and you'd get your block within ten minutes on average.It doesn't much matter whether minting is profitable or not. In not too many years, total transaction fees per block will be higher than new bitcoins per block. The word bitcoin is not always a proper noun. It's a proper noun when it is the name of the application called Bitcoin. It's a common noun when it's referring to units of bitcoin currency. It can also be an adjective, but the adjective is based on the proper noun. I prefer to write it lower case when I use it as an adjective. I don't much care whether my adjective capitalization is correct or not. It gets at the point. The gold that the gold coins are made of, is still a commodity while it's a gold coin. But the features which make the gold coins, coins, are features of a manufactured product, not a raw material. Commodities are the raw materials from which manufactured products are created. Bitcoins are manufactured from commodities. Bitcoins are not a raw material used to manufacture products. Galuel, I just wanted to thank you publicly for the very interesting information you provided.*Note* To everyone who disagrees, read if you'd like, but please don't reply to this specific message. I'm already familiar with your perspective and so is everyone else. I get it, this is wrong and that is wrong. If you point it all out, I won't be able to help but to read what you have to say, but I'm really not interested, so please save us both the time. Thanks! (...I hope.)The current principle of Bitcoin is to distribute the currency as fairly as possible in as short a time as is possible. Under the current system, priority is given to establishing a long term currency which will eventually have zero inflation. The unevenness of distribution is simply a necessary evil to arrive at the end goal as quickly as possible.Before reading your suggestion, I preferred the idea of having the amount of bitcoins stay the same forever. Even though it seems very different than the current system, it's actually very similar since the percentage rate of increase of currency is decreasing in both cases. It's just happens much more slowly than the current implementation.Because of the design choice of Bitcoin, it tends to disproportionately attract people who prefer the current design and goals of Bitcoin. Please don't take their replies personally. For most of them, Bitcoin very effectively achieves the goals that they're interested in, so suggesting a design change which is completely opposite to what they desire is very undesirable from their prospective.In the current implementation, inflation starts at an extremely high rate and falls quite quickly with time. The first block creates ฿50 and then within ten minutes there is 100% inflation when the second ฿50 is created. Likewise the second week, the second month and the second year each have 100% inflation over the first week, month and year respectfully. Of course all this time the daily inflation rate is dropping at a constant rate. But after roughly the fourth year, and every subsequent four years, the rate of decrease drops dramatically. As I was saying two paragraphs ago, before reading your suggestion, I preferred the steadiness of having the same amount of bitcoins awarded forever because it is more fair and because the stability of it seemed like more elegant of a solution. But it bugged me that the rate of inflation would constantly be curving from very high at the beginning, to extremely low the more time passed. But after reading a bit about your suggestion from a few different sources, I see why it was bugging me. What I really prefer is a constant rate of inflation, and possibly to have that rate modified by difficulty of generating a verified block, which is roughly representative of population. The current rate of inflation is WAY higher than 5% because the current total amount of bitcoins is so low in comparison to how many bitcoins are generated every ten minutes. Having a constant yearly inflation rate of 5% or so really wouldn't be all that dramatic. You'd have to distribute at a much higher rate at the beginning because the effective rate for 10 minute intervals on 5% annual percentage rate when there's little to no money distributed to begin with would not work. But after some base goal is achieved, it would hardly be noticeable. If you started by distributing 50 packs of currency like Bitcoin now, the only difference you'd see is that an extremely small fraction of a bitcoin would be added to the amount of bitcoins awarded for generating a block of bitcoins. But you'd still have the same chance of winning that extra currency by generating a block. And just because the rate of increase/inflation would be constant, doesn't necessarily mean that the value would go down. I mean, look at Bitcoin right now, the rate of increase/inflation is extremely high, yet the price of bitcoins skyrocketed when demand increased suddenly.Anyway, I could go on, but I've already rambled for too long. I just wanted to let you know that you got through to at least one person here. Hahaha! It would be better to add a lightweight secure web server so that people can access their secure home bitcoins while away from home. You already have to be online to make transfers, so you might as well connect to your more secure home stash rather then putting the cash onto a mobile phone which is more vulnerable to being stolen. The only advantage to porting bitcoin to mobile phones is if the person doesn't have a home computer, doesn't leave their home computer running while away or for if for some reason their home computer is not secure from the wife and kids. I would really like to have this feature included in an official build  sometimes soon along with an internal speed test to determine which algorithm to use. You can always remove the speed test later once you figure out how to determine whether it will be faster or slower without running the speed test. You could even have online activation to prevent people from stealing cards with value on them. You create a MyBitcoin.com account with a secret password, deposit the bitcoins in the account, print the user name and a different password on the card. When you receive payment for the card, you simply change the password to the password that's on the card. Ideally, you would actually create your own bitcoin redemption website instead of using MyBitcoin.com since they might not appreciate all the disposable accounts. If you don't have a problem with fractional reserve principles, you could print a lot more cards than you have bitcoins and deposit the bitcoins from your reserve whenever a card is sold. You use the proceeds from the sold cards to purchase more bitcoins. Spikes in the price of bitcoins could cause a problem, but if you somehow made the price of the cards dynamically dependent on the current exchange rate then it wouldn't be a problem. Although gold is a commodity, gold coins are not a commodity. Electricity is a commodity and CPU cycles could be considered a commodity, but bitcoins are not. It's the same principle in both instances. VHS vs Betamax Generating bitcoins will always be affordable to the average Joe in the same way that SETI@home is always affordable to the average Joe. It may not always be profitable, but it will always be affordable. Right now it actually is profitable. ฿50 can easily go for $3.50, or more if you're patient. That is more than it costs the average Joe in electricity on his average computer which he already leaves on all the time and in excess Internet bandwidth which he never fully utilizes.
Square peg, round hole. Bitcoins absolutely are not a commodity according to the traditional business and financial definition. The word commodity is primarily a business and financial term, so that definition takes priority over y'all's loose definitions. Bitcoins are not a commodity. You can stretch the definition to make it fit, but it's like jamming a square peg through a round hole; only the special kid does it.  The only way to prove you own bitcoins is to publish the coins' private keys. Please do write the program! Hahaha! tldr: Jesus loves you... but I think you're a twat. To whom are you referring? And to which part of their post? I may be blind, but I don't see where anyone says that you must to come to the same moral conclusion as them. You are the one that condemned us for disagreeing with your moral absolutism when you suggested that we don't have a moral right to make moral judgments based on benefits and harm to society. You say that diversity is the key, and I agree, but you're words sure paint you as a bigot.I and all people, including yourself and psychopaths, are and should be in possession to do whatever we think is desirable according to our own conscience in any and all situations. That doesn't mean that we give anyone a free pass to harm anyone else. The whole purpose of the rule of law is not to enslave, but to protect and preserve according to the common consent of the people in democracies and the ruling authority in non-democracies. Yes, you may disagree with me about my beliefs. That's the whole point. I am not your lord and I am not your conscience but neither are you mine. If a person feels that nuclear power stations are evil, he has the personal right to try to hack into its computer system, but society as a whole has every right to forbid such action and lock him away if they catch him doing it. In any case, wouldn't you agree that it would be less harmful to society for him to brute force bitcoin generation than to brute force a nuclear power station's computer system? You don't have any moral obligation to answer yes, but if you don't answer yes, society has every right to be of the opinion that the best place for hypocritical self-contradicting crazies like you is in prison or a mental institution. If you gave it enough power and the right cooling system, you could make it look like it really is steam powered.  It just depends on which definition you choose. Bitcoins are useful, can be produced and sold, so they're a commodity. Bitcoins are already processed, can't be produced outside of the Bitcoin specifications and can't be manufactured into something else for resale, so they're not a commodity.  Have you worked with the publisher before? They won't be happy with your public collaboration if they expect first right of publication. Yeah, I agree. I said that the community would decide on the direction of Bitcoin, but what I meant and what you more clearly expressed is that it'll be the bitcoin backers who will decide on the direction of Bitcoin rather than the bitcoin miners. Of course the backers will also have a considerable incentive to keep the network honest, so they'll no doubt dedicate a large amount of CPU cycles to verifying transactions. It's hard to guess whose large amount of CPU cycles will be the largest. Luckily multiple demographics have an interest it, so I hope it will never be taken over. The potential weakness is understandably worrisome the more a person invests in bitcoin, but I think that the longer bitcoin exists without being compromised, the more confidence people will have in it. I very much doubt that any one entity will ever have 50% of the computational power. The botnet operators will bow to the whims of the community because it's the community that ultimately gives bitcoins value. What good is a giant load of bitcoins if you don't have anyone willing to give you something in exchange for them? I definitely consider it the lesser of two evils. Either they steal electricity while brute forcing corporate passwords in order to extort payments to cover up the security breaches or they steal electricity while providing a valuable service to the bitcoin community. It of course would be better for the botnets to not exist than to have them generating bitcoins, but that is neither here nor there.As for bitcoin encouraging people to start botnets, I don't think that will happen. Although botnet operators can benefit from generating bitcoins, they're still subject to the limited size of the bitcoin economy and competition from other botnet operators and from the bitcoin community. There is a fairly limited number of total dollars being offered at any time for bitcoins at the current exchange rate. This puts a bottleneck restriction on the speed at which they can profit from their bitcoins. This limited supply of dollars coupled with the extremely low operating costs for the botnet operators themselves is a ripe condition for competing botnet operators to have to constantly undercut one another in order to get their hands on the dollars available. There is also a bottleneck for creating bitcoins since botnet competition, including competition from a growing bitcoin user base with the collective power of a botnet, cuts directly into their ability to generate bitcoins.All this demonstrates that botnet participation in the bitcoin network reduces criminal activity without significantly increasing the amount of electricity that is stolen and that bitcoin provides considerably less incentive for people to become botnet operators than the preexisting vulnerability of big businesses and home computers.Edit: In response to your last question, not only do all people unequivocally have the moral right to make moral judgments based on their perspective of social harm and benefits but we also have an important moral obligation to do so. My impression of the difficulty was based on my broken client, haha! I've already generated a block tonight for the first time in such a long time. Having older computers generate coins doesn't seem as futile as it did earlier today. If you can keep the compatibility intact, I think it would be well worth it. The question originates from the thread The legal definition of bitcoins (translated from Russian), where they're trying to determine the legal definition of bitcoins.The same topic has been discussed in English in multiple threads, including one titled Money Transfer Regulations.I'm not a lawyer, but to the best of my knowledge, from a general legal perspective, bitcoins are digital goods, электронные товары. But if a business is trading large amounts of money in and out, they would still need to follow financial regulations, including but not limited to KYC (Know Your Customer) regulations, to discourage money laundering. The difficulty has gotten high enough that I wouldn't worry about dropping block generation support for old computers if it's hard to maintain compatibility. But the client should definitely provide some feedback explaining why the feature isn't available. Perhaps you could make a message pop up that explains why generating bitcoins is not supported on old hardware. The Bitcoin Community Market of Utah is open and ready for business! You're welcome to use it as a template for your own community market. Just be sure to offer proper bittribution.  I can't imagine a more splintered network.  As I just posted in another thread, just write the user name and password of a MyBitcoin.com account with bitcoins in it. Instant check.  The easiest solution would be to make a user account at MyBitcoin.com, deposit desired amount of bitcoins and then write the user name, password and web address on a piece of paper. You could even suggest he change the email and password or withdraw the funds to complete the transaction. It would very negatively impact the network. The amount of bitcoins awarded is much more arbitrary than the amount of time to generate a block. As I understand it, Satoshi just picked what he thought was a good total amount of bitcoins and how long he wanted it to take to distribute them. But the ten minutes per block was to ensure a stable network as the network expands. The Bitcoin Market only trades in ฿100 increments, so he couldn't sell them there.  I only glanced at the check idea, so this might be the same thing, but you could theoretically send the amount of bitcoins that you want to spend to yourself and then write the private key on a piece of paper. Anyone who knows that private key can spend the money, so the check would need to be kept private. It would not be safe to let your cashier accept them since he or she could secretly steal them and say that they had already been spent.
Trusted third parties are very useful when trading with someone you don't trust. One person trusts the trading administrator enough to deposit bitcoins and the other person trusts a payment processor such as Liberty Reserve or Pecunix to provide proof to the trading administrator that the payment occurred and he trust the trading site administrator that he'll accept proof of payment. Both traders have to trust the trading site and the payment processor, both third parties, but they don't need to trust each other. У меня есть и я часто использую дома в Америке и у вас когда я там бываю. Я думаю что Биткойн мог бы огромный у вас если люди могли локально купить и продать битмонеты деньгами. Тех которых я знаю там только используют банк чтобы брать кредит и платить обратно и они любили бы дешевле и легче способ принимать деньги от иностранцев. Это звучит как бикини! Хахаха!С начало я говорил Биткойн, а только начинал говорить Битмонета потому что мне было трудно объяснить кому-то, кто не понимает компьютеры, что такой Биткойн и она постоянно забыла название, так мне надо было напомнить её всякий раз я говорил о него. Как я думаю об этом теперь, это ясно что люди обычно говорили бы Биткойн. А сами монеты, кто знает как люди будут называть их. Так может быть это должно быть новое тема.Как вы все называют деньги Биткойна?Я буду назвать их битмонеты просто потому что мне так нравиться.  Using the terms 'bidding' and 'asking' like that still gets me mixed up. Just for some reason using the terms 'offering' and 'demanding' in conjunction with the terms 'ask' and 'bid' helps me. It's not clever and I don't know why it helps, so I wouldn't be surprised if it doesn't help others like it helps me, but I thought I'd mention it just in case. Everyone uses their own methods to keep themselves from mixing things up. What you would want to do is act as a bitcoin reserve. You print paper money which promises to be redeemable for bitcoins by you. And you promise to keep those bitcoins reserved. If the person spending and accepting the paper money trust you, it would work fine. It would be a privacy feature. If i don't want my IP address to be broadcast to other peers, I start the client, it asks if I want to connect to the network with the default set to yes. I uncheck it, the client then starts, I change the proxy setting and then click connect to network. I tend to get bid and ask mixed up and for some reason it helps me to think of bid as how much is being offered for bitcoins and ask as how much is being demanded for bitcoins. No special meaning there, it's just the phrasing that helps for some reason. I agree. In real life, bank wires take much much longer than ten minutes. Most traditional services which you see as instantaneous are actually not instantaneous. Credit card charges don't go through immediately, the funds are just reserved immediately and the retailer trusts the credit card company. Not to mention that charges can be challenged, which means the final transaction could take weeks. Real bitcoin transactions occur much more quickly than real traditional electronic money transfers. If you need instant transfers, then you just have to set up the same tricks which the traditional electronic currency market uses, and that is basically what I suggested. I'm a very early adopter and the first financial promoter of bitcoin as far as I can tell. I had a whole lot of bitcoins, but I sold the majority of them before the Slashdot article and subsiquent rise in the price of bitcoins.  I still have a lot, but not so many that someone who has a job couldn't buy more than I have.I'm not familiar with the specifics of your job, but I'm sure you could tailor  an offer targeted toward some demographic which would be interested in your services. Who are our targets? Here are a few ideas.Home businessesInternet businessesPeople who are interested in technologyPrivacy businessesPeople against the Federal ReservePeople who are interested in privacyCommunity buildersEconomistsPeople who are interested in positive disruptive movements ()EntrepreneursConsvatives/Progressives/Anarchists each for their own reasonsPeople who are interested in cryptography and/or mathSociologistsCivil criminals (copylefters)Real criminals (This is a whole can of worms. I do not promote it, but whether you do promote it is up to you, but at least refrain from promoting it publicly.)It's good to recognize our enemies and weaknesses. These should not be used in the pitch, but should be kept in mind in case you receive follow-up questions. Many of these negatives are positives to specific demographics.Bitcoin does not have the consumer protections of traditional electronic payments, but that's because Bitcoin is the digital equivalent of cash. The same consumer protections can be provided by a trusted third party.Governments potentially don't/won't like it.Although unlikely there are certain attacks against the currency which are theoretically possible.The currency is not backed by anything concrete, but rather just the community. This can be good or bad depending on whether the community grows or shrinks. People who have low confidence in the growth of the community should get their bitcoins in and out quickly, whereas people who have confidence in growth should invest and sell whenever they need cash. Electricity used to be an argument for backing, but I think we're quickly getting past that stage.Theoretically it could be used for money laundering and moving funds by criminals. Please don't participate in these activities and pretty please don't use bitcoins for these activities.Theoretically it could be used to avoid taxes. I encourage you to pay your taxes. So stop generating! But don't stop using bitcoins just because you can't generate them, silly. Let's try to think of something that you offer in exchange for bitcoins. What are you good at? What are your interests and hobbies? If it's not too personal, what do you do for a living? I bet we can think of something that will bring in bitcoins much more quickly and easily than generating them.Edit: I have a fairly fast computer, but I have stopped generating for the most part because that's not the point of bitcoin anymore. I leave one core running just to help the network, but it's more of a donation than an investment to generate bitcoins. In short, we're all basically in the same boat. It's next to impossible for us to generate bitcoins. I think a connect/disconnect option would be very useful, perhaps with an "Are you sure?" confirmation before disconnecting. I agree that an auto-start option should not be added unless it's specified during an installation or first run dialog but should not be enabled by default.Ideal DefaultsConnectDon't GenerateDon't Add to Auto StartAll three options should be able to be changed when Bitcoin starts for the first time. I like the way it is currently. Satoshi is the best leader currently and as far as I'm concerned he's the benevolent dictator for life over the whole movement, not just the Bitcoin implementation. In any case, it's not like wiki's don't have administrators who make the policies which shape the wiki. If a vastly more capable leader comes around, it'll be evident and people will follow him or her. If you leave now, you'll be missing out on a great opportunity, which is not to spend electricity on bitcoins, but rather to receive payment from a community that is eager to spend money in exchange for your unique talent or skill set. Best of luck to ya! Just agree to both use the same free online wallet before you make your trade. MyBitcoin.com offers instant transfers. Or just encouragement....The person is who hacks his wallet can have his bitcoins! Go get him, boys! Keep an eye on this elevator pitch thread for ideas about what angle to take while writing press releases. I tried this out on a friend who is starting a small business. I'll let you know how it goesPlease donate a few bitcoins if you think this elevator pitch is useful!  I think the elevator pitch should be targeted at hobby/home business owners who are not tech savvy. They have little to lose and a lot to gain. One of the selling points should be that there is a growing new market which really wants to spend money and the new market doesn't yet have their product yet. Essentially telling them that there is a niche to be filled.
I had all four of my cores dedicated previously toward the goal of generating bitcoins, but it's no longer worth the cost to me. I am now only generating using one core but the goal is no longer to generate bitcoins. My current goal is to help maintain the strength of the network and to help the network recover (get to the next block adjustment) when and if a large botnet drops out. Bitcoin was about generating bitcoins, but now it's not. Now it's about competing botnets providing a secure and reliable foundation for an open currency. Yeah, they're stealing the electricity and yeah, they're profiting, but at least they're putting their stolen CPU cycles to a useful and accepted purpose instead of more harmful activities that they probably would be engaged in if they had not discovered bitcoin. Thanks for the image and you're welcome for the link to that thread! I sent the ฿20 while blocks were at 72388. I would make it give out 0.001% of the total bitcoins with a minimum of ฿0.02 and I would move those two decimal points to the left whenever the official client changes to displays another precision point. Thanks for the service, it's very useful to new users. I hope you can stay one step ahead of the cheaters. Could I get this one in the same color, but with this coin? I'll gladly donate ฿20, although it's probably worth more. Once Bitcoin reaches minimal popularity as it did when it was featured on Slashdot, the focus shifts from generating bitcoins to using bitcoins. You can provide goods and services for bitcoins or you can purchase them. You can also receive goods and services for bitcoins or you can sell them. The way it was resolved, he can't very well defend himself without letting people know that he was the other person involved. I'm fine either way, but so long as he doesn't defend himself, I'll offer a bit of defense on his behalf. He very likely was not scamming anyone. His activity was suspicious, but my means of resolving it were also suspicious. I didn't name him publicly because my suspension was not strong enough to risk my reputation on it. I got a bit carried away while I was looking out for my own interests and ended up indirectly causing the drama.In any case, if there aren't scammers lurking, there surely will be soon enough, since transactions are non-refundable. So regardless of this situation, people should be careful. I was lucky that I only had $4.00 on the line. From now on I'm going to be more careful since many of my transactions are not so small. For the record, I had a PayPal payment to me reversed from someone whom I had caught using multiple similar but different email addresses and different names. He also had very little reputation here on the forum. I thought that if I were to ask for a refund, he was likely to just drop his identity and create a new one. So I lied to him to get my money back. And then I lied some more because as far as I was concerned, he may have ripped off many other community members, and that made me mad. He then posted our conversations here on the forum and I posted his multiple names and email addresses. We argued a bit, I asked him to remove the conversations and once he did, I removed the information about him. The thread he created about me was locked once I started deleted my posts. It may get deleted in the near future. No one got harmed and I'm not offended or anything. The issue is resolved. Sorry for the drama, moderators. Whenever someone sends you a PayPal payment, wait a week before you send your bitcoins or you might end up with neither bitcoins nor dollars once PayPal takes the money sent to you back back after they fail to get the funds from the deadbeat who will be using a different identity. Good luck getting your bitcoins back once they're gone. You can scam a scammer once, but don't hope to be able to do it twice.  Are four of those cores hyper threaded? I get more hashes using half my threads than using all of them when I have hyper threading. And the system is more responsive too. I beat ya to it by almost two weeks.  Not that anyone looks through my rambling lists.  People usually disagrees with me whenever I mention it, but the phrase "make out like a bandit" sure comes across as "kiss like a bandit".   It sounds a lot better as "make off like a bandit". Am I right or am I right? It's stuff like this which I've also experienced that makes me think perhaps other factors have more of an influence than they should. Bitcoin superstition, it's always got me questioning my client.  It's certainly calmer and tamer than my previous post. The only controversial thing about it is that it is more pointed toward Wikipedia deletionists. I can imagine that if there was a moderator here who is a deletionist on Wikipedia, they might get upset and delete it. Or maybe a deletionist on Wikipedia who cracked my password in order to delete it. This second scenario actually isn't too far fetched if the forum doesn't temporarily lock out accounts after a few failed login attempts. I've since updated my rather weak password so that it hopefully doesn't happen again. Unless it was a technical glitch or a moderator who will speak up, it very much reinforces my recently acquired vile opinion of Wikipedia deletionists. Of course so long as I can't prove anything, it's just my word against nobody or anybody or Wikipedia deletionists or I'm just overly paranoid or something.  This quoted post was deleted without notice or explanation. If it was deleted by a moderator, in the future please send me the original post in a private message and then edit it with in-line explanations instead of just deleting it. Please let me know if it was not deleted by a moderator or if there isn't an obvious technical explanation. I would really like to know whether my account has been compromised. Please send me a private message if the forum logs IP addresses which people use to access their account so that I can try to figure out whether an existing user accessed my account. If you accessed my account or deleted this quoted post, please fess up.Edit: There is a chance that it somehow accidentally got deleted while I was editing it or at some other time, but I don't think that is what happened since the final version of it existed long enough for it to be cached by Google and then after that cache, RHorning replied to it. That all happened long after I stopped editing it. Как вам нравиться писать Bitcoin? Просто Bitcoin или Битмонета или Биткойн или по другому? Я знаю что английские названые часто написано английскими буквами, но мне нравиться Битмонета потому что бит и монета  обычные слова и тоже потому что это сложно мне объяснить людям что такой Bitcoin, а я думаю что может быть помогает если уже есть эти слова в названии. Насколько я знаю, это не возможно узнать точно, а если вы хорошо знаете математика, это возможно узнать приблизительно. Вы можете сморить в irc.freenode.net #bitcoin, где много клиенты связывают, но я уверен что есть очень больше клиенты чем что показано там потому что сей час есть меньше ста, и это было так до того трудность увеличивал после того, что Bitcoin был на веб-сайт Slashdot. Математикой, надо смотреть трудности делать блок и тоже сколько хэшей делают медленные, обычные и быстрые компьютеры. Тогда надо статистически сделать образованных догадываться о том, сколько компьютеры в сете медленные, обычные и быстрые. Я сам не знаю все эту математику, но я понимаю достаточно о Bitcoin и о математике что я уверен что это возможно. Well I think clients in other languages would be very valuable. I would particularly enjoy looking through a Java client. There may be some unknown danger to connecting a different client to the production Bitcoin network, but you can aways just code it to only connect to the test network and include a note in the source code requesting that people not connect to the production network. I'm sure if it was very thoroughly tested and received plenty of attention, eventually no one would have a problem with it connecting to the production server. If I was a C++ programmer, I would make multiple instances of Bitcoin automatically talk to each other. But then again, I don't know how hard it is to do cross platform interprocess communication. If a data directory was already being used by one instance, then the new instance would be required to use a different data directory. Sure, you probably can make multiple instances share some or all the files in a data directory, but I think it's a bad idea since it the likelihood for little bugs is high, but the likelihood of the likelihood of those being discovered, researched, reported and fixed is low since the feature wouldn't get much exposure. Imagine the mess it will make if somebody starts half a dozen instances.  It would certainly draw more attention to Bitcoin.  Sort of... I asked a real lawyer whom I know. It's not his specialty and he wasn't giving official legal counsel or whatever. I sent him a couple links to some laws posted on the Internet and then he pointed out to me that the law defines money as government backed currency. He said that bitcoins are plain ol' digital goods according to the law. Anyway, I don't think anyone has done enough business to be targeted by the government. If I ever got to the point where a significant amount of dollars were coming and going through me, I would look more in depth into the issue. I think the first regulation I'd run into is needing to follow KYC rules just in case. If it continued to increase, I'd probably register as offering financial services also just in case. I'd also get real legal advice on how to stay completely legal.
Where did you hear that? I vote ฿ for myself and others who want to promote Thai culture.  Example: ฿10.00I vote β for people who want a character that looks like a currency symbol but actually isn't a currency symbol and for who are opposed to the promotion of Thai culture.  It's easy to write and lower case to boot.Example: β10.00I vote ¤ for people who want want a real currency symbol but who are opposed to the promotion of Thai culture. Example: ¤10.00While ⓑ Ⓑ and ⒝ look nice, they're not currency characters and they don't look like currency symbols. The character ᴃ isn't a currency character but it looks like a currency symbol when it's two fonts larger than the number next to it.Examplesⓑ10.00Ⓑ10.00⒝10.00ᴃ10.00ᴃ10.00 I visited http://quezi.com/ and scrolled to the bottom. I also googled, clicked and scrolled just for good measure. There goes the anonymity of my IP address.  I read a few words, so if there's a subliminal message, I probably got it.  My bitcoin address is below.Edit: Bitcoins received. Thanks! Watched a YouTube video to learn the very most basic mathematics on probability and now I can calculate at least the coin flip experiment. If the coin flip experiment is representative of Bitcoin probability then I and my vague hunch are both wrong. Vague hunch is vague, so unfortunately my wrongness hasn't alleviated the hunch feeling.  If the problem doesn't drive me crazy, I'll try to figure out whether there's a way to successfully demonstrate the hunch, but at this point the odds are stacked against me. After 100 iterations of the coin flip game, the person with one coin will have 38.7% percent of the points and the person with two coins will have 61.3% of the points. Here's a very simple mathematical demonstration.This is a list of possible outcomes at each round.Code:Me You Tie ScoreTT T  Me +1 Me  Me +1 Me  You +1 YouTT H  +1 MeTH T  Me +1 Me  You +1 YouTH H  +1 Me  Me +1 Me  You +1 YouHT T  Me +1 Me  You +1 YouHT H  +1 MeHH T  +1 YouHH H  0I have 8 chances out of 14 outcomes, which is 8/14 or 57.1428571%. You have 5 chances out of 14 outcomes, which is 5/14 or 35.7142857%. The chance of neither of us getting a point is 1/14, or 7.1428571%. To calculate the second iteration, just duplicate all the outcomes which results in 16/28 for me, 10/28 for you and 2/28 for neither of us. All of those simplify to the original result, demonstrating that the probability is the same no matter how many iterations. After a hundred rolls, I'll probably have 57 points, you'll probably have 36 points and neither of us got a point 7 times and this adds up to a hundred rolls. You ended up with 36 out of 93 total points between us, so you got 36/93 or 38.7096774% of the points. That's more than one third, so you win, I lose.  As I stated in two of the previous posts, I don't know the math for probability. I'm not claiming that my hunches are for sure correct or that I'm any kind of expert. My knowledge of probability is basically vague memory of this or that I may have heard from who knows where. I've got some hunches in my head and I was expressing them in the hopes that someone who knew what they're talking about would say, oh yeah, that the whatchamacallit principle and here's the simplified version of what you're trying to express. But then it turned into me trying to figure it out and without the proper mathematical knowledge, which is pretty much the equivalent of revving while in neutral. I didn't think you were being arrogant, I was just kindly making fun of you for suggesting that I could produce the math after reading or at least skimming over my posts. I'll probably never get around to the program just because I pretty much never program. Once in a blue moon I do program and most of those test programs wouldn't be difficult, but when you times the probability of me programming by the probability of me remembering this thread, the chance of them both of happening at the same time is next to zero. Okay, I'm thinking of something orange. Something ooooooraaaange ... Do you give up? It's an orange!Just show you the math? By golly, that's it! You're a genius!  Here I was thinking that half a dozen vague examples would be much more clear than just showing the math. Well, in that case I think it would be equal, but if you have one person with ten dice and one person who has one die and they usually have to roll many many times before getting the winning number, then the person with ten dice will win more than ten times more frequently than the person with one die. I'm more than happy to write a little demonstration progam, but it will take me a while to get around to it.Here's another example. I have two coins, you have one. Each time one person gets tails and the other doesn't, the person who got tails gets a point. If you get tails and I get one tails, we flip a coin for the point. If you get tails and I get two tails, we spin a triangle to decide who gets the pont. I get two sides of the triangle and you get one. The deciding point coin flip and the triangle spin represent which tails landed first. We play for a hundred rounds. You win if you have at least one third the points when the game is over. You will lose almost every time. It's preferable, when possible to identify and fix vulnerabilities before they can harm the production system. The test network is more vulnerable in most cases, so it's a better candidate to find vulnerabilities and as a bonus it doesn't annoy lots of people. I'm not familiar with the higher level math, but the idea is something like this, if you've got two people, one with a single one hundred sided die and the other with 100,000 one hundred sided dice and give them both 100 seconds to be the first to roll 00, and then repeat the exercise over and over again, the single die has the same probability to to roll a 00 as any other individual die, so he should win on average once every 100,001 iterations, but in practice, he will win much less often. I can't explain the specific mathematics, but I'm quite sure it is the case. It's certainly within the realm of testability if you had two machines that did rolls at the same rate and recorded the results. The person with the many dice will roll a 100 pretty much every roll, so even if the person with the single die rolls a 00 on the first roll, he'll then only have one chance out of how many total dice stop on 00 of having his die stop before one of the dies of the competitor stops on 00. The scale is totally off from Bitcoin, but I believe that the principle still applies. A client with 100,000 khash/s will generate more blocks per hash than a single client with 1 khash/s.Edit: Changed the last sentence.Part of the concept that I'm trying to express is that the probablity of a combined series of events as a whole is calculated differently than how the probability of a single equal event is calculated. Because Bitcoin is doing millions of hashes per second or every few seconds, that needs to be taken into account. A breaking change could be made without breaking the network by setting the change to not take affect until a certain block six months or more in the future. That would give most everyone plenty of time to upgrade their client. The few that didn't notice, would notice still notice sometime after the change and would still be able to upgrade and retain bitcoins obtained before the change. The market will be stabilizing for the next few weeks. The market price will drop during this stabilization period, but after it stabilizes, the price will slowly start to increase again. This next week it will most likely either stay steady or drop, so it's not a good time to make short term investments in bitcoins. If you want to make a few bucks off your bitcoins in the short term, now is a good time to sell since the price will be dropping and it will take a while to increase back to where it was previously. Anytime is a good time for long term investments since the price will eventually surpass anything you'll pay right now. If you're buying or selling products for bitcoins, watch the exchange rate closely for the next few weeks. This prediction is based on authentic market knowledge, but as a disclaimer, I'm not an economist and I don't have any special connections or access.Block difficulty will continue to increase as a result of recent publicity, but the rate of the increase of difficulty will decrease quite quickly. This next adjustment will be fairly significant, but subsequent increases will be less dramatic since the number of existing users is much higher than when the increase started. The rate of new users could increase or decrease, but it will indefinitely stay higher than before the recent publicity.Edit: Added content. I'm not sure about the math, but from my anecdotal experience with the calculator and my setup, bitcoins are generated a little bit faster than it estimates, but that may be because although I'd don't have a totally sick setup, I do have a decent setup which I try to keep well maintained to generate as many bitcoins as possible. Also, I have a theory that the amount of hashes to blocks generated isn't a straight line, but is rather slightly curved with the people with faster machines getting a slightly better rate of blocks per hash than people with slower machines. Kinda like the people who have worked out the probability to small lotteries and buy up certain percentages of tickets depending on the amount of tickets available and the size of the payout to get a probability advantage over the many individuals who buy a small number of tickets. It would be interesting to me to know whether people with different speeds of computers have different impressions of whether the calculator overestimates or underestimates. I don't know for sure, you'd have to ask him. I just figured it was either that he took real financial transactions very seriously or he didn't want people to get too invested in it so that he could make breaking changes if needed or as the developer, he perhaps wanted to stay independent of the financial side of it. To this day I've never bought or sold any bitcoins from/to him and I have absolutely no idea how many bitcoins he has. But the way I looked at it, the idea was too golden to have it sit in obscurity. Earning money wasn't my goal and I'm not a libertarian; I just wanted this revolutionary technology to get the exposure it deserved. Factoid of the day (that last one counts as yesterday): I chose this user name and marketed my now retired website toward the End the Fed movement, libertarians, the Tea Party movement and related movements because I figured that was the best way to get the word out. But I'm not part of any of the above and I don't have any problem with fiat currencies, the Federal Reserve, the current banking system or the current majority party in the United States or the general direction the current government is moving. There are some things I don't like about government and a few decisions from the current administration that I strongly disagree with, but I'm a very traditional USA democrat, so I'm quite content with the general direction in which things are moving. No, one change for all time is not assumed. Versioning sounds like version numbering to me, but anyway, if you were to go back and improve the ability of Bitcoin to be more backwards compatible with then future changes, then yeah, that sure would make it more flexible. Good choice! Factoid of the day: I willed Bitcoin's monetary value into existence. Satoshi was all like, "This is beta, don't use it for real financial transactions." And I was like, "Dude, this is friggin' awesome! I think I'll give it monetary value." And then I did. Look it now, with the all the monetary valuing. Brings a tear to the eye, I tell ya!  Да, 24 часа в сутки. Это было очень легче несколько недель назад, но тогда Bitcoin был на популярным веб-сайте, много люди начинали использовать его и тогда это стало очень трудно всем. It looks like a Russian branch of the wiki now exists. I imagine it would be a good idea to have the Russian Documentation link on the front page link to it. It will take a very very long time to generate coins, but if you leave it running long enough, you will eventually get some bitcoins. Here's a calculator where you can get an estimate of how long it will take. The rate changes roughly every two weeks, so check the calculator again after a few weeks. Like I said, a very very long time. The easier way to get some bitcoins is to work for them or to just buy them. What's the one thing you would change? No, they're not going to delete 90% of their articles. They'll only do it as a means to pressure the community to contribute. Like I said in my previous post, if the goal was to delete non-notable articles, then they would start with the completely non-notable articles, of which there are a multitude.
Potential doesn't actually increase the difficulty of hashing or increase the speed of blocks being successfully hashed. It all just goes down the drain. It's only when that potential turns into success that it improve the networks. I agree that for practical purposes, running a node strengthens the network since you never know when it might generate a successful hash before everyone else, but technically it is not actually helping until it actually generates a successful hash before everyone else. Dude, if you're buying at that price, have I got some bitcoins for you!!! If you're not buying at that price and no one else is, then that is the problem. Seriously send me a message or email if you're buying at that price. I agree that those are the qualities which give the currency value, but production cost provides somewhat of a loose fitting price cap. The current price is much higher than the production cost was for a long time, so a lot of people are selling their previously generated bitcoins at a profit. Once they slow down or run out of bitcoins to sell, the price will start to go up again. But I honestly have no idea how long that will take.  Each client verifies the authenticity of hashed blocks itself, so he didn't do that for others. He did pass on transaction information and if his port was open he provide connectivity to a closed port client, but all of the above happens regardless of whether he's hashing.No, that's not true. Each time he SUCCEEDS at verifying a block, "it adds just that much CPU to the system, and puts us one small step further away from a 51% CPU attack." Yes, I am talking about arbitration, but from reading that page, it sounds like the company tries to serve as arbiter instead of giving people the tools to pick an independent outside arbiter who is trusted by both parties. It's hard to prove to the company that I sent a bitcoins to someone else, but if with a trusted service like the Bitcoin Market, he verifies that I have sent bitcoins, but ideally there should be a way to prove to him that the other person really sent the payment for the bitcoins. With Pecunix I can temporarily make a transaction public and send the arbiter a link to it and with Liberty Reserve, I can send the payment details to the arbiter to prove that payment was made. Anyway, that may not be clear, but I don't know how to explain it any better. Not really. The price is slowly but steadily dropping. Production costs have increased, but there's more than enough existing supply to meet demand. It'll take quite a while for demand to outstrip existing supply, but if and when it does, the price should start to rise back up toward the cost of production. According to those statistics the difficulty should either increase or stay the same, but not decrease.You've got something mixed up. If more than 6 blocks are completed per hour on average then difficulty increases and if less than 6 blocks are completed per hour on average then the difficulty decreases. That's a great idea, thanks for mentioning it! Perhaps it could work something like grades on a curve so that all the above average or rather below average hashes receive a certain reward proportionate to their performance. The idea is surprisingly simple, but it sure would require a real clever programmer to make it scale smoothly as the number of nodes increases and as processors become more powerful. I'm sure somebody can come up with an algorithm to make it work. So perhaps as the difficulty increases, instead of giving all of the reward to the the client that got the winning block, additional runner up prizes could be given out to the node with the second, third or fourth lowest hash. This would work particularly well with the constant block verification idea that somebody mentioned in another thread since the lowness of all hashes would already be being compared. I think the key would be to have a system like the Bitcoin Exchange where the website administrator isn't taking part in the trades, but rather just proving people a way to find good prices to trade amongst themselves. I don't think there has been a single trade using Moneybookers and I've recently read a lot of negative reviews, so perhaps you can figure out which one or two currencies would be the best suited to trade and then convince dwdollar to drop Moneybookers and add a game currency to his exchange. It helps if the currency has an easy way to prove to an outside party that a transaction occurred, but as I'm not much of a gamer, I'm not so sure whether game currencies would have such a feature. As far as I know, PayPal doesn't have such a feature and it really bothers me. Oh well.  If you could go back and make any one change to Bitcoin while it was first being developed, what change would you choose? Feel free to list other changes, but share which you would prefer over all others. You're welcome to change your mind, so don't stress yourself out over it.The one change which I prefer would be to have the rate of bitcoins being minted stay constant forever.Another idea I've heard is to have block difficulty constant to so that the number of amount of bitcoins being dispensed increases as the swarm increases. Recently somebody mentioned changing the block history to a balance sheet to reduce the block chain size. Another recent idea was to have the back end and front end of Bitcoin fully separate. Deciding that the client is the same except it makes you rich and other such silly changes don't count.Now it's your turn. What would be the MOST important change to Bitcoin? Bitcoin already contains a short list of hard coded addresses and everyone's clients can find everyone else's clients if IRC were to go down or if the #bitcoin channel locked everyone out. Does WebMoney have a way to prove to a third person that a payment was sent between two people? And what personal information is displayed when you send and receive money? I also asked these questions in this other thread. I've discovered that Liberty Reserve does have a way for third-parties to verify that a transaction occurred.I saw a thread a moment ago with a Russian speaking person who seems like he's interested in trading WebMoney. Does anyone know what public information, if any is displayed during WebMoney transactions? I would also like to know whether they have a way to prove to a third party that a transaction occurred and how difficult it is to fund and withdraw funds. If I can prove my transactions, fund and withdraw, I wouldn't mind trading with him. I don't think anyone has traded using Moneybookers on the Bitcoin Market and after the reviews I read, I'm not surprised. If WebMoney has the these features, I would probably ask dwdollar to switch the MoneyBookers for WebMoney so that we can trade with a wider variety of people.I read some reviews about Moneybookers and they all seem to be pretty negative. If you haven't generated any blocks, then in hindsight it really didn't add anything to the network. Value is only added each time a block is verified. Unfortunately we can't know ahead of time exactly how long it will take to verify a block before anyone else. Botnets would ideally attack the network while the difficulty is low, stop while the difficulty is high and repeat. I would imagine that botnet operators value their botnets enough to not risk many nodes being discovered from the computers running full blast all day everyday while producing bitcoins, but I might be wrong. I suppose they could run all the clients on half their cores, which would cut down on visibility. Anyway, bitcoins may be worth a lot right now, they're only worth that much because no one is flooding the market with bitcoins. They would have to withdraw only a small amount of money each day by only selling their bitcoins when someone offers to buy a small amount of them at a good price. If you were to look at the confirmed volume of trades occurring and adjust for possibly fake traders trading with themselves to alter people's impressions, I think you'd be surprised how few people are actually spending their hard earned cash on bitcoins each day. No, I wouldn't. If I released a Bitcoin client that looked like it was hashing twice as many hashes, but actually wasn't, and also donated 5 bitcoins out of every block of received bitcoins, would you run it? If you have such code, just release it. It will strengthen the network and promote the adoption of a version of the client with other improvements besides your improvement. If you really did release code that doubles the hash speed, I'd be more than happy to donate at least 5 bitcoins to you. Actually, probably more than 5, but I'm not sure how many. I'm interested in privately discussing design differences with anyone who is honestly capable of and seriously committed to creating an alternative implementation.Instead of discussing it privately, I think I'd rather just hear your ideas for improvement. This is for the regular network. The test network doesn't have enough blocks to test it effectively. From what I can tell, satoshi's builds are always for the live network unless he specifies otherwise. Somebody should create a charity to distribute donated bitcoins to contributing members of the Bitcoin community. I'd volunteer, but I'd really like to receive such donations, so it'd be a conflict of interest. 
And I've noticed the user throughput trying to disrupt the Bitcoin community by making false claims about community members.   Yeah, I guess I missed the point.  But now that I'm back to the point, I think that while the community is small, an effective way to contribute to the community would be to continuously buy bitcoins and donate them to active members of the community who contribute to the forum and to IRC, provide services and write code.Donations to the address below are very welcome! But not as much as others... ^_^ Bitcoin takes a wide variety of attacks into account. Sure, a rich corporation could attack members of the community, but there's no incentive. While the user base is small, it's vulnerable, but there is no incentive for it to be attacked. A corporation is not going to spend millions to have people killed if those people are not a threat. As the size of the community grows, the incentive to attack increases, but the difficulty to attack increases faster than the incentive.Edited by adding a sentence. Although I would love to sell all by bitcoins for $100 each, putting in a very high bid would be an inefficient investment. It would be much more beneficial if they always bid a little high and asked a little low. It would eventually result in a very low spread and high confidence in the value of bitcoins. The price of bitcoins is not what's important, it's the confidence in knowing you'll be able to convert currency in and out of bitcoins with as little loss as possible and at as steady a price as possible. Open source software prevents such attacks. Bitcoin is still a small project, yet we already have watchmen guarding the code, the operation of public binaries and the block chain. Revolutionary movements are always started by the loonies. We accept the code voluntarily, not by coercion. If better code comes along, we are welcome to leave the current code for the better code. The author of the code holds no power over us or our ability to choose any code available. Therefore he has no authority over us. We have accepted his judgment because he has not sought dominion over us or our common currency. That's why I listed them here and not on the official discussion page. I was just going through what I could find quickly and listed the more valid ones toward the top. For notability, as opposed to authenticity, circular reference should be considered completely valid if it's coming from a notable source or if there is a huge amount of non-notable, but real sources. If the President of the United States mentions the Bitcoin Wikipedia article in passing during his State of the Union address, that alone would make Bitcoin very notable. And likewise, if every poor third world person mentions it, but not a single first world mega news conglomerate, it should still be considered notable. And while I'm at it, I don't think that the single link to this page was canvassing. I'm not a Wikipedia editor and I didn't want to spam you with all my references, but I had come up with enough sources to demonstrate that real articles from notable sources/authors do exist and to demonstrate that there has been extensive worldwide exposure in many languages. I stopped posting because it was time for bed, but I assure you, I can go on all day posting similar articles and while most of them aren't significant, a certain percentage are significant and given enough time, I can find many more significant articles and hundreds and hundreds of insignificant exposure from real people, not just spam bots. The quality of the article may be C or D quality, but not all of us are English majors and for many of us a C is just fine and dandy. And while the sources might not be up to your high standards, it has been demonstrated very surely that Bitcoin is authentically what it claims to be and absolutely and without equivocation, verifiably notable. Excuse me for not posting this on your website, but I don't want to have my IP address blocked for "canvassing" since I am clearly biased, but also clearly correct.More SourcesThe Impact of Decentralisation on Networked Computer Games Dissertation by Ashley Vaughan Smith, School of Computing, University of DerbyThe FEDs Real Monetary Problem - Thomas Luongo is a professional chemist, amateur economist and obstreperous recovering Yankee residing in North Florida.Times of ChangeLudwig von Mises InstituteProject for New Natural Autonomous CitizensHideki's Random StuffF.A. Hayek Institute of CanadaAlloscompATSBitcoin Networked Economy SpecificationClimate Action CampWikipediaElectronic moneyAnonymous internet bankingCrypto-anarchismPeer-to-peerAlternative currencyAssassination marketeCache Stellar references here! Yodelbank Its references blow Bitcoin out of the water! Hashcash Sooo notable! Private currencyProof-of-work systemExamples of Wikipedia's Standard of ReferencesBe sure to subtract press releases, related websites, blog entries, forum threads, documentation, Slashdot and most everything else.AdvFSAtaxxBDS CBitstream VeraC*BaseCuneiFormFish Fillets NGFree Download ManagerGentiumid Tech 2Slashdot!MarathonNetscape CommunicatorOpen Sound SystemPerformance Co-PilotQuake engineSynfigTurboCASHWatcom C/C++ compilerCompiereGrisbiHomeBankJFinjGnashJQuantLibKMyMoneyLedgerSMBMifosOctopus Micro Finance SuiteOpenbravoOpenERPPostbooksQuasar AccountingQuickFIXSQL-LedgerTryton99.99% of Wikipedia Software ArticlesWikipedia will have articles about 0.01% of software as soon as the editors can catch up on their backlog. But hey, we all need to know about iTunes and Windows! It'd be faster to just delete the whole encyclopedia and just start over.Is it hard to get rights to start marking these articles for deletion? I've got time, as you can see. It'll greatly improve Wikipedia to have only 15 articles about software. Anyone else have spare time? They obviously have a large back log. They really could use our help.Remember, objectivity. You're welcome to let this post affect you if you're not an editor, but once you become an editor, you have to ignore it. I mean at this point if you delete the article, it's obvious retaliation or a personal agenda. Can't have that kind of behavior from a Wikipedia editor!I guess it's perfectly fine to have non-notable articles on Wikipedia so long as they're obscure. But if anyone is going to look at the article or heaven forbid, read it, then it has to be up to Wikipedia's official standards or really liked by an editor. How about you make better use of your time by focusing on software that really is lacking. You can start with the article about Mifos because if the Bitcoin article is a C or a D in Advanced Cryptography and Economics, then the Mifos article is an F- in the special needs class. The Mifos article has been around since 2007, two years longer than the Bitcoin article, surely they've had time to provide some sources. I guess the benefit of not being slashdotted is that it doesn't matter how craptastic an article is, because an editor will never notice it, so it'll just keep chugging along as a secondary press release as more notable software articles get deleted for not being notable.  Отличная работа! Просто молодец, чувак! I've done lots of PayPal exchanges and haven't had any charge backs yet. Most of the PayPal transactions are fee free. I like Pecunix better than PayPal even though it charges a fee because there's no chance of a charge back, you can prove transactions to a third party, the fees are small for small transactons and it's a commodity rather than the dollar. I have nothing against the dollar and unlike many here, I don't have a problem with the banking system, but the United States government doesn't like the characteristics of Bitcoin as described in a public government report that I posted in another thread. I don't have the link offhand, but if you want it, you can search through my messages. I don't think the government will target someone as poor as me, but it's always in the back of my mind. Oh, oh! This, ฿, in a circle!!!   Then it's not a baht, it's a bitcoin!!! Ba dum ching! Both of them do kinda look like coins.  That's the choice of the developer, nothing wrong with it. I was around pretty early and from what I could tell, the network really had been public the whole time. In fact I think I was the first person, or at least one of the very first people, to start pushing for real financial transactions.  You're welcome everybody!  If quantum entanglement got entangled with Moore's Law, you could have a mesh of quantum entangled relay transistors to transfer data quickly. Actually, if they were incorporated into microchips, it could be a way of increasing the transistors. The computer in one room has so many transistors and the computers in the other room has so many transistors, but as the quantum entangled transistor technology improves, it allows the two to be combined into a single processing unit, thus prolonging Moore's Law.  Hobbies generally cost money. If you're making money, it's work. It looks fine for me on Ubuntu in Firefox and Chrome, but the D is centered slightly down and to the left for me, but it's not really noticeable. An electronic currency such as bitcoin is a poor candidate for stable value. Because bitcoins don't have inherent value, they work well in a system where they have a relatively stable price in the short term and can be transmitted easily and reliably, but in the long term can fluctuate in either direction to meet supply and demand. A vitally necessary commodity such as water works much better as having a constant value. The value may somewhat shift during conflicts or when new ways of producing it become prevalent, but in comparison to something like Bitcoin, it's value will be retained very well over time. There you have it. You should invest in companies that provide clean water, buy a water tower or buy and sell bottled water. Security bounties are easy and effective for centralized organizations but difficult and less effective for decentralized projects like Bitcoin. Perhaps somebody could start a Bitcoin security bounty pool, where the time and amount of donations are displayed publicly. I think the task would be better suited for someone interested in creating and running such a pool rather than people who are more interested in plain ol' development. The person running the pool should ideally already have a reputation, but I suppose given enough time, that could be established regardless. Yeah, it's fine. Especially if you're not generating coins. I'm somewhat superstitious about what does and does not affect bitcoins being generated since it's hard to measure. Being connected to 8 peers shouldn't be detrimental, but it always feels detrimental to me. I just started using -connect=<IP Address> while I've temporarily got a half decent second machine and it just feels better.
This ᴃ was pretty high on my list before I discovered ฿. It is pretty cool, but has to be written pretty big since you're adding a fourth horizontal line as opposed to a second vertical line. Yeah, it's possible to make money off scams, but I think it's somewhat immoral since you're encouraging the scammer to scam and directly and/or indirectly encouraging others to be scammed. But it's not the worst immoral act, so I don't really care if others do it. I just don't like to participate myself. Although I must admit, sometimes it is tempting to get in while the going is good.Must... resist... Well I sent him 1736050.00 bitcoins and got back 3472100.00 bitcoins!!! I kinda like my rotated power symbol, but honestly I like the baht symbol better and I'm gonna keep using it. I'm sure the United States government would love to have exclusive rights to the dollar symbol, but they don't, so they share. If Bitcoin was named something different and and started with an S, then I would not get confused by using the $ symbol just like I'm not confused by other currencies that use the $ symbol. If two $ currencies are being compared or if someone thinks it will be unclear, then they use the three letter currency codes for clarity. My use of the BITCOIN ฿ symbol may confuse  you and your countrymen right now, but I'm sure if you keep at, you'll get it straight in no time. It's not calculus after all.  Edit: If everyone else is dead set on using another character, you should seriously consider this character. It's soooo cool. ☃ Security auditing software Nmap added Bitcoin to their recognized signature or whatever.I imagine it wouldn't hurt to post a link to this thread within the deletion discussion along with a note that some sources and arguments are being posted here that aren't all getting added to the deletion discussion page. I'll probably mention it there if nobody else does in the next little while.Bitcoin is listed as a link to a half baked idea for a Distributed Computing Anonymous Currency.Marginal Revolution posted a link to the Bitcoin Wikipedia article.Other ReferencesStep Three: Profit! Notability of Brandon Wiley: I have worked for the last ten years in open source and peer-to-peer software, both in community projects and tech startups. I founded a number of open source peer-to-peer software projects, including Freenet, Tristero, Alluvium, and Project Snakebite. I've also worked in peer-to-peer Interent video delivery at Swarmcast as Senior Engineer and then at BitTorrent as the Director of Product Management.Is it time for digital-only dollars? at Fairfield County Weekly - Dr. Phil Maymin is an Assistant Professor of Finance and Risk Engineering at the Polytechnic Institute of New York University. The views represented are his own.A Unique Way to Make Money By David Bolton of About.com, a software developer who develops trading applications for a global investment bank in London, England. Here are additional qualifications of David Bolton. About.com is a A New York Times CompanyBitCoin and the Wild West - Niklas Blanchard is a Ph.D candidate in Human Capital Management at Bellevue University. He is generally a huge econonerd, and spends a lot of his time analyzing everyday phenomena from an economic perspective. His interests include monetary economics, complexity theory, network theory, and behavior economics.The Monetary Future - Notability of Jon Matonis: I am an Austrian School economist from George Washington University focused on expanding the circulation of nonpolitical digital currencies. My career has included senior influential posts at Sumitomo Bank, VISA, VeriSign, and HushMail.Paying with bits Looks well written from glancing at it.Four short links: 13 July 2010 by Nat Torkington at oreilly.com - Notability of Nat TorkingtonBitcoin on SoftpediaBitcoin and the Libertarian Individual at CopyvillainBitcoins a cryptocurrency, free bitcoins and a rigged casino at stealthcopter.comBitCoin, Open Source P2P Digital Cash at The Command Line by Thomas GideonBitcoin vs Dollar / Euro at Hablando Solo点对点匿名数字货币Bitcoin发布V0.3版 at cnBeta.com - cnBeta.com is a news organizationBitcoins at SydiusBitcoin: Open Source P2P eCash is here! at Organic DesignBitcoin, nueva moneda para redes P2P at Venturada ¡ LIBRE !Cryptocurrency: pushing at the fourth wall at GameifyP2P Foundation Bitcoin wiki articleMoney, Fixed by Gavin AndresenBitcoin (฿): пиринговая криптовалютаBitcoin  alternativ digital valuta at Hedegaard¿BitCoin, el futuro dinero digital basado en la criptografía? at LinuxParty GroupBitcoin - бусы для современных аборигенов или галактические имперские кредиты? at OpenLifeBitcoin: una red de dinero digital P2P basado en criptografíaShout out by a DGC Magazine editor.Open source innovation on the cutting edge - InfoWorld article. I think someone else may have already mention this one. Generating bitcoins sure does seem like it would be problematic, but you could certainly spend and receive payments. I don't think that the earth network would mind accepting transactions that were a little bit old so long as those funds haven't yet been spent. Of course, I'm not familiar with the specifics of the code, so it might require a little modification. If all else fails, you could just use a free online wallet such as Vekja or MyBitcoin. Although, then the bitcoins wouldn't technically be located on Mars. Of course you could back up your wallet on a hard drive running on mars. It would be a few blocks behind, but your bitcoins would still be on Mars. Come to think of it, that gives me an another idea, if you the person on Mars controlled a computer on both planets, he could just store his wallet on Mars and then when he wanted to spend some bitcoins, he could send his whole wallet to Earth, update his blocks, send the bitcoins, wait for a few confirmations and then send the whole wallet back to Mars. The lowness of accepted blocks would be a measurement of difficulty and network computational power. The hashing of email addresses was a great idea! On Ubuntu you can find the hash of an email address by running the following command in the terminal.echo -n email@address.com | md5sumControl-Shift-C will let you copy the terminal text and then you can search for it in this thread or you can search the whole forum. The last comment (--American Antics (talk) 10:28, 20 July 2010 (UTC)) mentions that the theory has been around for years and that Bitcoin is the first implementation, but it doesn't provide sources. You or somebody should add those two sources to the discussion to back up the claim.Concerning the timing, one of the comments in the discussion makes it sound like it's a regular occurrence. Article gets written and nobody notices it, even to delete it. Then it starts to get some publicity and the editors notice it just enough to say it's not notable enough. And then they delete it until it really becomes notable.The comment I mentioned just a moment ago points out that according to Wikipedia's guidelines, something being special is reason to ignore the rules. But the comment has already been made, so I agree that additional comments of 'Bitcoin is the best thing ever' are probably more detrimental than useful.It seems that some people have been listing some occurrences in the news within the article itself. It might be useful for someone who articulate and charismatic to write to some news organizations and review sites to give them the idea of writing news articles about Bitcoin or just reviewing it. Writing a short opinion article to your local newspaper might also result in a news story. Come to think of it, I know two people who work in Journalism. I think I'll mention it to them and ask them to tell me if they publish a story about it.Edit: Added additional text. I honestly don't think the titles are self explanatory, so thanks for the explanation. I think the books I recommended are self explanatory, but in case they're not to you, they're very enjoyable to both kids and adults. In fact they're pretty much my favorite books. They're a bit off topic, but considering the point I was trying to make, they're quite on topic. Sadly I don't think you got it. I wasn't lashing out, but nonetheless apologize for coming across that way. Happy bitcoining! I would like to know what information is displayed when sending and receiving payments using various payment processors. I'm particularly interested in Liberty Reserve and Moneybookers. Please feel free to ask or post information about other payment processors.I think PayPal displays your real name to the other person when sending or receiving transactions. You shouldn't link your private email address to your public PayPal account because people could find out your name by sending you a small payment. When you send a Purchase payment, as opposed to a Personal payment, it displays your shipping address. Please correct me if any of the above is not correct.With Pecunix, you have to set a name which doesn't have to be your real name and can easily be changed. It is displayed when sending or receiving payments. Another cool aspect of Pecunix is that you can make payments public with a secret web address which can be sent to a third party to prove that a payment occurred. I strongly suggest everyone read the children's books of Dr. Seuss and Roald Dahl as well as the Harry Potter series.Please let us know why or what about the books you're recommending. Honestly, nobody is probably going to read either of the books, so you might as well at least let us know that they offer a good argument in this or that direction. I didn't read all the posts, but one way to lose track of your bitcoins is to transfer them to the the Bitcoin Market in a few bundles, let them set for a few days and then withdraw them in different sized bundles. Who knows whose bitcoins you'll get back since everyone just deposits into a big pool and withdraws different amounts from the same big pool. But remember that all the many trades don't mix them up, just the deposits and withdrawals. You should really get rid of the spread and focus on advertisements. The spread unnecessarily complicates the your whole market and makes you less trustworthy than that other market. I'm staying over there for the time being. I actually kinda like the market opening and closing. It gives the market time to cool off and/or build up pressure. The idea behind bitcoin has been around in research white papers for years. I imagine we should be able to list such research papers as a source. Bitcoins is the first time this theoretical idea which has been around for quite a while, has actually been implemented. I don't have sources available at the moment, but if I get some time, I'll try to look around. If anybody can find these historical research papers and discussions from before Bitcoin was started, please post links to them. You wouldn't need to wait until right before the ten minute mark to compare hashes. Ideally, hashes would be compared continuously, for the whole ten minutes, so when the ten minute mark approached, all nodes would already have a pretty good idea of who was going to get the block. I think I2P has a swarm based clock and from what I understand, it's a huge complicated mess trying to accurately achieve and maintain an accurate time, but if somebody did want to go that route, the code is available. I imagine if an attacker had enough nodes, he could manipulate the swarm time to his advantage. Slowing down time when he doesn't have the lowest hash and speeding up time when he does. Of course, if you waited until right before the ten minutes are over, I suppose that probably wouldn't be possible. I don't think a giant rush of hashes being compared, would really bog down the swarm, since each node is only sending out their hash if they haven't received a higher one and only spreading the highest received hash. I think the total time it would not take would be more than the amount of time for the lowest hash to be checked by each node, because it would always win when compared to against other hashes and so it would always be propagated and never held back. Of course then the issue arises that competing nodes have an incentive to lie, but I imagine that's the case under the current system. If user X is only connected to attacking, lying nodes, then if he gets a lower hash than the attacker, then the attacker just refrains from forwarding his hash. Apple uses the power symbol frequently, but it's an internationally recognized symbol, not an Apple symbol. It's defined as 'Standby' under IEC 5009 and 'Power' under IEEE 1621. How about a power symbol rotated 90 degrees clockwise? YesThe latter. It looks like you hold PayPal USD in escrow, is that correct? This makes trading much smoother and quicker, but puts you at risk of having your PayPal account frozen. I think running an e-currency exchange is against their terms of use, but I don't know how much volume you'd have to have to draw their attention. I'm not saying it's going to happen, but if you use your PayPal account for other purposes, you should be aware of the risk. The nice thing about the other market website is that PayPal can't target the operator, they can only target the many users, which is much more difficult. But this method which is safer for the administrator, does of course come at the cost of fast trades.
Where is the list of offers? Specifically how many bitcoins are being offered to buy and sell at different prices. I just disagree that everyone would use credit bitcoins if bitcoins became widespread. People often think other people are not intelligent because the other people are not well versed in the specialty of the first people. People are quite capable of being well versed in what they need to be versed in. A very large portion of the population have a very thorough understanding of very complex topics, such as automobile repairs, amortizing loans, various retirement investments, home repairs, landscaping, gardening, child care, balancing financial accounts, cooking meals, varied types of cleaning, planning camping and road trips, social and civic skills and profession specific knowledge. Sure, everyone is not an expert at everything, but most adult humans are capable of understanding very complex systems. Bitcoin doesn't make sense to these people right now because bitcoin is on the fringe. But really, from a high level perspective, Bitcoin is much less complicated than many other things in people's lives. If bitcoin were to become the predominate currency, people would understand it just fine.Banks are the specialists of transferring money electronically, but if people could transfer authentic dollars just as easily, if not more easily directly with their customers and clients rather than through a bank, then where is the incentive to use the bank? Banks loan out money and that loaned out money usually just goes straight to someone else's bank account, but that's only because it's not safe or economical to pull out $20,000 in cash and mail it overnight across the country or world. If people could securely pull out cash and securely and instantly transfer it to whomever they wanted, for free, they would. Dollar bills are easier to authenticate and trade than gold, but in comparison to bitcoins, they might as well be lead bars. It is very hard to transfer a large amount of real dollar bills long distances and that is the reason why banks stay in business. Turn the real dollar bills into electronic bills which can be securely and easily transfered between any two people for free and without the risk of double spending, and suddenly there's really very little reason to use a bank. Would you have opened a checking account when you were 14, 16 or 18 if you could move around authentic dollars as easily as bitcoins? If you were a professional accountant at a business, wouldn't you prefer for the business to be paid in authentic hard cash rather than a soft bank balance if it could be done securely, easily and for free?Edit: Added the text below.And as for all this talk about banks lying or otherwise deceiving people, sure they might not understand the intricacies of fractional reserve banking, but if you ask random Joe on the street how the bank can afford to pay interest on savings accounts, they'll be able to explain that the bank makes their money by loaning out borrowed money at a higher interest rate than they pay out to the people who deposit their money at the bank. This simple 5th grade explanation shows that people do understand that the bank doesn't keep 100% of their deposits on hand at all times. And if a bank run was rather a bank walk, everyone can pull out their money. The bank just has to slowly collect the loans they have given out. I sold a gift card and listed the price in dollars worth of bitcoins at the market price, but only while the Bitcoin Market was open. I didn't consider the transaction complete until I had received the bitcoins, sold the bitcoins on the Bitcoin Market and received payment for my bitcoins on the Bitcoin Market. It made the transaction a bit slower, but overall worked quite well because I got exactly the dollar amount I wanted and the buyer didn't have to pay a single bitcoin more than the dollar amount. If the buyer hadn't believed something about my sale on the Bitcoin Market, I think the administrator there might have vouched that I had really sold a certain amount of bitcoins at a certain rate at a certain time. That's not really the Bitcoin Market admin's job, but I think he probably doesn't mind going a bit out of his way for reliable traders during extenuating circumstances. It's only stealing if you're depriving the other person of their possession. It's sharing and sharing is caring. Seriously, who's it hurting? If anything, it promotes Thailand and the Thai baht. I certainly had never heard of the baht before I chose it as the symbol for bitcoins. Does a baby in Thailand go hungry every time I use the baht symbol to represent bitcoins? Is the Thailand government going to sue me for using "their" symbol? Bring it! Yeah, that was my first suggestion, but a general purpose debit account would be more useful since it could be used at other places. Click on the Market tab and then click the double triangles next to the Price heading. Version 0.3 was supposed to reduce the number of outgoing connections on non-port forwarded clients from 15 to 8, but I don't think it really happened. I'm not positive if this is the case. Correct me if I'm wrong. Unless he has changed it, his prices adjust dynamically on a curve. It's pretty much impossible to buy all his bitcoins. The high and low price doesn't update while the market is closed, but offers still get listed and you can sort them by price which allows you to see the high and low price. You're not misunderstanding. Escrow and debit are similar services and their definitions overlap. I was stretching the definition. Debit fits my description just as well if not better than escrow. I was just putting the emphasis on the fact that the company, whatever it's called, can transfer bitcoin balances on an accounting sheet instantly without having to wait for a real bitcoin transaction, but like is described in the fractional reserve lending thread. Bitcoins are the equivalent to cold hard cash. There's nothing precluding the creation and adoption of debit, credit, banks, loans and fractional reserve lending using bitcoins. Read the posts by InterArmaEnimSil in this related thread. Just as a word of caution, escrow services are often operate with the purpose of ripping people off, so make sure you trust them and only kick yourself, but not to harshly, if they rip you off. My vote is still for ฿  Bitcoins are worth more than the Thai baht!  Considering how many people use $, we certainly deserve to be able to use ฿. The solution is for the snack vendor to have debit accounts. You've got a fantastic vending machine at work, so you transfer ฿2000 bitcoins to it which can be withdrawn or spent at any time. Withdrawing the bitcoins takes about ten minutes, but spending them is instantaneous. Or if not not the vendor, then perhaps there's a company called Bitcoin Escrow, which is trusted by both parties and perhaps regulated by the government. They hold bitcoins 100% in reserve and offer instant transfer of balances between customer/merchant/supplier accounts. Withdrawals and deposits take about ten minutes, but purchases are instant. When comparing spikes, don't compare closing prices to opening prices. There are benefits to being the lowest/highest offer when the market opens. For example, right now the high bid is $0.10 and the low ask is $0.05, which will result in a trade at $0.75, which is better than either person's bid or ask. Now suppose there was a bid at $0.99, and after the market opened, someone offered an ask for $0.99. He didn't get the first trade and ends up spending more money than the person who had a higher bid at the beginning of the day. The same is true for an ask of $0.049 that goes through at that price. If he had gotten the higher bid, he could have gotten about $0.75, but instead he only ends up getting $0.49.And there goes my trading advantage.  Don't never say I ain't never not given you nothin'.  Because it's so very easy to obtain authentic bitcoins, many merchants and employees will prefer to accept real bitcoins as opposed to a balance of bitcoins within a bank account. Many people would keep their checking and savings accounts on their own computers, backed up and encrypted in two or more physical locations. If I could store and transfer authentic dollars as easily as I can store and transfer bitcoins, I would empty out my checking and savings account tomorrow. The only reason I keep my money in the bank, is because it's more secure than in my house and it's easier to transfer than physical dollars. The interest rate in my savings account is just a bonus and not really important. The interest rate is very low because the balance is very liquid. I could go to my bank and empty out my savings and checking accounts with no fee. Term deposits on the other hand offer an interest rate that's higher than inflation, but it comes at the cost of liquidity. If I want real interest, I have to surrender many of the benefits of liquidity, such as the option to empty out my account and hit the road at a moment's notice. Imagine a bank that had a bitcoin checking account that is backed 100% by bitcoins but also offers 5 year bitcoin term deposits at a nice high interest rate. To make the illustration simpler, let's increase the early withdrawal fee to 50% of the deposited amount. The bank then lends out only 50% of the loan and pays interest based on the income that the bank is making on the loan/investment that they have made. So long as the bank is collecting its interest every month, that loan is backed 100% until just before the end of the 5 years. At the end of the 5 years, the bank has to collect their loan/investment and if they're able to do it, then they're still backed 100%. But if they can't, they either have to lie, tell the customer that they lost his money, or as would probably happen, get the money by taking out a long term loan from another customer/bank or by taking the money from their profits. I had this idea myself and it's pretty much the same solution in a different form. Yeah, the timing of blocks would be more consistent, but in the current implementation, the timing is consistent if you take the average time it takes to generate blocks over a long period of time. In the current implementation, it's easy to measure sudden increases and decreases in the swarm. In the suggested implementation, you could also calculate sudden increases and decreases in the swarm by the lowness of the hash, but it would be much less noticeable.If confirmations suddenly increase or decrease dramatically, it warns users that there is a rush of new users or the abandonment of a botnet, which may cause the exchange rate to fluctuate. In the current implementation, it's a race toward the lowest time with a set low hash, while in the suggested implementation, it would be a race toward the lowest hash with a set low time. The slow CPU would be just as likely to generate a block. It's competing in the same way, just with goals and limits reversed.Edited a few times. If you have a multi core processor, free up a core in the options. If you have hyper threading enabled, don't use more than half your cores. If you have a single core, you'll be just as well off purchasing or working for bitcoins because generating them will likely take a very long time. That's a fabulous service! Thank you so much! The estimation for my system is a little off, but it's accurate enough that it would be extremely useful if I was generating my first coins. FRONT PAGE!!! The more bitcoins you buy, the more expensive they get and the more bitcoins you sell, the less expensive they get, so if you tried to transfer a large amount of money within a short amount of time, you'd be buying your bitcoins expensively and selling them cheaply. In other words, it would be expensive. Experiment with small amounts of money at the Bitcoin Market and if you're in the EU, also try out the Bitcoin Exchange. The market style buying and selling is a bit confusing for the first few minutes, but once you figure it out, it's really very simple. You can see what kinds of offers are already on the table to determine how much you should transfer. And as you transfer money, you'll see how the market responds.
It would be very useful if Bitcoin could send bitcoins to a file which could then be received by whichever client accepted it first. The sending and receiving would be broadcast to other nodes, just like any other transaction. Ideally the number of bitcoins would be saved within the name of the file. Something like b250c13.btc for ฿250.13.It would also be nice if Bitcoin had a backup feature which would backup a user's wallet and/or his block chain into a single file, perhaps with the date included in the name of the backup. Ideally it would not be broadcast to other nodes. When it's imported, Bitcoin could ask whether it should overwrite the current wallet or merge with it.I've heard ideas like these before, most recently in an unrelated thread, but I thought they deserved their own thread.  Backing up a wallet and sending bitcoins to a wallet really would be very useful features. I went ahead and started a thread requesting these features since the topic of this thread is unrelated. I think it's a great idea. The program runs pretty rock solid. It's been a long time since I last heard of any serious stability problems. I really doubt anyone will call Bitcoin buggy, but there's really no harm if they do. If the influx causes a problem, it's better that we catch the resulting bugs now rather than later. I wouldn't be surprised if being slashdotted resulted in a few more quality programmers examining the code, so as far as I can tell, there are only benefits to increased publicity. Everybody vote it up and vote down its competition! Here's a link to the submission.Here's a link to a comment that lists many popular services which accept bitcoins. If you're isn't listed, please add it. I'm selling it for $20 worth of bitcoins while the Bitcoin Market is open. Starting Monday morning I'll be out of town for a few days.The card was purchased in the United States. I've had it for a while, but I verified that it is not expired just a couple days ago. The Apple representative said that it doesn't expire.Send me a private message and I'll send you an payment address. After I have sold the bitcoins on the Bitcoin Market, I'll email you the code.Edit: Yeah, it sold. Thanks! Oh yeah, I forgot about that thread. I think I read it back  before I tried a version with the hash per second output. I got my processor temperature sensor working. It's HOT!  I think bubbles and crashes will be less likely for the first years because as the price rises, people can generate new bitcoins and undercut other people's prices. But as the number of bitcoins per block decreases, it will be increasingly difficult to prevent bubbles and crashes unless a large investor tries to prevent them by limiting the amount of bitcoins he sells per day so that he always has enough bitcoins to undercut bitcoin speculators. I get optimal performance when hyper threading is turned on and Bitcoin is limited to half the available cores. I get the same number of hashes per second when hyper threading is turned off, but hyper threading should allow better resource sharing between processes. Enabling Bitcoin to use all the virtual cores degrades the performance by roughly 7-8% and causes Firefox to lock up intermittently for a few seconds at a time. Enabling 6 or 7 out of 8 of my cores offers in between performance, but does not cause Firefox to lock up.It seems that using 100% of half the virtual cores utilizes the full computing power of each core even though CPU performance graphs make it look like only half the computing power is being used. Using 100% of all the virtual cores also utilizes the full computing power of each core, but each virtual thread is then only utilizing on average 50% of the core and some performance is lost from the constant switching and balancing. Thanks for including the hash measurement in version 0.3. In version 0.2 I almost always used more than half of my virtual cores.P.S. My computer did not start up correctly when I restarted it and then disable hyper threading in the BIOS. I think it was because the computer needed to be powered down before making the change. I'm running Ubuntu AMD64 with an Intel Quad Core i7 at 2.8 GHz. That's great! Thanks db! +1 to Previous Post by gavinandresenBecause Bitcoin transactions are not forced through the regulated banking system, bitcoins can range from being not at all anonymous if I announce my transactions on twitter, to being completely anonymous so long as I purchase anonymously, obfuscate ownership by transferring to one or more intermediary addresses and then spend them anonymously. There's nothing wrong with adding that obfuscation optionally, but it's overkill to apply it to all transactions because not everyone needs that level of anonymity and no matter how anonymous you make it, it's never going to be anonymous to the folks who voluntarily reveal their identity. I'm looking to score me some bitcoins, so I'm offering to purchase legal goods and services on your behalf over the Internet. Shoot me an email stating what you'd like to purchase and I'll decide whether I'm comfortable purchasing it. You then send me the bitcoins plus 6% estimated sales tax. After the purchase is complete, one of us sends the other whatever change is left over.Store is Currently: ClosedCurrent Exchange Rate1 Bitcoin = $0.0051 US Dollar = ฿200.00Current Transaction Fee: ZeroEdit: Never mind. I thought of an easier way to score me some bitcoins. I might come back to the idea when I'm in a more ambitious mood, but probably not. *Strong I'll do it for 2000 bitcoins. The 1600 offer is pretty good. I'd take it.The FAQ mentions buying the game as a gift again. I read it as meaning a second copy. I recommend you, Xunie, open a new email account just for this purpose, give theymos access and then change the password afterward. Or they could buy them while they're inexpensive, artificially increase their value, causing people to invest, crash the market, causing lots of people to lose their money and then repeat. Although a concerted effort might be considered fraud. We should make submissions for every release. The 1.0 release is simply more likely to be accepted. Digg and Reddit are also good places to make submissions. You don't need permission to make a submission, but please post a link if you do, so that we can vote for it. Congrats to everyone who contributed to this great new release! Place a bid at the Bitcoin Market. The rate you're looking for is the current mid-market rate, so you'll probably have to wait a little while, but if you're patient, you'll no doubt get bitcoins at that rate before too long. I wouldn't worry about whether or not it's bulk. In my experience people rarely trade less than a thousand bitcoins at a time. National currencies are money. Bitcoins are not money. Bitcoins are digital property. Bitcoins are marketed as an electronic currency, but because their value is not tied to any national currency nor any physical commodity, it may or may not actually be an electronic currency. Buying and selling bitcoins is legal. Knowingly buying or selling bitcoins, or anything else for that matter, with or for illegally obtained money is laundering and is illegal. For more information about the Department of Justice's view on digital currencies in relation to money laundering, refer to this publicly available national threat assessment. Have a nice day! I think version 0.3 would be a better choice if Bitcoin wasn't making financial transactions on Windows. A significant number of people, particularly Windows users, don't trust software below version 1.1 or 1.2, but going from version 0.2 to 1.3 will backfire when those users find out we skipped the first three 1.x versions.
Quote SourceThe above description is how I and most geeks view version 1.0 software. Slashdot readers and editors will understand that 1.0 means that we're ready for business. Getting on Slashdot is the best advertising opportunity we'll probably get for a very long time, so to willfully pass it up seems unwise to me. My vote is for 1.0. It'll probably help us get slashdotted. Unfortunately I don't think I have a CPU temperature censor, or if I do, I can't manage to enable it, but I do have GPU as well as internal and external hard drive temperature censors. I wouldn't know where to begin and I'm not really interested in figuring out how to write a script that keeps the CPU at a good temperature by monitoring the temperature of the other devices and then changing how many cores are being used by Bitcoin. I haven't checked the BIOS yet. I suppose it could just be disabled, but I don't know why it would be. It would be nice if the next version of Bitcoin had the ability to monitor the temperature of computer components and automatically reduce the number of threads generating bitcoins whenever the temperature reaches dangerous levels. Or even just a scheduler to turn bitcoin generation off during the hot of the day would be great. I recently moved my computer into a closet of a spare bedroom that doesn't get air conditioning and I'm a little worried about the temperature. Perhaps I'll just turn off bitcoin generation until the weather starts to cool down. It looks good! The number of hashes per second intermittently disappears for a few seconds at a time. I think it might be triggered by clicking on the file menu multiple times. I'm using the Linux 64-bit build. The problem is with the default theme. You're screen shot is not the default theme. I didn't feel like editing images, so I just took a few partial screenshots.Edit: I just added a screenshot of the file menu in gcalctool as an example of how the menu should be displayed. I've got some stuff that I've been meaning to sell, but I've been procrastinating because I don't want to have to deal with shipping it. Your idea made me think that I could just sell the items using Craig's List or the local classifieds. I'll just include that I only accept bitcoins. Of course the payment is non-reversible, so I'll probably let them bring their laptop to my house and use my wireless connection to pay me.If you make a classifieds site, you should act as arbiter. The buyer sends you the bitcoins and when either the seller can prove that he sent the item or when the buyer confirms that he got the item, then you pass the bitcoins along to the seller. Of course if you don't want to act as arbiter, then you should set your site up for local transactions, like Craig's List. You can donate to the Bitcoin economy by buying bitcoins and selling them for less than you purchased them. This will increase confidence in the bitcoin economy by decreasing the buy/sell spread. The closer the buy and sell prices are to the mid price, the more willing people are to use a currency since they will feel like they're getting a good deal when they buy or sell bitcoins. The increased confidence will attract more merchants, consumers and developers. To prevent the person who sold you the bitcoins from buying them right back, you can sell them using a different currency.The Bitcoin Exchange accepts bank wire transfers with no fees within Europe and SMS payments.The Bitcoin Market accepts Pecunix DGC, Liberty Reserve USD, Moneybookers USD and PayPal USD. The multi-currency feature is still new, so right now it would be particularly useful if you were to buy bitcoins using another currency and then offer to buy and sell bitcoins for some amount of Liberty Reserve USD or Moneybookers USD.I only accept Pecunix DGC, but I offer discounts for volume trades. Although I'm not familiar with the specifics of the algorithm implementation in C++, I am familiar with how the verification works in general. Although the algorithm would have to be re-written, it really should be possible to verify blocks in both directions at the same time. Each block contains the hash of the previous block, but the first block contains a genesis hash, which isn't the hash of a previous block. The first time bitcoins starts, it would treat a recent hash, perhaps a one day old hash as a temporary genesis hash and quickly verify the roughly 144 blocks up to the most recent block and it would continue to verify and optionally generate new hashes. Another thread would grab a previous hash, perhaps a two day old hash and treat it as the new temporary genesis hash. It would quickly verify the roughly 144 blocks, and verify that the last hash matches the previous genesis hash. The second thread would continue verifying previous blocks until it reached the real genesis block, which I believe is defined within Bitcoin itself. As you can see, blocks are always being verified in forward direction, but the beginning point is just pushed back until it reaches the real beginning. There could even be a third thread which would start at the real genesis hash and verify blocks from there so that they meet in the middle. All three of those threads could be grouped into another thread which would be run for each different chain of blocks which it is told about from other Bitcoin peers. If more than one chain is verified as authentic, Bitcoin would calculate and compare the total amount of computing power required to create the chain and keep only the strongest chain. Off the top of my head, an easy way to calculate the strongest chain, would be to find the largest sum of the inverses of the numeric value of each hash. Most of the slowness results from the blocks needing to be verified one at a time in order, not from network delays. At least according to, if I'm not mistaken, satoshi, the Bitcoin author, in another thread. There has been some talk about a lightweight client, which doesn't verify all the blocks, but instead only broadcasts transactions. I'm not familiar with the algorithm, but if it's possible, I think it would be best to just alter the regular client so that when it starts up the first time, it grabs the most current block and verifies blocks in reverse order while also continuing to verify new blocks. That way Bitcoin could start generating blocks immediately. I'd be more than happy to sell you Pecunix for bitcoins at competitive rates. I don't have any Pecunix available at the moment, but if you check back once a day, it won't be long until I have some more available. Bitcoin looks ugly in Ubuntu's new default theme. It seems that some, but not all of the theme settings are being picked up. The unselected file menu should have light text with a dark background, but it incorrectly has light text with a light background. They're similar enough that it's unreadable on my display. It should be fixed before the next stable release. That pizza looks delicious! Adorable kid.  o_O Internally, bitcoins are bundled into packs of 50.00 or however many get sent over the network. Bitcoins usually have to be re-bundled each time they get sent. If a certain very large number of bitcoin bundles have to be re-bundled, there is a very small fee which the sender has to pay. The fee goes to the bitcoin client (yours in this case) which verifies the large re-bundling. It's not a well known behavior and I hope that future versions will display a warning or confirmation before such a fee is charged.There is a post somewhere with more specific details. I'll look for it for a few minutes and I'll edit this post if I happen to find it. As always, the source code, which is open source, will reveal the exact behavior. I haven't examined the code and my description of the behavior is based on my poor memory, so it might not be exactly correct.Edit: Here's the explanation I mentioned. It seems that if more than 500 bundles of bitcoins are re-bundled, there's roughly a 0.002% fee. So during that ten minute period, one or more people each re-bundled 500 bundles of bitcoins, totaling roughly 132,000 bitcoins.Since the sender pays the fee, I'd like to know what happens when a person sends all their bitcoins. I would expect that if there weren't enough bitcoins to cover the fee, then the amount of the fee which can not be paid would be subtracted from the payment. If this is not the case, then the fee could be avoided by sending all your coins to yourself before sending a large payment.This makes it sound like a payment wouldn't send successfully if there were insufficient funds for the fee. Yes, that is the expected behavior.Each of those blocks that you downloaded contains bitcoin transaction records spanning roughly ten minutes. All the Bitcoin clients which are generating bitcoins combine their computing power to securely authenticate outstanding transactions using linked time-stamps. The difficulty to generate a new time-stamp is adjusted every 2016 blocks, which is roughly two weeks, so that the combined computational power of the whole Bitcoin swarm will only be able to generate one time-stamp roughly every ten minutes. New bitcoins are awarded each time a time-stamp is generated to whichever computer generated the time-stamp. For the first 210,000 blocks or roughly 4 years, 50 bitcoins are awarded for each time-stamp. The number of bitcoins awarded for each subsequent 210,000 blocks is cut in half. I would estimate that your computer will probably generate at least one time-stamp everyday, but the rate will change every two weeks. Once you receive some bitcoins for generating a block, they'll immediately show up in the Bitcoin client, but you'll have to wait 120 blocks or roughly 20 hours before you can spend them. I prefer Pecunix because payments are non-refundable. I also respect Pecunix for their privacy policies, security practices and reputation for neutrality. The Bitcoin Market works great with PayPal, so nothing is really lost by my switch to Pecunix, but another payment option is gained for people who prefer Pecunix. But, what can you do with bitcoins??? You want jus dollars  I added the US Dollar exchange rate back to my website to make comparing it to the Bitcoin Market exchange rate more convenient.Edit: I just improved the formatting. It now also displays the USD/Pecunix and Pecunix/USD exchange rates.Edit: I changed one of my graphs and my buy and sell rates to match the Bitcoin Market.
Yes and no. I did switch from USD to Pecunix, but you don't have to convert anything to find the USD PayPal exchange rate. The exchange rate is displayed on the front page of the Bitcoin Market. On the historical graph, the dots display a single exchange rate traded in a market day and the vertical lines display a range of exchange rates traded in a market day. I just added a second line to my graphs showing the closing price of bitcoins at the Bitcoin Market. Is that referring to sending bitcoins by IP address rather than by bitcoin address?-----Full Member! Woot Woot!  Downloading the blocks as a single file would only take a few minutes but Bitcoin doesn't download the blocks as a single file. Try comparing the time it takes to copy a 50 GB file from one hard drive to another versus copying 50 GB of 1 KB files from one hard drive to another. The 50 GB of 1 KB files will take an eternity to copy. Try to do the same test over the Internet and the 50 GB of 1 KB files will take infinite eternities to finish. I believe Bitcoin already has a few small optimizations for how it downloads blocks but there is still a lot of room for improvement. On the bright side, Bitcoin only has to download old blocks once, after which it stays continuously up to date. The blocks are currently about 34 MB. I'm sure future versions will improve the download process. Including them with the installation would not be correct way of speeding up the initial download. But a trusted source could certainly host the majority of the blocks as a separate download. That would definitely speed up the process, although I think that Bitcoin double checks each block that it downloads and it probably wouldn't double check each block if you just added the file to the bitcoin user folder. I have a suspicion that it might be possible for Bitcoin's network connectivity to get into a bad state. When it was in this state, I think that it stopped accepting incoming connections. My active connections hovered under 15 connections and although my blocks did update, I was generating almost zero blocks whereas I had been generating a fair amount beforehand. Restarting Bitcoin seemed to fix the problem. Of course it might have been the fault of my operating system, my router, my ISP or my imagination. This problem, whether real or imagined, happens very infrequently as far as I can tell. Bitcoin chugs along very nicely most of the time.On IRC, solar mentioned the possibility that Bitcoin might on occasion get into a state where each thread does many fewer calculations than usual.It's all just speculation, but if you have the feeling that Bitcoin isn't working quite right, I suppose it can't hurt to restart your client. ;-) You're welcome to send test payments to me at 1Dnvwj3hAGSwFPMnkJZvi3KnaqksRPa74p . I'll announce any payments to that address by editing this post for the next couple days, but I won't offer refunds since the sender can't be reliably verified when a bitcoin address is public. You'll also find more test and donation addresses scattered about the forum. There's a thread for posting static IP addresses which can, whenever a client at a particular IP address is up and running, accept payments and bootstrap your client in case the IRC bootstrap fails. Does anybody happen to know how transactions sent and received to and from IP address show up in the client? Does it show the other person's IP address in both cases?-----I received the following four payments, which just happen to total how much I gifted you. Hey, thanks! I censored the hour to preserve the anonymity of my super top secret time zone. :-P But they all arrived in the same hour.When total blocks equaled 52727,94 blocks 04/23/2010 XX:50 39.0094 blocks 04/23/2010 XX:50 9.9995 blocks 04/23/2010 XX:32 0.0195 blocks 04/23/2010 XX:32 1.00 I have a slightly slower computer which generated five blocks between the 10th and the 16th of April, but it hasn't generated any blocks since then. Your problem is most likely just the increased difficulty of generating blocks and or bad luck. If you leave it running for long enough, statistically it will eventually generate a block. But the electricity may not be worth it to you. You're experiencing what people with faster computers will experience once the number of computers generating bitcoins doubles a few more times over. Anyway, if you don't think it's worth generating bitcoins on that computer, perhaps there's something, perhaps a service which you could offer in exchange for bitcoins. Bitcoin lingo for "Would you like a present?" Haha!  All outstanding transactions are verified/cleared each time a block is generated. On average, a block is generated roughly every ten minutes. Transactions are small enough that even if Bitcoin becomes as popular as PayPal, the amount of space required will remain reasonable and the rate of increased space required will be less than the rate that average hard drive size increases. I didn't mean to catch you off guard; I was just excited to discover how your innovative exchange service works.  I don't really have a problem with your exchange rate, but I'd feel bad for anyone who might make a purchase which they wouldn't have otherwise made if they had been more familiar with how your exchange works. Perhaps you could also dynamically display the spread percentage. I think it's good that your rate adapts to supply and demand, but I think it would be better if the spread percentage was high with low volume and low with higher volume. Of course that may be difficult to do when the exchange rate changes dynamically. Perhaps i just need to refresh my math skills. If I'm missing something fundamental about how your exchange rate works, please fill me in when you've got some spare time. Oh, I forgot about that. It is live, but perhaps not fully public yet. He mentioned the password in a previous post.Here's another view of the same graph with rounder numbers along the x-axis. This picture paints a more accurate picture of his exchange rate. You'll notice that the spread (the difference between the red and green line) is quite reasonable until either bitcoins or euros are scarce, at which point it adjusts quickly. The spread gets quite large when you go much higher than about 2 Euro. I'm suddenly liking his exchange rate calculation a lot less. Buyer beware! It's not my exchange service. It's sirius-m's exchange service. No, you can't get ฿600-฿650 for one Euro. The graph starts at ฿6.29, so if you buy ฿6.29 for 0.01 Euro, your exchange rate is ฿629 per Euro. However, the site is live and you can get ฿551.12 for one Euro. I had a look around at BitcoinExchange.com today and I like it a lot. The exchange rate calculation is not yet posted on the website, so I graphed a few data points. I thought it might interest ya'll. There were ฿51549.58 and $800 available when I scraped this data. I would imagine that the points probably shift in various directions, with the graph retaining its basic shape, as the available balances change. The more options, the better! Please do run an exchange service. I wish you the best of luck. Unwanted electronics are wonderful things to sell for bitcoins because it injects value into the economy without costing the person selling the item a noticable amount. I have some surround sound speakers which I plan on selling for bitcoins at some point. Thanks for thinking critically about my exchange rate calculation. When I first started my exchange service in 2009, I didn't add the cost of Internet access to my exchange rate calculation. There is certainly nothing wrong with going that route and I encourage you to run an exchange service however you feel is best. There were many reasons I decided to start using the price of Internet. One of the biggest reasons that I decided to change my exchange rate calculation was that as the first exchange service, I had to decide whether there would be plenty of dollars and too few bitcoins or plenty of bitcoins and too few dollars and I decided it was better to have plenty of bitcoins available for people to spend and then let everyone fight for the dollars which I inject everyday. Another reason was to promote growth and becase the people using Bitcoin don't have sever farms. Also I had unreliable Internet for a short time which was very detrimental to my Bitcoin production and that made an impression on me of the impotance of quality bandwidtdth which many people don't take for granted. I decided that hyper-threading is better even if it were a bit slower because I want to keep one thread unused by Bitcoin and leaving a hyper-threaded half core unused by Bitcoin is better than leaving a whole core unused by Bitcoin. So scratch that request for a benchmark utility. There are other more important features to work on for now. In my first post I mentioned that if people ran their own exchanges and injected an inconsequential amount of dollars into the bitcoin currency, it would create more confidence in and stabilize the bitcoin currency. Another, even easier way to contribute to bitcoin confidence is to occasionally purchase a small amount of bitcoins from me when you see that my available amount of dollars is low. If lots of people would purchase $0.50 worth of bitcoins once or twice a week when my available balance is under $10, then there would be more confidence for people who accept bitcoins for goods or services that they will be able to exchange their bitcoins for local currency. If you just want to make a few cents off your bitcoins, I will continue to inject dollars when my available balance is below $1.00, but if you want bitcoin to be a successful currency, occasionally spend some pocket change on bitcoins when you see there is a need. There is an API available if you build Bitcoin from source. It will be included in the next stable release of Bitcoin.The bitcoins you generate are not generated with your bitcoin address to which people can send you bitcoins. Each pack of 50 bicoins is generated with a random address. People can see the random public key with which new bitcoins were generated, but no one but the owner knows who generated that public key. Public transactions are similar. If someone sends bitcoins, the amount of bitcoins and the public key are visible to everyone, but no one knows who the receiver is unless he reveals himself. Bitcoins can be traced to what addresses they're being sent, but there's no way of knowing who they're being sent to. The only way I can imagine tracing bitcoins, is if I sent bitcoins to a person who revealed their identity to me and then get that person to use those same bitcoins with me, possibly under a different alias or as a sting asking for him to send them for an illegal purpose or if he had changed his alias, but I somehow suspected it was the original person, then when I received those bitcoins directly back, I would know they had been from the verified person to whom I originally sent the coins. But if he sent those coins to any intermediary address in the mean time, there's no way to know to whom they were sent. And there's no very practical way to control which bitcoins the original receiver sends other than having him send all bitcoins in return. So in short, although bitcoins can be traced back to each public key they were sent to, they can not other than in one extremely contrived scenario be traced back to the owner or even the IP address of the owners.There are only a few references to transaction fees, my guess is one or two threads. And in the thread where satoshi discusses it, he outlines pretty specifically what has to occur to generate the very small transaction fee. Each time you generate or receive bitcoins, they are bundled together. To generate the small fee, a certain large amount (which large amount satoshi specifies in the thread) of those bundles have to be re-bundled and Bitcoin tries to use as few bundles as possible. There is currently no way to see the bundles in the GUI besides manually keeping track of transactions which would be somewhat of guesswork because the exact algorithm Bitcoin uses to pick which bundles get re-bundled is unknown without looking at the code. I think in the thread I mentioned, how much the fee is and how it is calculated is answered quite thoroughly, but I think it's perfectly reasonable to request that a feature be added to Bitcoin to display the fee before bitcoins are sent.Disclaimer: I'm not a developer, but I am familiar with the project. A few of my answers might be slightly inaccurate, but generally speaking, I think they're correct. I didn't site my sources, because I don't feel like searching through posts, but most everything I know about Bitcoin comes from this forum, the Bitcoin FAQ and the Bitcoin design paper which can be downloaded from the Bitcoin project on SourceForge.
I'm testing a four core computer with hyper-threading and after one day of testing, which admittedly is an extremely small amount, it has only produced twice as many bitcoins as the slightly slower GHz dual core computer. When generating new blocks takes so long, it's hard to calculate performance. It would be useful if there was a stand alone utility or perhaps a utility built into Bitcoin which would state how many bitcoin generation attempts are being performed per minute. Then people would be able to change settings on their computer and after just a few minutes, verify how much of an affect those changes have. For example, I would like to see how much of a difference having hyper-threading turned on or off has on the amount of Bitcoin generation attempts occurring. I would also like to see how many more calculations per minute one computer has as opposed to the other. For those of you with the appropriate technical know how, you could probably make a very successful Usenet business by focusing on accepting bitcoins. People like to use Usenet, but they don't like to link their finances to their Usenet activity. Usenet providers sell customized Usenet solutions to businesses who want to provide Usenet to their customers without having to get into the complex business of Usenet administration. $50 is somewhat of a high starting bid considering there is over ฿22,000 available for not much more per bitcoin than your starting bid. Not to mention that realistically there's probably a lot more than ฿22,000 available because if somebody bought a bunch of those bitcoins, I'm sure some people would step forward to sell more bitcoins. Anyway, I'll bite for sake of the experiment. I bid $25. How about you change the minimum bid to $30 and tell us a maximum time between bids. Perhaps three days? There are two benefits to creating high demand for bitcoins. The first and obvious benefit is that you'll end up with a wealth of bitcoins. The second and more subtle benefit is that as demand outstrips supply, people will exchange local currency for bitcoins which will allow you to more easily exchange your bitcoins for local currency. I'm not sure the ACLU would go for bitcoin. Yes, it offers more privacy, but it does so at the cost of consumer protections, which from a financial perspective are very important. I think it's good to have both types of currencies available, but I have a hunch that the lack of consumer protections would prevent it from being promoted by the ACLU. Although, I could be wrong. As the amount of Bitcoins awarded per block decreases, the motivation to verify transactions decreases. Once there are zero or close to zero bitcoins awarded per block, there is a very small chance that no one will verify transactions. However, it is in the best interest of every person sending bitcoins to have their transaction cleared in a timely manner. This secondary motivation could solve the problem of the possibility of no one verifying transactions. Clients could temporarily enable 'Generate Coins' whenever bitcoins are sent, and if 'Generate Coins' had previously been turned off, automatically turn it back off after the bitcoins have been cleared. It would also be alright if Bitcoin only used a low percentage of one thread at a low priority during this scenario. This would ensure that transactions would continue to be cleared on average every ten minutes even after bitcoins stop being awarded for verifying a block. PayPalFree and easy to open an account.Very inexpensive to deposit, transfer and withdraw money.Easily accessible by people all around the world.PayPal is known to frequently freeze funds for long periods of time.Reveals first and last name.Transactions can be contested fairly easily.Bank WireMost well established electronic money transfer method.Fees are prohibitively expensive for small transactions.Bank can request to reverse transaction, but it's very rare.I presume first and last name don't need to be revealed.Some personal account information must be revealed.Bank Wire through MutoNovoFee in addition to wire fee.Do not need to reveal personal account information to send or receive wire.Western UnionMany locations worldwide.Neither party needs a bank account.Fees are fairly expensive.Weak identity verification.Pecunix Digital Gold CurrencyTransaction fee is small.Transactions are fairly anonymous.Currency must be purchased and sold through a third party, presumably with expensive fees.Postal MailLots of domestic mailing options available within USA.Mailing of currency generally discouraged.Various types of checks can only be cashed in certain countries.Cash can be lost or stolen.Value of some kinds of checks can be lost or stolen.Value of other kinds of checks do not get withdrawn until named recipient cashes check.Although extremely unlikely and highly punishable, postal mail can be used as a delivery method for harmful biological agents.PayPal works best for me because it's inexpensive and easy. If I was planning on expanding and making a profit from my exchange service, I would probably get an account at a big bank and offer as many payment options as possible. I believe DannyM is referring to the point when Bitcoin, like the Internet, is unstoppable. Local Exchange Trading Systems (LETS) also known as LETSystems are local, non-profit exchange networks in which goods and services can be traded without the need for printed currency. In some places, e.g. Toronto, the scheme has been called the Local Employment and Trading System.Michael Linton originated the term "Local Exchange Trading System" in 1983 and, for a time ran the Comox Valley LETSystems in Courtenay, British Columbia. The system he designed was intended as an adjunct to the national currency, rather than a replacement for it, although there are examples of individuals who have managed to replace their use of national currency through inventive usage of LETS.[citation needed]LETS networks use interest-free local credit so direct swaps do not need to be made. For instance, a member may earn credit by doing childcare for one person and spend it later on carpentry with another person in the same network. In LETS, unlike other local currencies, no scrip is issued, but rather transactions are recorded in a central location open to all members. As credit is issued by the network members, for the benefit of the members themselves, LETS are considered mutual credit systems. The time-based currency mentioned in United Nations Millennium Declaration C6 to Governments was a UNILETS United Nations International & Local Employment-Trading System to restructure the global financial architecture. A two dimensional table is useful for displaying multiple exchange rates as well as inverse exchange rates.Here's an example.http://www.fxstreet.com/rates-charts/exchange-rates/It makes the math simpler if you show the exchange rate per 1 bitcoin, not 50. Just be sure to include a certain amount of significant digits. I realize that my suggestion is contrary to my own exchange rate, but if I was displaying a table of exchange rates like I describe above, I would base the table on the value of a single bitcoin. There is nothing that ties a bitcoin address to your identity other than that you can unlock bitcoins sent to it. You can use a separate address for each transaction, each person who might send you bitcoins or you can use the same address for all your transactions. I suggest Bitcoin optionally be able to include a Bitcoin return address when sending a payment. Right now if someone sends me too many bitcoins I can't send them change without asking for a return address over email which slows down the transaction considerably. If they could include a return address, then I could immediately send them their change. Of course it should still be possible to not include a return address for when people do not want the option of change or a refund. If a person wanted to donate their pocket change to a charity, they could set their return address to that of a charity and round their payments up to the next whole bitcoin.On the downside people could abuse the feature by including a text message within a fake Bitcoin address. Then everyone's hard drives might become more filled if people were using transactions as instant messages. But I doubt people would use Bitcoin as an instant messenger since messages take ten minutes to send and would be public to whoever was so bored (and technically capable) as to read the bitcoin addresses being sent. Bitcoin could be made to only allow addresses to which Bitcoin has the private key, but that would disable the donate your pocket change option I mentioned. And of course the client could be modified to not require the private key of the return address.Some of these disadvantages actually already exist in Bitcoin. If someone wanted to hide a message to the public, they could send ฿0.01 to a fake bitcoin address which includes their message. And if someone wanted to fill up other people's hard drives, they could write a script to repeatedly send bitcoins back and forth between two clients. Hmm, I think it would be advisable to come up with a solution to that second weakness of Bitcoin regardless of whether return addresses are implemented.I think that the advantages of this feature would outweigh the possible disadvantages. What do you think? PayPal has 184 million accounts after 10 years. Bitcoins can be spent on dollars right now. There are physical limits to how much latency can be improved. It will always take multiple milliseconds to send information around the world. Bitcoin is a working example of you being wrong today and it will continue to be a working example of you continuing to be wrong tomorrow. Supply and demand will always have a much greater influence on the value of bitcoins than production costs. And factors apparently beyond your comprehension, outside of your little economic model, will continue now and forever to affect the supply and demand of bitcoins.LOOK AT MY EXCHANGE!!! According to your oh so smart evaluation, my available dollars should be zero. Are they? ARE THEY? 30 Days in a Month * 24 Hours in a Day * 60 Minutes in an Hour * 60 Seconds in a Minute = 2,592,000 SecondsIn a few years there are 1,000,000 users with the average computer having two 16 core processors with hyper threading.1,000,000 * 2 * 16 * 2 = 64,000,000 ThreadsThe current 30 day estimation is based on a dual core processor, so 64,000,000 / 2 = 32,000,000 blocs per month.2,592,000 / 32,000,000 = On average, each block needs to be spread among 1,000,000 peers every 0.081 seconds.Now imagine even more users and thousands of cores per processor.FAIL! The value of a bitcoin is not based on the cost to produce a bitcoin but rather on whatever people are willing to pay for it. If it costs $3.00 to produce some number of bitcoins but no one is willing to buy them, then although their intrinsic value is $3.00, their actual value is not $3.00. If you buy a car for $20,000, then at that moment when you purchase it, it is worth $20,000 but its value drops as soon as you drive it off the lot unless you can convince someone to pay more than $20,000 for it. Bitcoins are only worth as much as you can sell them for. Right at this moment ฿23,789.91 is worth $138.41 because that is how much I will pay for that many bitcoins. But ฿47,579.82 is not worth $276.82 unless someone buys more bitcoins from me. My exchange rate is the accurate value of bitcoins within the limits of my available balances. Your understanding of how people behave is severely lacking. Not everyone operates under the same motives as you. Even given equal information and equal understanding, not everyone operates with the same motives as you. And you come off as arrogant and ignorant when you make black and white statements about how people will behave. People are buying and selling bitcoins. At certain points in the future people may buy more frequently than they sell and at other times people may sell more than they buy and the value of bitcoins will adjust. There is nothing wrong with selling your bitcoins at a profit. The people who are buying the bitcoins at above production costs are adults, capable of making their own financial decisions. I am completely transparent in how my exchange rate works. No one is conning anyone else out of their money. All the facts are available to everyone, not to mention also the source code to Bitcoin itself. Your economic model is fine. But not adjusting the difficulty of block verification leads to problems of scale. Having all transaction clear once a month is unusable and unacceptable for a currency and if it did happen to become a huge hit, clearing blocks very much faster than once every 10 minutes does not work. The whole system would get stuck. Not to mention, what can be done in a month right now, will be able to be done in a much shorter amount of time in the future as computers become capable of running more processing threads concurrently.Bitcoin is great because it works well on a small scale and a large scale and the value can adjust dynamically. While there is demand, the value goes up and while there is not demand the value goes down. A currency tied tightly to the cheapest price of electricity AND with all the other benefits of Bitcoin would work fine, but such a currency has not yet been invented and your suggestions on how to invent such a currency would not work from a practical perspective. The ability to transfer stored value is extremely valuable in and of itself. Bitcoin can be used by anyone and everyone who has an operable x86 computer and Internet access. The same can not be said for any other currency of which I am aware. Creative children could go into business for themselves. They can raise capital just by running Bitcoin on their computer. They can exchange their bitcoins for a local currency by exchanging with someone who has a PayPal account. They can accept payments from anyone around the world and ship their crafts around the world using the postal system. I can just imagine a child trying to get a $5.00 business loan from their local bank. Hahaha! Your proposed changes to bitcoin WILL NOT WORK with the current implementation of Bitcoin. Absolutely everything about the program would have to be completely and fundamentally redesigned from the ground up in order to implement your suggestions. That is why I don't take your suggestions very seriously. Although I think that such a currency is probably possible, your current suggestions on how to implement it WILL NOT WORK. The post I made a moment ago in another thread is also in reply to the previous post in this thread.
The problem with keeping the price at production cost is that there is not enough supply to meet demand. If the price of bitcoins is at the bare minimum and everyone tries to buy $100 worth of bitcoins, there will not be enough bitcoins in existence for everyone to get as many as they want. But if the price fluctuates based on demand, then the price will rise until everyone can get as many dollars worth of bitcoins as they want. In fact if someone wants a trillion dollars worth of bitcoins and had nearly a trillion dollars, then they could do it. All they would have to do is buy all the available bitcoins everyday, which would cause the value to rise until how many they have is worth a trillion dollars. If everyone only wants $0.01 worth of dollars and no more, then as everyone sells their excess bitcoins, the value of bitcoins falls until how many they have is worth $0.01. There is always the risk that everyone will try to sell their bitcoins, thus devaluing your bitcoins, but that's just how the system works and the rest of us bitcoin users are fine with that risk. All currencies, stocks and commodities work the same way although with differing levels of risk and growth. If you just want the most stable currency available, invest equally in the Swiss franc (CHF), the Singapore dollar (SGD), the New Zealand dollar (NZD) and the U.S. dollar (USD). Perhaps you can create a currency which is backed 100% by those four currencies and automatically exchange the ratio of balances within the reserve as the value of the currencies change so as to maintain an equal value of each currency at all times. Good luck with that. :-P Because they want them?Edit: Some more specific answers. My exchange rate is now influenced by supply and demand in addition to production costs. Bitcoin value will rise and fall in relation to their availability.  Except that people want bitcoins... Here's the legal definition of currency, 31 C.F.R. § 103.11(h) and the legal definition of a currency dealer or exchanger, 31 C.F.R. § 103.11(uu)(1) (both links take you slightly above the definitions). My lawyer friend indicated that that my service seems legal, but that's absolutely not legal advice for you folks. I'm running my little service as honestly and as legally as I know how, so until I find out that I'm doing something wrong, I'm not going to stop. Community currencies are not illegal. Buying, selling or trading legal goods anonymously is not illegal so long as profits are reported accurately. It's the job of the IRS to find those people who are not reporting profits accurately. So long as a person does proper accounting and honestly answers the questions in their tax preparation software, there's not much to worry about. In fact the tax software I use includes an optional tax help insurance in case of an audit. If a person has tax information which he thinks would set off a red flag or if he is unsure whether he filled everything out accurately he can just pay a few extra dollars and be assured that if he is audited, he'll have help straightening it out. The main difference is that in 2009 I was only including the price of electricity in my production costs whereas in 2010 I started using the price of electricity plus the price of Internet. My exchange rate page outlines how I calculate the value of bitcoins. Thanks for the reply. I agree that running an exchange does seem dangerous. I have started extremely small and limited my service so that if I am doing something wrong it will hopefully be so minor that I won't be prosecuted and so that if I am convicted of something the fines will be small enough to hopefully not bankrupt me.I've looked at that E-gold article before but this time I read it, I thought to look up some terms mentioned in it which turned up some interesting regulations concerning registration of money transmitting businesses and prohibition of unlicensed money transmitting businesses. I don't know whether my tiny service qualifies as an unlicensed money transmitting business, but if it does, I'll stop until I can get it registered. Although if there's a large non-refundable application fee, I'll have to re-evaluate whether it's worth the cost since I'm currently not trying to earn a profit. That would be great to adjust the rate on a curve like that. Tonight I thought of a way for my available balances to affect my exchange rate average over time, but my calculation would only be based on my end of day balances. But I'm probably not going to implement my idea any time soon. Your pricing calculation should only take into account your available balances after the transactions have been finalized.I think the second option is better, but if you use the first option, you have to make it clear whether they're getting the rate when the order is placed or when the funds are received. And if it's at the rate when the funds are received, I'd recommend you emphasize that the amount is an estimation until the transaction is complete and also reserve additional funds to take into account the currency's exchange rate changing.Another service which I think would be useful which might be what the other person who is creating a market has in mind, is to let users buy and sell from each other, with the site administrator working as a trusted broker. Sure, people can buy and sell directly from each other, but they may trust an established service more than a stranger. After two strangers agree on a price, they send funds to the broker who waits to receive funds from both users before completing the transaction. This would help people getting scammed by people taking advantage of the non-refundable attribute of bitcoins. Does anyone happen to know what kinds of regulations are in place for people who buy and sell unofficial digital currencies such as Bitcoin? I'm particularly interested in United States regulations, but please mention any regulations of which you are aware.Registering a business or non-profit organization gives the advantage of being able to do transactions in the name of the business and forming a corporation limits liability. But it seems like it would be more trouble than it's worth to incorporate or register a business until the profits are large enough to hire employees.I noticed that in the United States, financial institutions are required to submit a currency transaction report for all transactions over $10,000 and a suspicious activity report for suspicious transactions. I don't think a private citizen would be required to submit either type of report. In any case, so long as the official currency part of the transaction is passing through a registered financial institution, the institution would already be submitting those reports for such transactions.I have read about money laundering and it seems that so long as a person is not knowingly laundering money, then the person is not committing the crime.Profits would need to be tracked for tax purposes but that can be accomplished easily enough using accounting software such as GnuCash.Am I missing anything? Are there any regulations prohibiting me from sending money to and receiving money from random strangers who may be criminals unbeknownst to me? The client stops making outgoing connections once it has 15 connections but if your port is open it continues accepting incoming connections from other clients which haven't yet connected to 15 clients. If the port isn't open, it can't accept incoming connections so it will never connect to more than 15 clients. I think that fiat currencies also have pros and cons. On the one hand, the few who have disproportionate control over the currencies can manipulate them to encourage economic growth and prevent disaster, but on the other hand, those same people can manipulate the currencies to benefit themselves.I think it will be good to have both fiat currencies and currencies without a central authority. If people were invested in both types of currencies and if both types of currencies were usable on a daily basis, then if either currency completely failed, people would still have something available to fall back on.Ensayia, as far as I can tell, there is nothing illegal about Bitcoin itself. There are however, in the United States at least, record keeping regulations when large amounts of money are being transfered. I don't know whether that would apply to unofficial currencies since there's no official value per bitcoin, but if those laws do apply, a person would just be bound by the same requirements to keep records of large transactions. If the government outlawed Bitcoin altogether, people would just make it even more anonymous. Which of the pros and cons of anonymous digital cash do you think are most important?For me, the most important argument for anonymous digital cash is that it allows citizens living within a non-representative government to withdraw support for their government by evading taxation.I think that the most important argument against anonymous digital cash is that it allows powerful criminals to hide their criminal activity.I'm not sure whether the advantage or the disadvantage is more important. I think that no bitcoins generated in 8 hours from within a VM utilizing two modern cores is probably not unusual. Keep it running for a few days and I expect that you'll generate more than a few packs of bitcoins. It may take longer than 8 hours to generate a block.Have you previously generated bitcoins? Are the number of blocks listed at the bottom of Bitcoin greater than 42650? Those need to download before it can start generating coins. How many connections are listed at the bottom of Bitcoin? Did you click Options > Generate Coins? How much CPU does your process viewer show that Bitcoin is using? Is your Internet connection steady? I had problems when I tried sharing Internet from my smartphone to my computer. The two images in the previous post don't display inline for me when I have Adblock Plus enabled in Firefox. Here are the links to them for anyone else with Adblock Plus enabled.http://dl.dropbox.com/u/3713769/web/Bitcoin/banner_bc1_468x60.pnghttp://dl.dropbox.com/u/3713769/web/Bitcoin/banner_bc2_468x60.png I'm actually not in a hurry to implement Democracy Dollars. I might look into it further at the end of this year or the beginning of next year. Perhaps I can come up with an even more fantastic name before then.  But what do you do when there are hundreds of thousands of nodes generating coins? You would have many people generating blocks every second which breaks the current implementation. The problem is that blocks are also the equivalent of checks clearing. They are how financial transactions are verified and propagated. If you set the difficulty very high from the beginning, it would take days or weeks to send money until it became more popular.
Yes, I want the rate to average out at 144 blocks per day forever. I like that rate because I understand and trust satoshi's judgment on that aspect of how Bitcoin works. The Democracy Dollar client requires only a few minor changes to the Bitcoin code. Your currency would have to work very differently from a technical perspective. I'm certain that a P2P digital crypto-currency with the economic model you envision is possible, but it would require a competent programmer to redesign how it works. Electric Bitcoins is a good name.  I didn't forget. I was only pointing out the differences. Democracy Dollar blocks would be generated at the same rate as Bitcoin blocks, on average once every ten minutes. You could call yours DC Dollars, short for Direct Current Dollars since you are trying to tie yours more closely with to the price of electricity and computers use DC electricity. More like a currency cousin. http://newlibertystandard.wetpaint.com/page/Exchange+Rate Democracy Dollars is now the name for my theoretical currency which is based on Bitcoin but with a few modifications. $1.00 DMD would be awarded per generated block instead of ฿50.00 BTC. The amount of dollars awarded for generating a block would not decrease every 4 years like with Bitcoin. Two decimal places would still be displayed because dollars usually have two decimal places. Ideally users would have the option to display and use hidden decimal places. The client would be called Citizen Bank. My exchange rate will not always rise without ever falling. The only reason why it is rising steadily right now is because I calculate it using a large average to reduce volatility. If I used a smaller average, you would regularly see much higher highs and very frequent lows.Neither the current model nor my model will continue to deflate forever. Once generating bitcoins becomes exceedingly difficult, most people will not try to generate bitcoins.I know that my model is similar to the current model. What I don't like about the current model is that people generating bitcoins at any given time can generate twice as many as others after four years. That is what I want fixed.It's Suggester's model that strives for price stability from the beginning. I don't consider steady predictable low inflation an issue that needs solving. The rate of inflation would be decreasing constantly because the amount of bitcoins being added to the system would be constant whereas the amount of bitcoins within the system would be increasing constantly. An increase of 100 when the total is 100 doubles the amount of available bitcoins, but an increase of 100 when the total is a million is a very small percentage increase.Just like the current implementation, they would have the base value of the cost of production plus any additional value which people give and demand. The only difference is that my alternative bitcoins are like renewable resources. There is not an infinite amount available today, but we can always generate more tomorrow.Would you rephrase the question? I doubt any of us will convince the others of their views. Agreeing to disagree is boring, so I think the best solution is to turn it into a competition. Lets create two alternatives and let the three battle it out.  But what would we call the alternatives? I think that my alternative would be pretty easy to implement by making some small adjustments to the Bitcoin code. But I'm not sure how Suggester's idea would work from a technical perspective because generating a larger number of blocks per hour makes it harder to propagate those blocks across the swarm. If the rate at which blocks are generated is on average constant and the amount of bitcoins awarded for generating a block is constant then bitcoin availability is not really infinite. Sure, infinitely in the future there are infinite bitcoins, but if you pick any point in the future, you know exactly how many bitcoins are available. On the other hand if the amount of bitcoins awarded for generating a block is variable, then the botnet operator becomes the bitcoin reserve. Likewise, if a botnet decides to work hard on Bitcoin under the current model for 32 years, he is then and forever the reserve. I don't like the current model or Suggester's model because it allows for the currency to be horded by the few. It gives advantage to whoever has access to more processing power than everyone else. I like my model because it gives as much of an advantage to the people as is possible. Sure the the person with lots of computing power can edge everyone else out, but only so long as he keeps working on it forever. The moment he stops, or whenever people collectively offer more computing power, the advantage doesn't completely balance out, but it becomes less skewed. The person who I think has the most to gain under the current model is satoshi because he knew about bitcoin before anyone else and probably has a nice fat collection of bitcoins. Although I probably have less than him, I have a lot more bitcoins than people who are going to join later than me, so the current model also benefits me. If I was a fan of a pure free market, that would be fantastic for me. Unfortunately I lean towards populism. I think everyone is better off, including myself, when advantages are spread out as equally as possible. That isn't to say that everyone will be forced to be equal. Some of course will be richer and others poorer, but I think that it's in the benefit of everyone, including the rich when the gap between the rich and the workers is under control.Although I lean toward populism, I'm not really a pure populist either. I sort of dislike big business but I respect them because they often do what they do very well. Sort of like majestic lions, tigers and bears, oh my! I just like it when there is a balance in the fight between ruthless business and ruthless democratic government. Thanks for the explanation. I think it all makes sense.Are generated bitcoins encrypted with whichever address is currently displayed in the main Bitcoin window? I may have mentioned this in an email message quite a while ago, but it would be cool for some very future version to allow people to see which of their bitcoins are encrypted with which of their addresses. Sorry for getting carried away Suggester. I get frustrated when I encounter someone as stubborn as myself.  I again changed my mind for my preferred way for some Bitcoin variant to work. I don't like the idea I had of increasing at the rate of worldwide human population growth because it creates ugly fractions. I like my original idea but in addition to it, I think it would be nice if by default the program wouldn't show a decimal, but allow people to optionally view and send currency with as many decimal places as they want. Are you referring to the private key which is generated the first time a person runs Bitcoin? If someone were to successfully duplicate someone else's key then after they downloaded all the blocks, they would have the same balance as the person with the original key. That's what you're saying, right?I was referring to the custom Bitcoin addresses which you can label with the name of the person who is going to send you bitcoins so that you know from whom the payment came. I think these addresses are generated from the private key mentioned previously. I'm wondering about collisions because although they are very unique, they are easily generated over and over again by all by all bitcoin clients. Although extremely unlikely, what would happen if two Bitcoin clients generated the same Bitcoin address? Would payments be delivered to whichever client encountered the payment first? If there is a mechanism in place to prevent such collisions, please explain it. No problem here. Other clients just happened to generate those blocks before you. My understanding is that every Bitcoin client has the same algorithm (formula) built into it to automatically adjust the difficulty every so many blocks. Not only that, but I think that Bitcoin will not accept blocks generated at a different difficulty, so if a modified Bitcoin client tried to send out more easily generated blocks, all the authentic clients would reject the fake blocks. Ethical reasons? I'm running an EXCHANGE service! I expect people to "exploit" me. There is absolutely nothing ethically wrong with buying low and selling high. How about you "exploit" me right after midnight GMT by sending me $0.50. Feel free to again "exploit" me the next week by selling those bitcoins you received back for more than $0.50. Better yet, "exploit" me right now!!! Please, please, send me as many bitcoins as I have dollars to buy! If you think the system is so doomed, why haven't you sold all your bitcoins? Do I detect a hint of confidence?Already taken into account! I assure you I will have both bitcoins and dollars to inject indefinitely. The day I post ฿0.00 in a black font under available bitcoins, you're more than welcome to come rub it in my face. But until that day, you're freshly wrong everyday at midnight GMT until the day you die.Unless the person states that they are pulling out which none of them did, it's not liquidation, it's plain ol' buying and selling. I don't know why they SOLD their bitcoins to BUY dollars because they didn't tell me and in any case I wouldn't tell you if they had told me. But as the date was just before Valentine's Day, perhaps he or she wanted to buy a gift for his or her sweetheart. That's certainly more valuable than an improved rate a week later! Wrong! Go look at my exchange rate history. See where the available bitcoins spikes up while the available dollars drops down? That is people SPENDING their bitcoins.I won't be amazed when you guy learn that there will always be more supply at midnight Greenwich Mean Time. My exchange rate will not keep rising forever. If new users can't generate a single block within a few weeks or months, what do you think the likelihood is that they will continue running their CPU at 100% all day everyday? The amount of computers generating bitcoins will grow rapidly only while generating bitcoins is not discouraging. Once it becomes discouraging, we'll sometimes have growth from new users, but we'll also sometimes have decline as users stop generating bitcoins. Watch and be amazed! I will always have dollars and bitcoins available to inject into my exchange service. I may run out today, but there will always be more available tomorrow. It's all detailed on my exchange rate page.Fine. But regardless of whether someone answers the numerous doubts you've raised in here, I (and anyone with advanced economics background) will believe Bitcoin's current model has a promising future. I use a formula to calculate my exchange rate which is described on my exchange rate page. When I generate my first block of ฿25 rather than ฿50, I can simply change my formula to multiply bitcoins generated by two which will turn that ฿25 into ฿50 within my formula. Bitcoins are worth how much I say they are worth. If tomorrow I say they're all worth half as much as today then it would be so. Go ahead and create your own exchange service using your own formula to value bitcoins and you can have just as much control over the worth of bitcoins.I absolutely disagree that the current model is unsustainable and I absolutely disagree that people will not spend their bitcoins. If I had my druthers, the amount of bitcoins awarded would grow at the same rate as worldwide human population growth, but it doesn't matter because druthers are just druthers and they ain't important at all. My exchange rate will only increase as Bitcoin becomes more popular. There are practical limits to the popularity of Bitcoin. Sure, potentially it could be run on every functional computer around the world, but from practical perspective, that will never happen. The swarm is currently pretty small, so when a few new users join, there is a large effect on my exchange rate and it increases fairly quickly. As the rate of growth slows or reverses and as my exchange rate average increases over the next two years, the exchange rate will steady out with only very small increases AND decreases every day. As for the impending doom and gloom you're prophesying will accompany the decreased payout in a few years, all I have to do is add a little multiply by two to my exchange rate calculation and the problem is solved. The exchange rate stays constant and everyone is happy. In any case, hopefully by then there will be other ways of calculating the value of a bitcoin other than my single solitary exchange service.
The problem with botnets is that their operators are stealing electricity, bandwidth and access to RAM, hard drive space and CPU time. Everyone else is paying for those resources out of their own pockets.The order of my preferences for how I would like bitcoin to work is first, for the amount of bitcoins awarded to stay constant as I previously described, second, for the amount of bitcoins awarded to increase at a constant rate, third, for the amount of bitcoins awarded to decrease at a constant rate, last and least, for the amount of bitcoins awarded to increase at a variable rate. If botnets did not exist than the variable option would be at the top of my list instead of the bottom.EDIT: My new highest preference for how I would like bitcoin to work is for the amount of bitcoins awarded to increase at the same rate as worldwide human population growth.If the TV buyer is an early adopter and the TV seller is a latecomer, then the TV buyer already has many bitcoins and it would cost the TV seller more dollars worth of electricity than the price of the TV to generate 1 bitcoin. I do not agree that it will be hard to get people to spend their bitcoins. People do value potential future increases, but they also value having an item now. Why would someone borrow money on a credit card with a 19% interest rate instead of keeping their money in their savings account? They do it because they value having the TV now more than the potential losses over time. Life is short. You're welcome to save all your high returning money until the day you die, but the rest of us are going to make use of it before it's no use to us. He was referring to the price of goods decreasing as value of a bitcoin increases. Eventually the value of bitcoins will go high enough and the price of the goods will go low enough that the person will feel rich enough to spend his bitcoins. To take it to an extreme, if a person has ten thousand bitcoins and can buy the TV of his dreams for one bitcoin, the value of having the TV now is greater than the future potential increased value of the one 10,000th of his total bitcoins. I stand by my statement that the current economic model is not wrong. You might dislike it and I might not prefer it, but other people do prefer it. Our perspective is no more valid than theirs. But that's not to say that I wouldn't use a bitcoin variant if it more closely resembled the description I offered.I'm just stating the facts, sir.Currently a botnet could generate 99.9% of bitcoins per day, but if bitcoin generation payout was variable, they could generate over 9000% of how many bitcoins are generated per day without them. Botnet operators value their CPU cycles, so being able to generate over 9000% until they have as many as they currently want and then being able to stop and use their CPU cycles for other purposes is much more advantageous than having to use their spare CPU cycles to only generate a capped amount per day.The number of blocks generated per day can not be easily increased or decreased because there has to be enough time to propagate the blocks to all other nodes while still being frequent enough to allow timely transactions. What can vary is the amount of bitcoins per block. The amount of bitcoins awarded per block can either increase, decrease or stay constant over time. If every person had an equal amount of CPU cycles at his disposal, I would prefer for the amount of bitcoins awarded per generated block to increase proportionally to the amount of CPU used to generate bitcoins. As it is, I'm in favor of the amount staying constant over time. There isn't a right and wrong economic model. Every model adjusts to supply and demand, they just adjust in different ways.The current model is beneficial to early adopters in three different ways. First, early adopters generate more bitcoins while there is less competition at the beginning. Second, the availability of bitcoins decreases, which cements their position of wealth. Last, the early adopters have the potential to get rich off the latecomers once generating blocks becomes extremely difficult. Latecomers will have to inject dollars or something else of worth in order to get access to bitcoins and the wealth will go disproportionately to the early adopters.The idea of the swarm increasing the amount of bitcoins awarded as processing power increases is interesting, but I think it would give too much advantage to botnets. With a constant amount of bitcoins being generated, they can only collect a days worth of bitcoins per day, but if the number of bitcoins was variable, they could swoop in and generate a thousand years worth of bitcoins in a few weeks.In my ideal model, the same amount of blocks would be generated per day, but 100 bitcoins with no decimal would be awarded for generating a block instead of 50.00 and the amount of bitcoins awarded per block would stay the same forever instead of halving every four years. This would give one advantage to the early adopters who would be able to generate bitcoins more easily while there is less competition at the beginning and it would allow deflation as more people adopt bitcoins, but it would also allow for inflation as more bitcoins are generated, thus encouraging people to spend their bitcoins. Eventually creating bitcoins will still become very difficult and dollars or something else of worth will have to be injected in order for latecomers to get access to bitcoins, but as time passes, that wealth will be distributed more and more evenly between early adopters and latecomers. I prefer 100 to 50.00 because bitcoins are going to take a while before they are worth enough to need to be more divisible and because it's not clear whether a single bitcoin is ฿1.00 or ฿0.01. It looks like the Bitcoin Wikipedia article is only available in English. How about some of you either translate or write a new article in your language. Welcome to the Liberty Swap Specialty Shop!We Ship Internationally! Bitcoins are divisible by 100. So when you generate ฿50.00, you are getting 5000 bitcoin cents.The New Liberty Standard Exchange Rate includes an explanation of how it is calculated. BlueSky, how much are you willing to sell your bitcoins for and how much are you willing to pay for someone else's bitcoins?Bitcoins can be lost, but for the foreseeable future there will continue to be more than enough bitcoins available to keep playing the game.Each person is their own bank. Although I suppose that if a friend of mine wanted to buy some bitcoins and didn't have a computer or Internet, I wouldn't mind keeping track of their balance. Yes, that's correct. I expect the value of bitcoins to increase as the user base increases and decrease if the user base decreases. I do measure my electricity usage, but it's fairly constant.Could you be more specific about what exactly is wrong?  There's nothing wrong with multiple currencies using the same symbol. Many different currencies use the dollar sign, $. The ampersand, &, already has many very well defined meanings, including multiple uses as a prefix. It absolutely is not a currency symbol and using it as such would cause a lot more confusion than using an already existent obscure currency symbol. There is a generic currency symbol, ¤, which I considered using until I noticed the very beautiful ฿. You can type ฿ in Ubuntu by pressing Ctrl-Shift-U 0E3F and in Windows by pressing Alt 0E3F. I will be using it and I hope it catches on. I propose that we adopt the Thai baht currency symbol, ฿, as the official bitcoin currency symbol and BTC as the official bitcoin three letter currency code. There is a large movement in the United States to end the federal reserve. I assure you that there are many many thousands of people who are willing to put up with more than a little inconvenience and risk if it's detrimental to the Federal Reserve.PayPal has to be used for my personal exchange service. That has nothing to do with bitcoin. You or anyone else is more than welcome to run an exchange service without PayPal. In fact I've laid out exactly how to do it and have even given you permission to use my text as a template for your own.Money laundering is only an issue if you knowingly accept or spend money which was obtained criminally. Cash can also be used for money laundering, but as long as you are not participating in criminal activity, there is no reason to fear using cash or bitcoins.You don't have to non-anonymously buy or sell bitcoins. You can anonymously generate bitcoins and your can anonymously buy and sell bitcoins. If you want an anonymous exchange service, START ONE!!!The base value of bitcoins is how much it costs to generate them. But that doesn't mean that it is profitless. You might be able to generate 500 bitcoins per day today but if in two months you can only generate 50 bitcoins per day then you have made a killer profit. Bitcoins are very cheap right now and the user base IS growing. The value will continue to increase because people have a genuine interest in bitcoins.Bitcoins for the sake of investment is good enough by itself. That is essentially all that has fueled the current growth. And there is growth. But to add to that, the next version of Bitcoin is most likely going to have a command line interface and hopefully also a web interface which will make it much easier to use for automatic transactions and transactions from mobile phones.Bitcoins are infinitely more anonymous than any other digital currency on the market. You can obtain and spend bitcoins completely anonymously. Just because I use bitcoins non-anonymously does not mean bitcoins are not anonymous. Bitcoins without the SOCKS proxy are for all practical purposes completely anonymous. Absolutely no one will be able to correlate your transactions with your IP address. Bitcoins with the SOCKS proxy over Tor is LITERALLY completely anonymous. No one can even begin to suspect you if your IP address never shows up in the swarm.I repeat, bitcoins are in no way shape or form at all related to PayPal. One person who is investing a big $0.90 per day happens to use PayPal. That has absolutely nothing to do with bitcoin. Go ahead and create an anonymous exchange service and invest $1.80 per day and your exchange service will have twice the capital and thus twice the influence as mine. Really, please do! That's what my first post is all about. I really want you to run an exchange service. It doesn't cost much. All you have to invest is whatever is an inconsequential amount for you. Feel free to just invest $0.25 per day. Here's a partial answer from a discussion on my website. A currency is only as strong as people's confidence in that currency. I don't have enough funds to create the same level of confidence as a government which can draw funds from millions of people. But if many people unite together, we can create confidence in the bitcoin currency.My theory is that if a dozen or more different people each run a personal currency exchange and invest an inconsequential amount of another currency to their available balance each day while while saving the same value worth of bitcoins, then two important things will happen.First, consumers and merchants will have enough confidence to use the currency because there will always be sufficient funds available.Second, exchangers will have more confidence because each exchanger will have the same value worth of bitcoins saved as he has invested and the other exchangers will collectively have enough funds available in other currencies to recoup his investment.You are welcome to use my exchange service as a template and customize it as little or as much as you'd like. I use a Google docs spreadsheet to keep track of my exchange rate. The columns that I use are essentially A-Date, B-Daily Number of Bitcoins Generated, C-Daily Cost, D-Exchange Rate =AVERAGE(B#:B#)/AVERAGE(C#:C#) where # is the first and last rows, E-Reverse Exchange Rate =50/D# where # is the first row. If I remember correctly I think I was told that they would be sent to the first bitcoin application with whom the sender connects. I have modified the instructions for payment on my website. Thanks for the suggestion. Bitcoins have very interesting attributes and I think it would be cool if they were to eventually stabilize enough to become an internationally recognized and traded currency. I don't like that the amount of bitcoins being generated halves every four years, but I figure that if bitcoins become popular then someone will branch the code and create other currencies that are based on the same principles but have different characteristics. I certainly wouldn't mind a larger Bitcoin application if it meant we could send an encrypted message along with each transaction. Right now I require an email message from customers who send me bitcoins. This is not ideal because if another person knew about a transaction that was occurring, they could take credit for the transaction by sending a message before the person who sent the bitcoins. About how many MB do you think it would add? Of course these messages will add to the size of the confirmation blocks being stored, so there should probably be a maximum size. Perhaps 256 characters would be a good maximum since the maximum size of an email address is 254 characters.It would also be nice if transactions included a return address so that if a product or service being purchased can't be delivered the seller could more easily and reliably refund the bitcoins. Bachelorhood?   Actually, until somebody makes a fairly automatic exchange service, it'd probably be just as difficult, if not more difficult, to convince some reseller to adopt bitcoins. Some other exchange services would be nice. If one person is donating less than a dollar per day to his exchange service it's pretty inconsequential. But if 20 people are donating less than a dollar per day to the bitcoin economy, it suddenly becomes pretty significant. Don't wait until everything is totally automatic. I assure you, you won't be flooded with transaction requests.Just please do something with your bitcoins. They will become worth much more as we start to use them. Come to think of it, it's probably easier to convince someone who is already selling something that I want to accept bitcoins than it is to convince someone who already uses bitcoins to start selling specific products over the Internet.
