Yes, we will be adding support for international Amazon sites in the next several months. Stay tuned! Hello friends!I'm proud to announce that our service Zinc Save now accepts Bitcoin! This provides a seamless way to purchase using Bitcoin on Amazon, Target, Wal-Mart, Macy's, and many more to come.Zinc Save, which until recently only accepted credit cards, is the best way to buy online. We provide guaranteed savings and zappos-level customer support on most orders placed at common online retailers. Here's how it works:Install our chrome extension or bookmarkletClick the "Order with Zinc" button at the very end of checkout at a supported retailerYou'll be redirected to Zinc, where you can finalize your order using Bitcoin, and with guaranteed savings!We're able to provide the savings by intermediating the order. This allows us to order the items from a lower cost vendor (when available, and always ensuring that item quality and shipping speed are met or surpassed). When we can't find a lower cost vendor for the order, we order on your behalf from the original retailer, while using all available coupon codes, credit card rewards, etc. But we guarantee you a set, lower price right when you checkoutregardless of whether we're actually able to fill it at that price. We are currently helping over ten thousand users save on their purchases, and we're excited to now open this up to the Bitcoin community!See the full details on our blogPlease let me know what questions you have. We're very much looking forward to hearing your thoughts and feedback!Doug You may read the claims here: http://appft1.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO1&Sect2=HITOFF&d=PG01&p=1&u=/netahtml/PTO/srchnum.html&r=1&f=G&l=50&s1=20130166455.PGNR.&OS=DN/20130166455&RS=DN/20130166455If the images don't load, those may be gotten from the Public PAIR site. The application covers the technology we use to create and secure Bitbills. It does not cover "bit checks" that you print from your computer. It does not cover putting private keys on a flash drive and putting that in a safe. It does not cover NFC-type smartphone wallets. This is misinformation that I believe has been unintentionally spread by people who have not read the application. Any serious company in this industry that feels like they do not need lawyers is going to have a bad time. Hey folks. I'm glad to see some of the conversations that have been happening lately on this subject. I think it's extremely important to have these discussions regarding how bitcoin will interact with intellectual property law in the US and internationally, and what, if anything, can be done about it. We've all recently seen IP litigation that we do not like, and there is a growing consensus that US IP law needs to be updated to better suit modern innovation. Though I know little about IP law, we registered our name as a trademark and filed a patent on the Bitbills production process on the advice of our lawyers and advisors. As far as we've been advised, it is standard process for a small company with a single flagship product to seek these kinds of protection.If you haven't already, I encourage you to read the parts of our patent application that have been published [1]. There's a lot of debate going on about what it does and does not say, and the best way to fix that is to read it for yourself. I also strongly encourage you to read some of the other patents dealing with bitcoin products and innovations, of which there are hundreds [2]. Note that many of these have been in fact issued, which makes them more interesting than the applications. In fact I'm a bit bewildered at how much attention this particular application has gotten in light of the others, but I'm certainly glad that the community is beginning to have these discussions about bitcoin and IP law.[1] http://portal.uspto.gov/pair/PublicPair[2] http://www.google.com/patents?q=bitcoin Friends,We are going to begin producing Bitbills once again. The next generation product will feature a revised design, new denominations, and easier redemption. We will be releasing all the details in the next couple weeks, but I wanted to share this exciting news with you now.If you'd like, you can sign up for email updates on our site.Bitbills.comThanks. Yep, we're still around. We do have a few outstanding backorders, but we've mostly caught up. Some people are also missing their bitbills because we required signature on the delivery, and they weren't around to sign and they were ultimately returned to us. We are contacting those people as we get their bitbills back.As always, if you have a question about your individual order, please email us at support@bitbills.com or feel free to PM me. We're working on exactly this, and it should be available sometime next week on the Bitbills website. Bitbills here, want to address a few things.I won't address the security of our products or their manufacturing process, as we've covered this elsewhere.On the topic of our SSL certificate, we find it hard to believe that a community as skeptical as Bitcoin holds much faith in the security theater that is the modern Public Key Infrastructure. Recent events have shown that none of the "authorities" can be absolutely trusted. We believe that a CACert, WOT based certificate is better than any commercial offering, but due to requests from the community we've moved to a commercial solution. If anybody has any doubts about whether the public key is truly ours, I'd be happy to personally send them a postcard with a copy of our public key.Regarding bitcoin storage, there is absolutely no perfect solution. There are advantages to home-grown storage solutions, but also to solutions that do include an element of trust. While there's certainly a risk of a webwallet turning criminal, there's also a risk that you accidentally left the bitcoin client open when you backed up your wallet and corrupted your coins. Indeed, others have lost nearly as many bitcoins as Bruce did to MBC simply because they didn't encrypt their home-stored wallet.dat file, or made some other small mistake. At some point, people need to honestly ask themselves whether its more likely that a reputable bitcoin service will turn out to be a massive conspiracy, or that their flash drive will get stolen.There's a very good historical precedent here: traditional currencies. There's no theoretical reason why somebody couldn't store their entire net worth in their basement as cash, but they don't do it. Why? Trusted banks provide services that they need, and probably more security too. Being a digital currency, bitcoin doesn't have many of the problems that banks solve (e.g., bitcoin has no need for huge storage vaults or ACH). But bitcoin is not a miracle currency. For example, offline transactions between parties untrusting of each other are not generally possible with bitcoins, but with Bitbills this becomes possible.I'm sorry I didn't have time to make this post shorter, but here's the big idea: every method of using bitcoins has risks, and sometimes trusting somebody else just a little bit is actually the least risky solution. Choice is better than no choice.On a different, but related note, we're working very hard on a new product that we think will be a huge step forward for bitcoin storage: trustless bank cards. Details are forthcoming. Well, with a message at least. Site text copied below. Discuss.Edit 8/5 by Maged: A second press release has been issued. Discuss it in the thread linked below:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=34770.0 So right now we have:Bitbills - Allow people to trade bitcoins between each other offline, without trusting the other party. Also doesn't not require time to verify.Bank Cards - The safest way to store bitcoins. Lets you take your bitcoins offline, so they're as safe as the location you keep it.Payee Cards - Right now, only available with bank cards (bundled for free). Have a QR and text form of the address, so anyone can send bitcoins to your safe bank card. Things we are working on:Trustless Bank Cards - Same as usual bank cards, but require zero trust!Point of Sale solutions - Details aren't final, so we aren't saying much now. We have some very cool plans here.We're also making a ton of progress on software, our website, new Bitbills denominations, and other non-product things, so stay tuned! We did use mybitcoin for payment processing, and only payment processing. Fortunately, we withdraw most transactions almost immediately, so we had only a trivial balance on mybitcoin when they closed up shop.Orders have been paused while we setup our own, in-house payment processing. We realize this is the safest solution moving forward.All orders will ship out as expected. Orders for just Bitbills are still generally shipping within 3 days. Orders with bank cards included are backlogged slightly as we scale production, but should be shipping out by Friday.Please email us if you have any questions about your individual order, and feel free to post any general questions in this thread! Bitbills.comWe've got some big updates for Bitbills, including brand new bank cards! They're super cool, and we think they're another great step towards making bitcoin usable in our everyday lives. They'll be ready to order soon, and pics are coming even sooner!Read on about bank cards and other updates in our press release below. Check out the shiny site redesign too. Can't wait to hear your thoughts and feedback! Yes, it is definitely still going on. Orders place right now will take about a month before they ship due to the substantial backlog. We appreciate your patience while we get production up to speed. We will release new versions and smaller denominations at that time also. UPDATE:Thanks for all the support and feedback!We would like to sincerely apologize for the significant delays in order fulfillment. We are still ramping up production, and I really appreciate everyone's patience while this happens. Of course, just email support@bitbills.com if you would like to cancel your order any time prior to shipment, and we'll send a full refund right away.Smaller denominations and smaller fees are in the works, but we're not planning on starting with either of these until we have production ramped up. I've heard that MyBitcoin may have been spotty lately; down the road we may decide to do our own payment processing.This should be a big month for Bitbills! Mike, we did reply to your messages, we're sorry that there was a delay in our response. Your Bitbills were shipped on May 25th via USPS insured mail with delivery confirmation.Since this forum post, we've emailed you the tracking number. It looks like delivery was attempted on May 27th, but you were not home so a notice was left. Please let us know if you have any more questions. The first function is now on the tools section of the site! Stay tuned for the second! Some updates:We still have a lot of preorders coming in, so we're continuing to work as fast as we can to ramp up production. Orders are shipping out continuously now. We hope to change from "preorders" to live "orders" later this week!Simultaneously, we're working on the next product version. This will include several changes, including custom holograms. It's still a ways off, but start getting excited! We will keep an archive with images of all previous versions on the site.On redemption:I'm sorry to hear that some people are having difficulty redeeming. We will post a video soon demonstrating the process. In the meantime, some tips: Use a penny to scrape off hologram residueA thin layer of tape sits above the laminated qr code. If the residue remains a problem, peel off the layer of tape to reveal a clean QR codeUse alcohol or nail-polish remover only as a last resort. Newer Bitbills use a higher quality private key substrate resilient to chemicals, but their use won't be officially supported until the next versionUse a high-resolution scanner if your webcam or phone camera have problemsAs mentioned in the FAQ, we are happy to buy back any sealed Bitbills for face value if you don't feel comfortable attempting redemption yourself. We are continuing to work on an easy redemption tool (it will be a flash applet that uses the webcam to send the bitcoins to your address fee free). I'm offering large bitcoin prizes to anyone who feels like working on Bitbills tools! (this could be an Android app, iPhone app, support on your website, etc; contact me!) We did increase the fee for the ฿20 bill. We feel that it's important to integrate stronger security features, including custom holograms, as early as possible. However, we need to finance the high capital costs associated with these improvements. During this period of particularly high demand for Bitbills relative to our supply, we've decided to increase the fees a bit as a fundraising measure. The ฿20 bill was the most natural product to raise the fee on, since the new fee brings it's percentage surcharge closer to that of the other bills.As production continues to ramp up in the next couple weeks, definitely expect the fees to go down. We may also consider switching to set fee across all denominations. If government bills are not real money, what is? Currently, I actually do do all of the final assembly myself. The only piece that involves another company is the printing of the card "blanks", but the actual private keys are still printed and inserted by myself. For security reasons, I will not describe the process specifics in great depth. In the near future, we will be adding more team members to help with assembly, but this will all still take place in-house.
For the first round, we shipped with delivery confirmation on the larger orders. In the future, we plan to ship all orders with delivery confirmation, and add an option to purchase insurance for an additional fee (we'll charge about what we get charged).The manufacturing process is secure.  UPDATE: Most first run orders have been shipped! We will begin accepting preorders for the next round of Bitbills tonight! I'm going to address a few points here. These are general topics of discussion, so I'm not going to bother quoting anyone in particular:Bitbills are intended more for continued offline trading rather than instant redemption. A card that is intended to be redeemed as soon as the buyer gets home would be useful, but that's a different product. I'm looking at possibly making those (probably as a scratch-off card) in the future.As far as mailing cards out without value, allowing "activation" at POS, etc, I have no plans to do this. The instant a card leaves our hands, we guarantee that it has the stated value on it. It would be devastating if somebody traded something for an unfunded card, not knowing that it was unfunded, only later to realize the card was worthless. In addition to the design and holograms, we are funding every card from the same address. This provides a layer of security equivalent to the proposed serial (and with the same limitations).I'm confident that Bitbills are presently secure against both tampering and counterfeiting. We will continue to add more security features to future versions. I certainly agree with SunAvatar; use common sense practices when trading with Bitbills, just like you would with cash or anything else. The holograms are durable to begin with, and then they're embedded in the plastic, so there's very little concern about them coming off with wear. In our testing, the biggest mode of failure has been cracking of the plastic. We've decided to use a higher-grade plastic that should eliminate this problem.As a result of the plastic upgrade, the first cards should be in the mail Thursday. In the exceedingly rare case that you open a card and find that it does not have value (or you find a counterfeit), PLEASE let me know; I'd like you to send it to me for investigation. If I believe you (and I probably will), I will reimburse you the value of the card. Also, I have a 50 btc reward out if anybody can demonstrate a method for surreptitiously accessing the private key.I'm considering writing custom payment processing. An order status page / confirmation system is also in the works.After production scales in the next week or so, I'll begin talking to people who are interested in buying in bulk, selling on commission, reselling, etc. In the slightly longer term, there are also some new products in the works!UPATE ON SHIPPING:Thanks to everyone who bought cards. I'm on track to mail the cards out WEDNESDAY. Sorry for the brief delay. Once production scales, cards will be sent more promptly. I'll definitely keep you all updated on your order status! Good questions. I've grouped the security concerns into three classes: Counterfeiting, tampering, and source-trust.Source-trust means that you have to trust me, and I haven't thought of a good way around that. I promise that I put the bitcoins on the cards, delete the private keys, and use a secured manufacturing process. My hope is that as people begin buying, using, and redeeming Bitbills, they will form a trusting relationship with me the same way you might have a trusting relationship with MtGox and other companies. Counterfeiting is the problem of others copying our cards and passing them off as real (presumably without even including the private key). Our cards are fundamentally hard to manufacture. When handling Bitbills, always check that the design matches the one shown on our website to make sure it's an authentic card. We use holograms that are very difficult to replicate. As our business grows, we plan to implement more and more security features.Tampering is the problem of people extracting the private key without it being visible. We put the private key actually inside of the layers of plastic, so it's not just a simple matter of carefully peeling off a sticker or anything. The hologram is directly on top of the private key, also within the plastic. Even if it is somehow covertly extracted (once you see one of these, you'll see just how impossible that seems), the hologram destructs when removed.We're working hard to make sure Bitbills are as sound as bitcoins themselves (if not better, since they clear instantly). But remember, like all the best stuff, they are BETA  Check it out, after months of effort I'm proud to announce I've released my new bitcoin product: Bitbills!www.bitbills.comBitbills are the first physical incarnation of bitcoins, and I'm selling them starting now! Let me know what you guys think, and if you have any questions or comments! +1 Plato!He just stayed with me Sunday night into Monday morning, and he's a great guy. Plato, good luck on the rest of your journey! Anybody else interested in a Boston / Cambridge area meetup? The bot on MtGox is mine. It runs nearly all the time, but it's not always making trades. I brought it online the day Jed opened up the API.Mt. Gox is the only exchange with enough volume to justify trading in right now. Sorry, source will remain closed  We'll try, but no promises. Quick update:We are still planning on adding bitcoin payment instructions and a bitcoin checkout process to our listings.  We decided against simply leaving instructions in the listing or in some sort of iframe, we want to do this correctly.  If we do this correctly, we may even be able to share our solution with other eBay sellers. You should open source the market.  Maybe. Thanks mike!  This looks pretty neat! Yes, I should have clarified.  They are all debit except for the American Express, which was actually a Credit Card giftcard. I actually got most of these as gifts, but I'm seriously considering buying more of these to sell for BC at a small fee.If I do, I will clarify details for the next batch.  I'm working on streamlining the process too, so it's a bit less PM dependent . Wow, these things are selling like hotcakes!  Actually, better then hotcakes, I've never sold a hotcake in my life!Anyway, I still have 5 iTunes giftcards left.  Get 'em while they're hot! Up for sale are tons of prepaid credit cards and gift cards!  The credit cards are great for internet shopping.  For any purchase, I will email you the code immediately.  For an additional 15 Bitcoins, I can also send you the card physically in the mail.Message me or reply back if you're interested. Offers are welcome! Each card is listed with current asking price. I'll update the list as I sell these.  None of the cards expire earlier than 6/2013.--Prepaid Credit Cards--UPDATE: All out for now, check back later!$25 American Express - 380$25 MasterCard - 400$25 Visa - 390$25 Visa - 390--Gift Cards--$15 iTunes - 185$15 iTunes - 185$15 iTunes - 185$15 iTunes - 185$15 iTunes - 185$15 iTunes - 185--"Feedback"--(for privacy reasons, I'll only list you here after you do so for me or ask me to)Smooth transaction and excellent communication with:-semyazza There was talk a while ago about building up a sizeable list of addresses in the wallet that would be hidden but used for change for future transactions.  The benefit there is that if a user backs up his wallet and something like this happens after future transactions, his old backup will still "contain" all of the bitcoins since it actually has the addresses that change coins were sent to.What ever happened to that idea?  I think it's a good one. That's a great idea.  We will work on it and I'll post back when we have something ready. Yes, the offer is still open.  We wouldn't feel right being listed in the Market section since we're still a bit less official then the other things listed on that page.  We were working on including the offer to pay with bitcoins in each of the ebay listings, but we need to look into whether this would be an eBay TOS violation or not (annoying right?).  We also tried to make a special site where the actual store would be in an iframe, and the outer frame would explain how to buy with bitcoins, but ebay escapes from iframes.At any rate, if you're interested in purchasing any book from qugel.com with bitcoins at the market exchange rate, just PM me!
I think it's very important that the transaction fee reflect no more than the true cost that the transaction causes the network.Micropayments can be useful even if they're very very tiny.  Imagine a lightbulb that sends a little ping bitcoin charge for every millisecond it's turned on.  There are countless applications for tiny tiny payments. This is a great initiative.  I saw the video for Flattr the other day:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kwvExIWf_UcAnd thought it would be the perfect sort of format for explaining Bitcoin.  I'll pledge 50 BC. Nice work   You don't love it till you miss it. Cincinnati! I was actually doing a thing with Unorth for a while that was very similar.  Basically, I bought Unorth's computing time ahead of time, with the promise that I would get to keep any coins generated.Of course, knowing the difficulty, his khash/s rate, and the number of hours I was buying, I was able to determine the expected value of my purchase.  However, I actually paid him slightly less than that number, since I was assuming the risk.  The role I was playing was not unlike that of an insurance company.This was a fun experiment, but I think this sort of thing would have a very limited appeal for bitcoin.  The risk is so small that most nodes could easily absorb it and would prefer not to pay a fee for a third party to absorb the risk.  And, if any node was large enough (i.e. spent enough money on computation) that the dollar values involved were larger, then the central limit theory will kick in and the node's actual dollar volatility will be a very small fraction of their money spent on computation. Better yet, have them give you the private key to the address that generated them/has them.  Then they will be even fresher because they won't have that last transaction fo them being sent to you! Sign something with your address to prove it. I've wanted a predictions market since I first heard about bitcoin.  It is the perfect medium for a predictions market.  As for judging fee, it should be pretty minimal.  Even for "hard" ones like "homelessness rate doubles", the criteria just needs to be very very specific.  For example:"On July 20th 2011 The annually reported homelessness rate by detroit.gov will be equal to or above two times the number reported on July 20th 2010.  Should Detroit.gov not publish a homelessness rate on July 20th 2011, then the number reported by..."As long as you give ridiculously detailed criteria, then disputable outcomes should be very very rare. I can vouch for:-Unorth-Lachesis-Sirius-DWDollar-Satoshi No offense if we've done business and I left you out, I've just forgotten.On another note, it's time to fire up the md5 collision finder to get me a nice trusted email address  Actually, it seems that BD_ and I have come to an agreement!To calculate average (expected value of generation time):1/(pr)To calculate how long until you have a T chance of producing at least 1 block:-ln(1-T)/prWhere:p = probability of a given hash resulting in success (TARGET / 2^256)r = rate in hashes / secT = target probability, such as 0.95ln = log base eI got to mine just by plugging variables and rearranging the poisson distribution.  BD_ can give you a different formula for the second equation, which he heroically derived from the binomial distribution, but which yields the same effective results. That's a great idea.  There isn't one currently.  I'll talk to Lachesis, we could include it in the email to the recipient since we can just grab the exchange rate from bitcoin market.  We might actually make it an option that the sender can choose, so that it won't discourage the recipient when the bitcoins are only worth $0.50  . I'm getting the same wxWidgets debug errors.  Did you get a message about quicktime at the end of your build?  I can't figure it out... Thanks!  We're actually using google's own smtp servers right now, so hopefully that should help us get through some spam filters. We'll keep an eye on this though.  Google limits outgoing mail to 500 per account, but we can make up to 50 accounts on our Apps account so we should be good for a while. . Hello all, Lachesis and I have been working together on an exciting new free bitcoin service that we are releasing today: BitMail!  The premise is simple: send bitcoins through email.We think that BitMail will make it even easier to send bitcoinsall you need to know about your recipient is their email address, and you can send people bitcoins even if they don't use Bitcoin yet!Most importantly, we hope that BitMail can play a huge role in helping drive adoption of Bitcoin.  For example, you can now send bitcoin donations to anybody who has an email address, such as your favorite blogger.  Once you send that person bitcoins through our service, BitMail walks them through the process of downloading the bitcoin client and claiming their bitcoins.  Hey, nothing provides a better incentive for trying Bitcoin then the promise of free money!Please try it out, and let us know what you think.  Even if you just send 5 bitcoins to several of your friends' email addresses, this can have a viral effect on Bitcoin adoption.http://www.BitcoinMail.com  We look forward to hearing your comments/questions/suggestions! The bigger questions is will it cost more than the value gained by not having a centralized authority.Even a semi-centralized ecurrency could convey all the convenience benefits of bitcoin at a tiny fraction of the computation costs (there would be no proofs of work), only you have to trust certain parties. This is a good start, but still not impermeable.  This kind of security relies on the fact that the majority of nodes (which really just boils down to the majority of IP's) are honest.  However, if the attacker could amass many IP addresses, then he could control the propagation (for example, by refusing to propogate word of the transaction at the vending machine), and still lead a successful double-spending attack.  Which sort of brings us back to the main novel idea of bitcoin: truth is voted on by computing power, not IP.For just a beverage, it may seem like this attack is uneconomical.  But imagine if instead the machine dispensed small-denomination giftcards, and the attack was performed thousands of times (maybe even at the same time in a concerted effort).  Suddenly, the cost of that IP block might be a bargain for the attacker... Satoshi,The "block lock" is an interesting idea, and I'll have to think more about it.  However, it's important that you don't lock all the way up the very latest block.  Otherwise, the attacker could generate a fake block (or a few) right before you happen to lock it, and then his attack would be far easier than it would have been without the block lock.Instead, you should only lock in everything except the last thousand or so blocks (the exact number should be a subject of future inquiry).  Maybe this is actually what you did?Also, I'm assuming that the block lock means that the blocks will also come prepackaged with the client.  Is this so? The community has grown a lot, which is awesome.  However, this has meant that the forum has been getting crazy busy, and sometimes a bit unwieldy. I propose that subtopics be added to the existing topic folders (for example, the existing "technical discussion" topic could include subtopics for each OS, as well as a "General" subtopic).  What do you think? Even better than an escrow, you just fund the beverage machine company itself.Like this: you go to the company's website and send them 100 BC.  Then, they give you an ID.  They have plenty of time to get confirmations to build, and when you need a beverage you just use the ID they issued you and they debit it from your account. Even if there was a suitable "useful" function, it would be pointless to use.In order for Bitcoin to work, the electricity and resources for the computation needs to be "wasted" in a way.  If there was some additional value to the computation, then people would just be able to afford to node more for the same amount of reward, including the attacker.
This is a very very very interesting idea.  It does seem to "automatically" solve the difficulty problem.To extend it just a bit, a node should broadcast its block as soon as it finds the new lowest hash, even if its not close to the ten minute mark.  Then, nodes would only broadcast if their new hash was lower then that one and so on.  This would help minimize the effects latency and of the nodes' clocks being slightly off.I'd have to think about this a lot more, but you might be on to something... Here's what I'll do:Say you want to do a transaction worth 20 bitcoins with Bob.  Well, I'll first take a deposit of 30 bitcoins from both of you.  When I hear back from both of you that the transaction went okay, then I'll refund your deposits.  But, if I hear back from either of you that it went sour, then I keep both deposits  .And best of all, no fee for my services .Let me know if anyone's interested! It's not totally easy, but it's possible.  For example, a node could listen on the network and see that you are using the same IP when sending from two of your different addresses, and thus associate those addresses.  To prevent this, you should mask your IP using Tor or similar.There's also a more fundamental risk in that the chain of ownership of each bitcoin is public knowledge.  So, if you, say, purchased the bitcoin from an exchange and gave your name during that, then the exchange can associate your name with that bitcoin.  There's a really really nice post by Theymos on that here, and the following thread proposes some great solutions (mainly, a "scrambler"):http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=241.0Even besides these two things, there are some other things that need to be handled.  For example, you should find a way to encrypt your traffic so your ISP can't read your addresses.  Also, you should send out identical traffic regularly, so that your ISP cant associate your addresses using timing alone.If all of these things are accounted for, I believe you are very close to 100% safe from technical address association. We are working on on including Bitcoin instructions on the site.  Will report back soon. Gavin, It's simple.  You will need a fixed component transaction fee, but it will probably be much smaller than that.  The fixed component should reflect the true cost to the network of running the transaction.  So, the additional bandwidth, latency, etc that the transaction actually costs the network.Chances are, this will be tiny.  I'd guess something like 0.00001 BC, even at the current exchange rate. Interesting find, but as far as I could see it did not propose a solution to the double spending problem, which is BitCoin's true novelty... Hmm, I didn't realize that was in there, and I really don't like that approach.That pretty much ruins the possibility of using bitcoin for true micropayments.  Wouldn't it be better for clients to just ignore a spammy IP?  Sure an attacker could get more, but he couldn't get millions. This is important.  A lot of people got very frustrated waiting hours for them to download.If a user wants perfectly ensured security / doesn't trust the builder, they can always delete the bundled blocks and let them reload individually. Remember, that is just an average.  So, there is a 50% chance that you will have generated 50 BC after that amount of time passes.  That being said, great job Lachesis! KSD5,Definitely not.  I, for one, do not care about anonymity! It would be a good idea if you have lots of people sending you the same amount.  By giving them each a different address to send to, you can tell who paid when. Bitcoiner,It still seems like you're a bit hung up on the fact that banks create cash.  This is not true.  If the government minted only $1 trillion, even after all the banks do their FR thing there will still only be $1 trillion.Any "money creation" that the banks currently do (increasing the M1 money supply) will be equally present even if they used BC instead of USD. Pros:-More anonymous (harder for people to associate it with your other addresses, though not impossible unless other precautions are taken)-Easier to identify who paid you (since every payer is given their own address)Cons:-Doesn't prove that you are the owner of the other address, which can be useful in trust applications-A little bit more hassle.Anything I'm forgetting? Absolutely, you can exchange as much money as you have bitcoins for.   Bitcoiner, I think we're getting to some common ground here.  Let me clarify a few points:First of all, let's get off of the idea of gold being deposited for a minute and switch to cash.  So, when I say cash, I'm talking about physical dollar bills.  This is the way it works in the modern world (ppl deposit cash, not gold)  And, to apply it to bitcoin, simply switch cash with bitcoins, same thing.When people call their deposits back from the bank, the bank gives them cash back.  The never print their own notes or anything like that.  The closest thing that a bank would have to their own notes would be a certificate of deposit itself, and even a dull customer would not accept a certificate of deposit when, well, cashing out their old deposit.  If a bank cannot furnish the cash, then it is a very very rare condition called insolvency, and it's dealt with by shutting down the bank, not issuing some kind of new currency.Now, if the reserve requirement (RR) is 10%, then in actuality banks will keep slightly more than 10% of their deposits in cash, say 12%.  When anybody wants to withdraw all of their money, they can do so instantly, drawing from the bank's cash pool.  In our example, this may cause the bank to now have, say only 11% of their deposits in cash, but that's okay because they're still over the RR.  They haven't deceived any other depositors, because they still hold over 10% of those deposits in cash.  If the person who withdrew his money is not replaced by a new depositor, then the bank will not renew some of their non-liquid investments when they mature, so they will be back at 12% cash.  It is true that if every customer demanded their cash back at the same time, the bank would not be able to provide all of that money.  The bank uses very intricate formulas to ensure that in any reasonable scenario they will be able to provide instant cash to any demanding customer.  These formulas are based on the fact that it's very probably that some fraction of depositors will require cash on any given day, but very improbable that everyone would, say, happen to be making a very large purchase on the same day and all require cash at the same time.  Analogy: our banks our somewhat like our hospitals; if everyone got sick on the same day, we would not have enough hospitals to deal with them.  But, this is simply so unlikely, that it's certainly not worth building hospitals enough to hold every human alive.  In fact, the only conceivable time when people do all demand money at the same time is this funny little catch-22 called the Bank Run, where people demand all their money simply because they're scared everyone else is doing the same thing (it's a self-fulfilling prophecy)!  The FDIC was setup to prevent exactly this behavior--by the very nature of insuring people's deposits, the FDIC stopped people from ever worrying about not having access to their money, preventing bank runs.  In this way, the FDIC provides great value, even when it doesn't pay have to pay out a dime!  And don't worry, the FDIC can effectively be replicated even without the government by having banks insure each other.  I agree with you that fractional reserve banking should not be outlawed .  If it were, then it would be impossible to earn interest on money held in the bank.I agree with you that banks should disclose that money invested in them is at risk, and subject to loss.  Even now, they do have to do this by law (and even if not by law, I would hope by customer demand).  When you sign up for a bank account, there's a summary of the risk that is involved.I do think that  Bitcoin will by its nature solve many of the problems that are attributed to FR banking, even though bitcoins will be FR banked themselves.  For example, I think that having a government mandated RR right now creates an environment where banks feel pressured to use the bare minimum RR to be competitive.  Without a mandated RR, banks can operate at a variety of RR, creating different risk-reward packages for customers (like the banks I described in my earlier post).  Also, since bitcoins are so easy to spend, there will not longer be a need for checks.  This means that BC will effectively be cashed out much more often, preventing latent solvency problems from building up in the system like they currently can. Personally, I cannot wait to invest my money in a BC bank.  Bitcoiner,I think we have a fundamental disagreement here.  I admit that my own understanding here is limited, but this is my conception of fractional reserve:A fractional reserve bank never lends out more "gold" than it has in its "vaults".  Fractional reserve banking means just that: the bank is required to keep a fraction of it's callable deposits in its reserves.  So, if the reserve requirement is 10%, and a bank has $100,000 in callable deposits, then it must keep $10,000 in reserves but can lend out $90,000.  Note that $90,000 is less than it's total callable deposits.  If they did what you were saying, then it would have to be called negative reserve banking.I'm almost certain I know the source of your confusion.  I'm sure you're used to hearing that fractional reserve banking "creates" money.  So, you are led to the belief that they issue notes for more money than they actually ever have available at any given time.  This is not so. In truth, this kind of banking does not increase the actual number of dollar bills in circulation.  I believe this is called the M0 money supply (someone correct that term if I'm off).  Applied to Bitcoin, there would never be more than 21 million BC's in circulation, even with fractional reserve banking.What fractional reserve banking does do is increase the M1 money supply, which includes all callable deposits (I like to call this "checkbook money").  The logic goes like this:In an economy with a 10% reserve requirement, somebody makes a $100 deposit.  The bank holds $10, and loans $90 out as, say, a home loan.  That money goes to the construction company, and ultimately ends up back in a bank as a deposit.  Now the second bank keeps a 0.1*90= $9 reserve on that money, and again loans the $81 remainder out.  That $81 eventually winds up in (you guessed it!) another bank!  The process repeats.  So now, even though there is still only $100 in gold/currency actually existing in all these different banks as reserves, there are all of these callable deposits: $100 + $90 + $81 + $72.90 ... = $1,000! (Deposit/RR) So, from that single $100 deposit of currency, there is now $1,000 worth of callable deposits!  So, money has been "created" in the M1 money supply, even though there is still only $100 of currency.Please continue the discussion.  I have a hard time seeing the perspective of the anti-fractional reserve clan myself. Hello all, I have an exciting announcement to make!Lachesis and I are the owners of the eBay media store Qugelmatic, which is currently the among the largest bookstores on eBay.  We currently have over 60,000 100,000 books for sale, and that number is rising rapidly.  Over the past few weeks, we have both become active in the Bitcoin community.  At first, we were both skeptical of Bitcoin, and we wouldn't have dared risk our successful business on what we considered to be a hobby.  However, I'm proud to report that we have both become so confident in the soundness of Bitcoin that we have now made our entire inventory available in exchange for bitcoins!Please browse our inventory, and if you are interested in any book simply PM me and we will provide a BC address and process it like any other order.  Our storefront can be accessed directly at Qugel.com.  We are currently offering the competitive exchange rate of $8 Mills the last MTGox trade price.We are confident in saying that this now safely places in the lead as the largest bitcoin-accepting store on the internet! (at least by volume of items available) We are optimistic about new sales that accepting bitcoins will bring, but more than anything we are proud to help contribute in driving confidence and adoption of Bitcoin.  Stay tuned, we hope to have some more exciting developments to announce in the weeks to come!www.Qugel.com*Almost any Even with real bitcoins, there can still be fractional reserve banking.  Banks could be a spectrum, like this:On the far left side of the spectrum, you would have pure depositories.  "Jack's BC Protection Co." would simply accept your BC for safekeeping (Jack backs up his wallet file  ). Jack won't touch your BC while he holds them, so you definitely won't earn interest.  In fact, you might even have to pay Jack a small fee just for securely holding your BC.Slightly to the right of the depositories is "Bob's Low-Risk BC Bank".  But this time, after you deposit some BC with Bob, Bob loans out 25% of your BC into reliable investments, and tells you he's doing this.  Now, you earn a little bit of interest just for having your money "sit there".  99% of the time, you can cash all your money out on a moment's notice, and this time you'll have that interest too!  1% of the time, there can be problems.  This risk comes from two places: First, the risk inherent in the investments themselves (it's possible Bob was unlucky with his investment choices).  Second, the risk that everyone will try to cash out all at once.  On the far right of the spectrum is "Bernie's Daredevil Bank".  This time, after you make a deposit, Bernie invests 95% of it in risky projects.  You'll earn an impressive interest rate, but it comes at great risk.Note that every one of the banks or funds I described is it's uses.  As long as you are optimistic about our economy growing as a whole, then each of the investing banks offers a positive expected value.  The higher the risk, the higher the expected value.  The risk you will choose to take on depends on your individual needs and timeline (think of how people decrease their stocks to bonds ratio as they near retirement).  If you're curious about how to choose the ideal level of risk, look into the Kelly Criterion and Kelly methods.   There is also value inherent in the services that banks provide.  You could try to seek investment projects on your own and earn interest without a bank, but it would be very costly in and of itself to do so.  Also, the aggregation provided by banks helps lower risk and provides flexibility.It will be important that the banks are really trustworthy so that people can accurately compute risk and reward.  This may require the use of private, trusted auditing companies.  The great thing about BC banks though is that with less government regulation and fewer barriers to entry, there will be more competition among banks, which will improve the industry as a whole. I second this, however I don't think block generation time should be changed.  I think it should be identical to the production network.  This, for example, would allow testers to try to subvert the system by creating nodes with particularly low latency, and keep the results applicable to the real network.Great idea Gavin! Don't manipulate the market.  Profit on it. Who says this is important?  As more users join in, value will probably go up per bitcoin and people might hold fewer nominal bitcoins, but I don't think that makes much of a difference.
It's really not so bad for the system--just unfortunate for the user who lost his bitcoins.The value that those bitcoins held is never really lost.  Rather, it's essentially redistributed out to every other bitcoin still in use (deflation).Even if we lost 90% of BC and only had 2.1 million, with the eight (i think) decimal places possible, it would still be perfectly practical to use. Not bad. As far as anonymous internet connections go, prepaid phones aren't a bad choice either.  They're cheap, nearly impossible to tie to the user, and can be destroyed when finished.  Again, they can be bought in densely crowded shopping malls or walmarts.Dont forget to use an anonymous method to pay for the VPS foreverdamaged.  Perhaps a prepaid credit card also bought from a crowded location would do the trick.By the way, I like to imagine that this user is in China and is trying to buy a book about freedom  That's my Steve Jobsian statement of the day  I'm not saying that it's not something worth working on, but we shouldn't prioritize anonymity features ahead of basic functionality, ease-of-use, and driving adoption.  There can always be a special implementation (maybe a separate client even) down the road that takes care of all of the features for ensuring anonymity.   As Gavin implied, many anonymity features would come at cost to users who don't need them. Anonymity is not a feature that most users need. That would be the same as an attacker buying all US dollars and burning them.  It's not an effective attack, because people only "sell" their dollars when they are getting something of equal or greater value anyway.So, yes, it is possible that someone could buy up all or many Bitcoins and then "destroy" the private key so that nobody can ever use those bitcoins again, but it really isn't a problem because the attacker is the only one who will actually lose wealth!The only scenario that would be at all likely would be if something like a stupid government didn't like bitcoins and thought it was a threat, so they would spend $30,000 or w/e to buy all bitcoins and "destroy" them.  That would be pretty stupid though, because another ecurrency just like bitcoin would pop right up!I suppose if a government actually wanted to hold off these ecurrencies, they should buy lots of the currency but not tell anyone.  However, instead of "destroying" it or never spending it, they should just manipulate the market a lot while it's young (buy a ton at once, then sell way undervalue, etc).  Then, not realizing the currency was being manipulated, people would just lose faith in these types of ecurrency...Sorry that got rambly, I'm thinking out loud here. Gavin that was very helpful, thanks!Could someone to the best of their ability please explain the transaction scripting language?  That's the only thing I still don't fully understand now.  I know it's for extensibility and that it will be static for now, but could someone explain how it works? AFAIK, there are no "useful" computational problems that have the properties necessary to be used as a proof-of-work.  The hash function is used because it is irreversible, easily checkable, small in size, and probably some other things I'm forgetting.  Even if you could, for example, encode the transactions as a polypeptide (chain of amino acids), and then made folding the polypeptide into a protein the proof-of-work, such a proof-of-work could not be checked without redoing the entire computation.Even if you could come up with a suitable problem, due to the economics of BC you would never actually generate any additional value by using a "useful" problem. Hahaha, who would they sue?!? Apple would approve it.  It's only a simple front-end for a website.  Unless it was horribly buggy, they will accept it.  Welcome to Bitcoin!!  I'll try to answer some of your questions:A bitcoin isn't exactly a nonce or hashed block (including the nonce) found by instense number crunching.  Instead, think of a bitcoin as just an accounting record, like a number you might type into an excel spreadsheet to represent the amount of money that some account has.Now, when when people transact bitcoins, they broadcast their transaction to every node on the network.  Over time, a few of these transactions will build up.  Here's where the computation comes in.  All of the node computers will begin processing this "block" of transactions which have occurred since the last proof of work began, looking for a nonce that happens to generate the target when hashed.  When a node successfully finds this nonce, there is essentially just a new accounting record that says that node computer gets a 50 bitcoin reward, which can be spent in future transactions.One of the really weird things is that the number of transactions that need to be "blocked" doesn't actually affect how hard it is to find a nonce for that block.  So, there's really no benefit to not including the transactions when searching for a nonce, like you might have thought when you said "...concentrate on the number crunching".  Now, the rewarded bitcoins must go to the node who found the nonce, because along with the transactions and the nonce, the block also includes the node operator's address.  So, even though the proof-of-work can be publicly verified, nobody can "claim it as their own" because that nonce is only a solution for the block which includes the successful node's address.I hope that helps clarify some things.  Please continue to ask questions if it's not clear, this thread can be a great resource for other newcomers.  Somebody else will have to clarify how bitcoins are divided, I'm not entirely clear on that myself. Good revisions so far. More suggestions:1) How about mentioning bittorrent instead of hashcash?  Bittorrent is a huge buzz word and could grab some attention.  As a completely distributed and anonymous network, I'd say that Bitcoin is similar enough to justify the comparison.2) "...clients burn CPU cycles..." --> "...nodes burn CPU cycles..."3)  Throw in "decentralized" and "proof-of-work based" somewhere4) Personally, I'm still not fully satisfied with the mention of energy-backing.  Maybe you could replace it with something about the time-stamped transaction history being voted on / secured by the majority of CPU power?  5) Not to be a smartass, but watch out for passive voice (e.g. "It is expected that over time...").  Headlines and news articles usually try to grab readers' attention by using the more exciting active voice.Feel free to take all, none, or somewhere in between.  We're critical because we care   I wouldn't call bitcoin "energy backed".  There has been ample discussion on this and varying opinions, but I think most people would say that the bitcoin's value determines the amount of energy required to generate them, and not the other way around.In the short run, the energy cost of generation may ensure a baseline value, but in the long run the value will be solely based on human behavior.Thanks for pushing for a slashdot feature, bitcoin could really use some publicity to help it grow. This is only because of barriers-to-entry and other implicit costs (such as availability of mineable land).  If I were able to mine gold for $400 an ounce, of course I would do it!  To extend the analogy to Bitcoin, it might cost a bit less than the value of a bitcoin to generate one, but this is because it costs $1,000 just to get the computer to generate them on. I agree with this statement, however it's important to realize that computing costs do not determine the value of bitcoins. Rather, it's the other way around (due to difficulty factor).The computing costs of generating a bitcoin at the average node's efficiency is a great way to learn its value, but does not determine its value.The value of the bitcoin is quite simply determined by what people are willing to trade for it.  This is sort of a catch 22, since people will only determine how much to trade for it based on how much stuff other people are willing to trade for it.  In a perfect market, I believe that a perfect currency would continue to increase in value until the total value of that currency market equals all of the wealth owned in the world.  This is because people will always trade "up" for it relative to other currencies, since the new currency is more convenient/secure/etc (remember, it's the perfect currency).  The exchange rate would then adjust to value the perfect currency higher, since people were trading "up" for it.  The cycle would then repeat, with people trading "up" for the currency again, relative to the new exchange rate. The cycle would repeat until the market for the perfect currency is worth the sum of all wealth.Similarly, even a better currency (bitcoin) in only a close-to-perfect market (our market) will still experience a gradual increase in value until its total market is worth a substantial amount of the world's wealth.  It will only be limited by the necessity of other currencies (such as USD's necessary for paying the government, etc), as well as it's limitations (the threat of a security breach, government shutdown, etc).  And this last part would be so difficult to approximate that I'm not even going to attempt it      The silver lining though is that at the very least, the market will price the entire currency market at the ideal spot, based on its insecurities, etc. Satoshi,That would indeed be a solution if SHA was broken (certainly the more likely meltdown), because we could still recognize valid money owners by their signature (their private key would still be secure).However, if something happened and the signatures were compromised (perhaps integer factorization is solved, quantum computers?), then even agreeing upon the last valid block would be worthless. No not a centralized registry.  There's no "agency" controlling it.  It's just something that users would agree to, just like every other rule of BC.  Deentralized and public, just like BC does transactions. Lots of stores sell Amazon.com giftcards.  If you buy one and email me the code, I'll send you BC at the rate of 1 BC / $0.006.  Funny how on this forum the same people play both sides of the table--on the one hand, trying to come up with ways to preserve absolute anonymity (e.g. the heroin store thread), and then coming here and trying to do sort of the opposite to protect BTC Faucet.  I love it   Max,Your comments make total sense, as long as there is time to switch over to the new currency when a threat looms.  This is pretty reasonable.  For example, people might start to find some small flaws with SHA-256, and so people would have time to buy into the new currency before the whole system unravels.However, supposing somebody found a major flaw while BC was in widespread usage, that person could commit a lot of fraud without people even realizing immediately.  In this case, it might be valuable to have some kind of registry, because people might want to buy into a new currency that does include some distribution in proportion to formerly registered wealth (game theoretically, only the wealthier registered 50% would prefer this currency, but that's the topic of another discussion).Now, it seems like a pretty good solution would be for everyone to hold a diversity of digital currencies, which are backed by a diversity of cryptographic methods.  However, this solution has many costs of its own, since the marketplace would need to support many currencies.  Among other things, it would be absolutely necessary to have many competing, cheap exchanges. I'll sell a brand new 8 GB iPod touch, latest generation, still sealed in the box, for BC 40,000.
