Who knows what impact the thread had on the resolution. All I know is that they were quiet for 3 months, and when I made this thread and told them about it, the issue got resolved after 1 day. No word from them, so don't know. Maybe it is just a coincidence and they were just about to resolve it anyway?The reason my account was frozen was because I had hit the withdraw limit and needed to go through the KYC process. But when I tried to upload my passport, it was rejected because they said the photo was blurry. Even though the passport was rejected, there was no way on their website to upload a new photo, it just said processing. So I tried in every was I could to get a new passport photo across to them, through email, through their ticket system, through their support chat. But no reply, just the support chat telling me to be patient and accept their appologies.Then when I wrote this thread, I was suddenly approved and my money was released. No word from them though.So my speculation is the following, which is just a speculation based on my feeling. They have deliberately made their KYC extra complicated and non user friendly. This way they hope a certain percentage of the customers will not be able to go through it. This way they can keep some of their customers money, while still maintaining deniability and blame the problem on the customer and government regulation. Yeah that's it. Their limit for non verified customers is 1,999 per year, and for customers who has gone through their KYC process it is 200,000 per week. It doesn't say which those currencies are, I suppose they are euro. I was able to withdraw bitcoin to a value of 1,999 euro, but the rest was stuck.No, the way I was communicating with them was through a chat support they have for logged in customers.Good suggestion! And... Good news, I actually got my money today! After having posted this thread here, I sent a link to the thread to their chat support and asked them to show the thread to their PR people. And that was when things started to happen. Could be a conincidence though.Anyway. I have now received my money. So I want to state that I no longer consider exchange.blockchain.com fradulent. It was a bit stressful and inconvenient, though. My key takeaway from the experience is "Not your keys, not your coins.". In the future I will do whatever I can to avoid custodial services.  Sure, but how do I move a thread? I don't see any option for that. Do you mean I should delete it and create a new thread? Hello community!I'm sad that I have to warn against the site https://exchange.blockchain.com/They seem to have frozen my funds indefinitely. At least it has been going on for 3 months, and it is impossible to get a reply from their KYC team.Their technical support is responding, though, and they keep a nice corporate facade. But at this point I really have the feeling that the core team has have taken off with my money and just hired some poor guys to sit there are give corporate answers.If my money some day will be unfrozen, I will of course put that information here in this thread, and appologize that I wrongly accuse them of criminal activity. But at this point, I'm sorry to say that the accusation is actually called for.Anyone who has had similar experiece? Any representative from exchange.blockchain.com who would like to answer? Thanks for the info, exactly what I'm looking for! I did send bithope a message to start their application process.We are currently raising funds for the festival. If the festival turns out to be a success, I will go ahead and purchase the land and we will start building. At that point we will do more crowdfunding for building materials and such. The success of the festival will be defined as:Will it be popular among people in Kibera?Will we be able to attract international visitors?Can we work together as a team to organize the festival?Will partnering organisations and artists be willing to collaborate with us to create awesome events, workshops and concerts?Will local and global visitors to the festival think it's an awesome experience?Will we be able to document it all (videos, photos, recordings from spontaneous jam sessions) and spread the message that Kibera is an awesome place?We really believe the answer to all those questions to be "YEEES!!! POA SANA!!!". However, we have learnt that it is good in all kinds of businesses to validate every such hypothesis and feeling and really be in touch with reality. So that's what we are doing with the festival. Yep the potential is huge! But for now... I see the phrases "potentially" and "as it becomes" in your reply... Is there anything that is ready to use now? My fund raiser is now and for the next two months. Let me mention The Onion Collective in Bali:https://theonionco.com/This is the story of how I used Bitcoin there:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gzKi6rw9n1E// Micke Hi!I'm currently fundraising for an artistic and Bitcoin related project on Indiegogo:https://www.indiegogo.com/projects/the-kitunguu-family-music#/Because of the Bitcoin connection, I would also like to fund raise some Bitcoins. Is there a Bitcoin based crowdfunding site I can use for this?If the Bitcoin connection is not appearant at first, see this video about my holiday in Bali, where I came up with the idea for The Kitunguu Family. You can also find this video under the updates tab on the Indiegogo page:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gzKi6rw9n1EThanks!// Micke Thanks michaeladair!If you have any questions jdebunt, or anyone else, I'm happy to answer them!Post here or inbox me, or give me a call using chiliphone here:http://chiliphone.com/+46732553464It is free of charge... // Micke Ok keep me posted! Hej,Finns det någon möjlighet just nu att "månadsspara" i bitcoin med svenska kronor just nu? Jag menar altså att automatiskt köpa bitcoin varje månad till en rimlig kurs, eller iaf så automatiskt det går, med en automatisk banköverföring eller så. Det gick tidigare med fybse, men dom har ju tyvärr tvingats lägga ner sina transaktioner med SEK. Safello planerar ev. att implementera något liknande, men det finns inget idag. Finns det några alternativ?// Micke Hehe... There is a market out there for trunking SIP calls that is quite competitive and you can make good deals if you shop around. WebRTC makes it possible to pretty much cut out the middle men in order to let the consumer enjoy these cheap prices, which hasn't really been possible before... Good point! Will fix this! Hi guys!I would like to humbly present something that I have been working on:http://www.chiliphone.comThis site uses WebRTC and Bitcoin to let you make cheap international phone calls directly from your web browser.My reason for creating this, obviously, is because I want to be "one of you guys". By this I mean that I would like to make my living inside the Bitcoin economy. I would like to earn my Bitcoins by creating stuff that is useful to people, then use the Bitcoins I earn do buy organic eggs so I can eat and other stuff that I need, and leave the depressingly hierarchical corporate world behind. I don't expect this to happen over night. I don't "expect" anything actually, but the only way I can be true to myself is by taking the first step on the path I believe in, and then ask for your guidance.So if you get the chance please take a look at my site and test it. Let me know what it needs in order to be useful and easy to use.If you want some Bitcoins to test with, please PM me.Cheers!Mikael Tack för tipset. Jag gjorde detta tidigare, men fungerar inte längre eftersom minnet i telefonen är för litet helt enkelt för att hela blockchain ska få plats.// Micke Hej,Jag har en Android telefon, någon typ av HTC med Android 2.3.5. Hiskligt gammal. På denna har jag en gammal version av Bitcoin Wallet (v2.33) som jag installerade för 2 år sedan. Jag överförde lite, vid den tiden, Bitcoin till den för att testa. Dessa Bitcoins ligger i telefonen, men jag har inget sätt att få ut dom därifrån pga att telefonen är full, så appen vägrar fungera för den kan inte synka blockchainen. Jag tänker att de privata nycklarna måste ju dock ligga där någonstans, så om man rootar telefonen kanske de går att hitta. Jag har tänkt på att jag ska lära mig hur, men inte lyckats göra detta.Därför erbjuder jag 0.1 BTC till den som kan hjälpa mig med det. Med detta menar jag alltså att komma och hälsa på hos mig, roota in sig på min telefon och skaffa fram de privata nycklarna. Jag bor i Stockholm. Förutom hittelönen på 0.1 BTC så erbjuds även en middag plus en intressant diskussion om framtiden för Bitcoin i Sverige, om detta är intressant... Inboxa mig vid intresse. Hi,I would like to run a bitcoind on Openshift. Not for mining, but to serve as a payment backend for a web site.Anyone who has experience with this and has some tips?If not, does anyone have a recommendation on a PaaS provider where to run bitcoind?  Hm,Klurigt det här. De svar här på tråden förutsätter att det finns ett tydligt pris i svenska kronor på den man köper för sina bitcoins. Men om det inte gör det? Jag tänker mig min framtid såhär... Det är ett drömscenario men jag är intresserad...Jag håller på att programmera en web-tjänst som jag tänker ta betalt för i bitcoin. Det handlar alltså inte om "minade" bitcoins, utan bitcoins jag fått som betalning av personer som använder sig av den webtjänsten. Tjänsten finns enbart prissatt i bitcoins. För dessa bitcoins tänker jag köpa grönsaker av en kompis som odlar dom i sitt grönsaksland och leva på dessa grönsaker. Om jag skulle behöva något annat än görnsaker för att leva mitt liv, till exempel kläder, så får jag vänta till man kan köpa dessa också för bitcoins, men jag tror bara det är en tidsfråga.Sedan tänker jag leva mitt liv så, och säga hej då till svenska kronor, till riksbanken och till övrig bankverksamhet.Det handlar alltså inte hobbyverksamhet, utan jag tänker leva såhär.Frågan är då, har skatteverket något intresse eller någon rätt att lägga sig i det här och beskatta mig på något sätt?Det är ju ett hypotetiskt drömscenario, men jag bara undrar... Hm är inte riktigt med på hur skatten ska beräknas i de fall det bara rör sig om bitcoin och det inte finns några svenska kronor inblandade. Om jag köpt och sålt något för kontanter är det ju lätt att avgöra värdet, men såhär:1. Jag börjar året med 0 bitcoin.2. Jag klipper grannens gräsmatta och får 1 bitcoin i betalning.3. En annan granne klipper min gräsmatta och jag ger denne granne 1 bitcoin i betalning.4. I båda transaktionerna ovan skriver vi kvitton till varandra, på kvittot står "1 bitcoin".5. Jag avslutar året med 0 bitcoin.Hur mycket ska jag betala i skatt och varför? Hej,Jag har sett artiklar som dessa senaste dagarna:http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2014-01-21/bitcoin-becomes-art-as-swedish-taxman-rejects-creative-currency.htmlOch undrar vad det innebär i praktiken. Min tolkning är så...Om man har bitcoins som man säljer och får svenska kronor, så beskattas detta som inkomst. Dvs beskattas ganska mycket. Jaja, jag har nog inte tänkt sälja mina bitcoins iallafall, utan försöker stanna inom bitcoinekonomin.Så om man stannar i bitcoinekonomin, är det skattefritt då? Dvs, om jag utför en tjänst åt någon, och denne betalar mig en bitcoin, så beskattas inte det (såvida jag inte säljer bitcoinen och får svenska kronor, men det gör jag inte). Sedan utför någon en tjänst åt mig, och då ger jag denne bitcoinen från den tidigare transaktionen som betalning. Inte heller då sker det någon beskattning, för det är inte "pengar" som bytt ägare. Alltså kan man leva skattefritt om man kan lyckas leva sitt liv inom bitcoinekonomin. Nice, hoppas det kommer fler ställen som accepterar bitcoins snart...Kan någon bekräfta eller dementera dessa vilda spekulationer?
Hi! Sorry for being a bit late, but just want to say that the order went really smooth.Didn't keep track exactly how long time it took, but I can say that my order of ten packs is almost finished and I'm soon ready for the next order.Based on experience I can really recommend bitcoincigarettes.net ...and connect the bitcoind to testnet you mean? Because otherwise I would be spending my bitcoins, and the point is being able to test without actually doing that...I have been running a local bitcoind, but I prefer to have things as much as possible in the cloud. It is also a business risk to have many servers to maintain, so that's why I will do it with blockchain.info, at least in the beginning.Thanks for your opinion though! Cool! I actually ended up creating a mocked version that uses a local database instead, it is here:https://github.com/limikael/blockchainwalletmockI created a thread for the announcement as well:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=412847.0Please test it if you want! Hello,I'm in the process of developing a Bitcoin based project using the blockchain.info wallet API to send and receive payments. I.e. this one:https://blockchain.info/api/blockchain_wallet_apiI wanted my development to be as test driven as possible, with automated tests to confirm that my logic for dealing with transactions was working. I didn't want to use real coins for testing, since this would be quite costly...I came up with this mini project that I would like to share:https://github.com/limikael/blockchainwalletmockIt is a mocked version of the blockchain.info wallet api that stores all transactions in a local database. Callbacks and everything works in the same way as the real thing, and there are methods to simulate incoming payments as well as confirmations.It is not 100% complete, I only implemented the methods I was using myself, and it's probably full of curious bugs.But please give it a test!Feedback much welcome! Ok I have ordered... Will give feedback on how the order goes... Den mest intressanta informationen jag extraherade från den artikeln är att det finns 2 restauranger i Göteborg där man kan handla med Bitcoin.Coolt!Finns det några i Stockholm ännu? Bra jobbat!  Wallet API for testnet.Hi,I'm developing a website where I'm using the Wallet API, i.e. this one:https://blockchain.info/api/blockchain_wallet_apiFor testing purposes it would be great if there was a version of this API that used the testnet. Is this something that is planned?If not, I'm thinking about developing a proxy in PHP that would mimic the wallet api but connect to a bitcoind instance (which then could be ran against the testnet).So would like to ask also if there would be any interest in this? Reeealy late reply,But I had not seen the info about the new parameters. That's great!Just wanted to say thanks!// Mikael Can we not get hold of one of these: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BMxo9sjDjbI and then dress the upper floors of Michigan Central Station with it. http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/ae/Michigan_Central_Train_Station_Exterior_2010.jpgIt would be cool.Like the screens in Times Square conveying the message of the old capitalistic economy, this would be the voice of the new economy. BANKERS ARE WANKERShttp://www.quickmeme.com/meme/3t4bna/ Is there a link to make a meme with that particular picture? Browsed on quickmeme but ran out of attention span... I wanted to make one with "The U.S loses $190.000.000.000 per year in credit card fraud"... Better would be "The World loses..." but couldn't find that figure... I saw a very good talk by Tony Gallippi, but can't remember the link right now... But as I remember, his main point was "credit cards was not made for the Internet, Bitcoin is". I think that's very valid and easy for non-techies to understand. He illustrated the point by showing statistics on how much is lost every year in credit card fraud and so, one I remember is "2.5% of all credit card transactions are fraudulent". So maybe look up some figures like that, and then as other people have posted here, show how easy it is to actually make a Bitcoin transaction compared to a credit card transaction. Ok thanks, I will do something along those lines as well. Haven't had time to test it yet though...Obyee.com looks like a good idea and nicely executed as well! Good work!  Hello,I'm implementing the blockchain.info payment API, as documented at http://blockchain.info/api/api_receiveIt works great but there is something I wonder about. To test it I made a payment using my mobile phone and the Androind Bitcoin Wallet app. Well the actual app shouldn't make a difference, just to provide you with context... Ok, so I mad the payment, and on the receiving side I would like to confirm the payment. I got the calls to my URL from blockchain.info, so that part was working great. However, when I sent some bitcoins from my phone to my site, that is one transaction, and the transaction from blockchain.info is another. And I want to be able to say with some reliability when the transaction from the user can be considered "confirmed". Say 1 confirmation, or 2 or whatever. The problem however is that this is 2 different transactions. In my case, the transaction from my phone to blockchain.info is this one:http://blockchain.info/tx/73c7fec96e1f8f980280c7783fc45a29e34ff2eb4926504c49ac1ca81c364186And then the transaction from blockchain.info to my destination address is this one:http://blockchain.info/tx/9a9cece502e4a9b8aae0410b025fcdf63ecaf5a3ff6eb21b144a1f4b9a1d2939Now, the problem is that when I sent the money from my phone, I used the "standard recommended" transaction fee that Bitcoin Wallet suggested, which I immagine most end users would do. This made that transaction confirm much faster than the one where blockchain.info sent the money to me. At the time of writing, the first transaction has 16 confirmations, whereas the other one has 4. There was a time before when I checked and the first one had 7 and the other one 0.So, for me as a merchant, I get information from blockchain.info about the second transaction, but the one I'm really interested in is the first one. It doesn't matter if the second one takes time, as long as I know that the first one is confirmed, provided that I trust blockchain.info. Which I am ready to do. So, I'm just asking has someone come across this problem? How did you solve it? I'm thinking that it would be possible somehow to follow the second transaction and find the first one, and check how many confirmations that one has, but it feels a bit hackish. Opinions? good plan! Yes that was kind of the idea, that someone would provide this kind of service and charge a fee for it. And the idea was then that people would think it was worth it, that the extra speed provided would be worth the fee, so the whole thing would be a business idea. But, well, reading the replies here and thinking about it a bit more I realize that it probably isn't the case. Also it is probably already built in to bitcoin from the start, because miners can earn a fee for confirming transactions. At least something like that, I'm not 100% sure how it works either...I agree. Maybe this will change with the coming reward drop from 50 BTC to 25 BTC for generated blocks, because it would be more profitable for miners to expedite transactions rather than mine new bitcoins. Could this be the case? Alright, I joined the event there!So what's the plan? A suggestion is that we go and meet out finnish friends when they arrive with the ferry, then we take them to some cafe in the Södermalm area, possibly cafe string which has a downstairs sitting area... If it's not too crowded, but in that case there are other places nearby... Ah I see, this makes sense.On a separate not however, when you talk about a poker room deposit, how is that not a risk? What if someone deposits some money into a poker room account and then loses all the bitcons to someone else, and then it turns out the coins were double spent? Hey guys,I'm in Stockholm and would like to join you as well!Have you thought of any place where to meet yet?And what time on the Sunday is it that you arrive in Stockholm? (in order to know if we should chose a bar of a cafe...)
