It changes too often for me to post it here. The hostname should work, if not, it should be added. :~$ ./bitcoind getinfo"balance" : 0.000000000000000Waaah! My client was on, so it should have worked. Hostname sending should work or be added, I shall suggest that up. There is no "definite" formula. It takes time, so just run in the background and don't worry about it. I highly disagree with this one. A user should always have an option to download and install updates themselves. I would suggest a box that would pop up, looking something like this:I (and many other "tin-foil-hatters") do not like nor will use software that will automatically update without our consent, and fully-automatic updating does not look good security-wise. Ah, nice, thanks for that.When I run,Is it normal for it to give nothing, or what?getinfo gives me I am new here, but I just started running the Bitcoind, and I plan to keep it running unless I find anything "wrong" with the project (which I don't think I shall).You can strap onto ipv4.harry.lu, and it should work. Main harry.lu points to the same address, but it is a dual-stack host, and I don't know if IPv6 will break the client. Hello, I heard about this project around freenode, and I really like the idea.I am wondering if there is a chance you could develop a fully headless version, but with controlling options? Maybe something similar to ncurses work, like rtorrent? So we can make and share bitcoins on headless computers, while still having the ease and control of te GUI interface?Another suggestion that would be nice would be an update module, if you are running an old version (don't know if there is already, didn't look around much).Boot strapping to a different type of medium, as well as IRC, would be an improvement as well. Maybe something similar to Bittorrent trackers? Some ISPs block IRC, and some people dislike the thought of IRC.Lastly, IPv6 support would be pretty awesome, if possible. Then people would worry less about the IRC bootstrapping, I'd think.I am also running bitcond 1.3 (RC?) that satoshi just posted. How do I use it though? There aren't many docs on using bitcoind... it just said "starting bitcoin server", and my IP appears in the #bitcoin room on irc.lfnet.org. How would I figure out my bitcoin address, how many coins I have, send to other people, etc?I am no C programmer, so I would not be able to implant any of these suggestions, but I would hope that it could be possible Thanks in advance!
