Friends,let me clarify my initial post.I am *not* talking about parallel currencies, a suggestive topic, though, with notable derivatives, but not clearly related with initial post [Personally, I think if any P2P social-free-currency becomes clearly successful, the World's owners will react minting their own digital currencies; likely hard-linked with national physical currencies and promoted by their propaganda media].I am *not* talking about another clients or a standarized API too. Although seemingly it is a quite sense proposal, may be the computational-logical machinery cannot be easily encapsulated within a library. Estimating such a proposal is beyond my present knowledge of the Bitcoin's application.I am talking about another architectural implementations. Let me to put forward using two questions:a) Fast generation of new blocks is key to time-stamp pending transactions and each new block is a heavy computational-statistical issue, Therefore, why not to distribute such a computational effort among idle CPUs?b) Broadcasting of the block chain is other key aspect. Therefore, why use a single network/mechanism to communicate among peers?From my modest point of view, implementations based on stand-alone executables cannot address above questions or similar ones.However, I have not got a clear idea if the Bitcoin's community will accept several Bitcoin architectural implementations working all together. This is my first post, my first impression on Bitcoin after prowling around during days.I am impressed with the mathematical machinery, hardly impressed.On the other hand, a recurring question strikes me.Seemingly the Bitcoin's implementation was born as a stand-alone executable, a main loop driven GUI. Additionally, from 0.2.6 version, JSON-RPC events can be fed into the main loop allowing integration with a variety of environments; however the stand-alone nature remains.I have seen some topics proposing Firefox plugins or a standardized API (likely as a C++ library). But, ... there could be one question beyond.What about another Bitcoin's implementations? Of course, I am talking about conformant ones.Particularly, interesting implementations could address disadvantages of the monolithic, stand-alone solution. Examples of such advantages could be distribution of the heavy computational effort, additional concurrent networks to boost broadcasting of Bitcoin's blocks, and so on.I would like to know the position of Bitcoin's community regarding of several Bitcoin implementations working all together.Make sense? Is it acceptable? Are any such initiatives out there?
