Hi Vod, each bet placed in a PolyCash game is associated to a Litecoin UTXO.  When setting up your own PolyCash node, you first install litecoin as a full node.You then acquire in-game coins from an exchange or by purchasing them from another user.The private keys to your bets are stored in your litecoin wallet.dat I'm not too familiar with your diagram, but levels 3 and 7 would both seem to apply to how consensus is maintained here.PolyCash is a protocol for colored coins.  Each currency launched on this protocol runs on a UTXO-based blockchain like Bitcoin or Litecoin.This consensus paradigm doesn't rely on smart contracts.PolyCash nodes remain in sync as long as they agree on parameters that define the currency.For this eSports stablecoin, nodes maintain consensus on transaction data by referencing data from the Litecoin blockchain.But transaction data isn't the only information needed to maintain consensus.  Info about the betting events plus base parameters for the currency are included in the game definition (a text file).  Nodes verify that they're in sync by comparing game definitions with their peers. Fixed odds betting relies on two-party contracts and there are plenty of existing systems for that.  For this, we used a more decentralized design for parimutuel betting.With all bets placed by users, there's no need for a house.  Bets are placed and paid out at the protocol level, so you always maintain the private keys to your bets and never send coins to a trusted intermediary.By eliminating the house edge / vigorish (typically 10%) we intend to attract bettors with significantly higher payouts. I'll put more info about the investment I'm seeking on the website.  Thanks for your feedback. Yes, we are launching an esports bookie using this tech, and accept bitcoin.  It's not that we are accepting stablecoins, but rather that the eSports betting is accomplished through a stablecoin that we are launching which uses the Litecoin network for its private keys. I would like to make profit-sharing agreements with any investors.  Fees on betting are low (0.10% to 0.5%), but with good volume there should be money coming in.It is also a very liquid investment.  Investors hold the private keys to their money and can cash out their stablecoins at any time. Yeah I do see your point.  People are used to their potential payout being fixed at the time they place their bet.But I think this system can work well for betting markets with large volume.  If you place your bet near the end of the betting period, the odds are not likely to change much by the time betting ends.  And of course the odds could change in your favor rather than changing against you.If the odds do change dramatically, you can effectively cancel your position by betting on the other options.Since this is open source & running on the blockchain, bets can be placed in an automated way & there's very little friction.On average bookmakers may pay out only 80% or 90% of the money they take in.  So offering payouts that are on average ~20% higher can hopefully overcome objections to the differences with this system. We are now distinguishing between the protocol (PolyCash) and a site dedicated to eSports betting (StakeMoney)To check out the eSports betting, follow this link:https://intro.stakemoney.com/ This system uses parimutuel betting, so odds are not fixed until betting ends.You can see the current odds when you're placing your bet, but those odds may go up or down a bit, depending on how people after you bet.  Everyone gets the same odds once betting ends. I'm launching an eSports betting business & looking for some help.  The goal is to provide maximum odds & payouts to bettors using open source P2P tech.The technology for this business is fully built.  It makes extensive use of the blockchain for the underlying betting system, and also uses the blockchain for player deposits and withdrawals.  You can read my post history to get some more information about this technology.Betting operates with no house and the payouts & odds for each event are determined entirely by player bets.I need some investors who can consistently wager money on eSports betting events.  Currently we have very low betting volume which means that when bettors join, they find that they can't bet very much money without dramatically changing the odds on eSports matches.Investors will essentially set up their own "eSports betting hedge fund" where they'll bet on eSports matches.  By betting on both sides of each match, investors can provide liquidity to betting events and also avoid losing or gaining much depending on the outcome of each match.If you're interested in getting involved, please DM me, reply with any questions in this thread or visit our eSports betting landing page:https://intro.stakemoney.comFor more info on the tech behind this project, you can follow these links.https://poly.cashhttps://github.com/PolyCash/polycash This is open source and anyone can install a node.  This is an implementation of the colored coins concept and is compatible with Bitcoin, Litecoin and any other blockchain based on bitcoin's code.Unlike ICOs I'm not trying to launch a single currency.  Anyone can use this open source protocool to launch their own currency.Here I'm proposing a stablecoin pegged to the dollar and using the Litecoin network.  Players own coins with litecoin private keys held in a litecoin wallet on their node.It's possible to use this protocol to launch coins which are not backed by anything.  But I believe coins should be backed by sources of value which is why I'm pursuing a business model which uses stablecoins.Yes, the stablecoin aspect means this is less decentralized than bitcoin and is more similar to Tether.One of the weaknesses of Tether's business model is that there is no end date to their stablecoin.  Tether holders are asked to trust Tether to keep every coin fully backed by a dollar, without incurring any operating expenses and no end date to the scheme.Here I'm proposing a series of stablecoins each of which has an end date.  When a game ends, the source of value funds are paid out and the stablecoin is terminated.  Then another game starts and players have the opportunity to buy in to the next game.  You can buy from the stablecoin issuer or from other coin holders via an exchange.  Putting an end date on each stablecoin means that any situation where the stablecoin issuers fails to maintain the escrowed store of value funds becomes apparent.I believe the transparency and incentives in this design are a much better way to guarantee against fraud in comparison to stablecoins like Tether.  Charging fees to bettors by burning some coins whenever a bet is placed causes the supply of coins to constantly reduce, and these fees accrue to the stablecoin issuer by reducing the amount of store-of-value funds owed to the coin holders.  Giving stablecoin issuers a legitimate way to make money makes the business model work and allows them to earn a transparent profit which they can use towards operating expenses.As I mentioned above, the business model that I'm pursuing is not similar to ICOs where the founders make money via seigniorage.  Instead in this business model, fees are earned by the stablecoin issuer and any "hedge funds" which help sets the odds and provide liquidity to the bettors.  Bettors benefit since they get odds which are higher than traditional bookmakers and also from more decentralized design of this system (open source software, holding your own private keys). I would like to launch real money betting with a game that isn't too long (say 1 week or a month).Anyone who wants to participate can sign up and commit a dollar amount.  Once enough commitments are made, everyone will send in their money via BTC which I'll immediately convert to dollars.  The game will then be launched, and I'll distribute in-game coins to the investors in proportion to the amount of money they sent in.  (In game coins will just be called dollars since they're pegged to the dollar).  The game will run on Litecoin network, which means that to launch the game I'll create a genesis transaction on Litecoin, and then each investor will receive their in-game coins via a Litecoin address.  (They will receive a tiny amount of litecoins which will have a larger value in dollars via the PolyCash protocol).Betting on eSports events will then run while the game is in progress.  The game will end at a fixed time, at which point the currency will be wound down by the stablecoin issuer (me in this case) buying back the in-game coins while maintaining the 1 dollar per in-game coin peg.Players / investors should install their own nodes.  It's possible to play by creating a web wallet on a hosted node, but much better if players run their own nodes.I would like to get at least 20 players who each put in $100 to $500 for this trial run.  Some of the details of this are still flexible.  For example, we could use Rock Paper Scissors betting rather than eSports betting.  We could use Bitcoin blockchain to run the game rather than Litecoin.  (The reason I'm proposing Litecoin is because the fast blocks are good for betting, and transaction fees are low).  We could keep the in-game coins pegged to BTC rather than dollars.  Buy-ins and payouts could be done with Tether rather than Bitcoin. To place a bet, you actually burn coins by sending them to one of your own burn addresses.  When the outcome of the betting event is determined, winning bets are paid by the protocol creating new coins at the address associated with the betting transaction where you burned coins.Stablecoin functionality is where some centralization comes in.  Like Tether, the peg between in-game coins and dollars relies on people purchasing coins with dollars, and those dollars being held in escrow.  Coin holders can sell out at any time by redeeming their in-game coins for dollars from the stablecoin issuer.Unlike ICOs, the stablecoin issuer does not make money via seigniorage (printing money).  The business model for a stablecoin issuer is more like that of a bookmaker.  Players deposit money, bet, and then cash out.It's possible for the stablecoin issuer to charge fees on bets without ever holding the private keys to any bets.  This is done by setting the payout rate for betting events to below 100%.  For example in the play money Rock Paper Scissors Fast game, the payout rate is set to 99.9% (fees of 0.10%).  The amount of new coins created in the payout is slightly less than the coins burned by players in bets, causing the supply of coins to constantly reduce.  The stablecoin issuer maintains the peg of 1 dollar per in-game coin, and therefore keeps these fees as their profit when the game ends since they owe less dollars to players than they originally took in. Yeah, it has been publicized in several other threads here on bitcointalk - you can check my post history to see those threads.  It has previously always been using play money.  I'm hoping real money betting will gain more interest now. The operator key is like a password that allows you install the app.  Just generate a random string of characters and enter that into your config file as the operator key.  If you're installing on your local computer rather than a public facing server, you can even just leave the operator key empty.  I will try to make sure that's clear in the README. The current ban on sports is not a major problem since we are focusing on eSports.  We also have betting games based on random numbers from the blockchain, and based on stock prices. Yes, the platform is ready but funding is needed.The advantages of this are:You hold the private keys to your bets.It's open source.Peer to peer design: anyone can set up a node.Odds are set by player bets rather than by a house.Highest odds and payouts compared to bookmakers.Compatible with bitcoin, litecoin & any blockchains based on bitcoin's code.Stablecoin functionality: in-game coins can be pegged to dollars, bitcoins etc.Disadvantages are:Centralized bookmakers make more profit on bets.  That makes the business model trickier to get going with this system.No accumulator/parlay bets.  This system uses parimutuel betting and does not support parlay bets. PolyCash is an open source betting protocol that makes it easy to create cryptocurrencies pegged to sources of value like dollars or bitcoins.We've been running betting games using play money and are now taking things to the next level by launching games where you can bet with real money.We are seeking partners to help us provide liquidity and hedge against the financial risk of bets placed by our end users.  This protocol is designed to make betting as decentralized as possible.  In PolyCash betting games, there is no house and odds are determined entirely by the bets placed by the players.  When you bet you don’t send money to a trusted intermediary.  Instead, bets are placed by sending coins to your own addresses so that you maintain control of the private keys for your bets.PolyCash can be used for betting on any topic.  We currently have games running where you can bet on events where the winner is determined at random in a provably fair manner (see decentralized Rock Paper Scissors).  We also have games running for betting on the winners of eSports matches (CS:GO, Dota 2, League of Legends and more - see https://poly.cash/esports-free/)We need commitments from several “betting hedge funds” in order to launch real money betting for eSports.  Betting funds will wager money on betting events to help set the odds and to provide liquidity so that end users can bet significant amounts of money without dramatically changing the odds.  PolyCash betting is designed for extremely low fees and provides odds and payouts much higher than traditional betting systems.  With fees nearly at zero, it's easy for betting hedge funds to earn profit with low risk betting strategies that outperform the market.PolyCash is a platform for stablecoins and eSports betting will operate with coins pegged to the dollar.  You can buy in and sell out at any time using bitcoin, but the bitcoins will be converted to dollars based on the exchange rate at the time of each transaction.Fees in eSports betting will be set to the low rate of 0.25% on the payouts of winning bets.  You can register as a betting hedge fund by committing to purchasing as low as $1000 of in-game coins.  To operate a betting fund, you should set up your own node.  The eSports betting game will run on the Litecoin network so you'll install a Litecoin full node in addition to PolyCash.You can get familiarized with the PolyCash betting platform by creating a web wallet on one of our hosted nodes like https://poly.cash and placing bets in play-money games.  If you’re interested in creating your own betting hedge fund, please respond in this thread with any questions, or DM me. In addition to placing bets manually, you can also select an strategy & have bets placed for you automatically at regular intervals. Decentralized Rock Paper Scissors is a fast paced betting game with events ending every minute.Unlike traditional casino games, this game is P2P and fully open source.  It is built on the PolyCash protocol.In this RPS themed game, one of the 3 options is randomly chosen as the winner based on the latest block hash.Bets are paid out on the following block via decentralized protocol.There is no house and no fees.  Odds are dynamic and determined based on player bets.No house edge means you get higher odds than you'd get with traditional betting games.This is currently using play money and you can get 5000 fake dollars upon signup.We will soon be launching a real money version of this (and other games) so that you can play with real money.Please try it out and post your feedback in this thread.In addition to playing for free coins by creating a web wallet on our public node, we need people to install nodes.  If you're interested in setting up a node, check out the project on github and feel free to contact me in case you have any problems installing.To start playing, please follow this link:https://poly.cash/rock-paper-scissors/Install your own node:https://github.com/PolyCash/polycashHere's a screenshot of the betting UI:
Thanks PolyCash is the ultimate open source betting protocol.We are on a mission to disrupt the sports betting industry by giving higher odds and bigger payouts to bettors.eSports Promo is a promotional cryptocurrency to generate interest for open source betting.The eSports Promo currency will launch as soon as we get enough signups to get a good eSports betting game going.eSports Promo will launch with these parameters:Coin name:Promocoin(s)Supply:5,000,000 promocoinsBlockchain:LitecoinDistribution:50% to 90% promotional giveaway to users.50% to 10% retained by PolyCashTo distribute the currency and get the game going, we are giving away 25,000 promocoins to each of the first 100 players to join the game.  That's 50% of the entire supply of the currency or 0.5% to each of these first users.If we quickly get 100 initial players, we'll give out an additional 40% of the currency, but with a smaller number of coins for the next users to sign up.Players should use their coins to bet daily on our eSports betting events for CS:GO, Dota 2 and League of Legends.  We will add and resolve at least 5 betting events every day.There is no guarantee that promocoins will have any value.  Please view your coins as an opportunity to try betting and to learn more about this project.To get 25,000 promocoins please send me a DM here.  You must include either:- Your email address- Or your username on https://poly.cash- Or a Litecoin address where I should send your coinsI recommend sending me your email address.  This will ensure that you receive daily email notifications about your wins and losses and also gives me a way to contact you.If you don't wish to create a user account on https://poly.cash just send me a Litecoin address and you can still participate by installing PolyCash on your own computer.If you send me your email address or PolyCash username, your promotional coins will be given to you via your web wallet on poly.cash.  After claiming your coins there, you can withdraw your coins to another wallet any time.We need a small amount of litecoins to issue the 5,000,000 promocoins.  To contribute to this cost, please consider donating some litecoins:Litecoin donation address:  LgR3Z96xLThAnoDVNy9o9neJzJRA74fisT  View transactionsBitcoin donation address:  17azxyGhnA82RkVddHsQxFbisSQo2FMJCn  View transactionsPlease note that you do not need to respond to this thread to receive coins but instead you should send me a direct message.  This is to comply with the giveaway thread guidelines for this board. Money from lost bets goes to the winning players for each event rather than to a house.As the one who issued the stablecoin and holds the $10k which is owed to the coin holders, the only way I make money is that until I sell them, I hold a large number of coins and so make money from the appreciation of those coins as fees reduce the coins in circulation.But I see your point that having the coin slowly go up in price vs USD prevents it from being perfectly stable and is confusing.  There is a way I could change this so that fees go to the stablecoin operator rather than the coin holders.  This essentially makes the stablecoin operator into a house and so kind of goes against the original concept of creating a betting system with no house.  On the other hand this change gives the "house" a way to make money which helps make this into a sustainable business.  Betting still works without money being sent to a central party so this is still substantially more decentralized than a traditional betting system. I also don't know of any coins running on Litecoin. Maybe this is a first?This is a protocol for colored coins.  This particular crypto asset is roughly pegged to the dollar hence the name "bucks" but uses trace amounts of litecoins to represent ownership.  Running on Bitcoin/Litecoin gives all the security and cryptographic functionality of those blockchains.  The colored coin protocol is needed for the decentralized betting functionality which relies on "burn addresses" where bets are placed by burning coins to your own address matching the format associated with the option that you're betting for.Bitcoin deposits and withdrawals are already enabled.Buying in, placing bets and withdrawing are pretty simple at the UI level.  If it seems complicated to you, I recommend trying the software.  I'm hoping to refine my presentation on how to explain this so that people can understand it easily. Is the issue that no one wants to hold USD until their bet resolves, or that people are expecting to get ripped off on the conversion or something?Based on the feedback here so far, I'm considering switching to a BTC pegged in-game currency called mBTC worth 1/1000 of a bitcoin each.  Deposits/withdrawals will no longer depend on the USD/BTC exchange rate so it will be easier to see that there's no deposit/withdrawal fees.  I want to make sure I understand your objection(s) first though. Has anyone tried placing a bet and willing to share their experience? The advantages are:Low fees, and fees go to coin holders rather than a business owner.This is an open source P2P app which can you can install on your own computer.You can create your own betting currencies.By running your own node you can fork any coin where you disagree with consensus on the outcome of a betting event.This app has nice wallet and blockchain explorer features which you can use for viewing BTC/LTC data or managing your bitcoins/litecoins (or any other blockchain based on the Bitcoin code).This app does a great job of handling all the complexity of the blockchain and makes creating a new P2P betting currency as easy as integrating a data source or uploading a CSV file. As I sell bucks, I will hold on to those deposits, so would have up to $20k in the business account if a majority of bucks were to be sold.  I am operating with no expenses because the important thing at this point is proving the concept, and I have another source of income.This is parimutuel betting and all bets are between players.  There is no house holding onto funds.  When you place a bet, you actually destroy coins to one of your own addresses and then the protocol creates new coins to the winning addresses when each event pays out.  The 1% fee is paid to all coin holders via deflation rather than being kept by a house.Parties holding onto the backing funds are a point of centralization but are not involved in the betting and should not be confused with the house in a traditional sportsbook.This is a platform which makes it easy to create a currency and betting functionality is built in at the protocol level for these currencies.In eSports Live $10k, "bucks" run on Litecoin and each bet creates a Litecoin transaction.  We could run on Bitcoin instead but TX fees would be $1-$2 per TX, compared to Litecoin where we can get transactions with 20+ bets confirmed for 0.0001 LTC = 1 penny.We already have BTC payments & withdrawals built in.There is some risk since this is a new app with lots of functionality.  But a lot of steps have been taken to make sure nothing goes wrong like holding backing funds in a traditional bank account and keeping only some BTC on public nodes and transferring the remainder to offline wallets.  We also have done comprehensive security reviews and did a bug bounty program for finding vulnerabilities and so are highly confident that the app is secure.Even though this coin is not tradable on exchanges, you can still buy & sell your coins for BTC by trading with public nodes. Players can buy in with Bitcoin and then cash out to Bitcoin any time.  Both processes are fully automated so I don't believe it's any slower or less convenient than sites where you bet directly with Bitcoin.We can do a Bitcoin backed coin if players would prefer to have the value of their in-game coins fluctuate with the value of BTC rather than dollars.  Or do one backed by dollars and another backed by BTC and allow players to choose.Yes, correct.Not exactly.  This is a platform for a plurality of currencies.  The idea is that anyone can issue a new coin and then give it value by backing it with tangible sources of value.  In this case, I have $10k that I can personally put up to back this currency.  Putting an end date on the coin and requiring the backing dollars to be paid out avoids the situation where a stablecoin operator can use funds from the escrow because there is no clear obligation to repay.If having USDB increase vs USD due to deflation from fees is too complicated, we could set betting fees to zero and maintain a strict $1 per buck peg. PolyCash is the ultimate open source gambling protocol.  PolyCash integrates with Bitcoin, Litecoin and other blockchains and makes it easy to create a cryptocurrency for betting on anything.We recently launched eSports Live $10k.  This is a game for betting on CS:GO, Dota 2 and League of Legends using a stablecoin called "bucks" (USDB).  This colored coin runs on the Litecoin network and is backed by $10,000 in real dollars.To bet on eSports, you first need to acquire some bucks.  Bucks are not listed on any exchange, so for now, you'll need to purchase bucks by depositing BTC to one of the public nodes hosting the eSports Live $10k crypto asset, such as https://poly.cash.  Your BTC will immediately be converted to bucks based on the current USD/BTC exchange rate.You can set up a wallet by either:1. Installing Litecoin, PolyCash and eSports Live $10k on your own computer.2. Creating a web wallet on a public node like https://poly.cashNow that you have a wallet and some bucks, bet on as many eSports events as you want.  eSports Live $10k charges a fee of 1% on each winning bet.You can sell out at any time by entering a Bitcoin address.  Buy-ins and sell-outs are not quite instantaneous because one confirmation is required on Bitcoin or Litecoin.This is a maximally decentralized betting platform and there's no house taking a cut.  Instead, the 1% fee is destroyed, reducing the supply of bucks.  The supply of bucks decreases as more and more betting fees are paid.  But the $10k backing this currency remains constant, causing bucks to grow in value vs the US dollar.  PolyCash is a pioneer of a concept called the "fixed term token" in which pegged coins are wound down for the sake of transparency rather than living indefinitely. eSports Live $10k will not live forever, and at some point this stablecoin will be wound down and the $10,000 backing it will be paid out to the coin holders via the Litecoin network.  We have not yet set an end date for this $10k stablecoin, but will eventually do so based on feedback from coin holders.This eSports betting game is pegged to the dollar but we can just as easily create coins pegged to bitcoin, eth and more.  We can also integrate data sources for betting on other topics like sports or stocks.Here are some screenshots of betting, buying in and selling out. Right click and open in new tab to see full size.  This project has been under development for a while and the concept has changed significantly since we got started.  Please help us revolutionize the betting industry with open source software by making some bets with BTC or posting any questions or comments in this thread. Ok I just tried getrawtransaction with verbose=true and I can see the inputs properly now. Thanks. I am building a blockchain explorer and found a couple of transactions which are causing problems for me.These transactions have no inputs and have negative value outputs.  Furthermore, the negative value outputs have been spent in transactions which appear to have greater outputs than inputs.  When I check these transactions on block explorers like Blockchain.com these transactions look ok.  But what I get from running getrawtransaction and decoderawtransaction is not consistent with those explorers.The outputs that I'm looking at are:Created in tx 9789cf1e36def70ea44219c6c2bd633bf831a67cb659a19c2757b709883cdd6eSpent in tx 4faba86e9cc006378216defa5bb29c87826d8aa5d02c7a03af2c1f237ec98354Created in tx 797d455d6a13c9418a8c6d75aa119827c3b6036b015687e9de7f4d2f16bfadeeSpent in tx 8728c4ddc43c8f1259cb4fe08c28eea732f168b9960c3f40c0e5ac81baeddc0cCan anyone help me understand what's going on with these transactions?  If this isn't the right place for this issue, please direct me appropriately.decoderawtransaction returns the following for the creation transactions:9789cf1e36def70ea44219c6c2bd633bf831a67cb659a19c2757b709883cdd6e797d455d6a13c9418a8c6d75aa119827c3b6036b015687e9de7f4d2f16bfadee Yes, this is similar to Ethereum in many ways.  Allowing you to launch second layer currencies, prediction market applications etc.This software is oriented towards currencies backed by tangible sources of value.  When creating a new currency, you can put dollars, BTC etc into an escrow account and set up a mechanism to allow coin holders to unlock funds from escrow by destroying their coins, or to issue new coins by depositing funds into escrow.  This allows you to create coins pegged to other currencies.Or otherwise specify the intellectual property, commodities, streams of revenue etc that ownership of the coin gives you.With this approach, we may not be directly in competition with many of the existing hype-based coins. CoinBlock has rebranded to PolyCash (https://poly.cash)Please check out my latest post for more information.BitcoinTalk: Seeking investors and users to launch dollar and BTC backed betting currencies We have not raised any money for duelcoin and have been giving it away for free, so it is essentially valueless and is not listed on any exchange.  You could still buy / sell this coin by communicating with other users, as was done in the early days of BTC before exchanges.We are soon launching value backed currencies which will be listed on exchanges.We do want to reward early adopters and therefore your duelcoins may convert to valuable coins once we launch those currencies. Thanks for your question.  None of our coins are yet listed on any exchange.  So far, we have only issued promotional currencies which have been given away for free and therefore have essentially no value.  Since this platform makes it so easy to issue a new coin, we believe coins should be backed by tangible assets like dollars, BTC etc in order to have value.Raising money from investors will allow us to launch one or more value-backed currencies which will be listed on exchanges.I would not describe any of these coins as on site currencies, because even with our promotional currencies, you can download PolyCash and install these currencies on your own node, and you are free to withdraw coins to your own node. PolyCash is a protocol which makes it possible to launch your own currency on top of any UTXO blockchain (Bitcoin, Litecoin etc). To create a new currency first install the blockchain of your choice. Install PolyCash and then import a text file defining your new crypto asset. This text file is called the game definition. Or use the game creator GUI to enter the parameters for your new asset. You can load any number of currencies into your PolyCash installation by importing their game definitions. PolyCash may take minutes, hours or longer to sync a crypto asset depending on its age and transaction volume.PolyCash is a virtualization layer for the blockchain and PolyCash currencies inherit all the properties of Bitcoin like its cryptographic security & physical decentralization. PolyCash extends the blockchain to enable binary options functionality which means that you can use this platform to build fully decentralized prediction markets for betting on sports or anything else. PolyCash also allows you to create, hold and transfer contracts pegged to the value of ETH, BTC, stocks or anything else. PolyCash is a robot-friendly protocol and the PolyCash wallet app includes features which make it easy to set up an automated strategy to place bets or buy & sell assets for you in real time.PolyCash is a competitor to Ethereum’s ERC-20 token issuance protocol and is ideal for representing ownership of intellectual property, companies, financial assets, commodities & more. PolyCash is fully open source and leaves currency issuers and users responsible for ensuring legal compliance wherever they do business. We believe that cryptocurrencies backed by dollars, bitcoins and other tangible sources of value are the future, and PolyCash makes it easy to back your currency with these value sources. In backed currencies, you can cash out at any time by destroying your coins in the correct way.The PolyCash app is in great shape and we’ve already launched several crypto assets which are running smoothly in the real world. So far, we’ve launched testnet currencies for betting on eSports & cryptocurrency prices. Now we are seeking business partners to help us launch one or more dollar backed currencies for betting on sports and/or eSports. We are looking for several investors who would each create a betting hedge fund and would write an algorithm which would contribute to setting the odds by placing bets 24/7. Normal sports bettors will also be free to buy in, place bets, and withdraw at any time.We are building a business using this technology, but we are also building a community around this technology unrelated to the business. The best way to get a better understanding of this project is to claim some free coins and then try betting on crypto prices in our Crypto Duels game. You can try out Crypto Duels by signing up for a web wallet or by downloading & installing PolyCash on your own computer. To claim free duelcoins from our faucet, you will need to visit https://poly.cash. You can also learn more by reading our blog, whitepaper or our source code. PolyCash has only recently hit MVP, after like 3 years in development.I believe it's one of the best blockchain apps out there.It can sync nearly any UTXO blockchain to MySQL in real time.Awesome protocol for launching crypto assets which you can create by GUI.Already secure & works great for betting; it's essentially a solution for the "editable blockchain" since you can go back and change history (prediction market outcomes) for your crypto assets.  You can still maintain decentralized consensus via the game definition.Right now I have a "web api" blockchain mode built in so that you can instantly create new blockchains for free.  Those blockchains are not cryptographically secure but are useful for development and can be used securely by relying on trusted nodes.Would love to get some feedback from people who have read my blog, whitepaper or tried installing the app.Links:https://poly.cashhttps://medium.com/polycashhttps://github.com/PolyCash/polycashhttps://poly.cash/pages/PolyCash-whitepaper-v3.pdf Crypto Duels: bet on crypto pricesCrypto Duels is a betting game for the duelcoin currency.  Sign up today and receive 5,000 duelcoins for free.  Then grow your balance by betting on head to head matchups between competing cryptocurrencies.Duels last 2.5 hours each and 5 duels are running at any time, with one duel ending every 30 minutes.  Whichever currency goes up in price the most wins, as determined by price data from Poloniex.  Crypto Duels uses in-play betting which means you can bet while the event is taking place.Crypto Duels is built on PolyCash, an open source platform for P2P currencies and betting.  If you want, you can install PolyCash and play Crypto Duels from your own computer rather than playing through the PolyCash website. PolyCash is launching a blockchain for games like Crypto Duels and early adopters will be rewarded just for participating.To start betting, please claim your 5,000 free duelcoins by visiting https://poly.cash/crypto-duels/Please post any questions or comments in this thread. Our secondly weekly game ends tomorrow.  You can still sign up and bet: https://poly.cash
PolyCash is an open source app for peer to peer currencies and betting.  For more information, please read our whitepaper or visit our website or our blog.In PolyCash games, players contribute dollars, bitcoins, ether or other currencies to escrow.  Once the game starts, the in-game currency inflates rapidly and players compete to win coins by betting on events.  When the game finishes, the money in escrow is divided up and given back to the players based on their final in-game balances.We have been working on this project since 2015 and are proud to announce that we are finally ready to start running games for real money.  But we don’t expect you to put your bitcoins into something that you don’t fully understand.  To get this project started, we have created a promotional currency called “stakes.” Right now, we are giving out 1000 stakes every week to everyone who signs up.  That’s right, you can start receiving 1000 stakes every week just for signing up.  You’re probably wondering: are stakes worth anything?  Currently stakes are not listed on any exchange and there’s no exchange rate for converting stakes to bitcoins.  But we do plan to launch a valuable currency someday based on this technology, and when we do that, your stakes will convert to that currency at some exchange rate.  You may not receive too much money when that happens though.  Keep in mind that we can’t give away too much equity in this project for free without taking away value from our paying investors.  Please use your stakes to gain understanding and to test out this project rather than hoarding them for their value.PolyCash is a robot friendly protocol.  That means that you can either:•   Log in occasionally and bet manually on your favorite teams.•   Connect your coins to an algorithm which will automatically bet for you every day.If you hold your coins and don’t bet at all, you’ll lose out in the long run due to inflation.  We’ve found that requiring players to log in and bet is too much to ask.  Therefore, during these promotional games, we may automatically assign you an algorithmic strategy which will automatically bet for you a couple of times a day.  You’ll receive an email every day showing how many bets you won, how many you lost, and your net performance for the day.  You can log in at any time and change to another strategy.  Better yet, write your own betting algorithm and allow other players to use it or keep it for yourself.Since promotional stakes may have value someday, we ask that you please only create a single user account.  If we find that you’ve been creating multiple accounts, we may delete any duplicate accounts and destroy the associated coins for the sake of fairness.  So that we can contact you and to prevent duplicate accounts, please enter an email address when signing up.  Please share your questions and comments below in this thread.  To get started, please visit https://poly.cash, join one of our weekly eSports games, and start betting.  Or check out our source code on GitHub.A screenshot of the PolyCash betting interface. Join today & receive 10,000 betcoins (1000 stakes). Hi everyone, EmpireCoin has rebranded to PolyCash.Check it out via https://poly.cash or check out this thread:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2955215.0 PolyCash image tournament is officially live!Win coins by betting on your favorite pictures from Reddit.First 20 players to sign up receive 5,000 stakes from the faucet.This is a 9 round single elimination tournament. Each round of staking takes around 2 hours.https://poly.cashFor more information about PolyCash, check out these threads:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2955215.0https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2870712.0Your questions & suggestions are welcome.Photos for this game are managed & hosted by Imgur. Reply in this thread and I'll PM you some free coins. PolyCash makes it simple to create new altcoins by GUI. PolyCash is a feature-rich protocol, and polycash-protocol crypto assets can be created with advanced functionality. PolyCash-protocol coins can be pegged to other cryptocurrencies, and even to fiat currencies like the dollar (similar to Tether). By creating an altcoin with gamified inflation, you can create distributed prediction markets and betting games.This is an open source web app built using MySQL and PHP. We've put in a lot of effort to make it painless to install this app. But this is still an early stage project; for now, you'll still need to install Apache, MySQL and PHP before you can run this app. But you don't need to install the app to experiment with this project; you can simply sign up for a web wallet on one of our nodes or on another node that you trust with your private keys.PolyCash assets are implemented as "colored coins" aka "second layer tokens". PolyCash is compatible with Bitcoin, Litecoin and any other blockchain which uses the Bitcoin RPC calls. You can use PolyCash to represent ownership of commodities or even your company by issuing a token on the Litecoin or Bitcoin network.In PolyCash asset with gamified inflation, users need to stake their coins occasionally in order to get their fair share of the currency's inflation. This means that after purchasing your coins, there are a few different user experiences. Traders who are heavily involved in these games can share their staking strategies or staking decisions with other players. You can either:1. Make your staking decisions manually   - Log in frequently, examine the current events and staking options and manually stake your coins.2. Use an automated staking strategy or outsource your staking decisions.   - Log in once, research the various traders & staking scripts and choose your staking strategy.   - Log in once in a while to check your performance. Switch to another trader or staking strategy if you're not pleased with your current strategy.PolyCash is a platform with a large number currencies. We're working to develop a single unified currency by creating a custom blockchain which will enable certain features that are not possible on blockchains like Litecoin and Bitcoin. You can pre buy stakes in the custom currency right now by donating Bitcoins. Once our pre-ICO is complete, ownership in the custom currency ("stakes") will be granted to everyone who donated, in proportion to the amounts of their donations. But right now, we need your interest and participation more than we need your money. Please visit our website and sign up for a user account to receive free coins and to try out the platform. We have several betting games running right now that will allow you to understand the PolyCash platform. For more technically savvy users, please try installing the PolyCash app.Link to websitehttps://poly.cash/Link to source codehttps://github.com/polycash/polycash Virtual election 2018 is one of the games currently running. In this game, candidates with more than 70% of the votes are disqualified from winning. When events end, coins are given out to the players who voted for the winner, in proportion to the amount that they bet.The 70% voting cap is the rule for the virtual election game. But not all games are determined that way. In the fantasy world cup game, the winner is determined by whichever team scores the most goals (goals are scored based on pseudo-random data from the blockchain). In the Coin Battles game, the winner is whichever currency goes up in value the most during the 8 hour period that the game is running (as determined by price data pulled from Poloniex). PolyCash is a an open source blockchain project which makes it easy to create altcoins and other crypto assets without writing code. To create a new coin, simply use the PolyCash GUI to select a blockchain such as Bitcoin or Litecoin, enter parameters defining the behavior of your coin and then launch your new coin. PolyCash coins are second layer tokens - the PolyCash protocol is therefore a competitor to the ERC-20 standard.PolyCash also makes it easy to create physical scratch off cards which can integrate with your website. Handing out scratch off cards is a great way to give your customers access to your services in a secure and user-friendly way.We are building a custom blockchain which will enable advanced functionality for PolyCash tokens. More information about our ICO will be posted soon.Right now, we need users to test out our platform. You can test out PolyCash by signing up for free and playing some of our games via https://poly.cashAutomated staking is allowed in PolyCash games. Once this platform is launched, players in PolyCash games will sign up, research various traders and then assign their staking decision to the trader of their choice. Then, players can simply log in once in a while to check on the value of their portfolio and switch to a different trader if they're not happy with the performance of their current trader. Any one can become a trader simply by setting up an API which will post their trading decisions to their followers.Right now we need people to try installing the PolyCash software. PolyCash is an open source web app; we've tried to make installation as easy as possible, but you'll still need to install MySQL and PHP to install PolyCash. To install this app yourself, please visit our Github page: https://github.com/polycash/polycashPlease post any questions in this thread. We expect PolyCash to become one of the top 10 cryptocurrencies by market cap, but we need your help to get this project launched.To get started, please check out our home page:https://poly.cash StakeMoney has launched a new inflation game where you can bet on the performance of top cryptocurrencies every 8 hours.Join now & receive 50 battlecoins for free:https://stakemoney.com/After signing up, please post questions in this thread & I will be happy to provide more info about how it all works. I love the concept of a personally backed token.  Most people seem to think that there should only be a small number of cryptocurrencies with large market caps and that all other cryptos are useless / scams.  That sentiment was stronger a couple of years ago but the ICO phenomenon has really caught on this year, so maybe we are getting closer to accepting a plurality of cryptos.A personally backed token/currency will have only as much value as you put behind it.  That's a departure from what we've seen in crypto so far, which is for currencies to have value based on hype and speculative value.If you want your token to have value, put tangible value behind it.  For example, pledge that all intellectual property that you create in the next years will be owned by the tokenholders.  Pay dividends to token holders, or regularly buy and burn tokens (similar to a stock buyback).  Your tokens will only have value if you make good on your promises (covenants).Check out kmikeym if you haven't already.  Based on my research he's the first guy to do something like this.  That was in 2008 but wasn't a crypto/blockchain thing.https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2013/04/putting-the-i-in-ipo/309255/ Destroying some fees on each transaction to decrease the supply of coins is a very cool concept and I haven't heard of anything similar before.As other posters have mentioned, the post requirements is annoying & comes off as kind of scammy.How do you resolve real world events on the blockchain in fully decentralized way?  It's a really significant problem which a lot of teams like Gnosis, Ethereum are trying to solve. Sorry, didn't see your replies until just now.Yes, colored coins are moved by transactions on the underlying chain.  That could be Bitcoin, Litecoin or whichever chain is defined as the underlying chain in the asset's definition.So transaction fees are paid in BTC, but none of your colored coins are lost to fees when you make a transaction.CoinBlock does not use OP_RETURN though - colored coins are moved just using normal P2PKH transactions. I've been working on a concept which could have the following benefits over pure proof of work. - Reduce the amount of energy spent on proof of work, while still using proof of work to secure the blockchain. - Resolve the risk that fees will not be enough to maintain a secure level of mining as block rewards decrease.The idea is that miners still get proof of work rewards for mining blocks, but additionally, coins are minted based on the number of coin days destroyed or "coin blocks destroyed" in a block.  This would effectively reduce the energy expenditure on proof of work since proof of work rewards are reduced in comparison to the market cap of the coin.  For example, imagine a coin with the same inflation schedule as Bitcoin, but with an additional 3x of coins being given out for "proof of activity" based on the transactions in each block.  So in this example, the currency would initially be inflating at a rate of 50 coins for POW + 150 coins by proof of activity for a total of 200 coins per block.Nodes would need to track all UTXOs and the block where each UTXO was created (confirmed).  Then the proof of activity reward in each block (150 coins per block in this example) would be divided up and paid out to addresses in proportion to the amount of coin blocks destroyed in each transaction.Variations of this could implement linear or exponential inflation.  But exponential inflation is not so bad if the coins in your wallet are also increasing exponentially just by occasionally making a transaction. EmpireCoin is a colored coin blockchain game built on the CoinBlock platform & running on the Litecoin blockchain.  This game marks the launch on the CoinBlock colored coin gaming platform.We are targeting 50 players for this game, therefore each bitcointalk forum member is invited to buy in for up to 0.1 BTC.Once the target of 5 BTC is reached, the genesis transaction will be published on the Litecoin blockchain, creating 5000 empirecoins.  From this 5000 empirecoins, 100 empirecoins will be sent to the litecoin address of each of the 50 members who bought into the game.  At this point, the game will commence and players will begin casting their votes & winning new empirecoins.  Players can vote after every 10 litecoin blocks by moving empirecoins between their litecoin addresses.  After 450 rounds (4500 litecoin blocks or approximately 7 days), the game will end.  By this time, the supply of empirecoins will have increased from 5000 empirecoins to approximately 440,000 empirecoins due to the winnings being paid out to the players.  At this point, the bitcoins raised will be used to buy back empirecoins from the players.Expenditure of funds1 BTC - Converted to Litecoins which are colored in the genesis transaction and then sent to players4 BTC - Held in escrow until the game is over and then used to buy back empirecoins from the players.Game Rules1. One event is concluded every 10 litecoin blocks.2. Players may vote for the following empires in each event:China, USA, India, Brazil, Indonesia, Japan, Russia, Germany3. The non-disqualified empire with the greatest number of votes, wins.4. In case of a tie, the empire with the lowest ID number wins.5. Any empire with greater than 30% of the votes is disqualified from winning the event.6. Votes are defined as "coin rounds" times the vote effectiveness factor of the block that the transaction is confirmed in.  Defining votes as "coin rounds" means that at the end of each round, players are credited for 1 vote for each empirecoin that they possess.7. Vote effectiveness decreases linearly through the round.  For example, votes confirmed in the first block of the round count for 100%, votes confirmed in the 2nd block count for 88.88%, votes confirmed in the 9th block count for 11.11% and votes confirmed in the final (10th) block of the round do not count at all.How to PlayThis game is designed to encourage users to set automated voting strategies.  Players can write scripts which codify their voting strategy, rather than manually voting each time.  Cooperating with other players is also a good strategy based on the rules of this game.  Therefore the hope is that "voting pools" form in which different groups of players collaborate and vote together against competing groups.For more information on this concept, please read the CoinBlock whitepaper, visit CoinBlock.org, read our CoinBlock thread or check out CoinBlock on github.To buy in, please send me a PM with your litecoin address and I will send you a bitcoin address where you can send your 0.1 BTC.  There is also an EmpireCoin Testnet game running, I can send a few testnet empirecoins to your litecoin address for free so that you can try it out without risking any money.-Joey RichFounder, CoinBlock CoinBlock is an open source blockchain platform which allows anyone to create and trade crypto assets (colored coins).  CoinBlock colored coins run on top of another blockchain & therefore new coins are not generated by mining.  Instead, coins are created based on the result of voting events conducted on the blockchain. CoinBlock assets are defined with an inflation rule & event resolution rule which determine exactly how events are resolved and how many coins are generated and given to the winners.Currently the inflation rules supported are:Zero inflation - Good for representing ownership of real world assets & for shareholder voting.Linear inflation - Good for prediction markets & strategy gamesExponential inflation - Good for prediction markets & strategy gamesYou can get started on CoinBlock either by signing up for a web wallet account via CoinBlock.org (easy) or by installing the CoinBlock app on your own computer (more secure / decentralized).To install CoinBlock, first install any proof of work blockchain such as Bitcoin or Litecoin. CoinBlock requires you to run a full node, so please remember to set txindex=1 in your coin.conf. Then install the CoinBlock web app and sync it with your blockchain.  After setting up your node, import game definitions for the assets that you wish to use.To create your own colored coin, create a game definition using the CoinBlock GUI & then share this definition with others.Some CoinBlock games are entirely decentralized whereas others require some centralization.  In strategy games such as Mock Election 2016, some centralization is employed in the form of an escrow address.  Players can buy in by sending bitcoins/litecoins to the escrow address, and can sell out by sending colored coins to the escrow address.For more information, please read the CoinBlock whitepaper, visit CoinBlock.org or check out the CoinBlock web app on github. We are reworking the site; see this thread for more info. Whitepaper for this project has just been updated:http://empirecoin.org/EmpirecoinWhitepaper.pdfFeedback from the community on this idea would be greatly appreciated. I've been working on a project where POW secures the network, but money is also given out by POS in proportion to coin days destroyed.  This effectively lowers the power consumption of the network since POW rewards are only a fraction of the coin's market cap.  For example 25% could be given out to miners and 75% to coin holders by gamified proof of stake.I'm not sure if this could ever be bitcoin compatible since it relies on exponential inflation.The whitepaper is here for anyone who's interested.http://empirecoin.org/EmpirecoinWhitepaper.pdf Whoops, I was not aware of the lock & move thread options. Locking... To get a better idea of this project, please join one of our free daily mock election games which will be running until the US election.Bitcointalk - Mock Election 2016Wallet screenshot We have a series of daily virtual prediction market games running right now where you can vote for Trump, Clinton or Gary Johnson.  It is free to join and at least $5 in BTC is paid out to winners of each game.Visit http://empirecoin.org or see our Mock Election 2016 thread if you are interested.
We need more testers, would love to have you in the game! Right now, we have a series of election-themed games running.  Each game lasts a day or less and simulates the 2016 US Presidential election, with elections being held in each of the 50 states every 20 minutes.See EmpireCoin: Mock Election 2016 thread to start playing.API functionality is not currently functional, since making some major changes recently.  I'll try to get it working soon though.  Will also be switching to prepared statements.  Glad you like it.Mock Election 2016, Day 2 is now online.  Please join here: http://empirecoin.org/mock-election-2016-day-2/4 players have joined so far, we need 8 more to start the game. This game starts when 12 join, but of course any number can join even after the game is started.I have switched target block time from 60 seconds down to 20 seconds.  That means that this time, the game should run for approximately 8 hrs and 20 minutes.I have also switched the voting cap from 50% down to 45% for today's game, to give the 3rd position candidate some chance to win.Players can buy additional in-game coins by clicking "Buy more empirecoins" once you are logged in.  BTC paid there go into the game escrow & you receive equivalent empirecoins based on the current EMP/BTC exchange rate for the game. This exchange rate is pegged to BTC based on the current BTC in escrow vs empirecoins in existence for the game, rather than being determined by market rates.Setting an auto voting strategy is recommended to make sure that you vote in each round: Donald Trump wins the first game!See the payout transaction here: https://blockchain.info/tx/9c1c1835b37ec11e1c7d7bf3b61d058eea0b1f9feddf441554d18719a0be6fe9The candidate with the highest number of electoral votes wins.Mock elections are held in each of the 50 states, with one candidate winning each state and receiving all electoral votes from that state.Determining the winner within each state is a little bit more complex.  Currently the voting cap is 50% for each state election.  This means that 50% is the max any candidate can receive; anyone with greater than 50% of votes is eliminated, allowing the candidate with 2nd most votes to win that state.Top 5 peformers in this game:PNDGoo, 37.986k empirecoinsTheGAMER, 16.746k empirecoinsjoey.rich, 13.427k empirecoinsxJuturna, 6,133 empirecoinssaidnursi, 2,717 empirecoinsHere are the results by state.  21 states had no winner since no votes were cast.Donald TrumpAlabamaColoradoFloridaIllinoisIowaKansasLouisianaMissouriMontanaNebraskaNew HampshireNew MexicoVermontVirginiaWashingtonWest VirginiaHillary ClintonAlaskaArizonaArkansasCaliforniaGeorgiaNew YorkSouth DakotaTennesseeGary JohnsonConnecticutDelaware session_id() should not be at risk of SQL injection since it is server side.  I have just escaped it anyways though.I have also switched from mt_rand to openssl_random_pseudo_bytes.  Thanks to NLNico for the tip, I had not realized that mt_rand was insecure.Also thanks to NLNico for pointing out the flaw in getinfo.php, which is now resolved.Based on my research, PDO->quote is secure. There are only a couple of user-entered fields in the app and they are now being handled correctly to avoid CSRF.NLNico, please PM me your BTC address to receive 0.1 BTC. Since this is already open source, I don't see any additional risk from asking people here to check for flaws.If vulnerabilities are found, multiple people should find it; therefore each person has incentive to be the first to report & claim the bounty. I will still keep the client side hashing but then hash & salt on server side.As we saw in the Heartbleed bug, encrypting with HTTPS is not necessarily secure; better to hash passwords on the client side first.My webhost does provide some DDOS protection, I'm not sure how much though.  To handle DOS, this will soon be a P2P web app with many nodes. I have sent the 0.1 BTC, nice job finding this. Thanks for the suggestion, I will implement salt & server side hashing soon.You are welcome to submit a PR if you'd like but I'm not willing to put a bounty for that change.DDOS is not eligible as it is not a vulnerability within the empirecoin-web source code. I've been writing web applications for a long time and certainly understand SQL injections.However, it does appear that I neglected to correctly escape user-entered BTC addresses in this one case (ie the attack vector pointed out by BilalHIMITE).  I have just fixed the issue: https://github.com/TeamEmpireCoin/empirecoin-web/commit/8cdd84c68e5cba5f6ad84489d917943bfc81a07cBilalHIMITE, please post or PM me your bitcoin address to receive the 0.1 BTC bounty. Hi KingZee,I had a problem where my VPS disk was full around the time you posted this, so I suspect that's what could have caused this error message.  If it really is a SQL injection and you can demo how to replicate, I can send you 0.2 BTC. Thanks for the tip, I have moved this to Economy -> Services.https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1581253 EmpireCoin: Bug Bounty ProgramEmpireCoin is an open source gaming & blockchain prediction market platform.  For more information about this project, check the following threads:EmpireCoin pre-announcementMock Election 2016Free game: Red vs BlueTo guarantee the security of this platform, we are offering the following bug bounties:0.5 BTC - Remove bitcoins from an EmpireCoin.org escrow account.0.1 - 1 BTC - Demonstrate a vulnerability in the empirecoin-web source codeIn order to receive the bounty, you must describe your exploit so that it can be fixed.EmpireCoin uses the bitcoin-sci library to generate Bitcoin escrow addresses.  Details on escrowed funds are available on pages like this: http://empirecoin.org/mock-election-2016/?action=show_escrowThe EmpireCoin source code is available here: http://github.com/TeamEmpireCoin/empirecoin-web Poll: Theme & functionality for next gameEmpireCoin is a new crypto gaming platform, compatible with the Bitcoin blockchain, where players can win coins by making inflation subsidized bets.  Players cast votes by transferring coins between their own addresses.  For more information, please visit EmpireCoin.org or read the following threads:EmpireCoin pre-announcementMock Election 2016Free game: Red vs BlueEmpireCoin bug bountiesThis poll has been set up to get input from the community on the next steps for this program.  Please vote for one of the options in this poll and/or post a comment justifying your answer. EmpireCoin: Bug Bounty ProgramEmpireCoin is an open source gaming & blockchain prediction market platform.  For more information about this project, check the following threads:EmpireCoin pre-announcementMock Election 2016Free game: Red vs BlueTo guarantee the security of this platform, we are offering the following bug bounties:0.5 BTC - Remove bitcoins from an EmpireCoin.org escrow account.0.1 - 1 BTC - Demonstrate a vulnerability in the empirecoin-web source codeIn order to receive the bounty, you must describe your exploit so that it can be fixed.EmpireCoin uses the bitcoin-sci library to generate Bitcoin escrow addresses.  Details on escrowed funds are available on pages like this: http://empirecoin.org/mock-election-2016/?action=show_escrowThe EmpireCoin source code is available here: http://github.com/TeamEmpireCoin/empirecoin-web Mock Election 2016Website: EmpireCoin.orgMock Election 2016 is a blockchain voting game developed on the EmpireCoin platform. For more information about EmpireCoin, an open source blockchain gaming platform, please see the EmpireCoin announcement thread.  Or read this thread about one of our previous games: Red vs Blue.Mock Election 2016 runs once per day.  Elections are held in each of the 50 states, with 2 state elections held simultaneously each hour.  Candidates accumulate electoral votes based on the states that they win.  At the end of the game, the candidate with the most electoral votes is declared the winner and players lose or win money depending on how many votes they cast for the winning candidate over the course of the game. Three candidates are included in the mock election: Donald Trump, Hillary Clinton & Gary Johnson.At any time, players can buy more in-game coins by sending bitcoins to the game's escrow account.  For the first game, $5 worth of bitcoin has been donated to the escrow account to set the initial exchange rate.  In EmpireCoin games, in-game currencies are pegged to another currency such as dollars or bitcoins.  For Mock Election 2016, empirecoins are stored on the bitcoin blockchain but pegged to the US dollar.At the end of the game, funds from the escrow account are split up and sent back to the players in proportion to the percentage of the in-game currency that they hold.In this game, empirecoins experience an inflation of 10% per hour, for a total inflation of 983% by the end of the game.  Then at the end of the game, the currency supply doubles and the new coins are given out to players in proportion to the amount of the votes that they had for the winning candidate.In each state election, players can win coins by staking their coins on the candidate that they expect to win that state.  For winning votes, players win a small number of free coins, but for losing votes, players do not lose any coins (except for transaction fees paid on their voting transactions). Unlike real elections, the candidate with the most votes does not always win the state election.  Any candidate with greater than 50% of the votes at the end of the election is disqualified, and the candidate with the next most votes wins.You can join this game for free right now and receive 500 empirecoins.  To sign up, please visit EmpireCoin.orgOr post in this thread and I will send you an invite by PM.Screenshot of mock election wallet page Payouts for the 20 player promo game have been made.0.0005 BTC in TX fees were subtracted for each payout transaction.Thanks to everyone who participated.  I will be making some updates to the code based on feedback from this game, then will post another promo game soon - will try to explain things better in the next game, as it seems some players did not understand the concept this time around. Please post in this thread to get an invite to one of our promotional games:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1550513 BTC will be paid out once the game is over (should be less than 24 hrs from now).  Empirecoins can't be converted to BTC until then, because the promo is intended for getting people to try out the game.Ok, I've invited you to the game. Once the game is over, everyone will be paid out in BTC.  For the 5 player promotional game, $10 worth of BTC was donated to the escrow, for an average of $2 per player.  When that game started, every player had 20% of the empirecoins.  But when the game ends, the best performing players will have more than 20% and will be paid out more than $2 worth of BTC, while the poorly performing players will have less than 20% of the empirecoins and will therefore be paid out less than $2 worth of BTC.  Sorry if I didn't make this clear. Ok, I have added smodern, grandFX, darwin72 and soflyrly to the game.
The original $2 giveaway is no longer available, but I have added you to the 2nd game with a smaller giveaway amount. Hi jikin, I was not able to find an account under that username, please create an account first.For everyone else who has posted on this thread, I have added a second promotional game and added all of you:http://empirecoin.org/wallet/20-player-battleI have donated $10 worth of BTC to the game, setting the initial exchange rate to 2,050 empirecoins / dollar and giving each player an initial balance of about $0.25.  If you are an active player you will likely have more than that by the end of the game since some players may not participate.This game starts in 5 hours.  It consists of 50 rounds of about an hour each, so the game will last for about 2 days in total.You are recommended to log in now, claim your coins and then cast your votes.Once the game starts, I would recommend logging in and voting once per hour, or you can plan out your votes ahead of time via the "Strategy" tab. $10 was donated to the pot, therefore the five players (including myself) are effectively getting $2 each.  But the $10 will not be paid out until the game ends. The BTC payout at the end of the game will be proportional to the user's in-game coin balances.  So players may receive above or below $2 depending on their performance in the game. Players can buy more in-game coins by sending BTC to the game's escrow address.  If a lot of players buy in, the pot could get very large, resulting in big bitcoin payouts for the players when the game ends. No, these games are running on a single server.  We are still working on a fully decentralized coin which can be traded on exchanges. For those who were not able to join the first game, I have added a new game which will begin when 20 players have joined:http://empirecoin.org/20-player-battle/This game is free to join but bitcoins will not be paid out at the end unless anyone chooses to donate BTC to this address:1Q6ZbSHACuyvaG9uJK7bNTSJyQZHGqbv7dYou can vote your coins towards red, blue or both.  In general the color with the most votes wins.  But there is a voting cap such as 60% or 70%.  If a team goes beyond the cap, it is disqualified and the other team wins.  A fixed number of coins are created by inflation at the end of each round. When the final block of the round is mined, the winner is determined and those coins are divided up and split among everyone who voted for the winning team.There is also a rule that votes cast early in the round count more than votes cast late in the round.  This is because people voting near the end of the round have more information about the likely outcome of the round, while early voters have less information and are therefore rewarded with more votes. EmpireCoin is an upcoming altcoin where anyone can compete to win coins by casting votes on the blockchain.To test out this new coin, we are inviting BitcoinTalk members to join this test game.The first 4 members to join will receive in-game coins equivalent to $2 in BTC.  Please visit http://empirecoin.org Coin Battles, previously branded "EmpireCoin", is an open source P2P application which enables trustless voting on the blockchain.  In coin battles, players cast votes on the blockchain by moving coins between their own addresses.This open source web application allows anyone to define their own protocol (aka "game") & deploy it to a blockchain such as Bitcoin.In coin battles, players can vote on more than one option.  Stakeholders receive voting rights proportional to the coins that they hold.  This protocol also supports voting based on coin age: (ie votes = "coin blocks" or coin days destroyed).  This idea has many applications such as: - Deterministic voting games - Parimutuel prediction markets - Decentralized decision making (DAO) - In-game sports bettingCoin battles may be defined with several different types of inflation: no inflation, linear inflation, or exponential inflation.  Currently, this project fully implements the deterministic voting application. In these games, an exponential inflation model is used and payouts are made to stakeholders by gamified proof of stake.For more information, please read this whitepaper:http://empirecoin.org/EmpirecoinWhitepaper.pdfTo try it out, create an account on CoinBattles.com or install empirecoin-web:https://github.com/TeamEmpireCoin/empirecoin-webSoftware development & marketing expertise is sought from the community to make this project a success. This sounds very interesting!  I'm sure you have heard about Eris which also uses docker and is targeted towards helping companies develop their own custom blockchains.  How do you differentiate from Eris, and how do you expect people to use cloner? The internet's DNS system is already fairly decentralized - DNS servers are geographically diverse and anyone can set up a DNS server.  Good luck getting anyone to go through your DNS server unless you are an ISP though.For a fully decentralized system, you could try something like Namecoin, then convince Apple, Microsoft, Google and the Linux community to modify Windows, iOS, Linux and Android to route DNS queries through this new network.  I think you would also need to work with Godaddy, Namecheap and all major webhosting companies so that everyone who currently owns domains can be given private keys so they retain control of their domains when the new network is rolled out.In other words, it would be pretty hard! Seems like preventing bots would be a challenge for this business model - if you're paying per pageview or even minutes spent on site, how do you ensure that you're tracking real people rather than a script/program?Of course you can avoid that problem by paying out for conversions rather than pageviews/minutes on site, but that's a much different proposition to pitch to your users. Nice work.  Is this open source?  (Not saying that you should make it so - just wondering).There's a lot of competition out there (bitcoin-abe, iquidus and insight.is).  I like the block visualization in this one though. Very interesting!  Which games have you incorporated so far?  I assume you are using existing HTML5 games rather than developing your own right? This response by Ethereum is completely against their stated ethos, but compared to letting scammers run off with $50 million, probably worth it.Decentralized technology and decentralized governance are two very different things.  There's no question that Ethereum is based on decentralized technology, but their response to this incident (taking away someone's money by reversing a bunch of transactions) proves that Ethereum isn't decentralized in the same way that Bitcoin is - I cannot imagine the Bitcoin core team reversing a bunch of transactions to a particular Bitcoin address in response to a bitcoin scam. EmpireCoin Testnet is now up and running.  I will post an announcement shortly with instructions on how to install. The free game is completely free; there's no entry fee and no prize for the winners.   PrezCoin: First gamified altcoin backed by escrowed bitcoins.PrezCoin is a game built on the EmpireCoin blockchain gaming platform.  In PrezCoin, you can win or lose money every hour by voting for Bernie Sanders, Donald Trump or Hillary Clinton.  Every 60 minutes (approximately), one of these 3 candidates wins a round of voting.  When a candidate wins, the total supply of prezcoins increases by 2% and the newly created coins are given out to everyone who voted for the winner.  This game will last for 500 voting rounds, or approximately 3 weeks.  Once the game is over, all Bitcoins that were paid in will be released from escrow and paid out to prezcoin holders in proportion to their final balances.  Anyone can join PrezCoin by purchasing 20 prezcoins for $10 worth of Bitcoin.  The game will start as soon as the first 10 people have joined.  To get started, please follow this link: http://empirecoin.org/prezcoin/Rules of the Game1. Any candidate with more than 50% of the votes when the round ends is disqualified.  The candidate with the next greatest number of votes wins.2. Voting rounds consist of 60 blocks with blocks being mined approximately every minute.  Voting transactions are tapered by a linear decrease function.  This means that transactions confirmed in block 1 of the round count for 100%, while votes confirmed in block 30 count for 50% and votes confirmed in the final block of the round do not count at all.3. Votes are based on the age of the UTXO being spent; therefore votes build up over time.  For example, a UTXO for 10 coins which is spent in the first block of voting round 5 will count for 40 votes if it was created in a transaction from round 1.For more information on the EmpireCoin gaming platform, please see this thread.PrezCoin FreeA free version of PrezCoin is also available so that you can try out PrezCoin without putting any of your money at risk.  Follow this link to try out the free game: http://empirecoin.org/prezcoin-free/Voting pool administrators neededPrezCoin winners are determined entirely by players' votes.  Therefore players can benefit by collaborating together to influence the outcome of voting rounds.  Players who are less active may wish to assign their voting decisions to active players without entrusting their money to anyone.  This can be accomplished through voting pools.  To set up your own voting pool, please visit the EmpireCoin API page. EmpireCoin Web (what you see now on EmpireCoin.org) has two functions.  First, it allows you to set up and run EmpireCoin private games with any parameters.  Secondly, it functions as a client / wallet for empirecoind.  So when the EmpireCoin currency is launched, EmpireCoin Web will be open sourced and you will be able to install it on your computer as an alternative to the QT client.  (You would need to install Apache, MySQL and PHP first)Part of the idea for launching EmpireCoin Web prior to EmpireCoin Core is so that a variety of game parameters can be tried out.  Once the currency launches, its parameters cannot change so we need to be sure to chose the best parameters right from the beginning.  Therefore we need to get a few games going now with different parameters to see how the strategy works out when a large number of people are playing. Hi Kakmakr, just wanted to let you know that I have just edited my answer to your question above about the manipulation of votes. Some screenshots of the game are posted below.  Hoping someone with image privileges can help me out by embedding these in a reply  Sign up:Claim coins:https://i.imgur.com/pcZOG77.pngPlanned votes:https://i.imgur.com/KewKTRK.pngVoting strategy options:https://i.imgur.com/pLO11TB.pngCompose a voting transaction:https://i.imgur.com/9FXA1UE.pngSubmitted votes:https://i.imgur.com/nsoil8y.pngResults:https://i.imgur.com/H46OLbj.pngBlock Explorer:https://i.imgur.com/OXDiswJ.png
