Thanks! That's what it was. I just had to have another command window open and type my follow-up commands from there. Do you know if there is a plan to fix this bug. It is not that important just a little anoying. I searched the posts but could not find anything on this. Sorry if I missed it because this seems like a problem somebody else would have had by now.I have several linux machines and they all let the daemon run just fine but now trying it with windows I am getting stuck. I get the message: "bitcoin server starting"Then the prompt just flashes my cursor. When I hit enter or type any commands like "bitcoind help" the keystrokes are stacked up and executed only when I break out of bitcoind with a ctrl+c.I know I am getting part way there because before I put the rpcpassword=... in the bitcoin.conf file I got the message about that.Also I know there is some network activity because my firewall comes up and askes if I want to let bitcoind work on private or public networks. I have let communicate on public which is how i am connected.I even went so far as to hexedit the bitcoin.conf file and remove the crlf characters at the end of the file just in case that was needed to make it like the linux version that works.I have 3 windows 7 machines and have the same trouble on all of them.Has anyone run into this? Actually, the sad part was I wasn't even testing the wallet backup when this happened. I was trying to watch when the network should have confirmed a payment to a website that takes bitcoins by paying myself 1 coin at about the same time. I never dreamed it could compromise my whole balance, especially since I was sending to myself. Address1: 157PiPgqphedUvrco3mKU3Xoof7yzhj9pWAddress2: 157PiPgqphedUvrco3mKU3Xoof7yzhj9pWAddress3: 167ZWTT8n6s4ya8cGjqNNQjDwDGY31vmHg Yes, I do.I saw on another thread that gavinanderson has made some tools to do more in depth research but did not know how to proceed.If you could point me in the right direction I would greatly appreciate it. Here are the details.1) Bought 9,000 BTC on one of the exchanges over time.2) Transferred them to my client running on a linux live CD distro of Debian.3) Backed up the wallet file to a flash drive.4) Sent 1 BTC to myself5) Closed client before any confirmations6) Shut down system (wiped system disk loaded into memory and therefore the ./bitcoin folder7) Loaded system back up Copied old wallet.dat file into ./bitcoin folder9) After some confirmations appeared the balance was 1 BTC and there was a transaction saying I spent 8,900 BTC to an address I did not recognize10) I read on the forum threads that people have had problems like this but it seemed only when they were trying to double-spend by sending coins to another address and reloading an old wallet fileIs there anything I can do?I do have the address that the 8,900 were supposedly sent to but the old wallet file is gone for good.Thanks,Stone Man When I buy or sell coins I get the message:"Your entire order can't be filled at that price. What remains is stored in your open orders."Then when I look at my order, none of it has been filled.If there are really no offers on the market I would like to see that.Also it would be nice to see how much volume is available to buy or sell at a given price before buying or selling.Thanks for putting up another exchange, I like bitcoinmarket but competition is always healthy.I think there are several advantages to your site even with the transaction fee that give the traders more opportunities.One thing I really like is that you have an account in dollars so I don't have to make a lot of paypal trades. Paypal gets kind of suspicious of this.Another plus is the default prices taken directly from the market. This reduces errors in order submission. The MadHatterbitcoin2paysafelink2voipbitcoinfx This is true. What I would like to see is a listing service like http://www.craigslist.org/about/sites with a feedback system like ebay.The prices could be listed in National currencies and then the payment accepted via bitcoins at the current market rate. This way some one could immediately turn them back into the cash they are used to using until BTC becomes more widely accepted. I have heard of Ludwig Von Mises as one of the founders of Austrian economics but only as other people have referenced his work. I should check out the site. It sounds like something I would agree with.  I like the graph too. I have been wondering just how much our processors use and this looks like the closest estimate.Also, I am a bit confused. Last I checked the market rate was about $0.08 so it would be a lot cheaper to generate your own than buy them even now with an increased difficulty at $0.02/BTC it is still 4 times cheaper than the exchange.I am going to have to recheck my numbers because I thought I was spending about $0.072 to generate mine.Thanks, It has been said that the economy is more like an organism than a machine. I agree with this. An organism grows and adapts to its environment but does not do well in restricted environments. It is impossible to calculate what a few billion people will do next year. Each has free will and can complicate the picture.Just to clarify, for me the value of bitcoins is at least what I have to pay to get them. This may not be true for someone else who does not really want to use them and is only trading for investment purposes. I am trading to get enough value to actually use the system as intended as an anonymous payment method. Most items I would want to buy, like digital gold, are expensive and I need a lot of money transferred to bitcoins to do it.Just in case this is helpful to anyone else who is in my same position I would like to share what the current value is to me.As of right now, the difficulty to generate has gone up 4x since my last entry where I listed the value at $0.018.Therefore I am willing to pay $0.072 and have been doing just that on the exchange. Apparently there are lots of other people who feel the same way because the ask price is now up to $0.084.Edit:I saw some new information on electricity consumption that looks quite a bit more accurate than what I had:http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=403.msg3574;topicseen#msg3574I may need to revise my figures. It looks like the Alexa site rank has broken the 400,000 barrier.http://www.alexa.com/search?q=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.bitcoinmarket.com%2F&r=site_screener&p=bigtopJust for comparison, one of the leading websites for talk radio in my area is only at 600,000 and they charge $5,000 / ad on their site.It looks like your hard work is going to pay off! Would you say that like any fiat currency the bitcoin is generally worth at least what it cost to make it?Even in times of massive inflation, paper money can still be burned. Obviously it is usually worth much more based on market demand but the lowest value it should command is that which was expended for its creation. Sorry I missed that part. Here is a good explanation of the fee scalehttp://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=141.0 Sounds good, I will buy the 100 entries that begin with 7.In other words 7,00 to 7,99 Here is my set up.Windows 7 64-bitIntel Core 2 Duo P74502 cores2.13 GHz3 GB RAM749 khashs/sec Thanks for the heads up. I added a section titled "Recent appearance in the news." This thread seems to apply here.http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=203.0
