thanks bought it.. very good price! gc worked! Great Service. PM me I if you have more hmm i bought $500 in gift cards and they seems to work so vouch for him! thanks. It is also important to remember that the transaction costs involved in selling BTC for other currencies means that, at the margins, the most efficient miners are those who hoard their bitcoins.  This means that (given unchanged transaction costs) the percentage of hoarders-cum-miners relative to profit-taking-miners is usually increasing.   Revival of the thread--1) We are meeting August 6th in London2) There will be a pub that accepts bitcoins that hosts the meetup, making the meeting the first of its kind.  If you think you can be the host, respond to this thread.  Position still available!3) If you are interested in attending, just add a little something clever to the thread. It's nice to not have to know what merchants want or will want.  Maybe it's USD, maybe it's EUR, maybe it's food on the table or a yacht in the harbour.  Money is useful in helping merhcants obtain what they want.  Bitcoin is good as money. The CIA probably stole bitcoins from the faucet, liquidated them on mtgox, forced jed to sell mtgox to magicaltux in japan, took some of the revenue and paid for Gavin's trip.  If this is the case, then Gavin can just go back to mtgox, buy some bitcoins and put them back in the faucet.  loser: jed. two thoughts that haven't gotten too much attention on this thread.1) Why do we think Gavin's talk will be available to the public?  It's the CIA, not TED.2) If Bitcoin is decentralized, why do we look to Gavin as a leader? Shouldn't the whole project exist more like a headless mob? don't they know that you will just burn the $3,000? mndrix --this went extremely smoothly.  I would pay a small clearing fee to participate in another one of your lending pools if you ever get the courage to run a new one. Send bitcoins to 12pDkk7FRKjXRCCd7B3aEmz7Tzqq6i9vHw.  Don't accept impostors pretending to be Brian pretending to be WikiLeaks.  And please send as much as you can but please don't send so much.  But send as much as you can. ...where "transaction fees" could include imprisonment I'm canceling this bounty.  It would no longer be that noteworthy (to me, at least) if someone lived a month off of bitcoins.   http://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/2011/04/the-economics-of-bitcoin.htmladd a little bit to my bounty if you can, but at the link and not at the forum! Bringing the bounty to your doorstep, Tyler!http://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/2011/04/the-economics-of-bitcoin.html The first bitcoin put traded on January 26th, not in Bitcoin-OTC, but here in the forum!http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2986.0 I wish to lend 96 BTC and receive 100 BTC in return.Funds should be returned to 1GtF2VVoRA4BYL7GiMVdfT9mCAi7ZPFV3uI also think CryptikEnigma's loan shouldn't qualify for this experiment given its special conditions. funny donations to xkcd of note from Block Explorer:13.37 (two of them)3.141.410.69 BSB uses a volume-weighted average price over the course of 24 hours.  To manipulate that, you'd need a pretty good bank roll and probably waste any winnings on settlement games. oh, by "where", i meant "at what price".  
Where will you (or others) offer either the $3 straddle, settles into bitcoins (european-style) on Jan 1, 2013 or the 269,000 straddle, settles into bitcoins european-style (1 bitcoin per 1000 difficulties)? i donated a little too.  hopefully randall carries through with his gin purchase and makes it known.  any gin merchants out there? i started a nice bitcoin pyramid scheme over at witcoin.  get in early!http://bitcoin.witcoin.com/p/999/witcoinamid I am interested in this service.  Maybe a poll would be an easier format for this thread.  bitcoinsportsbook.com had the closest thing to a futures contract, but I haven't seen activity there since Feb.   Given the illiquidity of the bitcoin market and the transparency of the exchanges, I don't think selling little by little down to 0.40 is a viable plan. And if you try to do that, you can be sure that the chunky 0.40 bid won't be there anymore. If India's team is supported by spndr7's tax money, even indirectly, does he not have a right to be emotionally invested?  What if he has spent no tax money but still stands to gain economically from their victory?  visit #bitcoin-otc.  see you there! Speak for yourself, Vandroiy:The "real" value of 1 bitcoin is given by mtgox.The "real" value of 1million bitcoins is less clear, but i bet it's not 50% away from mtgox.  for instance, i will pay 0.40 USD/BTC for 500k BTC.  Here's the car, make me a bitcoin price.   you are competing with ebay bidders, so don't be lame.http://cgi.ebay.co.uk/ws/eBayISAPI.dll?ViewItem&item=250796585837 1EWMwa7GEj4V5x1BF67pJq68HHbHB4qXMc@vanadroiy:  i would have paid more, but don't forget counterparty risk.  in this case, grondilu has very good credit. 96.1 95.64 95.62 bid (i will buy 5 such bonds) 95.6 bid yes pm me to buy bitcoinbank.com, available for purchase in bitcoins Time: TBALocation: TBACondition: Merchant pub must accept bitcoins at the meeting, no exceptions, no proxies nefario, why do they all have the same bitcoin address? payment sent.  keep em coming this little piggy went to the market
some of them should take their 2 BTC seed and pay someone to translate their market pitch into proper English.  could be a good investment! as far as i know, there is a single car for sale using bitcoins.  it's in australia.  you can find the details in the marketplace on this forum.  you'd have to buy this car and use it for your road trip, and the gasoline you buy would have to be from a gas-for-bitcoin merchant (they don't exist yet).  again, the bounty i'm offering is not intended to support a road trip.  it is intended to show that there are enough diverse merchants that one could survive on bitcoins. won't work -- not enough significant digits.  If you buy the gun with bitcoins and store the meat in a refrigerator bought with bitcoins and pay for the electricity to run the refrigerator in bitcoins, then you are eligible for the reward.  As of right now, i believe you can do two of the three."Stuff you already have" won't count.  If you consume it, wear it or live in it, it must be purchased with bitcoins or have sprung up from the earth. It's a very good article.  I wish you hadn't showed the rising price of bitcoin relative to USD at the end.  You marginalize the importance of bitcoin once you bring up the question "yeah, but how many dollars can i get for it?"   If you can buy your food from a merchant who accepts bitcoins and would offer others a similar rate for the same product, i think this would qualify as a proper bitcoin/food exchange with respect to this bounty.So, for example, XS Wild Berry Blast Energy Drink from Markm's store is available for purchase using bitcoin (although i can't find the bitcoin option at checkout).  if you buy this drink from Markm for bitcoins, i would consider this valid for the bounty, since he is a bona fide bitcoin merchant.I would not consider the following scenarios valid:You message a bitcoin user who is willing to order you a Domino's pizza and pay Domino's in dollars, then you give the user some bitcoins.You go to a soup kitchen and get food for free, and later donate some bitcoins to their cause. There was a point in Autumn 2010 where CPU miners realized that it was too difficult (read: expensive) to generate bitcoins.  I stopped in September. Our alternative was to unclick Generate Coins and go to MtGox to buy them with USD or start selling goods for Bitcoins.  This was an important boost to BTC value relative to the dollar.  A fraudster at MtGox and a slashdot mention later, and bitcoins were trading .40.I mention this history because certain GPU miners will soon start realizing that it will be too difficult to generate bitcoins.  And if these miners still want bitcoins, then they will have to go to the marketplace and try to buy them or earn them.  This will lead to a boost in BTC value, just as when the CPU miners stopped their machines last year.  Only GPU miners with the most efficient machines in the coldest parts of the world sucking energy from Danish windmills will be left generating bitcoins for a profit. P(you know what P means here) < .5 $95k * P(BTC replaces USD) <= $1.02    network power is estimated based off of blocks generated since the last change in difficulty.  You won't get a very accurate number for a couple days after difficulty switches. do it on tuesday, do it better, and you'll get some coin i pledge 20 BTC.  video footage helps Before you explain what you mean, can you provide us with a third metaphor?  Maybe use talking animals for those of us slow learners. blockexplorer could probably help you track down which door the bitcoins were behind.  Once bitcoin becomes stable, any owner of bitcoins should wish that a small number of others' bitcoins were lost every year.  In fact, I hope that many of you lose your bitcoins right now.  Not too many of you, but at least some.  What else would you ask of a scarce currency, myrkul? A solution to what?  Don't lose your bitcoins. I don't think it is in the spirit of the project I envisioned to be able to pay a bitcoin buddy 10 BTC to provide you food and transportation.  That's almost a worse outcome for the project than if you were to buy a pre-paid Visa. the project funding would just be going to your friends and not to real bitcoin merchants.   This isn't a project about going on a sweet bitcoin roadtrip culminating in a bitcoin meetup in some Euro-accepting bar.  You can do that in a different thread.  I'm talking about buying food and shelter from REAL bitcoin merchants, almost starving and freezing to death, living off of coffee and herbal tea driving around in an Australian '84 Lemon with an empty tank. Curious-- How do you plan on going from France to the UK by using bitcoins?  I know of no bitcoin-accepting tunnels, airlines or ferries. well done, gavin!  and you're right... "Making Money" is not appropriate as a title.   pro-tip:  save on heating bills by running a bitcoin-miner
 To win the prize, you must live 1 month off of purchases denominated solely in bitcoins.  This means:Shelter, Clothing, Food, Heat, Water, Utilities, Transportation, Entertainment, etc.Basically, if you pay for something, you must pay in bitcoins.  Buying pre-paid cards denominated in dollars, euros or pounds is NOT allowed.  Receipts will be helpful as a matter of proof; a daily blog about your Bitcoin life would also be nice (but where did you buy that computer?). If we clean up the details of the competition I'd be willing to fund 200 bitcoins of this person's life.  any other charitable forum members interested in backing this idea?EDIT: Bitcoin's ball is rolling just fine without this bounty.  I pull my bounty offer and everyone else's that was on this post.   How'd you come up with that conclusion from this poll?   I am trying to match my future liabilities (BTC-denominated rent, mortgage, car payments, groceries, children's education) with assets (BTC). mean, standard deviation, etc don't supply much info on your difficulty vs time charts.   slope of the moving average line is more meaningful +1 150 GH is the majority of the network's global computing power.  There goes the neighborhood. i didn't want to step in, but kiba, what does your first reply have anything to do with nickwit's original post about calipers???  i thought for sure you would eventually edit your  post recognizing your impoliteness, so i haven't said anything.  but come on, give the guy a break, he's just trying to sell his (really cool) product for bitcoins.  Nickwit, you should post again in "We Accept Bitcoins" http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=30.0 and make sure the forum moderators add your website to the "Trade" page of bitcoin.org. "bet both sides to protect yourself".  not sure what you mean.  can you give an example? jesus, bruce, where you been?  you went all uzbekistan on us and didn't show up again.  i've donated to the musical to help them fund their show!  others should do the same. I may or may not have been the first person to download the wallet.dat file from hippich's website.  Send me 2 BTC to find out in a private message.  If I was the first person and you mention this post, I will send you 1 BTC.   1mtGA3ibZcS5zMYaVqZ2EXshdLm9jSoms I'm tired of hearing "Yes, but until I can pay my rent and buy my groceries in bitcoins, they will never succeed..."  Is it legal in your country to design a contract between landlord and renter where the payment exchanged is denominated in bitcoins?  Is this any different than asking if the payment could be denominated in some non-native currency?  How about in gold bars?  Where are the landlords on this forum?  Where are the lawyers? TTBit-pm me with bank details and i'll do the trade.  clearcoin is my escrow/clearer of choice. TTBit--I will sell you 7500 of your call, buy 7500 of your put and buy 5100 bitcoins at a price of .42 USD/BTC as a package. If you don't want to do the 5100 bitcoins, that's fine too.  let me know what you want. That email probably took 30 minutes to write.  At that rate, it would take 250 hours to generate 50 bitcoins, or about 10.4 days. Recognizability is an A.  I think FreeMoney and I disagree with how you've defined "recognizable".  If I send you something, the network either recognizes it as a bitcoin or rejects it with near 100% accuracy.   To define recognizability, as you have, as something that is widely accepted is to say that a currency should be recognized if it is recognizable.  I think you either drop the category completely or you lump the better definition with unspoofability. http://brucewagner.wordpress.com/2011/01/17/employment-hiring-job-in-namangan-uzbekistan/  Alright, I give up, what are you doing hiring someone in Namangan, Uzbekistan? Big assumption here:  "assuming that freedom of speech includes the ability for anyone to send any packet to anyone else on the internet....".  London here jgarzik, that is a very good introduction to bitcoin indeed, but both radio interviews have specifically asked "who creates this digital cash?" or "how is it minted?", and that's where I feel Bruce stumbles the most.  Again, I suggest approaching the answer from the point of view of two users wishing to make a transaction. Bruce does a great job in general, but i have one request for the next talk show.  This is the second time that when the host asks "So what *is* Bitcoin?", Bruce sounded exasperated before even starting the explanation.  There were lots of sighs and heavy pauses which conveyed an "oh god, this isn't going to be easy" type feeling.  I say, try a different elevator pitch!I would recommend that rather than using the "combination of three technologies" speech, try starting from the point of view of two people in a bitcoin transaction.  that goes as follows:I have a bitcoin-- nevermind what it is-- and i want to send it to Bruce.  The network wants to verify that I actually have a bitcoin to send to Bruce, and then record that transaction.  Normally for dollar transactions a central source provides that type of work and charges a fee, a la Paypal or Visa.  Well here it's a network of hard-working computers.  And the lucky hard-working computer who correctly verifies the transaction between me and Bruce gets awarded some bitcoins.  Who gives that hard-working computer the bitcoins?  The network does.  Where does the network get the bitcoins?  The network agrees, upon downloading the bitcoin application, that if a computer works hard enough to solve the transaction verification problem that they get a digital token as proof of their hard work.  And that's where bitcoins come from.
I am in the UK, and I use Barclays France to transfer Euros cheaply.  They are very helpful with UK customers since many of them take out mortgages for french property.  they don't require residency in france afaik. Satoshi is working with Julian Assange in England while Mr Assange is awaiting extradition to Sweden.  I hear they have both gotten perfect scores on Rihanna's "Pon de Replay" on Kinect's Dance Central. If you sell me the "share" of eBay, and I sell the "share" of eBay to person C, then these two shares are not fungible unless you and C agree to face one another and I can step out of the middle.  If you do not agree to face C directly, then you owe any eBay dividend payments to me, and i owe the exact divident payments to C.  That sounds like trouble. You might attract more people with a start/stop date.  i.e. you can replicate a single eBay share for two years. I feel that ByteCoin is right.  However, a counterattack:If the network suspects a cartel, there are several strategies to make life harder for the cartel.  here is my idea.At the expense of some unlucky honest block generators, impose a time restriction of, say, 20 seconds before any two blocks can be accepted by a node.Cartel finds block 1 and 2 before the rest of the network does.  Say an honest generator finds block 1 and immediately transmits the message to the rest of the network.  The cartel matches by sending block 1, but the cartel now has to wait 20 seconds before they can transmit block 2.  If an honest generator finds block 2 in that 20 seconds, they too will wait until the 20 seconds is up.  I'm not sure that 20 seconds is the right number, but it at least forces the cartel into more races.  The cartel will necessarily have a lower fraction of blocks if the network adopts this strategy. So if USD/BTC increases but EUR/BTC decreases, does the bitcoin economy have inflation or deflation?  or both? or none?  http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1658.0big macs! request to lock thread +1 ribuck.why not list a 1-month, 2-month, 3-month and 1-year contract?  also, why are we dealing with years and not block numbers?  call me insanely optimistic, but maybe we will be replacing the Gregorian Calendar with the Bitcoin Block Calendar sometime in the future.  i digress... Milestones---Folding@Home is, as of April 2010, sustaining over 6.2 PFLOPS-The entire BOINC network averages about 5.1 PFLOPS as of April 21, 2010.-As of April 2010, MilkyWay@Home computes at over 1.6 PFLOPS, with a large amount of this work coming from GPUs.-As of April 2010, SETI@Home, which began in 1999, computes data averages more than 730 TFLOPS.-As of April 2010, Einstein@Home is crunching more than 210 TFLOPS.-As of April 2010, GIMPS, which began in 1996, is sustaining 44 TFLOPS.From http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FLOPS. from what i've heard on irc, there is at least one user who can turn a profit when the ratio of Current Difficulty:price of USD/BTC is anywhere under 800,000.  Currently that ratio is at 12,252/.019 = 64,484. my finger was on the trigger Let's make some minor edits and keep the bitcoin article up to date!http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Article_Incubator/Bitcoin The price was uninteresting.  But thank you for the price, I'm glad you were willing to take the risk!   No bump!any interest here?What is the price for me to1) buy 1000 Bitcoins from you with USD when the block total reaches 100,000? 2) sell 1000 Bitcoins to you for USD when the block total reaches 100,000? thank you, works now "Attempting to connect to 127.0.0.1:8335"  the answer. The whiskey thank you.1) how many instances of remoteminer should i run?2) how do i see my contribution of khash/s as a percentage of all the khash/s in the pool?3) when i gettin paid yo
yes.  anything that reduces the amount of work i have to do.  The bitcoin client I have on my machine says "Generate Coins" and that's as technical as I need to get. Is there a client one can download that is essentially plug and play?  i'm afraid i won't get very far in the process of connecting to a server, and i won't be the only one. Your latest chart is price vs log(difficulty).  Can you show price vs difficulty? I'm with ribuck on this one.  If I am a guy who just read the Irish Times article on Bitcoin who wouldn't mind spending 20 dollars on some bitcoins just for the craic, I'm going to find two things:1) you can't just buy bitcoins with your debit card2) oh, how do i buy bitcoins then? let me read wikipedia's article on it. With respect to Kiba's post that he trusts "mtgox type banks" insofar as he can withdraw his deposits from them at any time, he shouldn't throw caution to the wind.  once mtgox requires less than 100% of a bitcoin deposit from you in order to sell a bitcoin, even if there are margin calls and position liquidations, in an illiquid market not all deposits can be guaranteed.  So with respect to risks of losing one's deposit, mtgox's margin trading resembles a bank run on a bank keeping fractional reserves. Mtgox has promised "margin trading" which fits the description of fractional reserve banking. What does our local wikipedia/wikimedia RHorning have to say about this?  Is bitcoin notable yet?   what TTBit has described is dark pool.  what mtgox is using is a block trade facility.   Most of the exchanges I deal with call these "block trades".  There are requirements to report the block trade to the exchange within a certain amount of time of the transaction ranging from 10 minutes to 24 hours.  The exchange then broadcasts a message that a block trade has occurred with quantity and price details.  Such a facility maintains transparency of the exchange while still allowing large orders time to breathe.  So will mtgox report dark pool trade details, or will they forever be a mystery? pro-rata mining is nice, maybe you should add a small bonus for being the block solver.  20% for the solver, the remaining 80% is shared pro rata ribuck--i did the loan math, and here's the results:if bitcoins increase relative to the dollar at 50% a year, why don't you take out a $300,000 15yr loan repayable at 7% per annum.  yearly payments equal $28,212 on the loan, you can pay yourself $20,000 per year in salary, and only by the end of year 7 do you have to sell out some bitcoins to cover your dollar liabilities.  At the end of year 15, you will have paid $394,968 on your original loan of $300,000, you will have paid yourself $300,000 in salary, and you will be left with 69,785 BTC which will be equal to 10.2 million dollars.In the retirement plan you designed at the end of year 15, you will have paid yourself $300,000 in salary and be left with 137 BTC, equivalent to exactly 30,000 dollars.the rate, by the way will be 219 USD/BTC if one person bought 210,000 bitcoins for 100,000 dollars, the next person would have trouble accomplishing the same feat.  There is also a matter of timing. There aren't 21,000,000 bitcoins available today- there are 4.7 million- so this mass buying would have to occur 150 years from now or whatever. the point isn't about fairness but about stability of the network.  if 20 people are responsible for 95% of the network, then they own the network, and that's not stable.   highly unlikely for 1 generator, but i could imagine a scenario where only 20 people are responsible for 95% of the difficulty.  that seems like a shaky foundation.   Is it an excellent thing?  What if the CPU power responsible for raising the difficulty came from 1 miner?  Wouldn't that person have by definition succeeded in taking over the network? http://www.agoravox.fr/tribune-libre/article/pour-occulter-le-dollar-rouvrons-84553new article mentioning bitcoin in french for reference: http://www.dollar.com/ mtgox is a terrible name for a site dealing in bitcoins, but it is one of the most popular bitcoin-related site that exists! bitcoinme.com is fantastic, and i sent a small donation to you, mr wagner. TTBit-- Are you in any way affiliated with Trading Technologies (TT)?  They have a "market depth trader" or "MD trader" that looks like your newest output.  
+1 grondilu, l'or est bien recu i can't understand the international format you wish me to use, neither on this forum nor on the website.  what kind of example is +1.0000000000? there is a user Matonis on this forum i donated 69 btc.  in general i will donate anything towards getting bitcoin back on wikipedia. I buy bitcoins in London mtgox just pooped on your triangles and bollinger bands.    mtgox could not successfully liquidate all accounts with a margin call in a bursting of even a small bubble at 3:2 margining. one should place heavy default premium on mtgox trades (and consider trying to force a default) if he started margining this early in the game. In an effort to measure the purchasing power of bitcoin, I suggest bitcoin community members make an effort to exchange bitcoins for big macs on at least a monthly basis.  We will then have early data when The Economist invites bitcoin to join their "Big Mac Index".  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Big_Mac_Index http://anarchiststudies.org/node/490Anyone in Baltimore want to represent bitcoin at these forums?  reserve a table?  spread the word?  give out free bitcoins? Addressing points 1 and 2, bitcoins are scarce and infinitely divisible.  These are strengths of bitcoins as stores of value.  Exactly what problems did bitcoins help you solve if you identify these features as weaknesses?  and don't worry about lost bitcoins.  they make every remaining bitcoin worth that much more.  like if you lost a dime, i would be slightly richer and guard my dime just a bit harder.3, just wait4, i am a late adopter to gold (i never mined any, but lots of others have).  i'm fine with that5, sell some stuff for bitcoins, people might buy it from you6, don't get frauded the most evil thing I've seen bitcoin do thus far is draw far too much of my attention to the bitcoin forum. Freemoney's distinction is arbitrary only if you grant that your original post is vacuous.  It's no fair to say that "*money as a form of positive social order* are just simply unquestioned" if the minute someone questions the very statement he is dismissed.  An individual's choice to accept a bitcoin in exchange for a good or service relies only on the "core assumption" that he gains value in doing so.  maybe change your inner-asteriskism to *money as a store of value* and you're correct-- but only tautologically. There's a small divide growing in the bitcoin community between the group of skilled developers who generate the majority of the coins and the rest of the users (like me).  I notice there's lots of talk about Tahoe-LAFS, but I'll be the first to admit I don't know what's really happening or how it might affect the future of bitcoin.  Anyone out there want to go over the latest in bitcoin tech talk but do it in simple language?   and for users who don't want to send or receive cash through mail? without even mentioning the rate of default on bitcoins on kiva (try to explain LiqPay to a Haitian), i think you might have trouble stirring up demand for bitcoin-denominated loans.  "Here's 200 bitcoins.  Go buy yourself a goat." .08 bid What you agreed to with Paypal is to deposit your money into your account at mtgox.  if i'm not mistaken, mtgox has the right to do whatever he wants with your dollars.  caveat emptor, no? BTC is not a safe investment.Asking Bitcoin Forum > Bitcoin > Bitcoin Discussion whether or not Bitcoins are safe may not get you the best answer, either.   I don't think the owners of Mtgox have much invested in the exchange.  They run it on donations, they do it in their spare time and I have the hunch they might one day just retreat back into online gaming.  The site wasn't even originally designed for the exchange of bitcoins, you know. with mtgox having paypal issues, i think we should turn our focus away from their dollar value (what good is $1.00 on mtgox without faster withdrawal capabilities?  how much would you be willing to have mtgox take from your $1.00 if you could withdrawal dollars today?).  let's get back to April, May and June discussions of "how much is a pizza worth in bitcoins?" without having to convert into dollars to answer the question.with all the exchanges facing chargeback issues, shouldn't this be the best time to focus on exchanging goods and services for bitcoins?  go to biddingpond if you want to buy bitcoins.  offer some tennis balls, offer a delicious pizza, offer something of value and someone will pay you bitcoins for it!  promise!
i think what Hangers might be saying is that without bitcoins he wouldn't have earned any bitcoins.  very meta.  very correct.  +1 reopen a few of the difficulty bets and leave betting open for longer. think "bitpick 6" timeframe. i think this serves a better bitcoin social good than betting on sports (which always seems to be available).  many of us are looking for a hedge tool or a speculator's tool when-- if widely used-- will dampen the volatility in dealing with bitcoins.miners out there must be able to invest their capital for longer periods of time, but fluctuations in difficulty make the investment too volatile.  eg what if difficulty doesn't go anywhere by Jan 2011?  if they could hedge their exposure to difficulty by betting against increases, more miners would join the game for longer periods of time. of course in that case, most of the action on the difficulty betting will be hedges for difficulties to be Over X amount.  i guess your sportsbook will determine if there are any Under bettors out there. why did you choose to close the year-end wager?  i'm interested in betting on this, plus I think it represents a nice hedge for bitcoin miners.  my two myoobitz-- i think the cart is well ahead of the horse in this discussion.   0.089 ebay USD/BTC vs 0.089 mtgox USD/BTC.To any arbitrageur lurking in the forums.  If you have a USD balance within Mtgox, i think you should1) sell 1000 ebay bitcoins and collect 89 ebay dollars today2) invest 89 dollars today in an interest bearing account for 180 days3) use 89 of your non-withdrawable-for-180-days mtgox dollars to buy 1000 bitcoinsThe interest rates in this arbitrage may be low, but the idea is the same: mtgox dollars are not withdrawable, so mtgox bitcoins should be trading at a premium to regular bitcoins.  If mtgox dollars suddenly are withdrawable via paypal or a new solution, then mtgox bitcoins should trade at the same price as regular bitcoins.  Or more accurately, if expectations shift to reflect that mtgox dollars will be immediately withdrawable, then mtgox bitcoins should trade at the same price as regular bitcoins. can you reduce the precision of the exchange rate to only a few decimal places?  tip sent. "I get my paypal money from doing tarot card readings on the phone"ahh-- so you're the one using paypal to steal people's money.  i'm sorry, i wasn't very clear.  As the number of bitcoins approaches 21 million, I would like to know why Satoshi chose to call for an end to generation of bitcoins rather than continue generating a smaller and smaller amount.  I would think that we should asymptotically approach 21 million rather than just stop at 20,986,000 or whatever that number is.  Seems like 500 years from now there still should be generation of bitcoins, no matter how small the generations appear to us today. 1) if you entered the agreement with me right now, yes, i would sell 10,000 BTC for $6,000 at the time of the 100,000th block no matter what the price Mtgox (or any other exchange) showed at the time of the 100,000th block.2) you would have to trust your counterparty to have the bitcoins at the time of the 100,000th block (this goes back to "perfect bitcoin credit" assumption in the original post).  I know of no good escrow service as of right now, so counterparty risk is certainly something to factor in.  also keep in mind my original post requests a market in only 1,000 BTC. If bitcoins were infinitely divisible, why would you choose to cease generation of bitcoins at any point? I will sell you 10,000 BTC for $6,000 on the date of the 100,000 block if you wish. I would rather call this a forward rate agreement than a future.Currently Mtgox is showing a spot currency exchange rate of .064 $/BTC.  I don't think that this will be the rate at the 100,000th block.  I don't think anyone else believes this, either.  So let's start with the easy question:when will the 100,000th block occur, roughly? Trust is never binary.A trusts B 99% of the timeA trusts C 99% of the timeB trusts D 99% of the timeC trusts D 99% of the timeDo we know if B trusts C and vice versa?If not thenA trusts D = min(AB*BD,AC*CD) = 0.99 * 0.99 = 0.9801 i am .0605 bid on mtgox for 15,000 if anyone wants the arbitrage Consider a bitcoin release in the future where a block can only be generated by proof-of-murder.  difficulty increases logarithmically, so this seems reasonable.   Bitcoin Faucet 2.0 it sounds like.  i'm in. reviving this post.  anyone want to try creating the article in Russian? Пожалуйста, создайте статью.  or maybe that catalan speaker is around and he can start an article.  wikipedia articles are key to credibility, so i'm not letting this go.  and where are the french?  the swiss?  the germans?  let's go, people. I'm not asking him to do it, he said he could do it.  he already declined the bet and put the issue to bed.And yes, i am .03 bid for 1,000,000 bitcoins. i appreciate your unwillingness to step into that pile of legal dogpoo.  i love the TAABL as it is.  i'm just looking for a market solution to the answer "how many dollars does it cost to generate a bitcoin?" and i think the type of lottery i'm describing would answer it.the host of the lottery i'm suggesting would offer, say, 1,000 of his own BTC.  doesn't matter where the host got it from.  he's just the host.  tickets would be sold in dollars to willing customers.  the host could even require that a minimum number of tickets, or revenue in USD for that matter, be generated before continuing with the lottery. Consider this-- bitcoin generation (the classic kind) is a lottery of sorts where the price of the ticket is the fixed cost of the hardware and software plus the electricity to generate X khash/sec.  Currently this price is measured in dollars and the winner of the "lottery" is rewarded in 50 bitcoins.I know it's not in the spirit of bitcoinery (?), but what about designing a real lottery similar to TAABL where tickets are bought using dollars and the winner of the lottery is rewarded in bitcoins?  If I'm thinking about this correctly, if you designed the rules of the jackpot correctly, the price of tickets for a 50 BTC payout should converge toward the cost of generating a block minus the edge paid to the house.
I will bet you 5,000 USD that you can't own 25% of the Bitcoin market in 8 weeks time I will bet you 10,000 USD that you can't own 60% of the bitcoin market by November 2011 .03 bid for 1,000,000 I am .023 USD bid for 1,000,000 BTC. Where can someone with perfect Bitcoin credit:1) buy 1000 Bitcoins from you with USD when the block total reaches 100,000? 2) sell 1000 Bitcoins to you for USD when the block total reaches 100,000? request for quote:I want to exchange 1000 BTC for USD on March 17th, 2011.  Anyone willing to enter into a forward? Creighto--I will borrow 500 bitcoins at 100% per month from a payday advance store (or, more technically, from the person who can arrange such a loan for themselves and prove it) as long as the loan is denominated in bitcoins.does this makes my original loan look less usurious?and careful when you say your offer is better.  your loan requires collateral. "I could get a better rate from the loanshark/bookie operation down on main, or from any payday advance place that preys upon the poor & addicted."Really?  Denominated solely in bitcoins?  I will gladly borrow 100 bitcoins at 8%/month from a certified payday advance place if you can arrange it.   i will loan up to 500 bitcoins to be loaned at the rate of 8%/month with a maturity of 1 month.  i don't have a minimum post requirement, but I don't have to accept all applications. Speak for yourself.  I am buying bitcoins so I can participate in mostly ignored lotteries, buy broken ipods, play pixel darts, donate to the bitcoin faucet, offer bounties for letter-writing and bet on snooker.  who wouldn't want to buy these things? the format is to pick 6 hexadecimal numbers exactly correct?  that's, what, 16 million possibilities?  Am I missing something, or is it very likely that this lottery will run for a very long time until we find a winner?   The demand for bitcoin-based derivatives is secondary to the demand for bitcoins.  Bitfutures will probably emerge from a betting site like bitbet.org where proposition bets are settled futures-style into bitcoins.  Something similar to intrade or betfair will be necessary where there is no central bookmaker, just an exchange on which bettors meet other bettors.I think bitbet.org could use some help in this regard.  maybe MtGox could lend a hand removing the bookmaker from bitcoin-based proposition betting.  Can you give an example of an event?  I deposited some coin today, and I'd like to see some premiership betting markets.  it will be a good comparison to run BitBet alongside a very liquid, successful betting market. Trading strategy, bollocks.  this was a fat finger error. pmaymin@poly.edu is his email.  who's going to contact him?  noagenda, was that you volunteering? how does one delete blk*.dat?   We could let the community decide the importance of a wikipedia article by offering a bounty for the article to be undeleted in English.  You might even consider bribing the original deletist with bitcoins.  He would either a) refuse it b) accept it on the basis that third party coverage had reached sufficient wikipedia standards or c) accept it controversially which would create publicity for bitcoin.  I would offer 500 bitcoins towards that end. Should we try submitting bitcoin wikipedia articles in several different languages? the deleter's stats:Pages deleted   839Pages restored   1 nice precision! latest difficulty = 244.213223092375323881335701184896212407930361873708113773326734402748260502489 1554339282075169582811726687822061777635447902413461818393548574922122914786456 6654051064077556842993973623686279076537890477160907158869253835628402573582928 17840402922938076799906  
