Autumn 2012 felt the same as now. The infrastructure developed rapidly, adoption increased, the good news just kept flooding in and the price did not react at all. That was also after a long and terrible decline after the crazy 2011 bubble. Of course nobody knows what will happen but I would not be surprised by something similar to spring 2013. Interestingly, a widely held belief around here in 2010 was that if this thing takes off there will be bubbles, several of them. I got this by email from denarium.com: "It's a horse standing on 2 legs " Great! The Casascius coins are sorely missed. What is the map on the 1/10 coin? Yes. In places where there are no formal property rights prospering economically is really hard. Now suddenly there is a cheap, objectively verifiable, incorruptible property ledger open for use by everybody. This could be huge. 10 bitcoin comes in to an address of a company. 2 of them are Soprano bitcoins. The company pays 10 suppliers 1 bitcoin each from this address. Where did the Soprano bitcoins go? Transferring value by assigning it to new owners in a ledger has been done for thousands of years. Bitcoin is new because for the first time this can be done without a trusted ledger keeper. Technologically a centralised ledger is much more efficient. Bitcoin can compete because no real life ledger keepers can actually be trusted. They are too vulnerable to coercion and corruption.According to the Reuters article these people want to use the less efficient Bitcoin technology and have in centrally controlled by vulnerable organisations, combining the worst of both worlds. Diversifying enough to live decently if Bitcoin fails but no way 50%. If Bitcoin succeeds and becomes a stable currency it still makes a lot of sense to hold bitcoin. It would be a non-inflationary currency that grows in real value in step with general economic growth. That would make it the optimal investment as long as you don't have private information about other investments, as such information is the only way to beat the index (i.e. overall economic growth) on average. And it was said. Over and over again. Year after year.And don't forget the inflation rate keeps falling. It was about 50% yearly when many started to worry about this. Now it is 10%. 30%, but for no well thought out reason. It's just that about 30% of my income is in bitcoin and I don't spend most of it. Yes, but it wouldn't be wasted. Say resistor wire with built-in mining hardware costs about the same as regular resistor wire and that 6% of electricity production goes to heating. Then all those 6% (instead of 3%) would be used for mining. No other mining would take place as it would be highly unprofitable. More power would be used for mining but used efficiently and at no cost to society. I use it so often I felt compelled to give even though it's run by a bunch of spiteful high-functioning autists. So now I have. They wouldn't let me pay if I didn't fill out a form with name and address. I have no idea why. It only means debt can't be settled with it against the creditor's will. Unless there is a contract saying it can. Debts can be settled in anything the parties agree on. I just held during the whole 2011 bubble cycle. I agreed with the then already widespread opinion on this forum that if Bitcoin catches on (a huge if at the time) there would be several bubbles on the way up. At the same time I knew I had no particular talent for picking tops and bottoms. If Satoshi dies then Bitcoin will be worth a lot more ... oh, so that's why he is anonymous.  At first I thought their shares were colored coins but it seems not. Back in 2011 I passively watched the decline. At 2$ there were heavy doomsaying on this forum. I read forceful arguments that nothing would prevent a further drop to 1$ and below. For the first time I felt a serious temptation to sell bitcoin to be able to double them at 1$.A few days ago at 350$ I for the first time calculated at what price I would really be hurt if it continued falling.Just another piece of data. Zerohedge posted the actual report in their article about it. Oh, no! Prices that vary with shifts in demand! When varying demand with prices set by a central planning authority has historically been such a smashing success. How will that ever work? This explanation would make the actions of MtGox not criminal but it doesn't hold up. No problem in their handling of malleability can empty their cold storages of hundreds of thousands of bitcoins. Indeed. What took them so long? The untapped demand ought to be huge. This could bootstrap Bitcoin in a lot of places that are both sexually and financially repressed, where it is sorely needed.
(That is when one bitcoin is worth about 8 kg of gold.) A simple question with a simple answer: When the market cap of bitcoin equals the market cap of gold. That is the time to pause, look out over the grey landscape, pour a glass of bubbly wine and watch it boil and/or freeze through the helmet visor. But we should have! It is a huge propaganda victory for the borderline totalitarian (but still comparatively nice!) nordic states that trust in those organisations is seen as a value in itself. And that the only right and proper way to change something in society is to manoeuvre the government into commanding the change. Got it all now. Some of it over six months late.2013-04-12: 1000 EUR, arrived 2013-05-21 (39 days)2013-04-15: 1000 EUR, arrived 2013-05-24 (39 days)2013-04-17: 1000 EUR, arrived 2013-06-04 (48 days)2013-04-18: 1000 EUR, arrived 2013-06-13 (56 days)2013-04-19: 1000 EUR, arrived 2013-07-22 (94 days)2013-04-22: 1000 EUR, arrived 2013-07-30 (99 days)2013-04-23: 1000 EUR, arrived 2013-08-12 (111 days)2013-04-24: 1000 EUR, arrived 2013-09-02 (131 days)2013-04-25: 1000 EUR, arrived 2013-11-05 (194 days)2013-04-28: 1000 EUR, arrived 2013-11-05 (191 days)2013-05-23: 7000 EUR, arrived 2013-06-07 (15 days) Are Kipochi making bitcoin transactions on behalf of their users or are the users making bitcoin transactions independently of Kipochi? Sadly not true. My SEPA EUR withdrawals from 2013-04-19 and onwards are still stuck at "confirmed". "As Peter Thal Larsen points out, you might as well buy an ETF which holds dollars."Well, why not? If you want to own dollars (actually own them and not just be owed them by a bank that doesn't actually have them) and don't want to handle the cash yourself then a dollar ETF is great, just like a gold ETF or a bitcoin ETF. Yes, EU. An update.2013-04-12: 1000 EUR, arrived 2013-05-21 (39 days)2013-04-15: 1000 EUR, arrived 2013-05-24 (39 days)2013-04-17: 1000 EUR, arrived 2013-06-04 (48 days)2013-04-18: 1000 EUR, arrived 2013-06-13 (56 days)2013-04-19: 1000 EUR, 67 days, still waiting2013-04-22: 1000 EUR, 64 days, still waiting2013-04-23: 1000 EUR, 63 days, still waiting2013-04-24: 1000 EUR, 62 days, still waiting2013-04-25: 1000 EUR, 61 days, still waiting2013-04-28: 1000 EUR, 58 days, still waitingInternational wire was less slow:2013-05-23: 7000 EUR, arrived 2013-06-07 (15 days) It could be true for withdrawals requested now. That is even reasonable considering the much lower trading activity now compared to a month ago. That could have shortened the queue a lot. 2013-04-12: 1000 EUR2013-04-15: 1000 EUR2013-04-17: 1000 EUR2013-04-18: 1000 EUR2013-04-19: 1000 EUR2013-04-22: 1000 EUR2013-04-23: 1000 EUR2013-04-24: 1000 EUR2013-04-25: 1000 EUR2013-04-28: 1000 EURI have not received anything.The account has "Trusted" status now and I would like to withdraw more but dare not for fear of not getting the money in a very long time.I want them to make clear that they will return the trading fees if I change back the EUR to bitcoin to get them out to another exchange that can make bank transactions. I have asked them twice but they ignore the question. No. I sent apostilled documents that should have reached them on about 2013-04-30 and got the trusted status yesterday, 2013-05-07, exactly a week later.Not that it helps me much considering MtGox has been unable send out any significant amount of EUR for at least a month now. The Bitcoin "market cap" is indeed the same thing as M0. But, because of its convenient nature, Bitcoin may never get much bank money. Fiat currencies on the other hand have most of their transactions made with bank balances. It may be fair to compare the money that is actually used in transactions, M0 for Bitcoin and M1 for fiat. Everyone can't go on being bug compatible with 0.7 forever just because some people may have painted themselves into a corner. And why 0.7? I'm sure the same argument applied to 0.3 too. rDALX7uHNUxPmfySY4ENdMiQ9uim12uBpg Impressive. Written in 2006. "some new financial technology which permanently precludes debasement" Indeed. "Magic: The Gathering Online Exchange". Yes, really. They won't. Rich people have a very small part of their wealth in the form of money.It is not a good thing to force people with lots of money to use it to consume resourses that others could have used instead. That is Ripple payments shifting around and cancelling debt, not settlement payments moving actual currency. Sorry for any confusion.Sure it will. That is when the friends of such members learn that they have given them too much credit, both literally and figuratively, and will have to adjust it downwards. (Unless of course they contracted this behaviour from the beginning in which case everything is fine.)
It is not a chain of payments. It is a chain of credit. It is perfectly normal for Bitcoin-seller to get the debt settled before Friend gets anything from Mother. Nobody's payment is conditional on any other payment happening first. Take the bitcoin-for-gold transaction above. Bitcoin-seller sends bitcoin to U and expects gold in return.Gold credit:Bitcoin-seller to U: 0Mother to U: 1000 kgFriend to Mother: 1 kgBitcoin-seller to Friend: 2 kgDebt:U --1kg--> Mother --1kg--> Friend --1kg--> Bitcoin-sellerHow could anyone here hurt someone who has not personally given them credit?You can use Ripple to transact with known fraudsters too. As long as someone has enough sway over the fraudster to dare give it credit the rest of the world get a network path to the fraudster through this someone. How would it unravel? A Ripple network is decentralised and robust, pretty much like an internet for credit. If one node is corrupt it is only bad for its immediate neighbours, who actively and voluntary took that risk for themselves. The rest of the network is not hurt and future transactions will be routed around the bad node.Ripple does not rely on social stigma. The participants can handle their own risk any way they please: love and flowers, hitmen, social stigma, contracts and courts, whatever. The system couldn't care less. If a participant fails to do this effectively no one is hurt but itself. Risk or cost can't be pushed to others. According to bitcoin.se it is now  classified as money in Sweden. (Translated by me.)This should mean that bitcoin will now be treated as other currencies with regard to regulation of exchangers, exemption from VAT and other laws about money. Suppose your mother gives you huge credit, say a ton of gold or simply infinity. Offer to buy bitcoin for gold and pay through Ripple. You would like to buy for a full ton of gold but sadly no one with an actual ton of gold gives that much credit to your mother. Maybe she gets a kg though, so you order 1 kg gold worth of bitcoin and get them sent to you. Now you have a 1 kg gold debt to your mother, she has a 1 kg debt to her friend who in turn has a debt to someone else all the way to the bitcoin seller.If no payments flow in the other direction your mothers friend will eventually want the debt settled so she pays out 1 kg gold. This is ok, you are her beloved child and she would trust you with a ton of gold! When you meet next christmas she wants her gold from you. This is when you say "Go to hell, mum. My intentions are exploitation and I don't care about knock-on effects of being exposed.". Go ahead! This affects no one but you and your friends. Great for you that you trust each other that much! The trust network is your friends and family. Most people don't want to get kicked out of that. And those who don't care are already kicked out. It's just as easy to borrow money from friends and family without Ripple. It's just not as easy to use that credit to make payments to strangers across the world. No, this is the problem (with LETS) that Ripple solves. It is Ripple. Ripple is a great idea that has been around since long before Bitcoin and a good complement to it. Wonderful that someone is engaging this much in it. Together with Open Transactions we are getting ourselves some seriously disruptive economic infrastructure. OpenVPN too. https://mullvad.net/en/openvpn_conf.php The euro can take damage from being outcompeted but the minting rate of the competitor is not relevant. It is all about the relative demand for payments using the two currencies. If no one actually paid in bitcoin (even though all merchants accepted it) the euro market would be completely untouched. Minting of new bitcoins would only increase the bitcoin denominated prices but not affect the euro denominated prices. If everyone paid in bitcoin instead of euro then euros would be just as worthless no matter how many bitcoins were minted or not minted. Keiser misquoted Krugman, who did not advocate a housing bubble. He said that creating a housing bubble was unlikely to fix the recession. Krugman is wrong about many things but this was not one of them. Or rather until asteroid mining becomes cost effective. Which could actually be pretty soon. Ja, ser så ut: http://localbitcoins.com/ If you are not staying close to the E4 road you might want to use the network with the best area coverage: Telia. Brands "Telia" and "Halebop". I made a wallet to paper note converter some time ago. It generates vector graphics. Awesome. Really made with usability and convenience in mind. This one feels like it can become widely used. You don't have to mine to donate hashing power. The easiest way is to just make transactions with high fees. Yes, but that requires selfless sacrifice from the refusing miners so the equilibrium price still approaches zero (given that there is no cost for the users to lower their fees). What would motivate everyone to download that particular program?
Why? What will motivate a large majority of users to actively lower whatever "negligible" default fee setting they have? Negligible for each user but not necessarily negligible for the whole network. When the default fee is negligible users won't bother to change it. When lots of transactions with such fees are aggregated in a block the sum can be substantial. All that's needed is enough users making enough transactions in each block. When did they stop?They also accept bitcoin for their merchandise. (We mailed them and asked, sent bitcoin and now two stuffed gnus are on their way.) A Casascius physical bitcoin and a 5 SEK coin lying next to each other on my desk caught my eye and it struck me how backwards the typical use of the phrase "real money" is.The SEK coin is nothing but a piece of copper alloy. Unlike the bitcoin there is no magic in it. Mold a piece of copper-nickel (worth 0.7 SEK) into that shape and you've got 5 SEK. It's ridiculous.The bitcoin clearly is the Real Money here. Me (and Pirate MEP Christian Engström) talking about Bitcoin on national Swedish government radio (Studio Ett, P1, ~460 000 listeners). In Swedish.http://sverigesradio.se/sida/artikel.aspx?programid=1637&artikel=4890903http://sverigesradio.se/api/radio/radio.aspx?type=db&id=3682198&codingformat=.m4a&metafile=asx Yes, it's all about incentives. Yes, the profit motive in efficient production encourages cheapness at the expense of safety. However, this is balanced by the profit motive in having to pay for damages caused also encouraging safety at the expense of efficient production.Removing the profit motive by having a nuclear power plant run by a government removes both these incentives. It encourages the people running it to run it sloppily but is does not encourage them to run it safely. You must find some other incentives that properly balances safety versus efficiency and somehow bind the people running it by them.The horrible safety and efficency of government-run Soviet nuclear power plants versus privately run Western ones show this is not easy. The internet is provided by competing private companies. The phone networks were provided by government monopolies. The latter sucked, the former doesn't. It can survive indefinitely doing nothing but sitting on a large enough chunk of bitcoin as long as there is general economic growth. It just has to spend less to keep itself alive than it earns in interest on the bitcoin appreciation. And "bitcoin" or "BITCOIN" for the unit, instead of "Bitcoin" which means the system. Design for global use. I assume you wish them to be used not just in the USA? Drop the USA legalese ("not recognized as legal tender"). Remove all usage of the English language. Look at the Euro notes, they don't require the users to know any particular language. That includes the plural "s"; make it "5 Bitcoin" instead of "5 Bitcoins". Can't you just use a transaction script that requires 2 of 3 signatures? I think this is what Open-Transactions will do to prevent Bitcoin banks from running away with the money. Explains it; my phone has 2.1. Android market tells me it can't find it. I think it does that when a program is incompatible with the device. What are the requirements? I see. Is it static or is new data incorporated as time goes by? That is, is it possible to revisit the animation from time to time to see if anything interesting has happened lately? Wow! Interesting to see how the early coins have not moved at all, with one small exception: the June 2011 exchange rate peak. Wonder if that was mainly selling off or securing of wallets?Unless I'm interpreting it completely wrong. I'm very confused about the unit and scale of the Y axis. I'd think the green line would be the absolute number of coins generated in some unit of time and the blue the absolute number of coins that remain where they landed at any point in time. But the label says "coins/block" and the numbers are very small. How can the generated coins/block vary? Are the cut off blue spikes actually hugely tall? And retain compatibility with the existing system? It seems like a contradiction. Isn't the whole point of the proposal to use other rules?So under stable circumstances with demand determined only by, say, 3% economic growth wealth equal to 3% of the value of the money supply will be transfered from current coin holders into waste heat. Whoever the ones are that burn the resources will get the new coins. (IMO this is wasteful and distorts the incentives for investment but this is the old inflation good or bad argument; let's not go there.)By putting a cap on the price this way you'd get rid of speculation in higher prices but but only by wasting the same amount of wealth that successful speculators would have received. Why is that better?Speculation in lower prices would not be affected.Isn't this just trading swings both up and down for even larger swings down? Without a price cap temporary demand spikes will be absorbed by short sellers. With a price cap they will be absorbed by new money but then there will be a price drop. A drop both from the lower demand and from the greater supply of coins. And not dampened by speculators anticipating it. Suggester, Bitcoin can't be changed that way but a similar competing currency could be created. How would the flexible supply work? When demand shrinks whose money will be destroyed? When demand grows who will get the new money? Good idea. The sad reality is that public forums inevitably rot if they get popular. The only way to improve gold is to base it on some kind of real wealth. Maybe somebody here can find a way to base gold on real, lasting wealth. "Yes there is going to be inflation because db-paper and dollars will have similar properties. It doesn't matter which to use for trading. So rates of db-paper and dollars will be equal."?I'm offering to sell you 200 namecoin for 100 bitcoin in a months time (or whenever shared mining starts). You'll double your money! Deal?
Yes.Not at all. It just means the other coins get as double-spend-proof as bitcoin. Compare with paper currencies; they are always 100% double-spend-proof but that and the fact that anyone can print their own paper currency doesn't mean inflation of the established paper currencies. What would the fundamental difference be if Gabi's mother bought the coins and kept them instead of Gabi? And rice and soy beans give you a more useful nutrient spectrum at a much higher density. I donated 10 BTC. It was mine. Now it's theirs; they can do with it as they wish. I would have preferred they kept it but it's their choice. http://forum.bitcoin.org/?topic=3716.0http://bitcoin.modernjob.info/print.html Two years ago I would have agreed, but now we don't need the debate. What we need is for Bitcoin to succeed and we have a technological solution to this social problem. That is masterful PR. Making the fear-mongers look silly is brilliant. Any viewer with half a brain will still get a hint of the great potential. But then the currency codes change to avoid ambiguity where it matters. The new unit can (and probably will) be called a "bitcoin" but will still need a new currency code. Preferably one compatible with ISO 4217. If you trust them or verify and claim the note before you let them out of your sight you can use this:http://forum.bitcoin.org/?topic=3716.0If not and you don't think they can forge one you can use these:http://bitbills.com/ It's obsolete since 1979, though. Are codes never reused?XBT is free. It may be even worse. When most miners stop, transactions will take a long time to confirm. That makes Bitcoin less useful which will lower the exchange rate which will make even more miners unprofitable in a vicious spiral stopping the whole Bitcoin system forever.An ugly patch would be to set up a fund that can pay for mining for a while when this happens.Is difficulty automatically halved when the block reward halves? If not, that could be a problem. Not USD but here in Sweden (state currency SEK) some shops and some ATMs handle EUR. It's not very common, though. They might drop a lot but the only way for them to reach 0 is for no one to want to buy any from me after I, personally, have bought every single bitcoin. I was building a similar - but not at all as good - system in the beginning of 2010 and searched for competition. The ISO 4217 convention is that global, non-national currencies begin with an "X" (gold is XAU, special drawing rights is XDR, ...). So how about:µBTC = XBC I've heard banking in the USA is even more backwards than elsewhere; maybe it's news there? Perhaps money is more like electrical potentials in an electronic system. Change something and they shift around into a new equilibrium. Move them by outside force and things start burning. That's exactly what they did. They gave euros to adopters of the national currencies in proportion to how much they already had. In general, fiat currencies are introduced by the people with the printing presses printing it and then spending it. And bitcoin, that releases currency to anyone who helps secure the transactions, no privileges, is somehow worse!? It should work. You only have to look for double spends too and reject the transaction if any are seen. Here is another thread about it: Bitcoin snack machine (fast transaction problem) And thus, of course, you also sincerely hope no one will actually listen to what you advocate here and act on it?
How about the fee schedule and the block size limit? Are those also just recommendations to miners or do they make blocks invalid? So small transactions have always been valid, it's just that most miners have refused to include them in their blocks? And the minimum transaction amount is reduced too. Very nice.But how does that work? I thought is was a protocol rule, not just something the official program refused to do. Will all older nodes ignore < 0.01 transactions? It has happened to me too. It gets value the same way as gold: by being uniform, divisible, convenient to handle and scarce.All the processing secures the transactions by making it impossible to double spend or change the transaction history without expending as much computing power as all the honest nodes combined. Those helping to secure the transactions get rewarded with the newly minted coins. We have talked to the Swedish tax authority and they want us to treat it like any other currency: Pay tax on the value in local currency (SEK) at the market exchange rate when a payment comes in. (And pay capital gains tax if they are sold at a profit, but the company sells immediately to avoid messing with that.) ... and give you kSAT, MSAT, GSAT and maybe some day even mSAT. Try AltGr-m. The usual thing thing to do when you can't write "µ" is to use "u". caveden, that was the best explanation of that problem (does it have a name, I think "public choice" is broader?) I've read. Well said. But... moving the decimal place is what milli- and micro- do! Someone made a program that generates addresses with any desired word in them (given enough computation) maybe about a year ago, but I can't find it. Everyone (except possibly some people in Liberia and the USA) knows the difference between a meter and a millimeter or a liter and a milliliter. Understanding bitcoins and millibitcoins will be just the same and going from there to microbitcoins is pretty straightforward. Not a problem at all. Bitcoin uses a lot less data than bittorrent and so is much easier to conceal. But even bittorrent can't be blocked. You can always just use an encrypted VPN to reach the real internet. So the network's power will come from miners operating at a loss and this whole transaction fee thing - intended to incentivise block generation with profits - is unnecessary? Difficulty will decrease a lot, leaving Bitcoin without protection from attacks. (Unless users voluntarily donate fees way above market equilibrium, which they well might.) But call it "the transaction fee level" if you like. Same thing. Cartels are hard to create and maintain. Why? It translates to the payment of actual fees. If miners self-interestedly accept all profitable transactions that willingness will fall through the floor and with it the actual fees. That's normal competition and how all market prices work. That's the user common. There is also a miner common.The space in a block will/should be unlimited and the cost of inclusion negligible.And nobody claims they are. Which brings us to the miner common: the willingness of users to pay substantial fees. Code:$ python3>>> hex(6582018229284824168619876730229402019930943462534319453394436096)'0x100000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000'>>>  AddCode:paytxfee=0.01to bitcoin.conf and restart bitcoind.
This "consensus" talk gives a bad feeling. Prices should be set by markets. And for me. Bitcoin will be great for all who take donations. Not until every font on every computer in the world is updated. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unicode_input Alphabets have this nice feature that you can take standard characters and string them together and in that way represent a multitude of new concepts without making a new character for each one! Like this: "BTC". Most of the 100+ "currency signs" are indeed made that way. Bitcoin is doing a lot of things right and has less of a silly nationalist pride problem than most other currency creators so why not do this right too?And if some people feel they absolutely must use such a character why not use the already existing "฿" just like tens of different currencies use the "$"?(The Bitcoin logo, looking like the "฿", is another thing and a good thing.) Most currencies don't have a character. For good reasons. They pollute the character zoo and bring all sorts of trouble for no real benefit. But not very flexible. The required fee level will likely vary greatly over time in response to many unpredictable events. Not quite. The power will be determined by the default fee settings in peoples payment applications. (Provided those fees are small enough it's not worth the effort to change the setting.) The default fees will be set by the application developers to a level they feel reasonable; likely something that makes Bitcoin big enough to withstand attacks but not big enough to be very wasteful.I'm not ready to bet on it yet, but think it seems promising. It's too late to do that kind of changes. We'll just have to go along and hope it will be possible to raise enough donations. How much enough is no one knows.If Bitcoin grows to the size of Paypal there will be about a million dollars worth moved with each block. If users can be convinced to pay just a 0.1% fee on average (and they have to pay some fee, however small) that's more than ten times the current block reward. The current block reward has already made Bitcoin the world's biggest computing project.Hopefully most people won't care if they pay 0.1% or 0.0001% when they buy a pair of shoes. Particularly if 0.1% labels you a Good Guy and 0.0001% takes an active effort and makes you a Freeriding Bastard. Governments generally don't dislike drug trade. They get huge amounts of income and power from it. They do dislike money laundering but that's not because of drugs, it's because it aids escaping taxes. The drug argument is just an excuse that makes it sound better. They will hate Bitcoin no matter what. Not mentioning drugs will change nothing. Bus drivers will not drive around empty buses while their competitors take all the passengers. We don't see infinitesimal bus fares on real bus markets because there are few practically infinite buses around.Also, look at all the airlines selling last-minute and price discrimination seats at below operating costs. That's also a tragedy of the commons. It won't work. Every individual merchant has an incentive to free ride on everyone else, not to contribute themselves. If one does take the cost and makes an effort to generate it won't benefit that merchant personally. Vandroiy and casascius have it right. There are two tragedies of the commons here; one with the miners and one with the users.Each miner gets the full benefit of including low-fee transactions but the loss from lower fees are shared by all miners.Each user pays the fee on its own transaction but the resulting protection is shared by all users.This will inevitably push fees towards zero.I can think of a few things that might not make this as bad as it sounds.Transaction fees are also the opposite of a tragedy of the commons (comedy of the commons?). Each user gets the full benefit of each fee. Only a few substantial fees are needed to protect everyone. Maybe the whole thing can be run on donatins?If volumes are high enough, maybe even extremely tiny fees will add up to provide enough double-spending protection. But if not?If not then there will be competition among double spending scammers. Only about six double spending scams can be done per hour. With lots of transactions the risk for each transaction will be very low and the double spenders will push up difficulty. And being an "idiot" this player will come out way, way better off than otherwise. Doesn't sound very idiotic to me. Here Eliezer Yudkowsky argues well that it can be a rational to actually be the 50/50 guy:http://lesswrong.com/lw/to/the_truly_iterated_prisoners_dilemma/ The same game can also be phrased like this: I get given 5000 $. You then get the option of making me return it again. How much must I offer you to not do that? Half.Half. Reject. I would reject anything under half. If the (de facto) government miners not only refuse to include blacklisted addresses in their blocks but also refuse to mine from others' blocks containing blacklisted addresses then those transactions will not ever be included in the chain. The ground would crack and a shivering Satan emerge to collect firewood?
Sure, but that is not so much Bitcoin as Bitcoin-backed something else with all the usual problems with gold-backed currencies. For most purposes. With the limit only a couple of thousand (high value) transactions fits in a block. Most potential transactions just can't be made. If the arbitrary block size limit is removed, that is. If not, transactions will be very expensive and Bitcoin useless for most purposes. Possibly, but there is always an incentive for generators to include transactions with extremely low fees and thus no incentive to pay any meaningful fees. Transaction fees will be voluntary donations. They still might be enough because everyone benefits from every donation so few donations are needed.If nothing else, the double spend fraudsters will compete with each other to generate blocks and they will include all legitimate transaction too to claim their tiny fees. Blocks will never be created faster.Not really. You don't have to wait for blocks, you just have to check that no double spending transaction was published at the same time. That way a transaction is verified in seconds. Also, changed in value relative to what? Anything? Then no two things may ever change in value relative to each other. I made a mybitcoin account and tried to pay too much. It got through fine. Great! I've put off paying for her wonderful film and comics for months now. But I want to pay more than 1 $. What happens if I send more to the mybitcoin address even though it stresses "exactly". Will she get them? Why? Who will force them? Prices always change. No currency manipulation saves you from changing your price list when bananas double in price relative to potatoes while potatoes drop 20% relative to pencils, as happens all the time. Becomes widely adopted and loved? I think it would be nice. A new currency will be worth little in the beginning. If it succeeds it will become worth a lot. If it fails it will become worthless. Most people who hear about Bitcoin think the risk is too high it will fail and don't buy any.It is the same kind of unfair that some people invested early in Intel while most didn't. They got rich off the backs of computer users everywhere who were happy to make them rich in exchange for computers. Not perfectly fair but still all for the good.Bitcoin is more fair than any other currency. I can't think of a better way to launch a currency but if anyone can, don't hesitate to create one and make the world a better place. Ancient Egypt. Its theocratic despotism system of government lasted, with some breaks, for 3000 years. Isn't that owning the the products of those means of production rather than owning the products of your labor? After the Soviet Union collapsed factory workers were paid in whatever the factories produced. People found it very inconvenient:https://www.economist.com/node/369396 It's doesn't have to happen anyway. Average nominal wages don't go down because productivity goes up. There is still the same amount of money per person in the economy. Average nominal wages only go down when the population increases. Can't everyone who care about some arbitrary numbers and not the actual value just opt in to be paid in Venezuelan bolívars or something?Or how about this: People with this psychological affliction can represent amounts in inflacoins (= BTC * 1.03^(year - 2009)) instead as they please. No need to change the underlying mechanics of the system. No, blocks are generated at random times, not evenly spaced. From any point in time the average waiting time for the next block is 10 minutes. And they are divisible, anyway. The total amount is irrelevant. Even if it did approach zero it would never reach exactly zero and everything would work fine. Population growth is a serious long term problem.Resource usage not so much. It is limited by available materials and the energy from the sun. It would be stupid to bet on exponentially increasing amounts of for example copper, so don't. Prices will make sure most people won't. Economic growth is a good thing, not a problem. It will eventually slow, but having run out of new ideas to discover and new things to invent is quite an accomplishment and a pretty nice problem to have.
Suppose they scrap the printing presses and then go on a Zimbabwe-style credit issuing binge. Now a banana costs a billion dollars. You feel like having a banana and go to the nearest ATM and try to withdraw a few billion dollars. See the problem?Few things are really wasted unrecoverably. In the end it's all atoms and pretty much anything can be recycled if the need arises. You just need energy. Why? What would happen if they just stopped printing money?Why? What is the difference from Bitcoin or gold?Maybe not forever but a quite long time. Keep configuring the same stuff in ever more desirable ways. A lightbulb is thousands of times more useful and valuable than the rocks it is made of. A GPS navigator made from the same matter is hundreds of times more useful and valuable than the lightbulb.The rate of growth is always limited to the rate at which new value can be discovered no matter what. The monetary deflation of both gold and Bitcoin is (will be) insignificant. What people are talking about is falling prices from economic growth which has nothing to do with deflating the money supply but is still confusingly called "price deflation". So? Their margins don't matter if their costs are orders of magnitude higher and their services unreliable. Why try to change the steam engine from what it already is? A water pump. Taking the pumping market first is a much saner goal than trying to tackle the incredibly competitive motive power market. I mean, those horse breeders and stables work on margins of fractions of a percent. They have ties with big canal operators, stagecoach companies and government, most of whom most likely won't want to deal with us - at first at least. It would be very surprising (and easy to make money on mining) if difficulty (mining effort) did not follow the price. Of course. That was all from the receiver's point of view. Yes. That attacker is not attacking you and will most likely leave your transaction in to claim the fee. You could still be vulnerable to a double spender who is defrauding you and several others in parallel, though. You can never buy your own security. To make it unprofitable to double spend, the block rewards / transaction fees must be at least as large as the transaction that is to be protected. Never mind that, there is a natural unit. The total Bitcoin amount (what is now called 21 million) would be 1. Natural units are the purest. There isn't really any natural Bitcoin unit, though. The 1/10⁸ limit is just an artifact of the current implementation (and network protocol?). They are potentially infinitely divisible and smaller pieces than the current minimum may be used some day. Amazing. A special unit of volume just for firewood! If that isn't down to earth enough, this weekend I ordered firewood in liters to be put in a space measured in meters. Easy, one cubic meter is 1000 liters. If the firewood had been sold in gallons and the storage space measured in feet, I would have had to bring out a conversion factor and a calculator. I do that all the time. Maybe because I can.Or take the previously mentioned food energy. A bottle of olive oil has 40 MJ of energy. That is 40 megawatt-seconds; it will run a 100 W human or a 100 W lightbulb for 400 000 seconds or a 50 kW car engine 800 seconds. It is also 40 million newton-meters; it will lift a tonne 4 km. This gives a clear grasp of how much energy that is and what it can be used for.Now, using the same 10 000 kcal bottle of oil, how long can you run a 50 horsepower engine or 0.1 horsepower lightbulb and how many miles can you lift a long and/or short ton? A "bitcoin" is the unit of Bitcoin (Satoshi Nakamoto's cryptocurrency). Often we can just say "money". Now we have a golden opportunity to avoid such horrors (say "kcal" if you mean kcal but even if you do, always use kJ and MJ) by doing it right from the start. Calling a megagram a "tonne" is fine but calling it a "gram" is confusing. So is calling a millibitcoin or microbitcoin a "bitcoin". And while they can, both people and the government are taking on huge debts that will not be paid back or be paid back in collapsed dollars. I implemented this last week:http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=3716.0Feel free to build upon it. Annoying. Most government things are not public. And many non-government things are not private. A friend of mine bought 2000 coins for about 15 $ back then, later reformatted his hard drive and now regrets it bitterly.
Indeed. Better? If / when we get down to the smallest subdivision we will have much bigger problems than having to call it "10 nBTC" (what's even bad about that at all?). All the inconsistency and confusion from changing the basic unit to bitcent (what is the proposed three letter(?) abbreviation for that by the way?) and mixing powers of 100 and 1000 is not worth it to solve something that isn't even a problem. As discussed in the fast transaction acceptance thread you don't have to wait for confirmations. Just check that no double spendings are announced. Then the only way to do fraud is to have found a block in advance that spends the coins. In a mature Bitcoin economy that is expensive and very unlikely as there will always only be about six blocks per hour. As long as you trust them to give you a valid note or can verify and claim it before you let them out of your sight. Still, printed bitcoins could even work in a grocery store. Scan the note with the barcode reader and immediately check that the coins are not spent and that there is no double spending announced. Print the change on the receipt. The public key is derived from the private key. There has been much talk about printing bitcoins. Here is a program to do it.http://bitcoin.modernjob.info/print.htmlIt takes a wallet.dat file and generates PDF and EPS bitcoin cheques looking like this:Each bitcoin address in the wallet with available coins gets a note containing the amount and the private key that controls it, both human readable and in QR Code.(The notes above are real. The first person to take them gets them.)Edit: PDF / EPS link. Ruthenium is a metal similar to gold, just as rare and would be just as good as money. Still, only gold is used as a medium of exchange. There is no particular reason for that other than tradition and expectations because gold was first. And if there is high demand coin prices will rise and competition will drive up mining difficulty. The price of bitcoins determines the mining difficulty, not the other way round. Taking a step back from the discussions about incentives for generators to ask the question: How much hashing power is actually needed? More is of course better, all else equal, but how much is sufficient?First, what is it good for? Preventing double spending. If the difficulty is high enough that it costs more to generate a (chain of) block(s) that omits a payment made than the payment itself is worth then double spending fraud is unprofitable. That's it.There is more to profit from reverting big transactions than small, so the larger the transaction the more blocks the recipient has to wait until considering it confirmed.For most practical purposes the difficulty won't need to be more than about the worth of a used car per block. Transactions higher in value than that are generally made over longer time, between known participants writing contracts and don't have to rely on the Bitcoin protection anyway.Currently the difficulty should be worth about 50 BTC/block, considering that the block reward is 50 BTC and most generators do it for profit. That's a bit small if you're selling a 20 000 BTC car and have to wait two days for the transaction to be confirmed.But the eye watering beauty of the system is that a single 50 BTC/block generator (or whatever the difficulty is) single handedly foils the plots of a million (or however many) 50 BTC scammers who collectively could have gained 50 000 000 BTC on their scams.The happy conclusion is that not much generating power will ever be needed and that transaction fees can be really tiny forever. Possibly not. But what about very low fee transactions? Not quite. A max block size that grows to accommodate all transactions won't impose scarcity even without flooding. And, unrelated, a single attacker could cheaply do a massive flooding attack; not for profit but out of malice.In the rule scheme without a max block size the problem is that a generator could trick the rule to allow more transactions into the block for each individual block generated if the generator is allowed to include unpublished transactions to itself. Definitely; the worry wasn't flooding but circumventing the artificial scarcity keeping transaction fees above zero.Again the worry wasn't flooding but keeping the block size small enough to support transaction fees. But anyway, under that scheme, wouldn't it take just one person that fills every block with free transactions to make the block size grow exponentially? Close to 100%. You will get few generators who selflessly sacrifice their own profits to keep prices up for their competitors. Yes, but these particular splits would be very small and unnoticeable for the normal user. Sure there is. Just ignore it and continue building the chain from the previous block. Which could be prevented if other generators ignore new blocks with lots of unpublished transactions. But that feels a little messy. Too expensive. But it doesn't matter. This made me realize the whole idea won't work anyway. Generators could just pad their blocks with transactions to themselves with fees set so that they can include as many transactions as they want, i.e. all of them.The blocks would quickly grow too large. Nothing, but it stops attackers from drowning legitimate transactions in junk inside the normal blocks. Are gargantuan phony entire blocks really a problem? They will be expensive to produce and won't be long lived as they are extremely hard not to spot and no generators in their right mind would continue building the chain from one of them. They would lose the income from any subsequent blocks when everyone else ditches the offending block. So that should take care of itself through generator self interest. Ah, sorry if this was not clear: There is no maximum block size that is adjusted. The size of a block is determined by the size of the most profitable rule-abiding set of transactions that can go into it. Completely independent of previous block sizes. No, if all fees are large and even there is plenty of room for cheap transactions at the bottom.The most important and most difficult purpose is to keep the transaction fees both reasonable and high enough to give an incentive to generators to provide the unrelated public good of hashing difficulty.
How about having the transaction fees decide the block size? Perhaps by a rule like this: The total fees of the least expensive half of the transactions in a block must be bigger than half the total fees of the most expensive half. (All transactions get to add their fair share of the newly minted coins to their fee.)Such a scheme has several benefits.* Prohibits flooding* Allows unlimited numbers of transactions if there is real demand* Makes transaction fees depend on the demand for transactions* No constants* No guesses about the future market How do you mean? Accepting every transaction is the selfish thing. Every batch from the oven yields an unlimited amount of bread. And there is a thousand people who offer to pay very little. Will the baker decline to take the money, throw away the bread and let the competitors make the sales instead? Let's drop the analogies then and go straight at the problem.The maximum block size is big, having room for all or most transactions.Therefore, transaction fees are (close to) zero.Therefore, total block transaction fees are also (close to) zero.Therefore, all for-profit block generation ceases.Therefore, difficulty drops.If for-profit block generation was the only generation going on then difficulty would be very low and double spending very easy. The only thing that can save the system is people generating at a loss.Now we have a lot of bitcoin holders that would lose greatly if payments become unreliable and confidence in the system drops. Will they contribute to their common good? If they do it will not be out of self interest. If you contribute to the system reliability you lose your contribution and benefit very little because the benefit is shared with everyone. If you use the system without contributing you benefit from everyone elses contributions anyway.The usual sad result is that everyone tries to live off of everyone elses contributions, very little is actually contributed and everyone loses.Classic tragedy of the commons. This is not like individual safety deposit boxes. This is like one big collective vault in which it is free for anyone to place their valuables and paying is optional. Just like the herders have an interest in having the common pasture continue to grow grass? Blocks will always be solved. Sometimes way too easily.There are two cases. One is when all transactions fit in the blocks. Then there is a tragedy of the commons. Transaction fees drop towards zero and there is hardly any incentive to generate. This is the case now. Transaction fees are zero and the only reason people generate is coin creation.The other case is when all transactions don't fit in the blocks. Then transactions will compete to get into the blocks using transaction fees. The maximum block size must be continuously adjusted to keep the transaction prices stable. The only way to change the maximum block size is through a lengthy political process of debate, decree, network fragmentation and majority agreement. No! Thats a tragedy of the commons situation. It just doesn't work. If Bitcoin will have to rely on that it's doomed. Sure, but the reward sizes are set in stone in the protocol and follow a predetermined path. The maximum block size will have to adjust to balance security and transaction demand. When coin creation diminishes transaction fees are supposed to encourage people to keep generating blocks. But how does the transaction pricing work?The cost of hashing does not increase from including another transaction in a block. A generator will always benefit from including a transaction no matter how small the fee. So the fees will approach zero (as, indeed, they are now) making block creation very unrewarding which will reduce the computing power providing Bitcoin its security to almost nothing.The wiki only talks about how limited block sizes keeps transactions scarce and prices up. Is that it? I see no market mechanism connecting the demand for transactions to the block size limits. How will everyone agree on maximum block sizes?Am I missing something? It is like evolution. Many try, most die and only the best and/or luckiest survive and prosper. Only rarely. Most standards are arbitrary rules that are followed because it is useful to be interoperable with everyone else. "EU" is the official country code of the European Union. If you know there is a bubble coming you can speculate against it, making a nice profit for yourself and at the same time help everyone by smoothing down the bubble. People bringing large amounts of additional hashing power to the network probably wait until just after difficulty adjustments to get the most out of it. In practice, predictable inflation is also hurtful because it is not evenly spread. The people with the printing press get all the new money. We also have an irrational preference for stuff now rather than stuff later. Even if the "free" bias pushes people to invest too much for our own good I doubt it manages to fully counteract the "now" bias pushing us to invest too little. (Hoarding deflating money is investing because someone else invests the resources that could have been consumed by spending it.)  The bitcoin supply currently inflates at a yearly rate of 62%. This is monetary inflation. (It will gradually slow down as the number of bitcoins increase and the mining rate goes down until the amount of bitcoins becomes and forever stays almost constant, neither inflating nor deflating.)At the same time prices denominated in bitcoins are falling. This is because the demand for bitcoins grows even faster than the supply. I suppose this can be called price deflation.When the money supply is constant prices will keep falling in step with economic growth as more and more wealth is traded using the same constant amount of money. Call it growth deflation.Growth deflation encourages investment. It makes people want to hang on to the money and delay consumption until later when they can get more for their money. This leaves more resources available to those who can make a larger return on them by investing them than by selling them and keeping the money. Bitcoin seems to be an ideal currency for Wirtland. No formal cooperation is necessary; just start using it and/or declare it an official currency. Formal cooperation is not even possible considering that there is no formal Bitcoin organization and no one in control of the currency. The economics prize is almost as bad as the peace prize. Despite the name it is not actually a Nobel prize but was instituted by the Swedish central bank in 1968.It's not that simple. Unexpected, monetary deflation (and inflation) is bad. That is if there is an unexpected change in the amount of money units that contracts, loans and wages denominated in the currency does not take into account then things get skewed for no good reason.But that is not the kind of deflation we talk about here. Growth deflation  arising from economic growth is as predicatable as that growth and a good thing because it does not artificially push down the level of investment from the optimal as an inflating money supply does.Every country in the world has trade tariffs too. That's certainly not because they are good.But hoarding growth deflating money is investment so it's actually the exact opposite. It encourages investment and increases economic growth.
Yeah, well, there will be problems anyway. If it catches on big then BTC will be a very large unit. The actual daily life unit will be something like µBTC. "BTC" is not a good or likely ISO 4217 currency code. There are two kinds: country specific and everything else.The country specific codes start with the two letter country code followed by another letter, often the first letter in the name of the currency. "USD" for US Dollar and "SEK" for Swedish Krona. "BT" is the country code for Bhutan.Non country specific codes start with an "X" followed by two letters describing the currency. "XAU" for gold and "XDR" for Special Drawing Rights. The natural ISO 4217 code for Bitcoin would be "XBC". "XBC" is currently taken by the obsolete European Unit of Account 9 so maybe it can be reassigned. Or maybe the ISO 4217 Maintenance Agency can make an exception if "BTC" becomes established enough but it would be kind of ugly. Couldn't the same ends be achieved with several independent local markets and a global market where volumes are high enough that the fees don't matter much? That way avoiding a monolithic and bureaucratic organization. Mt. Gox and Bitcoinmarket are pretty much dead right now because of lots of payments with stolen credit cards. As theymos says in the buybitcoins.com closes thread "Such a high rate of chargebacks does not bode well for future CC->BTC trades, no matter what intermediary companies are used." So credit cards are out. What to do?How about markets using bank transfers? Stealing bank accounts are a lot harder than stealing credit cards. Within Europe bank transfers are usually free of charge although a couple of days slow. I guess it's the same within the USA and other places? So at least there could be a functioning european bitcoin market using bank transfers. Maybe even a global one some place where banking and currency exchange laws are not too bad.Is this viable? Problems? Pitfalls? Luckily Bitcoin doesn't have to be explained to the normal user in more detail than: "It is money. You can transfer it between people just like other money using this program." The lender is doing the saving. Intermediaries don't change that there is just as much saving at the beginning of the chain as there is investing at the end. In theory I guess it is possible to save without investing. (Store and don't use some physical good that is not expected to increase in price.) But how do you invest without saving? Huh? Investing is saving. It is not true. NSA have the same computers as everyone else. They have to buy their chips from the same manufacturers. And anyway, finding a single SHA-256 hash collision, say, by brute force with all the computing power in the whole world would take something like a hundred trillion trillion trillion trillion years. It is a way of backing the currency (demanding taxes in any form and using that wealth to back the currency they issue to buy stuff does the same thing as demanding taxes to be paid in it). But they neither want to nor do back their currencies more than they have to. They much prefer profit instead. The central characteristic of fiat money is that it is not fully backed by its issuer.  The default situation for governments is the same as for Bitcoin. Then governments make laws to give their currencies additional advantages. Bitcoin managed even without these extra advantages.No, but there is an endless list of governments with bad currencies that has expropriated and banned posession of other currencies, legislated artificial exchange rates, run special foreign currency stores, demanded foreign currency deposits from foreigners, demanded exchange of certain sums before entry into the country and raided banks for gold and foreign currency. Enforcement of contracts? Why?That's not necessary. There is an obvious counterexample: Bitcoin. Governments often go to great lengths to get paid in anything but their own currencies. And wouldn't demanding taxes in any form and using that wealth to back the currency they issue to buy stuff do the same thing as demanding taxes to be paid in it? It is not a problem. Bitcoins are very divisible. Losing your coins is just a small gift to all other coin owners. I don't get it. What's the difference between the old and the crooked? Why is guaranteeing payment the essence and not something orthogonal and currency agnostic? Is it because governments might decide to stop enforcing contracts mentioning currencies they don't like?These enforcers use the duck test too. They don't care the slightest what you call it. They care about what it does. What it does is act like money. Viking traders and medieval Icelanders had no centralized property rights enforcer but still used gold as money and certainly did not consider it worthless.People using bitcoins live under many different legal systems. Bitcoin does not change that.You can own trademarks and shares in corporations without physical assets. Why not bitcoins?Use physical violence to force them to give up a bitcoin just like you would if they had stolen and hidden a gold coin.Make a contract. Enforce it in a court. But he is making his forum posts between 16 and 24 GMT which with normal working hours would place him in western North America. Or, with slightly later working hours, in the middle of the Atlantic in a great underwater fortress filled with henchmen where he plots world domination while laughing maniacally. Why not? It's hardly a secret as it seems to be first thing people think of when they hear about Bitcoin. (But let's not forget the great efficiency gains!) That would just raise the price of however few coins are left. The economy would keep on going like before. Printed bitcoins have two nice advantages over bank checks. The recipient can verify them instantly and you don't have to pay for a big costly bank organization. It works the other way too. When I buy gas I fill up first and go inside and pay afterwards. I could just drive off, but I don't. It warms my heart.
Just print your printed bitcoins on nice looking paper?http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=737.0 (The bitcoins themselves can't be reproduced.) Your password, key shape spec or bitcoin keys are not property but the stuff in the safe and the bitcoins are. Morally and in any reasonable legal system. And how big is the commodity part of gold's value? I guess it is pretty small, making it irrelevant for stabilizing the price, but I don't know how to find out and put  a figure on it. But even if they did hoard it that would be good, not bad, as that would mean investment instead of consumption. Shouldn't the most effective money reflect that things get cheaper if they do? What would be the gain in some convoluted monetary mechanism trying to hide the fact that stuff is actually getting cheaper?Now this could be a real issue. What would happen? What did happen historically in gold economies when there was great population expansion?Look at this list: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hyperinflation#Examples_of_hyperinflationGenerally it goes on for several years with what looks like exponentially increasing and ever more ridiculous denominations. (And often it doesn't collapse even then!) Those 1 000 000 000 000-bills don't pop into existence out of a lack of confidence. What's wrong with hoarding and trading if that's the efficient thing to do given the underlying economic reality as in the original post?Yeah, I'm talking about the mature Bitcoin market. On the way there we will have both monetary inflation and monetary deflation per capita. That is maybe not optimal but I can't think of a better way to do it. Anyway, it should work, and the end result is good.I'm pretty sure that's not how hyperinflation works. Do you know of any instance of hyperinflation that has not involved the central bank printing huge and rapidly increasing amounts of money? That's me! There has been a lot of worry here about the deflationary nature of a currency with a fixed amount of money. Don't worry.Let's first make it clear what we are talking about. The general price level can decrease in two ways. The first is by a decrease in the supply of money. The second is by an increase in the supply of goods the money is used to trade in, i.e. economic growth.The first, monetary deflation, is irrelevant. Some bitcoins will always be lost but the effect will be vanishingly small; people are not going to accidentally lose several percent of their money per year.The real issue is growth deflation. As the economy grows the same amount of money can buy more stuff than before simply because the stuff is cheaper to produce. That is cheaper measured in real resources such as labor, electricity or steel.This kind of deflation is very beneficial because it is interest on a loan, the return of a real investment. What is it that happens when someone sells something and keeps the money without spending it? The seller gives a real resource, such as a sandwich or a screwdriver, to someone else. In exchange they get money. The money consumes no resources and is entirely useless until it is spent. The seller hopes to regain the value lost in the sale in the future, by spending the money. In effect, the seller has lent out a real resource with hopes of getting paid back in the future. With interest.The deflationary price drop is the interest. The seller / lender has abstained from consumption now in favor of consumption later. To avoid making a loss the buyer / debtor must find a way to put the resource to such a productive use that it grows in value at least as quick as the deflation. If the buyer can't do that the profit maximizing thing to do is to quickly sell the resource to someone who can. Or simply keep the money to begin with and let the more productive people make use of the resources, to the benefit of all.In this scenario the deflation rate and the growth rate is the same thing. This base interest rate sends a very useful signal about what investments are worth making.As so often, it turns out that the best economic result is not achieved by manipulating prices - in this case by creating new money - but instead by just letting the market be and do it's thing. Oops.Makes sense, too, considering the decline of use of gold as currency. Back to 1900 at least:http://www.goldsheetlinks.com/production2.htmhttp://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:World_GDP_per_capita_20th_century.GIF You don't believe in the programming profession or the utility of computer programs? That's just because the production of gold has increased at roughly the same rate as the production of bread (and most other stuff). If gold mining were to stop but general economic growth continue then eventually the 300 000 loaves of bread would happen. The production of bitcoins will stop in a few years.How is this relevant to the availability of bitcoins and the viability of competing Bitcoin-ish currencies? Sure, but why would it not be available? Bitcoins are very divisible so they won't run out (anytime soon).This is an interesting but separate issue that deserves it's own thread. I suggest you make it a top level post. There is nothing to stop them but they are unlikely to get many users. Compare with ruthenium, a metal similar to gold and just as rare. Still, only gold is used as a medium of exchange. There is no particular reason for that other than tradition and expectations because gold was first. What's the use in getting ruthenium / myCoin when everyone else accept gold / Bitcoin? Exactly. If they stop printing, inflation stops.Suppose it didn't. The central bank stops printing but inflation continues. After some time an apple costs $10000. People will try to withdraw cash from their banks but can't because the cash simply does not exist. *poooof* Collapsed banks and a massive appreciation of the currency. If he dumps all his alleged 85 000 bitcoins on bitcoinmarket.com right now the price will go down to 0.004 USD/BTC. Then it will go up again. So what?I'll put in a couple of low bids just in case he's serious. If he wants to subsidize my bitcoin purchases I gladly accept. This is wrong. Loans multiply the printed money by a fixed factor but the root of inflation is the printing. Printed fiat money has inflation problems; the more money printed the greater the inflation. Gold does not, despite being lent and banked just like other kinds of money. This is simply because mining gold is hard while printing paper money is easy.The Zimbabwean dollar is a very clear example. Was the huge inflation caused by people being really enthusiastic about lending and borrowing Z$? Or was it caused by the government printing 100 000 000 000 000-dollar bills?Yes, most of the money in circulation is created through loans. No, that is not the cause of ongoing inflation. This should set one up:echo '#!/bin/sh' | sudo tee /etc/init.d/bitcoinecho "su -c 'bitcoind -daemon' $(whoami)" | sudo tee -a /etc/init.d/bitcoinsudo chmod a+x /etc/init.d/bitcoinsudo ln -s ../init.d/bitcoin /etc/rc3.d/S90bitcoinAssuming bitcoind is in the PATH and should be run as the current user. Not necessarily. The generating cost quadrupled today:http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=43.msg3488#msg3488 So why aren't you spending all your money on bitcoins then? And why is the market rate not 1000 USD / BTC?They might well be worth that much or more some day but there is also the risk of them becoming worthless through bubbles or not catching on.
