Ohh ok, thanks! Was already worried that maybe my wallet file was broken. Hi,since i haven't found a similar thread to my problem i think maybe my problem has something to do with the "autogenerated not shown addresses" Satoshi mentioned before.Well, for some time i noticed that sometimes an autogenerated receiving-address is added to my addressbook with no description at all.Today just after noticing the (already second one of this) i closed the addressbook and reopened it again and suddenly there was a new one. Now i have three of those.  I'm not sure if it was because i got bitcoin in the timeframe or there is just a bug in the GUI of the addressbook window.Anyone else experienced this bug, or maybe this is a "normal" behaviour which i haven't found in the docs yet? Sure, of course it wouldn't make any sense for the attacker to delete almost all wallet files, but he could implement an algorithm in his worm, which deletes...well, maybe every 50th wallet file and also to prevent that it doesn't look like just attacking computers with installed bitcoin, he can just delete/kill the whole system. So in the end he was still able to influence the network/economy.And at least to prevent stealing wallet files for now, the file should be password protected(decrypt at every bitcoin start and encrypt again when closing). Should be no real problem to implement. Still phishing on a running bitcoin would still be possible by hooking (or even easier just by mousmove/key-macro..) and also can't think of any real/good prevention of this for now(but probably affects mostly the windows version).   Thank you both.Already thought so and sounds logical.One thing i was afraid of, is especially because of this, it would be possible by a bad gov or other bad third parties to still influence the system.Either by (bad) gov:- seizing/sueing all IP's which are nodes(easily detectable because of TCP and default port right now)or other bad guys when they might have a lot of BC so they have an advantage/higher value of their coins:- writing a worm which infects and deletes wallet files (generally i see a new sort of phishing here, either stealing wallets or automated transfers by worms, but that's another thought/story to keep care of soon  ).or other similar ways.So that was my only thought behind all this. Hi all,i'm pretty new to bitcoin but already using it and also experimenting with new ideas/code. Great concept!Anyway i wonder what happens with lost coins?Like when some people with many coins lose their wallet file.Are they lost forever, and worst for the whole system? Since the generation of the coins are limited as i have read, are those lost coins regenerated at some point too?So when many people lose their files, maybe through a terrible bug.. well go figure.Can somebody please explain what would happen and if there are already methods to prevent or something(except backing up, but it's not always possible, e.g. a bad government takes your computer..).Ok, in RL life, when you lose money it's also forever lost(when noone finds it). But since in BC it's a limited generation of new coins it looks different i think, or am i missing something?Maybe one solution would be that the network will also forget about those coins when the original node/node with that wallet/ID haven't connected for a very very long time(maybe ~40, ~100 years? on the other hand it might be bad for descent to your child who will knew about your "wallet file" very late etc.) and let's the network regenerate those coins.Well, i'm not really sure how this is working yet, but just thought about this. Maybe someone can explain/think about this who has more knowledge of bitcoin/it's economics. Thank you.
