Personally, I've heard about LETS before, but I can't quite recall it. Could you give some more information about LETS? On it. When you use SVG or another vector-format, you don't have the problems you discribed when scaling the logo. Perhaps I'll give it a go in Illustrator. A bitcoin image in the shape of a credit card. Inspired by the Me.com account payment page. When you merged the "your addresses" and "the other addresses", how can you see the difference between them? Perhaps it is better to build version 0.2.5 myself, but does anyone have a guide to build it on Mac OS X 10.6? My Dutch translation is almost finished. I will send it to sirius-m this week. I thought so, but my boss wasn't so pleased to find out I had a "virus" on my computer. I will add the software to the "identify this as allowed software" list. Using hitman pro, the anti-virus tool detected a new heur_pe threat in Bitcoin. Is it possible that Bitcoin contains code of worms/trojans? Or is this a false positve.Code:bitcoin.exeC:\Program Files (x86)\Bitcoin\probably unknown NewHEUR_PE virus A simple "we accept Bitcoin" image. This one is inspired on the PayPal, secure payments logo. I'm willing to help you translate to Dutch. Just let us know, when it's possible! Tor is a extra layer of privacy and anonimity, but it isn't the ultimate answer. Check out http://www.torproject.org/download.html.en#Warning, to understand what Tor does and doesn't do for you. Is there a high-res bitcoin logo? Or a vector-image? I took a shot. Small, clean "btc accepted" sign. See attached file. For several months, I've tried to reach the eCache website. Only once did it work! (and only through meshmx.com, the .onion did not succeed). eChache is a beautiful currency, but an unreliable website, makes it hard to trust/use.I've seen a TorBank on the onion-layer of the Internet, but I don't know what currency it uses. Their site stated that TorBank should become the number one paymentservice in onionland. But it is in beta/alpha/whatever-status. I'm not sure why anyone would should be blocked in a bitcoin-community. Who desides who's bad and who's not. Bitcoin doesn't allow incoming transactions that will reduce your amount (a negative payment).Nice to see, that the possibilities of Bitcoins are explored. I have a question, though. Would you like to see P2P VPN communications build-in?Please, post them here. I think that a digital currency will most likely be used first for digital goods (e.g. software, mp3's, movie rental, etc.). When usage increase, people will begin to use it to buy/sell non-digital goods (e.g. books, computers, houses, etc.).When one trades Bitcoins for dollars it actually stays digital, at this moment. New Liberty Standard trades with PayPal (digital dollars). The service BTC 2 PSC is another way to get digital currency (digital euro's).I believe that it is too risky to trade anything non-digital with Bitcoins, because there's still a lack of trust in this new currency. When a currency is not backed by trust, it has no value. riX, you are absolutely right! Now all I need is a command line version of Bitcoin.Satoshi, when we may expect the new command line-abled version of Bitcoin? Or is it possible to compile Bitcoin 0.2 in a way it can be used by command lines? This means that a server can process one payment at a time. Unless a server is capable of having more than one bitcoin address. Sirius-m said (https://www.bitcoin.org/smf/index.php?topic=25.msg129#msg129):And:Is it possible in Bitcoin 0.2 to attach messages when using a bitcoin address?
