Last April, I made a loan to Daniel Holt (his BitcoinTalk username is Daniel, but he's been inactive here since last July) of the Rain Droplet project (https://raindroplet.info/) of 50 BTC. I had recorded the loan in Rain Droplet.This is the transaction: http://blockchain.info/fb/1lrdaaI recently requested he repay his loan to me. But his website is offline and his email address doesn't appear to exist anymore.Any ideas where he could be? http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/835These are all the possible rolls for the dice game Cee-lo, with additional information such as the best order of rolls, the odds, total possible rolls, etc. Not quite. It's not like those 5 million Bitcoins are gonna disappear if the miners leave. Actually, that's the beauty of the system. Can you please offer a sample of his work? Thank you. :-) I personally don't like that movable window. It's not very efficient. That looks yummy.   Wouldn't it actually be 62^33? I think you got the order wrong. I like this music. I just wish the track was a bit longer.Also, why is the filename corrupted? Encode it in UTF-8. Unless this is an April Fool's joke, of course... Sorry for the delayed response."Euler's Equation     e to power (i times π)             Plus 1 is zero!" I will write anything you want for Bitcoins. Essays, poetry, short stories, you name it. I can only write in English, though. Minimum is 1 BTC.PM if you're interested. I completely agree. CC0 is FAR FAR better than their Public Domain Dedication. I use it for all my creative works. Instead of using the Unlicense, you should use CC0. CC0 is much more legally strong for non-software works. On a side note, you could use Ripplepay or Rain Droplet to record the loan. At the time, I'm getting a good deal - the space is free for me.However, thank you for your offer. I will keep it in mind if I need hosting. http://ksd5.techaos.com/This is where I post my creative work.All of the stuff that I've created and posted there is released into the public domain, so you can use it in what ever way you want. (Check the copyright for stuff that I haven't authored, though. I post stuff from other people there (with appropriate permission, of course.))If you like it, you can drop me some coins if you wish to.If you don't like it, that's okay also. I tried Alliance, but I didn't have anyone else to use it with. It's written in Java, so it was running slow on my system anyway. Well, each new Bitcoin user and each lost Bitcoin just adds value to the currency. When coin generation is complete, the currency can only deflate from there.If EVERY Bitcoin is somehow deleted, we can just restart the whole block generation process.I really wouldn't want any government messing with Bitcoins. You're 99% correct. However, Bitcoins are not infinitely divisible.Bitcoins can be divided to 8 decimal places. Internally, the software processes Bitcoins this way, but at this time the client interface only supports transactions up to 2 decimal places. Yeah, I just overwrote it. I'm not gonna bother trying to recover the file. It was only 1.20 BTC and I'm not gonna sweat the small stuff.The wallet.dat now has transactions that don't reflect the current balance, so I'm just going to delete it.Luckily, I only had 1.20 BTC to lose, but backing up the wallet should be definitely integrated into the client.While they're doing that, they should build in a way to "bank" your coins into encrypted files.Well, I guess the BTCs value just got a tiny bit higher.    
Ah, okay. So I guess that my 1.20 BTC is lost forever, unless I try to recover the file with a data recovery tool. I wanted to test Bitcoin's double-spending protection, so I copied the wallet.dat file to another folder. I had 1.21 BTC as my balance, and I donated 0.01 BTC, and then exited the program. I then moved the copy of the wallet.dat file back to Bitcoin's AppData folder, and started Bitcoin.When it started, it showed 1.21 BTC as my balance, but a second later, it became 0.00.Is this there on purpose to punish people who attempt double-spending, or is it a bug?(All my transactions are present in the window. My balance is at 0.00 though.) Well, it's kind of a catch-22, isn't it?If I generated enough Bitcoins, I could buy a new PC.If I had a new PC, I could generate Bitcoins. Well, all one has to do is release and renew their IP if they're using DHCP. Then they have a new IP address. Well, to be technical, we are already using our own infrastructure. But we can change the way blocks are downloaded. Well, I asked him to add bitcoin.exe to the "Excluded processes" list of Microsoft Security Essentials, and block downloads took off for him after that. If anyone has a right to complain about coin generation (or lack thereof), it is me. I'm using a 600MHz Pentium III with 384 MB of RAM. I haven't generated ANY coins. Well, if somehow EVERY coin is lost, the network can just start block generation from the start all over again. There won't be a scarcity. Bitcoins can be divided into 8 decimal places (at this time, the software only supports 2 decimal places, however.) When the currency starts deflating, the software will have more decimal places supported. It's in China's better interests that their currency doesn't become more valuable than the US's. If it did, then US-based manufacturing taking place in China would move out. Well, if in some case EVERYONE loses their coins, they can just start the whole coin generation process all over again. If I send someone a coin before they have downloaded all the blocks, will that coin be lost? Okay, I solved the problem. The solution was in http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=35.0. Well, I don't have port 8333 open, but I was able to download all the blocks. (I don't use a firewall, though.)I'll ask him to get rights to the firewall and check what it does with port 8333 connections. His port 8333 is open, but the firewall may be messing with it. I got my friend to download and try Bitcoin out. I sent him one coin, but he hasn't received it. For some reason, his client isn't downloading any blocks. He turned on "Generate Coins" the minute he started the program for the first time. His speeds were in the 1400-1600 khash/s range, and he had 3 blocks. He generated 50 coins which will mature in another 100 blocks or so. He has around 40 connections.To my knowledge, his coins will be invalid because none of the other nodes will accept his blocks. And, since he hasn't downloaded any blocks, he won't receive the one Bitcoin I sent him.He uses Microsoft Security Essentials, but has added Bitcoin to its unblock list. He does have port 8333 open, but has a Linux network firewall. (He doesn't have the rights to access the firewall.)What could be the problem? For some reason, he's not downloading blocks. He's getting around 1400-1600 khash/s, and has generated 50 coins already (they're still maturing in 100 or so blocks), but he tells me that he has only 3 blocks. Your comic earns you... ONE BITCOIN!!!  (I would give more if I have enough to spare, but I'm the guy in the comic.) What is the average transaction time? I sent my friend one Bitcoin a few hours ago, and at the time of this posting, he still hasn't received it. When the coin limit is reached, future builds of the software will replace the "Generate Coins" option with a "Act as Node" or "Donate CPU" option (or similarly named). A transaction fee will be charged from then on, and any CPUs that have the option turned on will receive the payment from the fee. My friend got the same error. He has about 1600 khash/s, 48 connections, but only 3 blocks. 
