I decided not to wait for the redesign - the current purchase page at http://www.theoddshot.com.au/purchase.html now includes Bitcoin.Note that I have made one restriction until I can buy photographic supplies with Bitcoin: "Bitcoin users please note:  Since I have to pay my suppliers in $AU, I reserve the right to restrict quantities of mounted/framed prints, etc sold via Bitcoin."There is no restriction on electronic delivery services. If you want to buy the rights to use an image on your site, for example, I'll email you a high-res image file for a negotiated bitcoin fee. I'll even mail images on CD or DVD if you like. But mounted & framed prints cost me significant $AU so I can't promise to accept Bitcoin 100% for those orders.Cheers,TrevorThe Odd Shot PhotographyPS: It would be nice if there was a bitcoin logo or something we could download & put on our web page.  HINT HINT      is essential.  There are a lot of places where several people are behind the same NAT router. as it is, only one of them can have incoming connections. I've found an existing topic that seems to be appropriate for this discussion, so I've reposted my thoughts there & I suggest therefore that this topic be considered dead. My apologies for double posting.The existing topic is http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=261.0 We need, in my opinion, some method to prevent fraudulent backups by unauthorized people who might gain physical access to the computer.A suggestion: the client requires a password when started. This same password must be given to initiate a backup, and the password is saved in the backup file.  To restore a backup, you need the password given when the backup was made.This means that a person who has physical access to my computer cannot start the bitcoin client without my password (so they can't even see my balance). If the client is already running, they can't initiate a backup  without my password (maybe the password should also be used to validate any spending too, but that's another matter) and, if they find a backup I've already made, they can't copy it & load it into their computer without my password.This is so necessary, and so basic, I can't believe the client has not had it from day one.Cheers,Trevor Sure will,  I'm redesigning the web site at the moment - the "new" version will list bitcoin & have a link back to bitcoin.org for those (like me a few hours ago) who have never heard of it.Cheers,Trevor I understand that wallet backup is simply a matter of copying the wallet file to a backup media & then (if necessary) copying it back to restore it. This also makes it easy to transfer my wallet from one computer to another if I buy a new one.I am concerned, however, that if I have a visitor who has physical access to my computer whilst I am otherwise occupied, they could easily & quickly take a copy of my wallet & then go home & spend my bitcoins.Am I correct n this scenario?Is there any intention to make backup easier for the average computer user - ie a "backup" button on the client? Having a password on the client program, which would also be needed to initiate a backup or restore, would solve this security flaw.Cheers,Trevor thats ok - I'm not worried about disk i/o - although if I was using a SSD based netbook, that might be an issue.  When travelling, I use a "wireless broadband" link - as they call them here in Australia - internet via mobile phone. Mine has a 1Gb per month limit, adequate for getting emails on the road, but not heavy p2p usage!  Just wanted to be sure that using bitcoin on that link would not max me out in a few days!Thanks,Trevor ... for those of us who are on limited internet connections, or pay on a data basis.Thanks,Trevor The Odd Shot photography.  http://www.theoddshot.com.au  If you want to order an image, email me - contact details on the site.bc address:  1BpyLNjGFjWXwiWK5TfQfLW4tFYP3Mb9YjCheers,Trevor
