Alright, it's been filled. omegadraconis delivered. I am looking for a copy of a relatively obscure comic book. kimmie66 by minx books. The first person to get me a copy will get 20BC. It doesn't necessarily need to be a physical copy either, in fact I'd prefer digital. I've searched all the popular torrent sites and the like and turned up nothing.There is a quality requirement. If it's a scan I want it to be a professional quality scan, but if you find a crap copy and nobody else comes through with anything, well then we can work something out.Being as this is the first request of this type I'm not sure exactly how much it should go for. Consider this a trial run. He may have gotten his name from the great simoleon caper. anybody feel like posting a quick and dirty guide to tracing bitcoins and watching transactions? With all this cuda scamming going on I think a bunch of amateur investigators could be useful. if we can watch transactions we might be able to pin him down. I hang out in irc a lot. I like to think I'm fairly trustworthy. 1 bitcoin fee. I also go by ashadocat if you feel like stalking me. No their is no inherent trust. I'll see about setting up a legal corporation escrow service so you can, you know, sue me if I fuck up. That's not very much information to go on. what card do you have? how many khash/s? This based on the real client or is it custom? What cards will it run on? I assumed that we were getting the blocks to solve from a central authority and when I computer solves that block it turns into money. I am probably wrong. As far as I can tell from general poking around the way bitcoin works is set in the protocol that the nodes talk to each other. Simply puy to change the way bitcoin works you'd need to fundamentally change the protocol bitcoin uses to talk to other nodes. When you change the protocol it uses it can no longer talk to other normal nodes. There is one other way to change the amount of coins in circulation however, the dev(s) have a key that lets them print money. odds are good the dev(s) will make a shit ton of coins from this and not delete the key. unless someone somehow gets the key then you can't add new currency technologically.
