I wasn't trying to tie it to the dollar per se, that was just an example for the initial stabilization phase. The coin's price will essentially be tied to the global average electricity cost. So if global electricity suddenly got 10% cheaper (eg. new invention) all coins will lose 10% of their value and be worth, for example, 90 cents each (and vice-versa). I find that a very reasonable drawback though, not to mention unavoidable. But if the fed prints a trillion dollars tomorrow that will make the dollar cheaper, so it'll cost people more cents per Kilowatt worldwide, so the coins remain essentially unchanged.But who will the merchants pay their money for to acquire bitcoin credit? How will it be decentralized? My suggestion keeps everything in the current design intact except for the number of coins each new block will contain. That's why I believe it requires very simple modification to the current code, plus it will be just as familiar to the existing audience. What's wrong with you folks? I thought I was a conspiracy nut job till I saw people on this forum. Does a crypto-currency need to be stupidly volatile to be a good crypto-currency? Does anchoring its price to the average global electricity price means we're selling our souls to OPEC or something? Do you see Bitcoin ever going mainstream when one cannot even ensure it'll keep half of its worth by next week?The premise of bitcoin is:1- Anonymity2- ControlMy proposed model doesn't even touch these concepts. It's a purely economic suggestion. An unstable medium of exchange is a bad medium of exchange.And you know what? By insisting on making Bitcoin fail it's probably you who's working for The Manipulator! Etlase, the EnCoin concept seems very promising! It's what I've been hoping for since I started my infamous thread almost two years ago. You're welcome to read the initial post and kick some skeptic butts if you feel like as I revived it again today after the hacking of Bitcoin7. I believe the instability of prices is making users vulnerable to exchangers as they need to keep their "bitcoiny" wealth in fiat form to avoid price fluctuations, which defies the whole point as puts us back to square one.I don't address any security issues or drastic changes like you do here though. The whole premise is about the economic necessity and the practical plan to tie bitcoin's price to electricity. It'd be very sad if you had to go through publicity and advertising from scratch for EnCoin though. I was hoping the Bitcoin's developers would listen to the sound of reason and introduce these changes to the original client instead. If no steps are taken to ensure the coin's price stability it will never go mainstream. It'll be regarded as a very risky investment almost like gambling instead of being a friendly medium of exchange which everybody can use to escape the control of big corporations and big brothers. Your definition of "a limited subset of goods and services" seems to mean just about every consumer good and service out there, while your definition of "very, very short periods" seem to mean around 5+ years. And that's all nice and dandy till we find that you've got no problem with bitcoins' price shooting up and down several folds within weeks. You're weird, you know?Drama aside, I pointed out in the initial post that the proposed model will tie the coin's price to the average worldwide electricity costs. That's certainly not 100% stable on the long term, but I can promise you it won't double over a month nor lose half its value over 10 days. Let's just say it's significantly more stable than the current design. Got a better idea? Be my guest.Crypt_Current, you've just made The Manipulator very, very angry. By exposing His agents you have sealed your fate. Let that be a lesson to all of you. Background music followed by a cut sceneRed, Encoin sounds like a very promising idea. While by no means Etlase2 was the first member to point at the dreaded problems of limited supply as many people have cried out loud against it over the last year and a half, it's the first practical implementation of the concept I've seen. I'll look into it right away (then report back to The Manipulator, of course). It's nothing personal, but from experience it seems that people with ridiculous number of post counts take it as their personal duty to respond to just about anyone saying anything on the board whether they've got something valuable to add or not. That's why their replies, generally speaking, don't tend to be very useful or well-thought. And I've seen three examples today already.There's no way to ever verify otherwise but it doesn't really matter. We're discussing abstract ideas not personal motives.Then you better remain speechless. Because if people are spending $12 billion/day on electricity to produce coins (wtf?) then they deserve $12 billion worth in stable coins per day. At the current price of about $5/coin and the daily 144 blocks*50 coins the daily new supply is worth about $36,000.There's no point going through the technical details about whether the price will perpetually deflate since the last 20 pages pretty much cover all the for and against arguments on that and they're available for people to read if interested. Rather, it's more constructive if we focus on the main much simpler problem: the instability of the bitcoin's price. I don't think you have any doubts that the current model does not produce a stable currency, do you?If we agree on that, then I hope we also agree that stability is an important if not an essential feature of a medium of exchange. It would then be established that we have a problem in the current design, and we'll start thinking about how to deal with it.For the lulz: It's incredibly funny seeing Bittertea and SoH keep posting "This user is currently ignored." I bet they're still yelling about how pointless it is to keep posting in this pointless thread. It's like these retards literally can't stop typing. Your "argument" against my suggestion wasn't very informative to say the least. I'll try to explain why:Your thinking, kjj, is hopelessly linear.The real world is a messy, complicated place.  Many factors come together to interact in complex ways, non-linear ways.  Real understanding of the world is very difficult, often actually impossible.  So we simplify and approximate.  We make models where A causes B, and B causes C.  But these models are wrong, and we poison our thinking when we forget that.Bitcoin is a system with dozens of variables, and hundreds of relationships.  We know a couple of these exactly.  We know a few more to a decent approximation.  Quite a few more are just vague assumptions.  The vast majority of them are so unknown that we don't even know what we are missing.In summary, your entire conclusion is based on simple linear extrapolations.  Ponder this:Did that convince you that you were wrong and I am right? No? Why not? Perhaps because it wasn't very convincing? Or perhaps even because I haven't actually said one single useful sentence?I'd really like to start hearing arguments against (or for) my proposal just for a change. Preferably from members who aren't trying to increase their post count by replying even when they have nothing to say. So why can't it be rigged against me then? If I was gonna rig something I'm gonna make sure it appears like I have the support of 2/3rds of the community (hint hint).But it's not pointless to come to a thread only to say it's pointless to argue with its poster?I'm really thankful to whomever added this fantastic ignore button. Keep barking boys, you gotta have at least 2k posts before Christmas. Who cares about what you do? You can burn your money down or invest in pink cats for all I care. The current design has proved incapable of keeping the price reasonably stable for one single month in a row since April. I don't understand how you think it's practical to ask non-adopters to trade their money for a medium of exchange which they potentially won't fully retrieve its value before months or even years, if ever.Really? So you're saying we can have a perfectly average Joe looking at such a graph and then deciding Hey you know what, I'll remove my cash from the local bank and put it in bitcoin instead? I'm not talking about investors and gamblers here, I'm talking about normal folks who wanna use something like paypal and dwolla. You don't lose half of your dwolla deposits in a couple of weeks do you?Alternatively you can give me one fucking reason for repeatedly coming back to this thread to only whine and swear. Here's a tip buddy: If you don't like it here you can stay out and leave room for sane people who're actually willing to discuss ideas instead of mindlessly cussing. Oh and I'll help you achieve just that in case you don't know how: I'm ignoring you. `I detailed in the first post exactly how's this possible. Both systems are fully compatible.Who said anything about inflation? If you have 100 people and $100 on an island, and then the population increases to 110 people producing 10% more, shouldn't we print 10 more dollars to keep prices constant? If we don't prices will simply decrease to compensate for the increased supply of goods and services relative to money. It's the same situation with bitcoins. Say we originally have 100 users and 100 coins, but then next year we have 102 users, then next year 115 users, then next year 120 users, then the next year 150 users, but the increase in supply is always constant at 10 coins/year. How do you expect speculation and price bubbles not to be rampant? Well under the current system it's even worse because the new supply shrinks each year till it reaches zero!You're essentially saying that stealing some money from a random person and giving it to another random person isn't a bad thing for society. But it is. Sure, there's a 50% you might be the lucky guy who gets the free lunch, but overall you want to know what to expect to plan ahead properly. That's why most people don't like gambling even if it was at a 50-50 chance. The current bitcoin market condition is only attractive for addictive gamblers.Historical evidence doesn't indicate this at all. I mean look:The whole point of the alternative model is kicking speculators out of the game. The result would be having a natural, ever-growing bitcoin economy with a slightly-increasing supply matching it. The price will hardly rise or drop because supply will react to demand changes. It is the current system with its fixed supply and crazy demand (due to speculation) which renders the price stability impossible. And as long as people don't see price stability they won't store their wealth confidently in bitcoins. In other words, they will stay away from it. Yes it can.The current design is a failure so why not simply transform it instead?Read the first post in this thread.Under normal circumstances (read: flexible supply) the total demand will almost never shrink. That's as unlikely as having a negative GDP growth in a given year. What will occasionally shrink however is the increase rate of total demand.It'd be random just like the current design. The proposed changes are really very limited. Thanks to the (stupid) limited supply model which results in perpetual price bubbles and bursts, Bitcoin users have come under the mercy of exchangers. The reason is simple: One cannot trust their very own bitcoin wallet. If you have $100 worth of coins today on your computer, they could be worth $90 tomorrow, and then $80 the day after, which means you need to keep them in the form of fiat currency at the bitcoin exchanger's website or at a service linked to it such as Dwolla or LR to ensure your ability to utilize their full worth as bitcoins later.Sounds familiar? It should. Because we're back to the good ol' banking system again. These exchangers and services can hold your money hostage till you send them scans of your personal documents where you could then be vulnerable to identity theft or at least a breach of privacy, or the exchangers' databases themselves can get hacked as was the case with MtGox in June and most recently Bitcoin7 yesterday, potentially undermining all your wealth.Had Bitcoin used a flexible supply model which anchors a single coin's price to the amount of electricity needed to generate it, the community's reliance on such services would've been very limited. We'd only use them to get money in and out of the system, but not for storage over long periods of time where they're vulnerable to all sorts of misfortunes we're seeing now. It's not an exaggeration to say that every (non-speculating) user who lost money to a price burst, a database breach, or draconian security and AML regulations is probably a victim of the limited supply model.If matters continue this way then the general population, which we were hoping to attract to adopt bitcoin usage, will lose all confidence in the P2P currency. Normal people aren't willing to keep their money in the form of a medium wildly fluctuating up and down by the day, while keeping it in the form of fiat with traditional institutions nullifies the whole purpose of bitcoin. This is an open letter for the project's developers to reconsider the current design in order to save this marvelous idea from an eminent failure. September 25th new management comes, October 5th site supposedly gets hacked and the money gets stolen. Coincidence? .. and that they won't bullshit us with well-written formal words that don't actually convey any meaning. Am I the only one who thinks providing personal information to a relatively unknown company whose whole database was breached 3 months ago was a bad idea? Dude, what the hell are you doing here as a moderator? They've got job openings at the NSA. Oh wait you're already working for them, PR department. My bad.Just like the police always foils a new "terrorist plot" when it's time for elections.Any exchanges other than Gox?I've also had a very nasty frozen account issue with MtGox as they dealt with this whole issue very unprofessionally. You don't impose new defacto Terms of Service on your clients unilaterally before letting anyone realize what's going on much less agree to them. I got almost sick because of worrying and lack of sleep (I had a large $um of money with them) and I'm running with my cash and coins forever as soon as I get a chance.As a sad general observation, I think the Bitcoin economy is quickly transforming into a traditional banking one, and that within a few months it'll be hard to buy or sell coins without handling personal information. Even MtGox which is technically a Japanese company clearly caved in to major banks and/or US government bullying. This could ultimately lead to the project's failure just like e-gold and others failed when the American government cracked on them. A new wave of price dropping has already started. That's just excellent work. I'm surprised it generated so little buzz and isn't adopted into the official client until now.On a separate note, Suggester suggests a Redistribute coins button, an option which moves all your funds to a chosen number of new wallets with the desired proportion of your current coins assigned for each. A user would then be able to consolidate his wealth from all his, say, 17 addresses into just 3 new ones, with the first one containing 49% of his coins, the second one 26%, and the third 25% (he will be able to assign those %'s arbitrarily using a simple interface). Similarly, he might want to break up his single wallet into, say, 4 different wallets, using them for 4 different purposes. When the transactions clear after 10 minutes, it'll be harder for anyone to prove that this user still owns the coins previously associated with his identity.For the suggestion to be practical for anonymity purposes though, I strongly recommend another adjustable option where the user chooses how much time to assign for the whole operation. For example, choosing "63.2 hours" would move random chunks of the coins into their new distribution over that period of time (the client would have to be connected for the whole duration). That would make plausible deniability much stronger because you usually don't have 17 people simultaneously sending all their coins to 3 new addresses! If done correctly, it will be virtually impossible after that for anyone to prove that he still owns the coins. We're essentially simulating a change-of-ownership.This can all be currently done using windows explorer and separate wallet files, but it'll be a big pain in the butt. It's a jurisdiction issue here. Why would a Japanese company be "required" to give info to the American government? My guess is that they're ready to sell their clients to avoid a US crackdown (frozen bank accounts, bogus terrorism and money laundry charges, etc). That was Tibanne's (Mt Gox's owner) CEO, Mark Karpeles speaking. It's part of an article titled Bitcoin exchanges offer anti- money-laundering aid.Just in case you didn't know, Silk Road is the name of a tor's hidden service that anonymously sells illegal drugs using bitcoins.Though I never purchased illegal drugs and probably never will, that announcement disappointed me. What's the point of having an anonymous p2p currency if the money trail in and out of the system will be tracked by the intermediaries? They might as well have registered their exchange in Fort Meade instead of Japan.On the technical side, however, I don't see how's this feasible. The drug dealer can simply send his new funds to another wallet daily and change its address whenever he sells some coins on the exchange. If I understand the system correctly, this will render him indistinguishable from any other normal Mt Gox trader. Why would they need to spend the transactions of others when they can simply freeze all the payments by always holding the upper hand (read: possessing the longer "magical" blockchain)? Their presumed goal is to ruin the project, not to steal people's coins.I realize that creighto but it's implicitly understood. We're talking about the US government which owns computers powerful enough to create a greater proof of work than the rest of Bitcoiners combined, not some Russian script kiddy in a basement.May I ask everyone to reserve their comments regarding crypto attacks on Bitcoin's infrastructure to its thread while reserving this one to the deflation and pricing problem? I know I started it all but I was innocently responding to Bitter's CIA joke. From Wikipedia: The main chain consists of the longest series of blocks from the genesis block to the current block.And thank you Bitter for making it quite clear who exactly doesn't know what he's talking about.Or he's a retired bored old man who's got nothing better to do than insult others whom he disagrees with instead of leaving them in peace and wasting his time on more entertaining activities.I just LOVE how you keep coming only to say this thread is a waste of time only to come again a couple of hours later to just repeat the same thing. Listen buddy, if you wanna increase your post count why don't you just start a thread all for yourself and keep repeating whatever you want in it while leaving this thread to time-wasting people who want to actually accomplish something? If you really think it's a waste of time then you're better off getting a life without coming for a third time only to repeat the same thing, please.Thanks for promising not to post here again. Have a great day.
Nobody said anything about them accumulating a certain % of the network's processing power. I was talking about them developing a whole new fake blockchain thus luring the honest nodes into accepting their new fake blocks instead of the genuine ones.The problem isn't in my understanding of the specification, it's in your ability to read.+1Thanks. Are you sure you won't be back shortly to waste our time while increasing your Linux pride with even more post count? Ah, so freezing the transaction confirmations, thus preventing anyone from spending their money isn't such a big deal huh? I see you're not as smart as your post-count.Right. So a cow with 1015 decibel noise which moos just for the purpose of mooing probably gives less milk than most.And I support the idea of creating a bigmouthie forum for bored Hero Members who're desperately trying to increase their post count even by babbling fruitless nonsense. They don't need to break anything. If I understood the crypto design correctly, they only need to have their computers working collectively to produce an identical but longer proof-of-work which honest nodes would then endorse. I'm almost certain they started producing it much earlier than now so they'd be ready to launch it once there's a political decision. They'll also probably blame it on Iran, Anonymous, or the imaginary Al-Qaeda for the lulz. We don't need The CIA doesn't need to post anything to ruin the project. They have I'm sure they have a fake proof-of-work ready to launch whenever they feel Bitcoin has grown too dangerous. One extra block at that chain's end transferring everybody's money into the CIA account is all what's needed for a clean game over. "Military action" and "prosecution" isn't needed to ruin the project folks. Bitcoin is as strong as its users' collective computer power. In other words: NSA > BitcoinersI think we can all agree that the NSA already has its fake chain ready to launch at any moment if they deemed Bitcoin a serious danger to the US economy. They probably started working on it from day one, even. It would be identical to the real one except that it's a couple of blocks longer. Those couple of blocks rip everyone from their coins. End of story.Only if the real one posses more total computer power than the fake one, which is not the case with the NSA. Tell him there's no bubble so he would come and buy some of my over-priced coins and later sell his over-over-priced coins to someone else. If we told everyone there's no bubble things will continue to be fine, just as in a pyramid scheme. Tell me, how much are you willing to pay for..1. A magical dollar which pops 30 cents each year?2. As if that wasn't difficult enough, how much are you willing to pay for it if it pops anywhere between 20>infinity cents each year?3. I see you're getting irritated. That's why I'll add a notion that there's a possibility of it malfunctioning all of a sudden without a warning.4. And to make things worse, I'm offering this magical dollar for everyone on the market, which has led to people like you speculating and investing in it.Now it's totally impossible to accurately and objectively price it, right?That's bitcoin.Now compare that to selling a normal, boring dollar and you'll immediately realize which one makes life much easier. All the same. I'm kicking myself in the butt now for stopping mining too early last year when I was getting 200 coins/day. I thought back then (and still do) that Bitcoin has no future and that the bubble will pop sooner or later because the system has a built-in perpetual deflation. That doesn't mean pyramid schemes can't be useful if you jump out before they burst . My wrong decision made somebody else rich now. It's all the same. You look like someone who might like to check out my thread and vote Yes then  Your sadness made someone else very happy. This speculation game is a zero-sum.Assuming we know the right answer: If we give you a good advice we benefit you, but we hurt the person who would've acquired your profits. If we give you a bad advice we benefit that person, but hurt you. Again, it doesn't really matter  It gets on my nerves whenever this otherwise excellent project is (rightfully) seen as a gambling speculation rather than as a medium of exchange. Apparently the folks opposing my anti-deflationary proposal, who are the majority, think it's a nice game where you can double your money within 24 hours and run away. Sigh Plagiarism!Just kidding. Please repost that in my thread, and vote "Yes".He was referring to my infamous threadI know. I repeated this over and over again. Satoshi (not is real name, which is unknown) is definitely not stupid. He probably designed the system specifically for that reason so he could profit as a "risk-taking early adopter" and run with the money before the system collapses. He had a chance to produce the whole 144 daily blocks (7200 coins/day) for quite some time before anyone else joined the network. He's almost definitely a millionaire now with quite a bit of coins stashed on the side in case it reaches $100 or more.Other "early adopters" defend the current design for the same reason. My proposal removes the "early adopter" advantage albeit it doesn't negate the already attained profits.OR he can lobby in an attempt to prevent some hard-headed people from ruining such a beautiful concept just because they believe they can get free money forever. There's no problem with money being created with commodities. After all, milk is created with cows and grain is created with other grain and fertilizers. On the contrary, the problem occurs when we don't have a stable anchor to which we can tie our money to. Central banks use government powers including interest rates and money supply for that purpose, but what does Bitcoin use? That's right, mainly electricity. I'm simply proposing holding the amount of required electricity to generate X amount of coins constant.That's not in my proposed system. In my proposed system your money doesn't gain value over time (nor does it lose value, for that matter). Therefore you have no reason to hoard nor a reason to squander. You'll just spend as you normally see fit without worrying the money's value will jump up and down in a crazy unpredictable manner.That's exactly the beauty of my proposal: The amount of money produced actually depends on the amount of electricity sacrificed. Under the current system, the same bitcoin created a year ago costing a couple of cents is the same bitcoin produced today costing (tens of dollars?). That's insane. It doesn't make any sense. And it causes the price graph to appear like you saw in my first post because that same one bitcoin progressively gets more expensive to produce. As far as the ecological and global effect is concerned, I think you're overestimating its impact. You're better off banning video games for that matter.Although I disagreed with your ideas I feel obliged to congratulate you. Believe it or not, you're just about the first person in this thread to actually try coming up with counter arguments instead of crying Burn him at the stake! And perhaps it will never happen. Given that the number of computer and internet users hasn't "stabilized" until now and is not expected to stabilize in the foreseeable future, what makes think the number of bitcoin users will stabilize anytime soon, if ever? And even if it stabilizes, we still have the 19% deflation problem!And I explained that what I "expected" wasn't a lack of transactions. It's about the purpose of those transactions. And even if all those transactions were genuinely for consumption (which is impossible because consumption doesn't increase the price ten-fold in a month), why isn't a stable currency a better idea anyway?No, but they won't buy those things using a deflationary currency. They will simply use another medium while saving the deflationary currency under the mattress for a rainy day (or until they feel the price might drop soon and exit the market safely, only to sell the money to a new hoarder) Because the "natural" market levels is based on perpetual built-in deflation. That's a natural pyramid scheme not a natural stable medium of exchange.Elaborate please. It's not impossible. Hoarding doesn't mean "nobody exchanges coins". It simply means that in case coins were exchanged, there's a high probability that the buyer is buying for the sole purpose of later profiting. And the seller is selling because he either needs money immediately or he's afraid the price will drop and had enough profit, so he exits the market safely. By the way those two reasons are exactly why I plan to liquidate some of my own coins soon.I never denied there were real transactions either, but I said there would be more of those if the price was stable. People won't have to worry about spending coins because they're afraid the price would spike soon after they spend them, nor would they worry about a price drop after earning a coin so they won't have to rush and liquidate them. What exactly is your problem with a stable price system?Would replacing "number" with "volume" make you happy? You people got nothing to say to address the real issue so you worry about silly definitions. I'm still waiting for a decent rebuttal against my proposal. Just a reminder of how "wrong" I've been for 18 months:Doesn't look like perpetual deflation. Doesn't look like a crazy horse. Doesn't look like a speculators' den. Doesn't look like a nerve-wrecker with each single transaction. No, It's a perfectly sensible stable currency with a promising future. Are you saying that stabilizing the price wouldn't increase the number of transactions and/or the percentage of real transactions (i.e the ones not aimed at hoarding and speculation)?And deflation. That 20% (19% to be exact) is built into the system assuming the number of users stays constant. If the number of users double, the demand doubles, and the price skyrockets. That's called deflation. My proposal was to increase supply with demand to prevent that.That's also true. Which is why a flexible-supply system beats a fixed-supply one. The flexible supply doesn't give speculators any incentive because the price is constant anyway.Gold is a total different story. Had humanity run out of gold within 16 years of its discovery there would have been perpetual deflation. Nobody would've spent their gold except for emergencies. They would've used silver or seashells or grain while carefully keeping their gold under the mattress.Bitcoin isn't useless. But currently it's only good for "hit and run" transactions. You can't wait for too long (too long being about 12+ hours!) before liquidating your received coins lest the price dives down. You'd also be worried if you spent them now lest the price doubles in a month. What sort of currency is this? We need stability. Why do some people have a problem with that?On average, it is. Sure, maybe 20% of users control 80% of transactions, but if the number of users double then on average the number of transactions will double accordingly with another 20/80. That point is so trivial we shouldn't be arguing about it. I was simply telling you to reflect upon the natural increase of eligible bitcoin users rather than the sheer increase in population which is based on newly-born babies. Bitcoin's rate of generation will continue to decline beyond 1.1% reaching practically 0% long before 2050 if that makes you happy. Add to that that its user base grows much faster than that of human population, eligible or total. To cut it short: Deflation is inevitable. You're looking at newly born babies sir. Those don't use bitcoin. You should look at the natural increase of eligible users. By 1 I meant a hoped perpetual deflation scenario. By 2 I meant a perpetual bumpy-price scenario. Neither of them is illogical, one of them is inevitable.Don't worry, I'm not investing. I'm hoarding.Really? So for instance its user base increase between 2017 and 2018 is supposed to be only 1.5% simply because the increase in bitcoins would be about 1.5% during the same period? That's nonsense. The natural human population growth exceeds that figure. Millions of people would have joined the internet for the first time and learned of bitcoin by then. And what about by 2025, when the new bitcoins produced would be almost nill? Should the Bitcoin economy's growth hault by then so that the purchasing power of Bitcoin increases at a rate equal to the rate of the growth of its economy?And what exactly would their incentive be for spending a currency which gains 20%+ of real annual interest when they can spend fiat instead and hoard that currency year after year only to be given to a new hoarder? Bitcoin's limited supply model is any hoarder's wet dream come true: Ridiculously high interest money coming out of thin air. Who the heck would wanna spend this unless he's trying to escape an eminent price collapse?
I understand that. And my question was: How is this supposed to end? Will the price keep rising forever or not? Think well before answering because you lose both ways. Supporters of the current design lose the debate either way. If the price..1. Keeps rising forever, then it's a Ponzi scheme which will collapse at some point.2. Keeps rising sharply then falling sharply forever, then it's an unstable currency subject to severe manipulation and speculation.I'm still begging for one argument against my proposed stable-price system. You're not supposed to say that explicitly, Atlas. You're supposed to pretend that "deflation is fine" or that "it will all balance out in the end". You've just broken every Ponzi rule by declaring your sinister intentions out loud. You're talking like it's a God-given rule which cannot be changed. But it can. Just roll out Bitcoin 0.4 and we're all set!Really? So why don't we generate a totally random number of bitcoins every minute and give it to a random user and see what happens? Or maybe we should just square the number of coins in everybody's wallet and see if it helps or not. Did you also consider playing with the hash difficulty to make it a function of the temperature in Mumbai? Hey, it's just a social science. Nobody can predict what will happen so why don't we try it and see?I hope you understand the correct definition of inflation here. If the population (thus the economy) doubles with the money supply also doubling there will be no inflation. Everything just goes x2. The workers earn the same salaries and the goods/services cost the exact same prices.I'm all for a stable currency. That's exactly what my proposed model is all about. But a perpetually deflating currency? That's called a pyramid scheme. Had that been the case in any internationally-recognized currency like the US dollar (and I'm talking about double-digits deflation here like in Bitcoin's case), everyone in the world would be hoarding that currency essentially forever only to be sold to another investor/hoarder when they badly need money. Come on Nefario, we all know that. You know that. Stop hiding behind the it's a social science so nobody really knows anything argument. And if you don't believe me, check out the price history so far https://mtgox.com/trade/historyI wish for deflation to increase even more because I mined quite a bit of coins last year and I'm sitting on them. The only problem is that it's too good to be true. Nothing keeps rising forever, period. You're committing the same sin of modern governments who keep borrowing and think it can go on forever, just in reverse. Stability is the keyword here. The hell with deflation AND INFLATION. Nobody takes a currency which skyrockets ten-fold in a month then drops to half in 10 days seriously. You read the initial post right? It's against the limited supply system, not Bitcoin in general.https://mtgox.com/trade/historyNuff said?  Just read this article by Adam Cohen titled Is the cryptocurrency Bitcoin a good idea? http://www.quora.com/Is-the-cryptocurrency-Bitcoin-a-good-idea/answer/Adam-Cohen-2Though his third and fourth raised points are overly pessimistic, he strongly addresses the early adopters bonus and the perpetual deflation as the first and second "severe problems". I'm glad the same points were raised by an independent economist.I'm also beginning to notice a trend in the ongoing discussion here: Most new comers (folks with a small number of posts) support my suggestions, while most "early adopters" don't. There can't be any mischievous intentions here, right?Just in case there was, I'm reminding the early adopters that the proposed system will not take any of their profits away. It will simply freeze the coin's value at the point which it's at once the implementation begins. But contrary to having people like Cohen (rightfully) doubting the sincerity of the project which Satoshi et al made thousands if not millions of dollars in profits for "taking an early risk", the new system will be much more trustworthy as it will be fair to all with a stable exchange price.No more speculation, no more incentives to hoard/save, and no more unwarranted profits (or losses). You can casually keep a few hundred coins in your virtual wallet without worrying about a price crash. And you can casually spend them without pulling your hair out when the price doubles the week after. How on earth does the current system beat the proposed one? Fiats are relatively stable because they've got central banks keeping them stable. They manipulate interests and money flows to keep inflation and deflation in check. If you want stability in a decentralized p2p system you must have it tied to some external stable commodity such as global electricity prices. The recent bubbles and crashes along with perpetual deflation says enough. I shouldn't need to "prove" my point because it's empirically proven by the price graph. You can't have a medium of exchange without stability, period.I'm still waiting for one sound argument against the proposed suggestions. That's not addressing the problem. What happens if the whole world accepted bitcoin tomorrow? The price would still be jumping up and down because it's not tied to any stable thing. We need a damn price anchor for stability. Bitcoins will eventually be like Picasso paintings, they can be sold at absolutely any price at any point in time.In the ones I was familiar with you get only 3 or 5 or whatever limited number of tickets. Had it been unlimited the system would've collapsed too early because all patsies would be "early adopters" with no one to cough up the money.Regardless, with bitcoin you simply earn more money the longer you hold on to the coins. Deflation is the same as "more tickets coming from nowhere".So early adopters didn't have the advantage of creating 1 block per hour or per day when now you need to wait for weeks to create one? How the hell does that make any sense? Can you imagine the EU giving early "euro adopters" more euros?And that whole risk argument is strawman. It's all about "early adopters taking more risk". Crap. Had they immediately spent their coins then they took no risk. But had they kept them then they're speculators not adopters. They were waiting for the price to go up because the system was built so the price perpetually goes up. And what risk did they take anyway? $10 on their electricity bill to generate 1000 BTCs? Does this justify the current profit rate of 100,000% for "early adopters" and even higher for "earlier adopters"? That's a pyramid scheme by definition.Nobody smart enough to make $10M would join a Ponzi scheme. And it's exactly these kind of expectations which paralyze the market: "I'll hold on to my coins because soon enough some dude with $10M will enter the market, and then I can exit making a good buck!" Given no such thing can happen in the proposed system, it's much better than the current one as far as stable medium of exchanges (as averse to crazy speculations and price bubbles) are concerned. And what exactly is the problem in joining a sane, stable marathon? I have yet to see a single economic or technical argument against my suggestion. I think most "skeptics" are simply happy with the current system because they want to earn huge early-adopter profits when more patsies join in.I'm even beginning to seriously doubt that Satoshi (not his real name) specifically designed the system that way so he could get away with whatever he made at the very beginning before the network went public. The dude could simply be a millionaire now. You guys are just hoping to become mini-Satoshis when more people jump on board. I hope you paid them after the price crashed not before If you received your bitcoin sallary around the 12th of April you probably wouldn't mind the speculative economy. If you got it around the the 10th of May though you would've been on my side now.So? I never said it wasn't growing. I said it was a Ponzi scheme. A growing Ponzi scheme is still a Ponzi scheme. Moreover, Ponzi tickets were a valuable commodity at a time. Tell me, how would a commodity buyer or a service provider like to price their goods/services to a roller coasting currency? I personally would never sell anything in BTCs unless I can liquidate it into fiat within 24 hours. Make that 12 hours if the transaction was huge.  How does that serve a "medium of exchange" purpose? Hell, you can't even go on vacation for a week without worrying your coins might be worth next to nothing by the time you come back. That's poison for any currency.I don't need to "measure it". Suffice is to see the price skyrocket 10 fold in a month before crashing 50% within 10 days. I don't think that was due to the increase of genuine demand on bitcoin, do you? The bitcoin market didn't expand 10 times in a month before suddenly shrinking to half in 10 days. The current design has turned this beautiful idea into a speculators den. Part of me wants that yes. But I would've felt guilty had I not warned everyone and told them the way out of this Ponzi scheme. I feel better now, and still hoping to get away with as much cash as I could.Really? I don't remember the last time my electricity bill skyrocketed 10 times in a month.With the exception of people being forced to sell their coins for an emergency and the exception of "hit-and-run" transactions, most buyers buy now on hope that the coin's price will rise and most sellers on the expectation that it will drop. How otherwise can you justify a ten-fold increase in a single month? It wasn't a sudden surge in child porn anonymous sales I suppose. No, it was speculation. Virtually the whole bitcoin market is speculation.Hmm, I wonder how we ended up with quite a few millionaires and billionares on this planet then. Weird. Perhaps they don't understand marginal utility either. Why don't you explain it to them DrSammy? Maybe they'll give up their hoarded money to charity.I'm pretty tired of having to repeat this, but let's say it one more time: Yes they will sell at some point, but to another investor who'll keep the coins till the price is right before selling them again. That's a Ponzi scheme by definition.That just shows you understood nothing of what I said. Stability doesn't come except with a supply proportionate to the demand. Otherwise you'll continue to see these roller coaster prices and/or perpetual deflation.You didn't even need to see the historical price graph to figure the current design has issues? I see you're smarter than quite a few folks here You join now on the hope that in a year or two you'll be a relatively "early adopter" and then grab a new "late adopter's" cash for your coins which would be even scarcer by then. In other words: Pyramid SchemeThe incentive is to get other fools to join the pyramid so they can fatten their wallet even more before running away with their money.Another great definition for a Ponzi scheme. And totally true. I mean, the first few people purchasing the ticket are indeed taking more risk since the scheme isn't popularized just yet! The only problem with that, however, is that with bitcoin everyone is an "early adopter" at some point if he holds on to his coins long enough (as long as the system didn't collapse yet).I explicitly outlined in the first post why that scenario would be much worse than the current one. You're hoping for the total removal of the electricity-cost anchor. That's a nightmare.You forgot to add: "provided the coins' price doesn't drop in half before you get the chance to sell/reuse them".Unless enough people realize the trick and escape the ship before it sinks. But if we live in a world of zombies then sure, it won't fail until it snatches enough victims so that it has no space for any new naive newcomers. We're talking hundreds of millions of potentially stupid (or speculative) people. Not before I sell my coins as 1 BTC reaches $100! I sincerely hope the system won't collapse before then. That's even worse. Now we won't even be tied to the electricity anchor at all. The price will be ridiculously volatile with no limits whatsoever. It will be a speculator's heaven and a spender's nightmare.Not quite. Transaction fees are not a reliable estimate for the coin's price because they cost nothing. Does it cost you anything to fire up Bitcoin.exe and join the network? No? Me neither.Miners will never lose. If they did, they'll simply stop mining until it becomes profitable again. It's a fact of economics that mining is and will continue to be profitable for the foreseeable future (including expectations of price increase). I'm explicitly complaining from the "increased BTC value" part because it's simply perpetual deflation!Rly? And what will determine the price of those coins? "Supply and demand" I hear you say? That's exactly where the catastrophe begins. Here we are, having a wild currency with no anchor with a daily (or an hourly, even) new price determined solely by supply and demand instead of by the stable cost of electricity.There is a very strong relation. Had the system been tamed from the start by a supply-fits-demand model, none of this crazy speculation would've been taking place. The amount of generated coins would then suit the number of generating nodes and everyone would be happy spending their predictable coins with no hoarders or investors ruining everything. Hell, I've got a nice sum of coins which I generated during the cheap times last year and you know what? I'm not spending them till I absolutely need to or till it seems the system is about to collapse. The thing is getting more precious by the month! You think I'm the only weird person thinking that way?Oh, they might as well donate it to Santa Claus.What a great way to promote bitcoin. "Save till it bursts, spend, then save again!" Imagine if the Euro acted this way when it was rolled out. You're not taking this seriously.I just gave you one.That's included in the proposed model. The hashing will maintain the difficulty so that only 144 daily blocks are produced anyway. The difference will be in the amount of coins those blocks have.No. If the rate is predetermined we'd fall into the same problems. We want a flexible rate changing with the user base.According to that logic, we might as well stop updating the code no matter how grave mistakes we discover in it.That'll never happen. It will only get worse as producing becomes harder and the economy relies on the coins-in-circulation to determine the price via sheer supply and demand with no stable anchor like electricity. Looks like you want to vote "Yes" to the poll above then! With enough people expressing their concern, perhaps we can convince Gavin Andresen and the other developers to update the system.There's no market cap in the suggested model. The price will stabilize around the electricity costs as explained in the first post. If it's higher, more generators will join the network until it stabilizes. If it is lower, less generators would be encouraged to produce until the price matches it again. A typical supply-demand scenario. There will be no major BTC price shifts unless worldwide electricity prices significantly change. Anders, please refer to the first post in the thread to read the current suggestion. What you just quoted are the removed obsolete paragraphs. They're only posted for historical context. Hi again fellow bitcoiners. And thank you for (presumably) missing me!I'm here after a very long time of inactivity to majorly update the first post in this thread so it contains realistic solutions to the deflation problem and, of course, to yell at all skeptics who opposed my suggestions last year: TOLD YA!Please refer to the first post of this thread before replying. NLS, you know well how I think of Bitcoin's future under the current model, but as Suggester I'll suggest something which could keep you out of trouble. Why don't you create another exchange webpage, make another paypal account, and register another name on this forum using a proxy (tor or jap or otherwise) and use this new identity for your exchange service? Sure, everybody would "know" that it's you, but they can't technically "prove" it's the same person. Just post a "I quit" message here then a week later re-emerge with the new identity as "A new exchange service" To fund your new paypal account, you need to stop selling coins now. Just keep buying them till you run out of dollars, then make some $ for the new account by selling coins. You obviously won't state that on the site, but you'll accidentally skip the emails requesting to buy coins. Make sure you delete all requests from your gmail in case they're subpoenaed later.Alternatively you can move to a more liberal country, like North Korea   A million wth?? That's extremely unlikely to happen. To compare, Tor which is virtually indispensable for anonymous surfing (something more important than, and a prerequisite for anonymous currency) has been around for 7+ years now and its users are about 250,000 AFAIK. Remember that we're speaking about users not nodes here. Nodes are about 2000 or less. To compare, we can reasonably estimate that in 7 years we'll have 250,000 casual Bitcoin users, and 2000 dedicated nodes working on creating new coins. I know we shouldn't be comparing that simply, but I'm trying to tell you how fast these projects spread. You don't get a million users in two years for a very specialized service like this.You further forgot that internet speeds and computer efficiency would be much better by the time we reach the impossible figure of a million nodes. It would be like comparing today's internet speeds with 1995's. By the time we have a million nodes (maybe by 2050 or something?), the network would be able to propagate new blocks almost immediately. Under the proposed amendment (1 block/month/machine), the system will need 4320+ nodes to reduce the average propagating time to less than 10 minutes. In other words, until we have 4320 nodes, it will be "less congested" than the current build, with an average of 1 new block every 10+ minutes. I think we can easily live with 10k nodes TODAY with the proposed 1 block/month/machine, and by the time they exceed 10k permanent generators (if they ever do), there would be great leaps in both technology and bitcoin's design.The current model is DEFINITELY a fail. With one or ten nodes, the coin isn't spendable and supply in circulation will dwindle over time due to losses and hoardings. If you don't like my model try to offer something better, but stop advocating something which obviously won't work just because you've put effort into it! You're the one who demonstrates day after another your total economic ignorance. I told you a zillion times that price simply HAS to equal cost. If it's more, everybody will generate and sell for a profit to exploit that difference. If it's less, everybody would buy instead of generating because it's cheaper. In the end, the equilibrium of cost=price is inevitable. I can't understand how a mature person supposedly running an exchange service can't grasp such a very simple and clear concept.Bitcoin is not a national currency. It's not subject to import and export influences. It's not subject to inbound or outbound immigration. It's got nothing to do with central banks' interest rates. It's something which you exert a fixed and built-in-stone amount of effort to acquire. You're comparing apples to elephants when you keep talking about BTC as if it was a Dollar or a Euro. You misunderstood me. And we've gone through this before. Nobody's going to wait for a month for their block, because that assumes only one node is generating coins. If 30 nodes were generating simultaneously, we'll wait only for a day. 90 nodes and we've got it down to 8 hours, etc.But would cost the same amount of electricity in this much shorter amount of time. You'll be able to rise your electricity bill to $3 within two weeks instead of a month that's all (for eg. via using a quad-core 3.2 GHz machine in 2013).I rest my case :-/
How can you say that when this very problem exists at the bigger scale under the current model? If that occurs, it will encourage more people to use their machines in generating since they'll be selling $3 worth of electricity for $5 or whatever. If it reaches something like $12, very few people will buy and would prefer to generate it themselves. Free market economy!I don't see why this is NOT a problem under the current model. But in any case, so be it. Let him buy a trillion dollars worth of bitcoins and make me rich because I'll be selling him my $3 block for $50 every month.If this occurs then the project would be already dead. Otherwise why would you sell your block which you paid $3 for for less than $3?I'd go for that if there was a way to anonymously generate and transfer it online  Why do you say that? Apart from some aesthetic features like reducing the block size to about 3 coins (if difficulty was set to 1 block/month/CPU) in order to have the approximate value of ฿1=$1, all what's needed is to simplify the code by removing the automatic proof-of-work difficulty increases. "Want $3 worth of coins? Go ahead and spend $3 worth of electricity to generate a PoW block, or buy from someone who'd done so".It ain't gonna double in 4 years, so you can spend it today with no worries. It ain't gonna double in two weeks either if the number of nodes doubled in two weeks. It's pretty stable as long as the lowest global cost of electricity is. We're not gonna run of out it because people constantly lose their virtual wallets. And after 15 years, anybody could still join in and create some coins or buy from generators. How can you claim that the current model beats that one?! OR they will buy it for $X in hope that soon enough it will cost $2X to generate them so they can run away with a quick 100% profit via selling them to someone who'll sell them for $4X. I can't get this chronic-deflating scenario out of my head, darn. I for one will easily buy $100 worth of coins and offer whatever I'm gonna sell in the future for Bitcoins also, provided that the price was approximately constant near the lowest global cost of electricity (about $3/month/CPU). Only then will I be virtually sure that I won't have problems transferring my coins out of the system for cash or vice versa at any time later, not waiting fearfully for a price bubble to pop. I already explained why is this different than purchasing food and why banks and loaning aren't realistic when it comes to Bitcoin. Please refer to the previous posts under this thread and comment on them if you find them unreasonable.I rethought about my model and found that if we adjusted the constant difficulty so that we need a month (or more) to generate a block, not many folks will be generating, so the network wouldn't be overcrowded for propagation purposes; people would prefer to buy from professional generators instead (who'll make a small profit margin). But then again we then have a problem that the proof-of-work wouldn't be as strong, although that's surely better than the current situation. I hope Satoshi or Sirius would take these suggestions seriously and provide some feedback on them, but I think they've totally 'programmed' themselves that the current model works best to the extent that they don't welcome different recommendations very much. Let me note that, market imperfections aside, the exchange price has to fluctuate very close to the generation cost. If it's lower, people will buy from you until it's equal to the cost. If it's higher, it would be cheaper to generate than to buy from you, so they will sell you until they're equal. That's out main problem. This will cause the price to inevitably increase by at least 19% annually as explained in the other thread. Provided it turns out to be spendable by not encountering an ever-increasing-price scenario.I love crashing parties lol We were essentially discussing Sabunir's question about what prevents someone from messing with the program's source code to adjust block-generating difficulty to be very easy, then make a network on his own and create a, say, 50,000-block proof-of-work within seconds then finally propagate it across the real network to steal "votes" towards his new fake blocks as technically, his proof would be "the longest". So is there a way to verify how much work was actually put into a given PoW (for eg. how many zero's are at the beginning of each hash or something)?Since we're at it, what's the approximate time for proof-of-work propagation across a network of about 100,000 machines? Is there a way to optimize connections so that broadcasting is done via a pyramid-form to minimize the needed time? For example, the block creator sends it to 10 nodes, then those 10 send it to a 100 provided that none of those 100 were among the original 11, then those 100 tell a 1000 provided that none of those 1000 were among the original 111, etc to save time. Then how is it dependent on how many CPU's are connected to the whole network?We need Satoshi to confirm that because clients accept blocks generated at easier difficulties all the time whenever the PoW's difficulty increases. That's what I'm talking about. If we have something like "spare blocks" designed to be occupied by double-entries as in programming lines (they go 10, 20, 30 not 1,2,3 to make room for later changes), and if we have timestamps which say when was each block exactly generated down to the 100th second, maybe we can solve that problem altogether.If worst comes to worst, and the number exceeds the proposed 86,400 before we achieve enough technological progress to significantly reduce the latency time, then some blocks will inevitably be lost until this progress is achieved. So, say, if 100,000 nodes are simultaneously generating coins, maybe 10% of the new blocks will be lost which should be an incentive for some of them to leave the network (or, ironically enough, perpetually raise the price they charge to accommodate for their losses!). This scenario, however, is extremely unlikely. If each node is connected to 10 exclusive others, it should take only 5 "hops" to reach the whole 100,000 connected network. How much time would it take for each hop at most? At 1 block/month on average, with only 30 computers in the network it would take about 1 day to create a new block. 1/2 a day with 60 computers etc.I admit that we need to correctly estimate the minimum amount of time to broadcast a new block across the network though. And is it possible to use timestamps for blocks so even if the difference was 0.1 second they could be re-organized on our machines? How about something like programming lines with 10-figure differences reserved in case of double-block-creation before broadcasting is complete, is it possible? My model should be fairly simple to implement. We'd just freeze the amount of effort needed to find a new solution so the odds of finding it would need, on average, a month of continuous work for a modern 2.0 Ghz core-2-duo for example.Satoshi and other pioneers: I understand your reluctance to change the current system: you guys don't want to sacrifice all the effort you've put into the project and start from scratch with no coins. But all we need to do for Bitcoin 0.3 is remove a couple of zero's for an average month's production to equal 3 new coins for instance. Perhaps every 4,000 Bitcoins can equal 1 NBC (new bitcoin) or something like that? So you want the rate to be constant @ 144 blocks/day forever? Why not increase it to, say, 1/minute (1440/day) so the system could accommodate more nodes without much delay? With 10,000 nodes at the current difficulty, you need to wait an average of 70 days for a coin to appear. If your dollar became an international currency, you might have to wait for a whole year or more for a coin to appear!I imagine that my idea will make downloading the existing blocks very difficult after a couple years or so though because of their size (1M blocks?!), isn't there a way to compress them or something?I could just name mine Electric Bitcoins (EBC's, yummy!), because they're directly proportional to how much electricity you've put into them regardless of how many people are in the network. I think you're mixing the terms "inflation" with "deflation". We currently have a sharp deflation (i.e the currency's value is increasing). I predict it will continue to occur.Yes. If he's willing to pay less, less people will produce BTCs causing their production to be easier until price equates with cost. If he's willing to pay more, more people will produce BTCs causing their production cost to increase until it equates with cost. If you don't understand this very basic economic principle then you should've read the previous posts. And under my model, a similar equation is in effect but is not changed as more people join the network and isn't doubled every 4 years.No. And I'm tired of having to explain why a deflating currency is a bad idea. Please refer to previous posts.It does. Because as long as energy costs don't increase by, say, a constant 10% annually, coins won't.Oh God...Did you forget that 99.99% of goods purchasable via coins are also purchasable via cash? You're not making any sense.Refer to my previous posts, please. I thoroughly explained why this won't happen.Because it greatly reduces the wish to spend now.Many will leave the system via computer failures, many will leave the system via sabotage attempts, and there would be noway to bring them back.That's exactly what a "monetary deflation" is.I'm mysteriously resisting the urge to give a really mean response here.Same here. The current model doesn't grant that.They go hand-in-hand. With constant deflation there would very little market trade if any.If he earns $ via exchanging them, he wouldn't have a reason to stop generating even more. Nominal prices now does indicate that more people are producing, whether botnets or otherwise.You forgot the most important question: How many DMD's do you suggest being produced per day on average? You do want it to be a fixed amount, no?I did a quick and dirty research and it seems that the lowest electricity cost worldwide is about 1/4 of the US average. In an attempt to shoot for ฿1 = $1 to make calculations easier, I think making my block worth about ฿3 (for a month of work) should be close enough. Alright that sounds interesting. I don't know how fast can propagating blocks go, but let's assume for starters that it takes 10 seconds to propagate a block across the network. There are 8,640 deci-seconds in a day, which means that on average, the system will be able to support something like 2,880 daily blocks (third of 8,640) at a maximum to reasonably avoid collisions. In other words, if we froze the difficulty of generating 1 block so a modern computer would need to work for 1 day on average to create it, it wouldn't be good enough because we hope for much more than 2,880 users to join soon.The solution would be to make generating a block extremely difficult right from the start. Say, a modern dual-core computer would need to work continuously for a month to generate 1 block regardless of how much CPU power is in the network. With the 10-seconds assumption, this will give us room now to accommodate about 86,400 (which is 2,880 x 30) connected machines without considerable problems. You might complain today that a month of waiting is too much, but assuming the current model succeeds, it will soon need much more than a month to see a block coming under it. Additionally, coin production will be done via specialized businesses and dedicated computers left to work only for that purpose who'll sell to you and me, so a month wouldn't bother them and it would create a killer proof-of-work. And as NLS always fears, a botnet can and will stop all of us from producing under the current model. A botnet will not be able to do so under the suggested model. It will only make its owner rich, which happens anyway."What if we listened to your stupid idea, and soon enough we got more than 86,400 connected users?" you may ask. First, please don't resort to name-calling. Second, remember that as time progresses, internet speeds improve faster than computer speeds. So by the time we get 86k PCs connected 24/7 (which may take a couple of years for example), we'll have a propagation time of only 5 seconds. Two more years and it will be 3 seconds, naturally allowing the system to accommodate more newcomers (including a couple of botnets ) without destroying the economic system via perpetual deflation. The network however wouldn't grow too large because Westerns would prefer to buy coins from people who live in cheap-electricity countries to save on their bills, keep reading...I think that request was for NLS but I'll answer them for my model too Under my model (and indeed, the current one) the generating costs are generally tied to the price of energy. Those may go up and down all the time, but aren't affected by how much people are in the network and don't double every four years either.Prices will be determined in my model (and also in the current model) by how much cost (i.e. electricity mainly) was spent to generate a block of say, 10 BTCs (or whatever).My favorite question . If we assume that running a high-end computer in a Western country continuously for a month costs $10, then under my model, a ฿10 block will more or less have an agreed-upon value of $10 ($1=฿1). As more people from countries with cheap electricity (eg. Venezuela) join to exploit that difference and compete with each other in selling to Westerns, price will more or less stabilize just a tad higher than the average cost of electricity in these countries. This will also serve as a way to limit the network so it wouldn't grow too large for propagation (because why run your PC for a month in the US and pay a $10 bill when you can purchase that block for $4 from an Indian dude while avoiding the melting of your machine -and nervous system- via all that heat and noise?). The network will be filled with generating Mexicans and Zimbabweans (and botnets) because they're most efficient at electricity cost. It's a shame because botnets may eventually become our main providers, but that's better than having them ruin the whole system by stopping participants from producing under the current model, right?Now that Bitcoins would rarely increase in value (because people will continuously find a place where electricity is 3% cheaper), nobody will be hoarding his coins. People will gladly use them as a means of exchange and even spend them ASAP before they lose another 3%, causing the ฿ economy to flourish. Additionally, even 20 years from now, anyone will be able to generate a coin by running his machine for a few weeks, granting newcomers who don't want to purchase from botnets for ethical reasons or from Mexicans for security reasons a chance to join at any point in the future.I wholly appreciate NLS's model, which is exactly like mine with the difference of freezing the generation at, say, 2,880 daily blocks. Under his model, if one computer is connected, it creates 2880 blocks/day. If 10,000 computers are connected, they create something like 1 block/4 days each. The problem with this is that the cost of generating a block would continue to deflate for the foreseeable future until the number of participating nodes stabilizes, which could never happen as long as the price keeps increasing because of the increasing cost due to more people joining the network (due to more people using the internet and hearing about Bitcoin, for example), inevitably having us stuck in the perpetual-deflation scenario. Additionally, if a couple of large botnets join the network (which will happen sooner or later, to be honest), the average user would then have noway to generate his own blocks and would be forced to buy from them instead. Some people afraid of government witch-hunting those who purchase BTCs might be afraid to use conventional methods like paypal and would thus have almost noway of acquiring coins (both because botnets/crowds make generation difficult and because 16 years have passed effectively making it impossible). Finally, if those botnets/supercomputers belong to a government, they would not sell their 2,879 daily blocks in order to hinder Bitcoins's usability. Ego aside, that's why I prefer my model of user-base-dependent-block-generation over NLS's of perpetually-fixed-block-generation.Satoshi, please do consider changing the current model to one of those two (or something new). We're not trying to win an argument here; we're trying to find the best way to make this project successful. This becomes more difficult with time. If we're going to change anything before the word catches on, now is the time to do it. Someone spending $1 now to create $1 worth of coins isn't a person who needs goods to survive. He's probably an investor, or will end up paying his coins to an investor.This increase is one of the main reasons Bitcoin is doomed under the current model. I think you lost me.Which will not happen under the current model due to its enormous "investability".Which will also not happen under the current model due to increasing generating cost.Taking thoughtless action without proper planning is catastrophic.I disagree for obvious reasons :pGold didn't become increasingly difficult to mine from the first day it was discovered. And by the time it becomes impossible to mine anymore, nobody would be using it as a medium of exchange. And if they were, the world would be doomed by depression because everybody would be saving as much as they can because their gold would be worth more tomorrow. Mild inflation (or stability at least) solves this problem.That doesn't make sense. All (infinite) fiat currencies have a value. Infinite milk and infinite corn have a value. Infinite electricity has a value. Why are you people so obsessed with the idea of "finite supply"?Why not just use more decimals on the existing coin?With 144 daily blocks, you can hardly keep a large user base interested. Sooner or later (especially if a botnet or a supercomputer began competing with us) you'll need to work months before seeing a single block appear. All this has to change.Soon to be followed by a 'Gold Crash' (probably)Right. Consider it an un-self-fulfilling prophecy. Because people with reasonable economic background and thought can predict right now that all this would happen, they wouldn't probably use Bitcoin in the first place. NP. I'll probably keep frustrating you for quite some time then You never stop surprising me with your analysis man.That doesn't make it "finite". It's infinite but accurately predicted.Stop worrying about botnets, please. They're gonna have an edge under any model. Plus they don't change anything economically. They are just as if normal people donated their coins to a charity or whatever. Limited blocks means people need to wait more for coins to appear in their console, which means less people interested in joining the network after some threshold (maybe 1000 connected machines or something. 500 machines 4 years from now, etc). Bitcoin needs more people to join in order to both spread the system worldwide and for the proof-of-work to be strong.dwdollar, I think we can safely add add "communists" to your list.On a side note, NLE, my model of unlimited coin production is very communist because it doesn't grant any advantage to early starters. You won't need to exert double the effort in 4 years to generate the same amount of coins today. Just put your CPU to work (or buy electricity-in-the-form-of-BTCs from an Indian exchanger) and you'll get what you paid for in untraceable, nontaxable, spendable coins. Plain and simple. It's not fair to grant this huge advantage to early adopters on the expense of later comers (even it wasn't going to crash the whole thing!)This has to be the most biased statement in this thread. Compared to fiat currencies, bitcoin is a wild crazy horse which will undergo extreme bubbles and bursts. Fiat currencies are fairly stable in price.So the hoarder will spend some of his coins in order to give value to the rest? This will only lead to another hoarder jumping at this chance to add some more to his hoarded hoards. If the current system was successful (which it won't be), investors will gladly liquidate some of their 10%-yielding assets to purchase the 20%-yielding coin. You guys are missing the whole point. Hoarding = No exchange, period.Ain't gonna happen if the current model isn't rectified.True. But the problem is, dictatorships weren't/aren't any better. OMG that's not spending, it's liquidation. It's also called "getting out of the system with as much as you can before it collapses". Say, why did they "spend" these coins when they could've waited for a week and earned a 20% (or whatever) bonus? Kindness of heart? Needed a kidney transplant ASAP?Not for long. If the project proceeds in expanding, in a couple of months you won't be able to generate almost any coins. Yes it will. And the only thing stopping me from exploiting you by purchasing then reselling to you at a higher price a couple of weeks after is ethical reasons.Right. And what are those new users going to do as generating becomes more challenging, you think? They can't generate now anymore. Oh, they'll buy from existing ones, of course. What happens to the price when people buy with no adequate supply? Correct. It goes up, and up, and up. And the more the difficulty increases, the more demand will be on the existing coins, and the more the price will shoot up. Typical bubble scenario.I won't be amazed when you guys learn that inadequate supply versus growing demand was a bad idea... the hard way. The answer should always be "it's exactly the same". Any slight imbalance will be quickly corrected.Geez. It's the same guys. In a free market economy, value and cost ARE THE SAME THING.There will never be a trade intermediary or transactions for a 19% annual-yield investment.That doesn't make sense. What I'm saying is that people aren't stupid. They will figure that since bitcoin will never be spendable, they won't join the network except to "hit and run" a quick profit.Banks? In an anonymity-based system where you can change your identity with a click of a button? I don't think so.The luckiest coin will be spent by two or three "spenders" at most before finding itself locked on the harddisk of an investor who'll keep it forever. The result? Supply dwindles even more, prices shoot up, and everybody keep their coins intact and watch NewLibertyStandard's graph as it climbs outside the chart while rubbing their hands in anticipation until the big crash.How does this solve the problem? Too many are saving, prices go down, which leads to even more people saving because they think the prices will go down ever lower and their coins will be worth more later. By saving here we mean "hoarding", not saving as in investing like your typical bank.Why am I not surprised? e.eWhile that is true, you forgot that Bitcoin's expected increase in value (if the project succeeds) is perpetual. It will grow at 19% (or more due to lost coins) forever. How can you incorporate that in its price? If it was estimated today that 1 BTC = $1, 4 years from now it will equal $2. How can you put that in price? Ok, let's make it worth $2 today then. Oh but wait, that makes it equals $4 in 4 years. Hmm, shall we make it equal $16 today then? etcExactly. There would never be much difference (if any).That assumes that the price was above the cost of generating to begin with! We just agreed that they'll virtually move hand-in-hand.As long as production is possible, which it will always be (if not to the average Joe, then to investors or hackers with botnets), then production cost and market price must conform as you just explained. Moreover, if demand on BTC is more than supply, which will be the case if the coin succeeds, we will be faced with a perpetual shortage leading to perpetual price increasing.It is because of NewLibertyStandard's graph. People were also estimating the same for tech-bubbles as they watched their graphs before the market crashed. If this model isn't corrected to reflect a somewhat-constant (or decreasing) value on the long term, nobody will be willing to spend their coins, ever. Sooner or later they will be hoarded by investors (if they believed in BTC's future) who'll sit and wait for their 19% annual interest. OMG. The moment you do that you'll run out of coins immediately because buying them from you would cost only half as much as generating them!Fine. But until someone answers the numerous doubts I've raised in here, I (and anyone with basic economics background) won't believe Bitcoin's current model has a promising future.But I already explained why that was irrelevant. Oh well... nevermind. That's not a problem for Bitcoin or its users. If those CPU cycles aren't used to steal electricity for bitcoin, they'd be used to steal electricity to DDoS some site or brute-force some account. We shouldn't worry about them. As I said, they're just as if those users voluntarily joined the network for all practical purposes."Human population" is totally irrelevant. Even if human population was shrinking by, say 1% annually now, I assure you that Internet users population will be increasing and bitcoin users will be increasing at an even higher rate. "Bitcoin users" is the magic word here. With the suggested variable model, we're always sure that new coin generation matches the expanding (or shrinking) user base. But anyway, I see that you're beginning to side with me that the 4-year-doubling isn't a good idea.Man, if you paid $1,000 for an ounce of gold, then a few months later it was worth $2,000, are you going to sell it for $1,000?! No? Good. Because the early adopter will not treat his coins as if they're worth the pennies he paid for them anymore now that they're worth a ton of electricity. He'd treat them for what they're worth today.My answer is simple: Assuming people approve the current Bitcoin's model, it will turn out to be the #1 worldwide investment: Just buy (or hack) a bunch of PCs, let them run, and you'll be earning at least 19% annually with no risk involved! Investors (and indeed, botnets) won't leave a chance for normal folks like you and me to earn any BTCs much less spend them. Any bitcoin will be spent 2-3 times at most before falling into the hands (well, "the computers" is the better term here) of an investor who'll keep it for a very long time or forever. This model has to change or it will destroy the otherwise excellent idea. Making bitcoin a way to INVEST rather than to SPEND is its one-way ticket to failure. You also forgot that bitcoins will leave the stream all the time (eg. computer failures or accidental deletion), which will add to their deflating. Might as well turn this 19% into 20% or something.Even if we assume that Bitcoin's current users will never increase (thus not making it more difficult to generate coins), we're sure that its value will increase by at least 19% annually because of the expected 4-year-old D-day when which all BTCs price magically doubles because it will cost double to generate them.Can you explain that part? I didn't understand how multiplying by two will achieve stability.PS. It might be a good idea to merge your previous double-posts in one via Edit to make reading easier for us and those following us. The world is watching (or some three-letter-agencies anyway )If we assume that dinars can't be used for any other non-monetary purposes (such as jewelry, paperweights, etc), then it's practically very difficult for them to have a demand curve by themselves. Camels can be used to ride, so their gold price fluctuated (i.e. They become more or less popular with time). Bitcoin can only be used as money, so it's used solely to value things not vice versa.If raising a camel costed more than 50 dinars, you can count on people stopping raising camels until the price goes back up due to supply shortage. With the absolutely arbitray 4-year model, this can never happen. Supply will ALWAYS decrease no matter what. I'm asking for a more flexible method which depends on the actual number of users.If I wasn't, I wouldn't be here crying my lungs out to correct the model for a one which will work!I know practically nothing about programming or coding. I'm interested in economics (as you might have guessed ) and was trying to offer a bit of advice to the geeks who do the coding.
