Arkadaslar sol koluma yaptirmak istiyorum bir tek orasi bos kaldi sizce bu dovme nasil Sr members and full members sold. only 1 sr member and x5 full member is available.Members and Jr. Members available for sale. 2 adet sr. member 200tlye satilmistir. geriye kalan 1 sr.member ve potential hero member.member ve jr.member hesaplari satilir toptan. ilgilenenler mesaj atsin. Still for sale.Please pm me your skype id/facebook for faster deal.x4 Sr.Members 0.1BTC Buyrun alicak varsa mesaj atsin ozelden ilgilenirim. dedigim gibi 100tl adet.Negative trust yok.Hesaplar yillardir kullanilmamistir. son yorumlar 2013-2014-2015gibi yillarda yapilmistir.Edit: 60tl gibi teklifler sunmayin..Ingilizlere zaten 60dolara satiyorum sr member hesaplari. 100tlyi cok gormeyin.Tanesi 100tldir. pazarlik yoktur.Escrow kullanilacaktir. I am looking for person who can be free escrow for accounts. A newbie troller here. i already paid for this and everything is working fine. Full members 0.01 eachSr Members 0.03 each. No negative trust.Inactive since years.No signature campaings.PM me.  If your hash size is less than the input size, there will be collisions. There will be multiple states with the same hash, in which people have different balances. So it will be impossible to unambiguously tell whether a transaction should be allowed or not The reason people invest is that they benefit more from investing than from not investing.With Bitcoin at the moment, this is not the case. As the value of Bitcoins keeps going up, there are very few things I could do with a Bitcoin that are better than holding it. My biggest transaction was a domain name I sold for 30BTC a few months ago. Governments (aside from the insane despotic ones, perhaps) won't literally "shut down" the internet, because communications infrastructure is a necessary part of a modern society. Our economy wouldn't function without it.Regulating the internet more heavily is certainly a possibility, though. e.g setting up a Great Firewall and banning anyone from running a public web or email server without a license. (Justified by preventing phishing, preventing spam, protecting the children, monitoring terrorist communication, etc.)In Australia the government has already shown their willingness to set up a blacklist of blocked sites (although that proposal doesn't look like being implemented any time soon). Then how come every competent person uses passphrases for their SSH keys and GPG keys and considers it a good thing? I guess we should remove the feature from those programs because it provides a false sense of security? Large pools are bad for the security of the network because if a single pool gets more than 50% of the network's total power, the person who controls that pool can control the network and be able to spend the same coins twice. Why single out GNU? There are a lot of other components of the system that are equally necessary to make it useful. The GNU stuff isn't such a critical thing anymore. We might as well call the system Firefox/KDE/Xorg/Linux or something. A host that hadn't been upgraded wouldn't be able to communicate with anything that uses your new IP address format. What you're proposing wouldn't be any more backwards-compatible than the current solution of running dual-stack IPv4/IPv6.Without a traditional IPv4 address you can't communicate with IPv4-only hosts except through some sort of relay. This will always be true no matter how you design the new addresses. It doesn't give me confidence that (in addition to having security holes, issues with rounding errors, etc) Bitcoin's biggest exchange apparently doesn't know how to switch hosts without massive downtime. Maybe whoever runs mtgox just decided to shut it down and keep all our bitcoins...  Doesn't work. I really don't think "bitcoin has an immutable destiny therefore we shouldn't try to avoid problems" is a great philosophy.
Not just the same amount. I mean sending a transaction with some of the same inputs, such that the two transactions conflict with each other and only one could be included in the block chain.This would require the feature to be added to Alice's client, but I don't think it would require changes to the rest of the system. It's already possible to see whether two transactions are using the same coins. No new mechanism or unique identifier is required. Yes, this is feasible. Alice's client could let her send the same coins again with a higher fee. One of the two transactions will make it into a block and the other one will be ignored as a double spend. Strongly agree.The CPU miner in the client is almost entirely useless. Even if people do really want a CPU miner, it could easily be separated from the client and made to use the getwork API.Having the "generate" feature in the client gives new users the impression that mining is the primary way to get bitcoins. I've seen multiple instances in which people say "this bitcoin thing sucks, mining is too hard, how can I ever get any bitcoins". Then it has to be explained to them that bitcoin is a currency to be obtained by trading goods and services, and sometimes they don't seem convinced.It may be better for Bitcoin if we give normal users the impression that bitcoins are a currency to be bought and sold, and we leave the mining to the enthusiasts and people interested in maintaining the network. At the moment there are users who see bitcoins as just a "collector's item" for people with good CPUs/GPUs. (I actually saw this phrase used in a Slashdot comment). I disagree partially with all of these points.Bitcoin isn't completely anonymous, unless you go to some effort to launder your money. Anyone can look at the block chain and trace the addresses a particular coin has passed through. And sometimes from this, and from the times and amounts and any other useful information you might have, it's possible to guess things about where the coin came from and what people did with it.Transactions don't cost nothing. At the moment most of them are free, but it's certainly not a "core idea" of Bitcoin. Very small transactions or very complex ones won't be processed without a fee. In the future, the fee structure could be very different, as the reward from mining will be a lot smaller without fees.The Bitcoin protocol itself won't be useful for micropayments if it's widely used, because it's not very scalable (every node in the world receives every transaction in the world), it's too slow (it can take minutes or sometimes more for a transaction to be confirmed at all, and longer if you want more confirmations), and because transaction fees will probably rise in the future. Micropayments aren't a "core idea" of Bitcoin. The fee from a transaction is awarded to whoever generates the block that includes the transaction. People who contribute more power will generate more blocks and thus receive more fees. Using XMPP would make the protocol more complex and harder to implement, and has no real advantages. It's a conspiracy theory.Yes, the government is researching new networking technologies which could eventually be applied on the internet and replace some current protocols. But saying they want to "scrap the internet" is like seeing research into LEDs and saying the government wants to scrap electric lighting."Internet 2" here (according to the site they link to) describes the hypothetical no-net-neutrality dystopia in which the Internet moves to a cable-TV-like model where the only sites that exist are those that have deals with ISPs to get connectivity. They seem to be confusing this with the real (and unrelated) Internet2, a partially government-funded consortium that runs an advanced research and education network and develops new technologies.And now they're confusing Internet 2 and Web 2.0, showing they probably don't understand the distinction between the Internet and the Web and have very little idea what they're talking about.Basically the article's taking every new technology that might possibly change the internet in unknown ways, and every unimplemented proposal or suggestion for decreasing internet freedom, and conflating them all into a huge government conspiracy. Yes, it's nontrivial, but it could be done. My point is that QC wouldn't be the end of Bitcoin, and that we might be able to defend against it without having any quantum technology ourselves. I'm not surprised that it's slowing down. A lot of the growth in hashing (at least 10x, maybe closer to 100x) was caused by the transition from slow CPU miners to SSE and GPU miners. Now that transition's gone as far as it can go (CPU mining is essentially worthless). Future growth will come from actual growth of the Bitcoin economy, and from Moore's Law. QC doesn't even magically make all crypto easier. There's a quantum algorithm for fast integer factorisation, and for a few other things, but there are also classical public-key systems which aren't known to be broken at all by QC.I expect if it looks like someone's getting close to building a quantum computer, a lot of effort will go into the development of these systems. Making Bitcoin QC-safe might just be a matter of replacing our public-key cryptography (ECDSA) with something else. I'm not necessarily talking about unwitting possession. Assume I publicly release and announce a program to decode the child porn from the block chain, such that everyone knows and can easily confirm that there's child porn in the block chain.Assume that the algorithm is something generic like "Find the transaction with this hash and handle its data as a JPEG image", such that a reasonable person can tell the child porn is stored in the block chain and not in the decoding program. If I encoded some child porn in transaction amounts or something, and stored it in the block chain, and released a program to decode and display it, would that make it illegal for anyone to use Bitcoin (since possession of child pornography is illegal)? I don't have numbers, but Australia is said to have very cheap electricity. Account history screenshot attached:Things that concern me:Rounding is inconsistent. e.g most of the site's UI and the Description column of this table show 2 decimal places, and other columns of this table show 3.When the rest of the site showed I had 47.79 BTC (which was actually 47.787) I was allowed to sell it all and get to -0.003 BTC. This is much more serious, as it shows that the inconsistent rounding and related problems affect the application's behaviour, not just the UI.My current balance (-0.003 BTC) is shown as -0 by the API. This is bad; the API shouldn't be hiding information.The transaction fees aren't shown anywhere in this table; they're hidden by tweaking the displayed price or something. Mt Gox should be more transparent about what the actual price was at each trade and what the transaction fee was for each trade.We're never told what precision the numbers are calculated to internally. Mt. Gox should be more transparent about how many bitcoins I actually own. Is it -0, or -0.003, or -0.0032567 or something else? I think 105,000 is also a significant milestone. It's halfway to the first generation amount decrease (after 210,000, each block only generates 25 bitcoins) I agree that this would be a useful feature.It could also be argued, though, that file encryption or disk encryption are better done by separate tools rather than by adding more unnecessary code to the Bitcoin client. Good operating systems support it already. If we really want Bitcoin to become popular, perhaps we don't want it to be assocated with this sort of extreme anti-authority viewpoint. Sure, governments are corrupt, but we're not "slaves" and there's no secret plan to take away all our freedom. Sorry to shoot down your conspiracy theory. da2ce7 wins.Create an account at namecheap.com and give me your username and I'll transfer the domain to you. Send the 30BTC to 18TJs6SEAc8dmBeJdFjnYhk4ouijKBtADi. I've also been hit by this problem once (back when I had a poor internet connection and really didn't want to redownload the block chain). It'd be a useful feature. You can use the crypto functions: Ignore the midstate, take the first 80 bytes (I think) of the data (i.e the data itself but not the padding) and hash that.Why are you doing this? If you're writing a miner in perl using built-in crypto functions, it will be much slower than existing miners.
SHA256 prepares the input data by appending padding and a length field to the end of it, so the total input ends up being a multiple of 64 bytes.The "data" string you're given has this preparation step done already, which means you can't just feed it into a normal hashing function like sha256_hex and expect the right result (because sha256_hex will do this preparation step again).Read about how SHA256 works. The midstate is the internal state after processing the first 64-byte block.(Also, in the line of your code that swaps the data, you meant to use $data_raw rather than $data, right?) One day left. da2ce7 leads at 30BTC. If an uploader is satisfied with zero confirmations, does that mean I can send the coins to the site, send the coins somewhere else at the same time, and have a chance of getting the file for free depending on which transaction ends up in the block chain? It was a joke at the start (although not a good one) when it was "lol, women are too busy shopping and grooming to care about bitcoin". Now it's just pointless. GTFO. Note that ionCube compiles the PHP to bytecode, so while it's theoretically possible to reverse-engineer the functionality you won't be able to get the original source back. I don't think a Bitcoin address even fits in an IPv6 address. Even if it did, it'd probably be better to use a DNS TXT record instead. You can bet on the Jan 31 MtGox price at https://bitcoinsportsbook.com/. Yes, it's a linear-time operation.Why do you need to quickly find the balance of an address from the block chain, anyway?Also, don't get the terminology confused. You can find out the balance of an address, not of an account. (An account is a way to manage multiple sets of addresses in the client; there's no information about accounts in the block chain) Depends on which physical layer you're using. Ethernet can reach tens of kilometres over single-mode fiber. da2ce7 leads the auction at 10BTC. I haven't tested this myself, but Bitcoin should resend the transaction if it's not on the network and didn't make it into a block. I have an idea. Instead of paying by share of the block, the pool could pay a constant amount per share.e.g slush's pool gives out work with difficulty 1 (I think), so on average there should be 12252.03471156 (current difficulty) shares per block. Each share is thus worth about 0.00408095 BTC, right?So if the pool had enough BTC in reserve to cover statistical variation, he could just pay that much per share for every share, and you could verify that you're getting paid the right amount.If this idea were implemented, theoretically on average the pool operator shouldn't make or lose any money (other than rounding errors). I'd be concerned about the chance of the pool possibly running out of money due to random variation, though. juliagillardpm.comI bought this domain name on impulse and realised I have no use for it. I wouldn't be surprised if no one else wants it, but I figure this is worth a try.Auction ends at 24 December, 00:00 UTC.Whether I accept the highest bid, give the domain to someone else, or decide not to sell it is entirely at my discretion. If it's not useful, we don't need a method at all, and if it is useful, we need a secure method. Either way, we don't need a dangerously flawed and useless one like your suggestion. Or Alice could be donating the 3.14159264 bitcoins to a charity (which she would have donated to anyway and thus isn't really losing anything). Or she could organise with some third party to trade 3.14159264 bitcoins for something. Or maybe you're wrong and she's willing to lose the bitcoins to fool you. It definitely doesn't show she owns the address.A simpler and better (but still not entirely secure) way to check ownership is to ask her to send 3.14159264 bitcoins *from* that address back to that address in a single transaction (That's possible, right?). Why would we use SMS or something else GSM-specific? Almost all smartphones capable of running third-party software have some sort of internet access. gene, can you update the first post in this thread to indicate that you've now been paid and the accusations of scamming were false? Actually it can. slush has said that new blocks are being paid now (in the new system) but there are some older blocks (in the old system) which are still waiting. Or maybe those lists are for different blocks to the ones that the people complaining contributed to?
Read the thread. He's already answered. He's waiting for blocks to mature, and is having to send some payments manually because the accounting system changed. He's already said, there are some old blocks which were handled by his old accounting system and will have to wait, even though newer blocks are being automatically paid now. You've complained about this in the other thread persistently. slush has responded, and described that he's implementing a new accounting system and having to process old payments manually. Multiple other people have said they've been paid, and he's showed evidence of many other payments.I don't think it was necessary for you to create a new thread just to repeat the same accusations. I suggest you drop this issue for a couple more days and give him a chance to fix his system. Difficulty = (2^224)/target. They're just two representations of the same thing. To check if you've found a block, you check if the hash is less than the target. What does "Max jobs | 10" mean in the workers table? Does it mean each worker has a maximum of 10 threads? Ok, I won't do that then. Thanks.Theoretically they could manually fix it and give the bitcoins back, but I guess for this small amount it's not really worth it. My account is angus, BCIN 1JiUeYrHu1QcDM26wZ4BFtmLqDV4sNwx4HI don't think the 0.836 bitcoins shown here in blockexplorer ever actually showed up in my account.http://blockexplorer.com/address/1JiUeYrHu1QcDM26wZ4BFtmLqDV4sNwx4HI'm guessing the reason is that it's because they weren't transferred but were put in directly from generation using one of those pooled mining things. No, it'll disadvantage people who refuse to pay fees. What they're storing in their transactions is irrelevant. That would be no more damaging to the network than someone just generating coins and keeping them. The article I linked explains that too.   http://www.abc.net.au/news/stories/2010/12/07/3086381.htm DDoSing everything that's inconvenient to Wikileaks won't help any cause.Also, the account hasn't been "frozen" for political reasons. The bank offers accounts to people living in Switzerland, Assange fraudulently claimed to live there, they realised he was lying and legitimately closed the account. They are willing to transfer the money somewhere else but they haven't been able to contact him yet. The word "last" is pretty unambiguous... Not every RFC is a standard, "official" or otherwise. Many aren't even proposed or intended to be standards. And RFC1149 was published in 1990. It wasn't one of the "initial standards", it came a long time after ARPANET and a long time after the internet was run by a "bunch of grad students". There's been a joke RFC published every (or almost every; I haven't checked) year since then. That quote is about using hashes to transform passwords, which is a different application to what Bitcoin is using SHA-256 for. I don't think the security issues in the two cases are analogous. Perhaps we can assume that the rate at which Bitcoins are accidentally deleted is sort of proportional to the number in existence. So we start with 21,000,000 and it halves every x years, until after about 50x years there's .00000001 Bitcoin left.The question is whether x is so large that we don't have to care about it. But x is certainly finite and not astronomically large; it's not like trying to count the atoms in the universe or anything. Yeah, change the genesis block. At the moment if someone connects a test client but gives it the data files from a real client then the real block chain will be longest and will spread throughout the test network, right? I'm not "experienced", I'm just another random person who reads stuff on the internet. Please don't trust anything I say :p The original hash isn't what you're trying to break. You're trying to break the hash bitcoin uses, which is the double hash.
