Okay I am not sure if I should add this here.  But It has been a bit over three days since I installed and have had bitcoin running 24hrs a day.  The first day in under 15hours it had generated some progress and sent out the 5 failed transactions. Now it has been approximately 72 hours.  There has been no activity at all.  My client reports that it is working on the current block as noted by the page someone here setup to show the length of the current computations.  Is this common can it take days and weeks to generate even one bitcoin.  I am not a programmer at all. I read the whitepaper and other stuff but much of it just evades me. I did add an exception for it as I noticed someone else had in the forum. The only antivirus I use is  Microsoft security essentials.  I don't know if that is any help.  I am running  a Core2Duo 3ghz  with 2gb of ram on Windows 7 64bit.  Just a few of my stats. I am at the moment at  1046 khash/s   12 connections  66331 blocks.   I am on 10mb Newwave cable in west kentucky.  My internet is very fast pretty much all the time.   I average good speeds.   Still waiting to see if I get those errors again. It had 5 in a row... saying Warning: This block was not received by any other nodes.   I did not get a screen shot I should have though.  I will keep an eye on it.  If it happens again I will get the SS and post it in this thread.  I am concerned though if this app generates bittorrent type traffic my isp may be interfering with it. Well I restarted the computer and the logs are now cleared.  My connection count is low at the moment.  I have 11 connections.  About an hour after I installed it yesterday I had around 40 connections.  I am not sure what is happening.  I wonder if my isp is blocking the traffic.  If it looks like bittorrent traffic they may be blocking it.  I am so fed up with isp thinking they can control what I do on the internet. Just got started with bitcoin.  I followed the directions.  Forwarded the port.  Had quite a few connections up to 40 at one time.  I wake up this morning and I see I have 12 connections.   ANd five errors saying this bitcoin was generated but not received by any other nodes.  I gave bitcoin access through the firewall and allowed an exception.  I am running Windows 7 64 bit.  Any ideas?BC: 1KDwVb4udipVSYLgRPWg9GiFiKJpXBFPHg
