Ok here is the .po file for French. While I'm at it, I noted a couple of issues:1. The "About" box didn't take the translation into account, it still displays the english version to me, even though the rest of the software is using the translated strings, and the .po file contains the translation string of the "About" box message. Same problem with the "Apply" button in the Settings window.2. If an transaction's description in the list of transaction in the main window contains a diacritical character (such as "éàèç"), it's not displayed. I suppose the string is not being properly handled as UTF8 somewhere.3. Some translated strings don't fit in the dialog box anymore (French is a bit more verbose than English). Some cases can be solved by inserting a "\n", but that's not always possible (window titles for example).4. About the .po file :   - There are a few strings in the .po file that don't needs translation (ie: "Bitcoin"). Maybe those shouldn't be inside _("...") ?   - Others shouldn't be split. I can remember one message about transaction fee where the string is split in two to insert the fee value, where you could simply have put a %s. It makes the message harder to translate as I had to go in the source to find exactly what was going on.   - Some strings have whitespace at the end or start, which necessity is very debatable, and it's easy to miss in PoEdit.   - Many strings have all their words capitalized, which just looks strange in French. I checked, none of my other software do it, so I've used normal capitalization everywhere.   - There are a couple message strings that are almost identical, maybe using the same string for each of those messages would be better ? Example : "This is an oversized transaction that requires a transaction fee of %s" and "Error: This is an oversized transaction that requires a transaction fee of %s  ". It's the exact same text except for "Error:" at the beginning and an extra space at the end (which is probably useless ?).Finally, The provided .po file is not up-to-date, as one of the settings string has changed, and is not getting translated (the one about starting Bitcoin at login).Otherwise Bitcoin seems like a great concept, good work ! I'm working on the french translation 
