Don't understand how these can be offered here? Your a scrub and anyone selling or buying accounts from here is like eating where you shit.You should be banned for having multiple accounts  BUMP: Have a feeling people aren't sure about what this is and how good of a deal.Research it guys sent due to you being the only request for a free copy lmao enjoy https://www.matchtvplus.org/They charge 1 YEAR $216.00 and aren't even accepting new clients at the momentI'm charging $100 for the top package with everything including PPV,WWENetwork,EverySports Channels and so much more...How do I have so many accounts to sell at such a discount? Well i'm a re-seller and when you do enough sales you earn credits towards extra slots and when your a A+ seller you get Diamond privileges. All you need is a ROKU and you are good to goI am willing to give 1 vouch account but will only allow access on that one for a 24 hour period and they must be a trusted member here.Mach tv plus offers a great variety of channels for the whole family. SD and HD channels included along with special events, fights and concerts. Special Events: NBA, NFL Sunday Ticket HD HD channels: NFL Sunday Ticket 1, NFL Sunday Ticket 2, NFL Sunday Ticket 3, NFL Sunday Ticket 4, NFL Sunday Ticket 5, A&E, ABC, CBS, CBS 2, CNN, ESPN, ESPN 2, ESPN Deportes, ESPN USA, FOX, FOX Sport 1, FOX Sport 2, FX, FX Latino, History en Español, NAT GEO WILD Latino, NBA League Pass 1, NBA TV, NFL Network, SKY Sports 1, SKY Sports 2, SKY Sports 3, SKY Sports 4, SKY Sports F1, Sony Latino, SYFY, TLC, TLC Latino, UFC Night, Universal Channel Latino, Univision Deportes, USA Network, Velocity, VEVO Hits, VEVO Hits 2, VEVO Hits 3 Channels: ABC, ABC HD, CBS HD, CBS HD 2, CBS SD, CBS Sport Network, CNBC, FOX, FOX HD, FOX Puerto Rico, NBC, NBC Sports, TBS Puerto Rico, TBS USA Spanish Channels: A&E Latino, Animal Planet Latino, Azteca America, BEIN Sports, BEIN Sports Español, CNN en Español, Discovery Channel en Español, Discovery Channel en Español 2, Discovery Channel Latino, Discovery Familia, Discovery HD Theater Latino, Discovery SCI Latino,, Disney XD Latino, ESPN Deportes HD, FORO TV, FOX Puerto Rico, FOX Sports en Español, FX Latino, Galavision, GOL TV, HBO Latino, History Channel Latino, Infinito Latino, Investigacion Discovery Latino, MAX Latino, MUN2, NAT GEO WILD Latino, NAT GEO Mundo, Sony HD Latino, TBS Puerto Rico, Teleformula, Telefutura, Telemundo Este, Telemundo Puerto Rico, Telemundo West, TLC Latino, TruTV, TruTV Latino, TVE Internacional America, Unimas, Universal Channel Latino, Univision, Univision Deportes 2, Univision Deportes 2 SD, Univision Deportes HD, Univision Deportes SD, Univision Novelas, Univision Puerto Rico, Univision USA, Univision West, WAPA America, WAPA Puerto Rico, Warner Channel.Sport Channels: NFL Red Zone, NBC NFL Sunday Night Football, NFL Sunday Ticket 1, NFL Sunday Ticket 2, NFL Sunday Ticket 3, NFL Sunday Ticket 4, NFL Sunday Ticket 5, NFL Sunday Ticket 6, NFL Sunday Ticket 7, NFL Sunday Ticket 8, NFL Sunday Ticket 9, BEIN Sports, BEIN Sports Español, Benfica TV, CBS HD, CBS HD 2, CBS SD, CBS Sports Network, ESPN 2 HD, ESPN 2 SD, ESPN Deportes, ESPN HD, ESPN News HD, ESPN SD, ESPN U, ESPN USA HD, FOX, FOX HD, FOX Sports HD, FOX Sports SD, FOX Sports 2 HD, FOX Sports 2 SD, FOX Sports En Español, GOL TV, GOLF USA, MLB Network, NBA League Pass 1, NBA League Pass 1 HD, NBA League Pass 2, NBA League Pass 3, NBA League Pass 4, NBA TV HD, NBA TV SD, NBC SD, NBC Sports, NBX Sports, NFL Network HD, NFL Network SD, NHL Network HD, SKY Sports 1, SKY Sports 2, SKY Sports 3, SKY Sports 4, SKY Sports F1, SPOR TV1, SPOR TV2, SPOR TV3, SUN Sports, TBS USA, Tennis Channel, The Fight Network, TNT NBA, UFC Network, UFC Night, UFC SD, Univision Deportes 2, Univision Deportes 2 SD, Univision Deportes HD, Univision Deportes SD.Documentaries: Animal Planet HD, Animal Planet Latino, BBC America, Discovery Channel Español, Discovery Channel 2 Español, Discovery Channel Latino, Discovery Channel USA, Discovery Familia, Discovery HD Theater Latino, Discovery SCI Latino, Food Network HD, G4 Tech TV, History Channel 2, History Channel, History Channel Latino, History Channel en Español, Infinito Latino, Investigacion Discovery SD, NAT GEO Mundo, NAT GEO Wild Latino, National Geographic USA, SCI Discovery Science, TLC HD, TLC Latino, Travel Channel, Velocity HDEntertainment: A&E HD, A&E Latino, AMC, Animal Planet HD, Animal Planet Latino, BBC America, Bravo, Discovery Channel Español, Discovery Channel 2 Español, Discovery Channel Latino, Discovery Channel USA, Discovery Familia, Discovery HD Theater Latino, Discovery SCI, Latino, E!, Food Network HD, FX HD, FX Latino HD, G4 Tech TV, Hallmark Channel, HGTV, History Channel 2, History HD En Español, Infinito Latino, Investigacion Discovery, Investigacion Discovery Latino, NAT GEO Mundo, National Geographic USA, SCI Discovery Science, Sony HD Latino, Spike, SYFY HD, TBS USA, Telemundo East, Telemundo West, TLC HD, TLC HD Latino, TNT, Travel Channel, TruTV, Universal Channel HD Latino, USA Network, Velocity HD, WAPA America, WAPA Puerto Rico, Warner Channel.Kids Channels: Baby First TV, Boomerang, Cartoon Network, CBeebies, Discovery Familia, Discovery Kids Español, Disney Channel, Disney XD, Disney XD Latino, HBO Family, Nick JR, Nick Toons, Nickelodeon Music Channels: VEVO Hits, VEVO Hits 2, VEVO Hits 3, VH1 International Channels: AIJAZEERA America, Benfica, FOX Puerto Rico, Nederlan 1-6, SKY SPORT 1-4, SKY SPORT F1, SPORT TV 1-3, TBS Puerto Rico, Telemundo Puerto Rico, TNT Puerto Rico, Travel Channel, TV Chile, TVE International America, Univision Puerto Rico, WAPA Puerto Rico.Movie Channels: 5 STAR MAX, Action MAX, AMC, Bravo, CineMax, Encore Action, Encore Love, Encore Suspense, FX Latino, HBO, HBO 2, HBO West, HBO Comedy, HBO Family, HBO Latino HD, HBO Signature, Max Latino, MoreMax, ShowTime, ShowTime Beyond, ShowTime Extreme, ShowTime ShowCase, Sony DC, Spike, Starz, Starz Cinema, Starz Comedy, Starz Edge, SYFY HD, TMN The Movie Channel, TMN The Movie Channel XTRA, TNT, Universal Channel HD Latino, USA Network, Warner Channel & many more. I can vouch for Melvster we have done multiple transaction at higher prices with no hiccups if that helps at all that is.Sorry man if I had the coin currently I would help you out Since this would be a relatively benign upgrade in the protocol that most people would accept, all it would really take is updating the version number in the protocol.... sort of like the IPv4 vs. IPv6 issue.  That would require an update of the clients, but it wouldn't be too bad.The main issue is that at least for awhile the network would be forked like what happened with the 0.3.10 update, where users running the older software would not be able to recognize the newer blocks, but the older blocks (and transactions) would be recognized for awhile.  Doing a shift of that nature would end up having the majority of the network "voting" with their CPU processors, where the largest number of hashes would decide if the change is accepted or not.  It doesn't have to be "everybody", but those left behind on the smaller network would be quickly "forced" to make the switch.If we do make such a switch, I hope it is done thoughtfully and other "bugs" in the protocol are strongly looked at as well.Considering the substantial overhead in the current protocol, the few extra bytes for additional precision in the transactions is irrelevant and shouldn't even be an issue here, particularly if some of those overhead issues were cleaned up with a tighter protocol.I don't see a graceful hand-off though, which would be the issue.  The main issue is that the "new" transactions that would have the extended precision data would be rejected by older clients on the first block that has one of these "new" precision transactions incorporated into that block. I already did:  http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=506.0I've given this issue more than a little thought, and it is something that could have some more effort put into it.  A related concept is how you can keep "sub-nets" of some sort synched with each other if they weren't directly linked to the main internet with a presumption of ping times less than 1 second.  This could include 3rd world countries where Bitcoins could be shared on a thumb drive and shared by SneakerNet or between LANs that might have their external connections severed due to natural/man-made disasters (including war or civil unrest like what happened this month in Egypt).Making the Bitcoin protocol a bit more robust to deal with this issue could be useful, particularly if it is going to be used as a cash-like currency. On this point, I strongly disagree.  When the "anti-spam" limit of 0.01 BTC was first put in to stop petty transactions, the value of 0.01 BTC was about a 20th of a cent.  That still allowed experimentation with microtransaction concepts with Bitcoins.... which now is mostly impossible.The problem is that the protocol doesn't have any mechanism to adjust if the value of Bitcoins appreciates relative to other currencies, and I don't know of a reasonable way to make that happen either.Right now, the "official client" that almost everybody has puts in a minimum transaction fee of 0.01 BTC if you attempt to send less than 0.01 BTC.  In effect, this is the absolute hard minimum transaction that can be sent using the reference implementation of the software.  Instead of being a trivial amount, that is now worth at least $0.01 dollars and is likely to go up.  Assuming the current rate of deflation of Bitcoins continues, that may soon be worth $0.10 dollars, and I can see that within a year or two as high as a dollar in value for 0.01 BTC.This is a problem, and it could be a big one.  Yes, a patch can be done to solve this "problem" and alternate implementations of the software can be used to "solve" the issue too so it isn't as big of a deal as it would seem, but you can't use the current software to send those smaller amounts.  Miners may or may not accept these smaller transactions, but it is a client-side user interface issue and a presumption that shouldn't have been put into the client-side software in the first place.The client user interface needs to have full control over transaction fees.... both for what that node will pay to initiate a transaction as well as what fees it will accept if it "wins" a block.  Burying this all in the source code on some high minded presumption of what you think the value of Bitcoins ought to be is pure bunk and something that ought not be there.  If somebody like lzsaver wants to refuse to deal with petty amounts less than 0.01 BTC when he is mining, that is his privilege... but it shouldn't be forced upon the community in an artificial manner as it is right now where this is the absolute minimum transaction which can take place.Acceptance or rejection of a transaction belongs with the miners and I'm fine with that.  My issue is the presumptions put into the clients that are commonly spread throughout the community.  If it doesn't get changed, it will spawn a bunch of "alternative clients" that will put in the necessary changes.Then again, that may be a good thing if the current reference implementation is simply abandoned.  If so, may it rest in peace, but that is a completely different topic here.  Giving developers a strong reason to fork Bitcoin could be useful. 0.001 USD is called a mill.  It did find some use early on in the history of America, and it still can be found in American gasoline refilling stations (where the gasoline price shows an additional 9 mills per gallon).  It also applies to taxes where sometimes taxation rates are set in terms of a number of mills per thousand dollars of value.Considering that the penny is now threatened with extinction due to inflation, it is obviously a seldom used denomination.  If the dollar ever went deflationary again over a prolonged period of time it might be used again, but that wouldn't happen as long as the Federal Reserve Bank is in charge of monetary policy in relation to the U.S. Dollar. While the big jumps were by single actors, I would argue that doesn't tell the whole story.  Mt. Gox does represent the bulk of the community and it has been impressive in terms of how many people are participating.  Generally I've been watching how many users are involved, and it typically has been about 50-80 people with orders on the market at any given time (the operator of Mt. Gox could give a definitive response for the exact number).  There are also other "lurkers" like myself who stay out of the market at the moment.What is interesting is that I've been spending most of my time also watching the Ruble market on btcex.com, where actions on Mt. Gox are typically reflected on those markets too.  Sometimes there is a bit of a lag, such as how the WMZ market is a bit below the Mt. Gox price, but I wouldn't bet on it staying that way for too long.  Hint:  If you can change Liberty Reserve for Web Money, now would be a good time to do just that and get some Bitcoins for cheap from that particular market.The Ruble has long ago passed parity, but the current exchange rate is roughly settled down at what Mt. Gox has if you converted Dollars to Rubles on the ForEx market.  While it doesn't have the volume of Mt. Gox, I would say that this is a good indicator of what other traders elsewhere think of the value of Bitcoins.The value of a Bitcoin is going up because those with Bitcoins don't want to sell them for cheap.  It is certainly a genuine auction market where the supply of Bitcoins is limited, but the supply of other currencies is plentiful.  If there were piles of Bitcoins burning holes in people's pockets, they would be put onto the market at this time.  Anybody who has either purchased or mined a Bitcoin could at any time put in a bid for a lower amount.  The real issue is why that isn't happening, thus pushing the market up.  Those who purchased Bitcoins for smaller values in the past certainly could use this opportunity for some "profit taking" into Dollars/FRNs. I think this is a good point, so far as the issues about how the time interval has been selected.  We really don't know how large Bitcoin is going to get, and my personal guess is that it will be considerably larger in terms of the number of people involved than is even using Bitcoin at the present time.I know it is discouraging that ordinary folks can no longer realistically be able to mine Bitcoins using an ordinary computer, and expect to "discover" Bitcoins in a short interval.  I've expressed concerns about this very issue in the past and it went upon deaf ears then.  I've since learned a bit more about the Bitcoin architecture and realize that it is a difficult to intractable problem except for mining pools and other strategies to apportion out at least some Bitcoins to those who want to participate.On the whole, Bitcoin does a substantially better job of verifying transactions than the Federal Reserve does for check transactions, or for that matter even ATM transactions.  While check kiting is much, much harder to do now than it was in the past, it still can be done, as can the reverse in terms of banks holding money for seemingly impossible periods of time (up to a week or more) when somebody screws up.  Knowing that a transaction will generally be "confirmed" with 5-6 blocks incorporating that transaction in a hour is to me a pretty good result, if you consider the alternatives that exist elsewhere in the banking community.Most retailers, I would believe, would be ecstatic to know that a retail transaction was completely confirmed as theirs within an hour or less, particularly that "charge-backs" could never happen after that.  Even if you have to wait a half hour for the next block (because of random events happening) it still isn't the end of the world.The worst part, as mentioned earlier, is what happens when mining activity drops off considerably.  I've argued that the re-adjustment algorithm needs to be modified somewhat, and that is the achilles heel of Bitcoin, as it could have some more generalized adjustment algorithm that isn't so coarse.  It does stops certain kinds of attacks by being that coarse, which I won't go into now but that is something to consider if you want to complain about the readjustment interval. There are only, on average, about 1 transaction every 10 minutes.  That is six confirmations in an hour which is the hard time limit before a transaction is confirmed.  Let's assume the attackers are real lucky and get twice that many blocks as they are doubling the generation rate.... hence only two attacks would be possible in an hour.  Maybe a few more than that by "double spending" on each block, but you would also have to "win" all of those blocks too.BTW, attempts to double spend coins would be ignored once the "attack" is over with likely a bunch of competing chains floating around the network temporarily while nodes are analyzing the transactions, but once the double spending filters are applied to the transactions the double spending transactions and blocks associated with those transactions will be culled... as if the attack never happened in the first place.It would essentially be wasted CPU effort and even the bitcoins "earned" by winning a block would be discarded too.  It is as pointless of an attack as I've ever seen proposed. These guys certainly show a lack of understanding here about the Bitcoin protocols.  The issue here isn't gaining temporary control of a majority of the CPU power of the network, the issue is gaining control of a majority of the network over a prolonged period of time.More importantly, there is a mistaken notion here that transactions are "irreversible".  If you are engaged in gaming Bitcoins, transactions are indeed reversible and any attempt to double spend will be wiped out upon verification by the trusted nodes on the network.  BTW, CPU power alone isn't sufficient but also having the transactions verified by the various nodes including those who aren't necessarily even providing CPU power but rather merely network bandwidth.  If you can't get the majority of the nodes to accept your blocks & transactions, it is a wasted transaction even if you have a huge amount of CPU bandwidth being thrown at the issue.BTW, this is one of the reasons why changed in 0.3.16 were such a big deal because it did change some of what the "ordinary nodes" were doing with some of the blocks and packets, rejecting certain transactions because of "unusual" data.This kind of "attack" does point out that folks who are shipping physical merchandise ought to set up perhaps some sort of policy of requiring perhaps a few more than just six confirmations, as that is the real scam here.  In the attempt to double-spend, the attacker is trying to fool somebody into thinking they have legitimately received payment when in fact they haven't received any bitcoins at all.  When the attack fails, the "accounts" or at least who has what bitcoins will be a settled issue.From the article:Assuming that they are trying to get physical merchandise from somebody where it is being sent to a physical address of some kind as their way of being able to gain money from this scam.  By double spending, the attacker is assuming that they are going to be receiving the merchandise in spite of the merchant not receiving payment.  When the merchant realizes that the transaction is invalid (you don't even need to be reading the forums to notice that fact... contrary to what was said in the article earlier) they are going to either withhold shipment (and announce a strange set of blocks on the forums if they are thinking clearly or at least saying WTF happened to my transaction!) or they can then notify the shipping agent they are using that some sort of fraud was going on with the package and "request" that the package be returned or discarded and not sent to the addressee.  Either way, the scammer isn't going to get the merchandise and at worst is only wasting somebody's time or forcing a merchant to lose some money.Furthermore, fraud can certainly be prosecuted under current laws.  Nothing new even needs to be passed in terms of going after these scammers legally in most countries and jurisdictions.  This is indeed very much within the legal definition of fraud and can be proven in court and certainly explained to law enforcement as if a "check" bounced and that payment failed or some other similar kind of explanation until you have to get inside of a court room.  You might be able to attack the validity of Bitcoins as a payment method, but certainly the fact that something of value was transmitted in exchange for something else of value, but then that "something" (in this bitcoins) was not in fact actually transferred would be considered fraud.  I would also argue that typically a judge in this situation would recognize Bitcoins as a valid payment method, at least if you can get somebody to explain what exactly is Bitcoins in simple terms that can be told to a jury without getting into the gritty details.  That both parties thought Bitcoins had value is the only legal question that would have to be asked in this case.Some idiot presuming that the court system will stay away from you merely because you are using Bitcoins may have cold hard reality facing down upon themselves.  It isn't that this could be illegal, I'm suggesting that an attack of this nature would be illegal already and in fact is.  If you want chapter and verse, at least specify jurisdiction if you want me to give you an answer.  I can think of several laws this would violate and in at least America nearly a dozen law enforcement agencies who would all have jurisdiction too in any given town depending on what was sold and how it was shipped.It is possible that somebody really thinking this through might set up dead drop mailboxes and have other ways to launder the merchandise, but we aren't talking check kiting here that can take a day or two and up to a couple of weeks to detect.In short, the author of this piece is completely clueless about Bitcoins and doesn't know what he is talking about.  A good try, and certainly there are ways to scam Bitcoins from people who are unsuspecting, but trying to do that through an attack on the system in the nature described is not only a waste of time, but dangerous to do even from a legal standpoint where the risk on the ROI is far greater than even presumed as with potential criminal penalties and loss of liberty are enough to make this a negative ROI... at least with this method.  If you are going to scam, scam at least with "legitimate" transactions with something like a Ponzi scheme.The issue of money laundering via Bitcoins is something real, but that is confusing a criticism of Bitcoins with a legal protection of some weird and perverse kind.  Just because trade in cocoa beans may or may not be legal in a jurisdiction doesn't stop a trade transaction using cocoa beans from being illegal for other reasons too.The other issues listed in this article have been amply debunked in earlier postings on this thread and deserve no further analysis as they are equally faulty. Sad thing is, based upon personal experience by living in countries other than America that had an economic melt-down by far worse than anything America is currently facing... that life will continue and go on as usual.I lived through the late 1970's and remember the double-digit inflation coupled with high unemployment (aka the "stagflation" of the Ford/Carter years).  My family and my neighbors got along just fine in that situation, although they did complain about what was happening and put Ronald Reagan into the White House.  It wasn't just the good looks of that former President of the Screen Actors Guild that convinced people he was ready for higher office.Please don't mistake this as saying there aren't problems, as there clearly are.  I am expecting something more like the Arab Oil Embargo of the mid 1970's or something of that nature to hit again with high inflation and higher unemployment.  Then again I said almost three years ago that an Obama Presidency would be nearly identical to the Carter administration in terms of policies and the end result with the economy.  So far he hasn't disappointed me with that assessment either.  Obamacare was an interesting wrinkle that isn't the same, but otherwise the economic policies are roughly similar.  Obama is also greying with his hair just as fast... proving to me that the guy can't delegate.Still, what would be a horrible economy for America and people thinking it is the end of the world would be still the envy of the rest of the world for the most part.  Not unless the U.S. economy got as bad as what happened in Zimbabwe would anybody really start to panic with widespread unrest.  I think in that case the end-result of what happened with the Weimar Republic would be a better template to compare.  That didn't do to well for the rest of the world and it would be ugly to see what an American version of THAT would become.What the breaking point for the U.S. Dollar would be, I can't say right now, but I do think there is some more room for playing around.  In terms of a world reserve currency, I don't see anybody stepping up to the plate offering anything better as both the Yuan, Euro, Pound, and Ruble are all equally weak in their own way and unfortunately also tied too closely to the Dollar to let the Dollar drop out of sight. +2 I want to thank everybody for their feedback on this issue.  I've been hesitant to get involved on the bitcoin.it wiki mainly because I don't want to seem like intruding into somebody else's project without at least discussing the issues first and knowing where they were coming from.  If that is going to be at least the new place that can be used to document the protocol, I'm encouraged by the thought and will try to move over the rest of the information on the Doku wiki that is applicable.I believe that once this protocol is fully documented, it will be a great benefit to the community as a whole in ways that are not seen at the moment. It depends.  I'd consider strongly supporting a group like Team FredNet if they were to start taking donations.  For those not aware of this group, it is one of the teams of the Google Lunar X-Prize competition that uses mostly volunteers and "open source design" principles to build a vehicle that they are hoping will land on the Moon to win a multi-million dollar prize if they can get there first.  There are a few other groups like Copenhagen Suborbitals that also are very much deserving of financial support and can certainly use some help... where the money would be relatively well spent and have some huge payback.In terms of dumping money into the fiscal black holes called national space agencies, I'd just as soon start donating money directly to Warren Buffet, Bill Gates, or Donald Trump.  RKK Energia is making a profit on its own without Russian taxpayers having to foot most of the bill, so I'm curious what other agency is being talked about here?  Donating to NASA?  Fat chance.  I'd rather see that agency disbanded completely as it is a total waste of tax dollars to keep that agency going at the moment.  It may have been useful to America at one time, but it isn't any more. Technical analysis has been showing the price of bitcoins was going up anyway and some good reasons to think that would be the case.There certainly is some strong inflation going on right now in regards to Bitcoins, because demand is outstripping supply.  Postings here are irrelevant, other than to note that the overall trend is to be that the value of Bitcoins relative to the dollar is just going to go up.  Speculation about when parity (aka 1 BTC == 1 USD) has happened even before this thread was started.Claiming this thread has the kind of influence suggested is like saying you had control of the Sun when it came up over the horizon this morning.  Your mass and possibly the mass of the things you own might have had a small impact upon that happening, but it is a minor and on a practical level an insignificant impact upon that happening. When your speech crosses the line of being at the expense of somebody else, you have crossed the line.  Yes, I realize this is a small thing, but small things become big things.  I'm just asking you to grow up a bit, but perhaps I'm hanging around a bunch of kids here who don't give a damn.  So be it.BTW, this is a personal attack, regardless of how you are trying to disguise this as a joke.  It is also a relatively new participant on this forum who is the blunt end of the joke, which only makes this worse.  If you are so clueless as to not notice that, you and those on this forum are simply in a hopeless situation.It isn't about silencing speech here in terms of stopping the spread of an idea, it is about showing some respect to others... something I'm not seeing on this thread.  The fact that you are now (admittedly lightly) turning your attack against me only goes to show that is an issue.  What I'm attacking is that this humor has gone past the point of simply a crude joke which isn't really discussing anything of substance at all. If the concept is flawed, there will be no execution of the idea.  That is what I'm suggesting.
I'm referring to the definition of "forum" meaning "a place to get together and discuss things of a common interest", not something mechanical or specific to any given piece of software or any configurations like setting up another section in the current forums.  We just need a common place to communicate about the networking protocols, and yes the technical forum is fine.There is the mega-thread about the protocol development that is here which serves the purpose of the technical side of things:http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1860.0Until that thread starts to become fractured in the discussions and needs multiple threads to keep up, that should serve our purposes for now.  I am open, however, to discuss any other venues or places to communicate.  As I said, this is a political and not a technical issue, as it is about how the future of Bitcoin ought to be developed.  I'm referring to the meta discussion about how we should proceed and where discussion ought to happen. You are missing the point:  This is a personal attack against the original poster.  The fact that it is continuing to drag out only emphasizes that fact.  Pointedly making the statement that this is a Ponzi scheme and that it is a waste of money and time is fine, but what I'm saying here is that this is going over the top.Then again I hate Steven Cobert and Jon Stewart, but that is just me.  I just think this is bad decorum and something that should be called on the carpet as inappropriate behavior.  Personal attacks are something that IMHO should not be generally tolerated on public forums and this is opening up a can of worms if such behavior is tolerated.  That the personal attacks are not against me personally only emphasizes why I think this is inappropriate behavior and why threads of this nature ought to be simply locked when it gets to this level of silliness.I know there are a bunch of kids on this forum, but we are talking about some serious issues that require adult conversation here.  This is not adult conversation that is happening on this thread.  At the very lease, move this thread to the off-topic section as it no longer even references Bitcoins. I'm just glad that at least somebody had the guts to call this a scam.  It is, of the most basic and illegal variety... with a good reason why stuff like this is usually declared illegal in most countries.  As long as Bitcoins are seen as play money and not worth anything, I suppose this is a harmless diversion that I'd still recommend against, but it certainly shouldn't be something encouraged.If you want to be rich, provide some goods or services that do something others need.  You can build a better mousetrap and make far more money than scamming somebody out of their money, and do something positive for the community at the same time.  Threads like this simply are not helpful and IMHO it should be locked, but that is just me.Yes, I get the humor being poked at with all of the various polygon and polyhedron references.  Such is happening because this shouldn't be a serious discussion, but I argue even that is a waste and is sustaining a thread that shouldn't get attention in the first place.  Such humor is also indirectly a personal attack on the original poster... something I think is also awful decorum and something that should be stopped for its own reason too.  I suppose there are a bunch of kids here that want to play, but it is time to grow up kids! The problem with Satoshi's "solution" is that it is only half a solution and doesn't address the key sticking point.  The problem is the desire to use Bitcoins, as we currently use bitcoins, to pay the "fees" for conducting "transactions" with the DNS system or other similar systems and to give that payment some sort of meaning in terms of that payment being something other than a purely voluntary and optional donation system.Please correct me if I'm wrong in my interpretation, but that is the real issue at hand right now.  I've outlined my ideas clearly, and furthermore Satoshi's "solution" only addresses the issue of forking the mining effort or trying to keep that at least somewhat unified.  Essentially he was suggesting that alternate "currencies" could put together some sort of networking protocol to share the mining effort.  On that point I completely agree, but the unstated elephant in the room, the one thing that everybody wants to avoid but isn't being stated, is the need to create a parallel currency to Bitcoin because Bitcoin itself is inadequate to accomplishing the task at hand.At the moment I'm working at trying to re-implement the Bitcoin specification as an alternate implementation... for my own benefit and use but I do have some reasons for that as well.  That is a huge hurdle to accomplish, and that is one of the reasons why you also don't see anything happening with this concept at the moment because such an effort takes time.  My goal, as such as it is, that once I create a working alternate client to Bitcoin that I can then make a "fork" to do other things with it such as BitDNS.  We could also fork the main Bitcoin client flat out, but regardless what is needed is to fork the protocol itself.  It is something that most developers involved are trying desperately not to do either, as evidenced by the Nanotube/Theymos effort and the work of others. For many of those who are forum regulars, you should know that I started a documentation effort with the old doku wiki here:http://www.bitcoin.org/wiki/doku.php?id=bitcoins_draft_spec_0_0_1In addition, with the move of the "documentation" to bitcoin.it, there is now a new effort here:https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Protocol_specificationFurthermore, there are additional efforts to formally document the protocol at the following locations:http://code.google.com/p/pybitcoin/wiki/BitcoinProtocolhttps://github.com/gavinandresen/bitcointools/blob/master/NOTES.txthttps://github.com/bitcoin/netspec/blob/master/protocol_specification.txtIn addition, there is always the C++ code of the reference implementation of the Bitcoin client itself that "documents" the protocol by way of the source code itself.Mind you, I'm not here telling anybody that they shouldn't try to start their own documentation effort for the protocol, but I think it would be to a great advantage to everybody involved if we all worked together rather than having this accomplished as a bunch of different and separate efforts.  More significantly, I would like to get a forum or some place where we as a community can intelligently debate and discuss the internal workings of the software and specifically do either a "cleanup" of the protocol or to rationally make changes to the overall protocol that can be beneficial.Some of this is planning ahead and trying to anticipate the needs of the community, but I would like to point out that this network protocol really is bitcoin in its most raw and base level.  From long experience I've seen how coding first and documenting later can be a bad thing once you are trying to put some stability to some software.Yes, there is a need to do rapid prototyping when you aren't sure about how to proceed with a software development project, and sometimes you can get ahead of yourself where you keep coding, but with the thousands of dollars (and other kinds of currencies) now invested into Bitcoins and (we all hope) soon to be millions involved, it is about time we also discuss just how the "protocol development" ought to proceed.  Some new structures were introduced into the Bitcoin software v 0.3.17 and while there has been some introduction to those structures, I think it would be wise to debate those structures in a public forum before they get implemented in software more completely.  There are also other ideas which have been discussed elsewhere, including perhaps things related to the "Bitcoin-DNS" projects and other "extensions" to Bitcoin that may prove to be useful.In other words, I am also calling for a more formal approach to the protocol development.  This is not really a technical issue so much as a political issue.  Enough of the protocol has now been documented that alternate implementations of the protocol are now possible based strictly off of this documentation, and Bitcoin is about to hit a new level of organization where people using this documentation will take the concept of cryptocurrency to many new directions.  With web protocols, we have the "world wide web consortium", and of course with more general network protocols we have the IETF.  How can or should the "governance" of the bitcoin protocol happen, and in what ways can changes to bitcoin help benefit the community?More specifically, I'd like to end the confusion and make at least one documentation effort more or less "semi-official" at the moment by general community consensus, but at the same time we ought to be discussing where we can or should go from here with this documentation effort too.  To me it seems to be the wrong way to get things accomplished by publishing code and expecting the documentation to catch up... at least if the goal is to stabilize the network.  There are also some "flaws" in Bitcoin which also need to be intelligently discussed, including known weaknesses with the current specification. Neither the Euro nor the U.S. Dollar have hard asset backing, yet they are widely used.  It doesn't even stop them from being used as a world reserve currency.The advantage of both of these currencies is that the organizations which control the release of those currencies from the "central banks" have some self-interest in keeping the release of those currencies under control and not getting out of hand.The big difference between them, the QQ coin, Linden dollars, and most other "fiat" currencies compared to Bitcoins is that Bitcoins have a mathematical formula that determines when additional coins are released.  It happens at a fixed rate with Bitcoins and attempting to force that rate to change backfires due to the mathematics involved.If anything, the QQ coin is another example to show how virtual money can have value in spite of the fact that it has no "hard backing" or anything other than its pure value, although in the case of the QQ coin it is pegged to the Yuan, sort of like how things such as Ithaca Dollars are pegged to the U.S. Dollar.What gives value to Bitcoins is that people are willing to trade for them and use them as a medium of exchange.  That is sort of the point of having money. I've given presentations about similar topics at conventions like this, and it would be fun.  The important thing to note is that the deadline for submissions is on February 7th, 2011.  That date is coming up real fast and you'd have to be available to make it to Portland, Oregon in late July.  If I were single and without a family to support, it would be something I'd commit to right now.  Unfortunately I have other considerations that may make it harder for me personally.Yes, this is something worth bringing up, and I hope that somebody in the community strongly considers this venue for presenting information about Bitcoin.  It would be well worth the effort and Portland isn't too bad in July.... certainly worth the trip if only for the scenery and seeing that part of the western USA if you aren't from the area. All of that debt is in the form of federal reserve notes.  BTW, that amount is trivial in comparison to non-federal debt such as personal debt (everybody who owes money to credit card companies and banks), corporate debt, and debt owed by state and local governments.  Of those the debt owed by California and a couple of other states (Illinois and Michigan come to mind as well) are the big issues as those government can't simply print up the money to inflate the currency away.Of more concern, from an inflationary point of view, is the amount of money that the U.S. Federal Reserve has simply been "printing" to deal with the "fiscal crisis" of the past couple of years.If there is an end-game that might happen, it may end up being something like how the Deutschesmark (Germany Mark) was first introduced into Germany following World War II.  It is worth looking up the history of that currency, particularly in the late 1940's and early 1950's to see how at least it may be hoped for an end-game if the Dollar or Euro completely collapses as a currency.  Essentially it turned into an hugely "progressive" one-time income tax, but it worked in terms of jump starting the Germany economy.  Essentially each German citizen was given 1000 marks flat out, plus convert their old money at an exchange rate of something like 40:1 up to a certain lifetime amount, and higher exchange rates for still larger amounts of money.  Something of that nature seems particularly appealing to the current political powers-that-be in Washington DC if dollars lost their value.Yeah, Bitcoins would seem incredibly valuable as a way to "park" assets in such an economic upheaval. First of all, you are comparing something equivalent to a World of Warcraft gold coin or from some other MMORPG.  Generally those games forbid as part of the terms of service that you shouldn't exchange that money for "real world currency", although there are exceptions like the QQ coin and Linden dollars.The main thing is that with the QQ coin they are dealing with the Chinese government in China from a Chinese company who is issuing this virtual coin and how it is being used for retail trade in China.  If there is an analogy, it will be in terms of how the Chinese government might react to Bitcoins, and if you are a Chinese national it might be something worth worrying about.  Since the Chinese government is so open to new political ideas and is willing to let you express them freely (in a jail cell or with a bullet through your head), you can be assured that something so radical as cryptocurrency will be more than welcomed in that country.The legality of Bitcoins in America or the EU is something much more ambiguous and likely to be seen as legal with a number of precedents in terms of alternate currencies that can and are being used.  There are certainly groups like the Free State Project and other "anarchists" groups that can and have embraced philosophies like Bitcoins where this is less of a problem.Inflation of the currency is the least of the problems when dealing with something like the QQ coin. Stamp counterfeiting, at least for U.S. Postage within America, can be prosecuted under similar or the same laws as counterfeiting currency.  It is a dangerous game so far trying to play that game, and puts you directly under the jurisdiction of the U.S. Secret Service.Stamps are also made with security considerations, including things that don't normally get publicized as well, so I don't think it is nearly as easy as you would think.  If something seems a little off, it would be noticed.  Also, most people are not used to buying stamps from ordinary people or from a random stranger like at a flea market.  If they aren't sold at a post office, they are usually sold at a brick and mortar retail store that has a reputation to keep up, where they won't be selling stamps except from a distribution chain that ends up coming from the USPS.If you are selling to the philatelic community, expect even more scrutiny than had you been selling the stamps to a secret service agent directly.  Good luck with that one, where a counterfeit stamp would be rooted out so quick that it would make your head spin... at least for some schmuck that doesn't care about stamps.  You might get away with it, but I think you would find it easier to simply counterfeit a FRN if that was your goal.  Or more significantly, simply buy a bunch of GPUs and start mining bitcoins instead... you'll be money ahead by doing that.What is being done for postal counterfeiting is mainly with "exotic foreign countries" of some sort or another and trying to pass them off as the genuine thing outside of that country.  Again, this is a pointless exercise, and you would be better advised to deal with a micronation like the Hutt River Province or Sealand and simply make it "official postage" if you want to go through that sort of effort.  That sort of is the point where the cost of making the postage is presumed to be nearly the same as its face value, except when made in large volume.  Perhaps a good home printer can make some stamps that you might pass off to somebody else, but is it worth the effort? In its current capacity and form, I don't think Bitcoin can be used for micro-payments in the manner as being suggested here.  I am quite certain that the current restriction on payments less than 0.01 BTC is going to be relaxed... indeed I would make a call for that to happen now simply because when parity hits for 1 BTC == 1 USD that fractions less than 0.001 BTC are going to be necessary simply to function with the Bitcoin economy.  I also think that within the standard Bitcoin client there ought to be a way to "adjust" fees and set up rules for how you (or I) would accept transaction fees based on a number of criteria.  For the most part, barring some huge crushing load on the Bitcoin network, I would like to hope that a cent would be allowed to be transferred without fees or certainly for marginal fees somewhat less than a cent.  It is something I think most miners would be willing to incorporate into their fee structure too.This is built into the network protocol, but the current standard implementation doesn't permit the inclusion of these smaller transactions and certainly doesn't account for the deflation of the currency as is happening right now.  That is a big deal that does need to be addressed.  The current "standard" restriction of charging 0.01 BTC for transactions less than 0.01 BTC is something that ought to change, but that still doesn't deal with very small micropayments that are less than the rough equivalent in 2000 inflation-adjusted U.S. Dollars of less than $0.01 USD equivalent in bitcoins.  I think that is the main thing being suggested here on this thread and that is to me indeed something that ought to be included, but it would require a slightly different protocol than currently exists for Bitcoins.  Regardless, I see the day that Bitcoin might be used routinely in such a way that miners are going to be expecting fees on the order of what is now about 50 cents or maybe even a buck in terms of the current value of FRNs and it is still useful to think of how to accomplish microtransactions using Bitcoins, because it has value in and of itself.Two approaches that I can think of basically involve either a peer-to-peer system or a central server for interchange of micropayments.  Both approaches essentially follow this basic principle:Micropayments are "authorized" for a certain Bitcoin address and transmitted to an accounting system of some sort.  When somebody "owes" past a given threshold (as established through some sort of protocol... either an agreement of sorts or perhaps the threshold is set by the person receiving the micropayments), their "account" will have to be settled by transmitting Bitcoins in presumably a large enough quantity that transaction fees won't eat up the cost of transmitting the payment.The idea here too is that those who go past the threshold are simply kicked from the micropayment system, so there is an incentive to settle up accounts.  This threshold, if it is kept low enough and depending on what is being offered for the micropayments, isn't going to be the end of the world if somebody simply refuses to pay up.  Many on-line services usually have a trial period trying to encourage people to sign up, so you can say that this payment threshold is simply the freebies that you would give away anyway to entice people into using the service in the first place.In terms of a central server system, the largest problem there is that you give up anonymity as the server at least knows your IP address (discounting proxies and other by-passes.... those can still be traced BTW) and other ways to trace who you are can be done with such a system.  In a peer to peer system, anonymity can be stronger but it would also be easier to "cheat the system".As a way to keep hardcore "cheaters" from gaming the system, you can even have "tiered" services where you must maintain at least some sort of account, where those who routinely settle up accounts can have access to a broader range of services.  It doesn't stop somebody from ripping off a whole bunch of people, but you have an investment into your account by doing so and keeping those who would generate random new accounts by the thousands from being able to leech off of the system.  In order to get "the good stuff" you need to show at least some resemblance of a history of making payments... a "credit history" as it were and a "credit score" that shows that you can be trusted within the network.  A new account would obviously lack such a history.This is something that I think is important to work on, but it would be outside of the scope of the main Bitcoin protocol except for settling up accounts and acknowledging payment.  Payment to a given Bitcoin address certainly can be verified. If you have strongly local government that is accountable to the citizens and represents a small constituency, this also tends to not be a big issue either.  Small governments representing relatively few people can be impacted by the opinions of just a few people and can get things done.Where I live, neighborhoods can form "private" associations to build things like streets, sidewalks, and even parks.  This goes by several different names and I happen to belong to one of these groups too.  When you buy the home, you have to sign a contract with the neighborhood association to follow their rules, but it also permits the ability for residents to make street improvements and to pool money together for the common good.  I've seen neighborhood parks get built, and really good neighborhood associations like this can be a way to bypass city hall completely.The largest problem with these kind of groups is they start to get anal and "legislate" all sorts of stupid things like regulating how many cars you can own, if children are even permitted in the neighborhood (some have minimum age requirements like you must be age 50+), what color of paint you can have on the outside of your house, or even what flowers or trees you are permitted to plant in your front yard including requiring you to plant certain species or face a fine.  When these groups get a huge thirst for power is when you know it is time to bail out on groups like this, but then again you can vote with your feet if that happens. http://www.sltrib.com/sltrib/home/50949183-76/gold-state-utah-coins.html.cspLegislation which is being proposed for the January legislative session proposes that Utahns should be permitted to use gold for payment of debt to state agencies instead of federal reserve notes.  This legislation also gives specific legal authority for private citizens in Utah to coin their own money.I have no idea how this fits with federal constitutional authority for coining money, but it certainly is something that really struck me as something both odd and curious that a formal discussion in at least this state legislature over the validity of federal reserve notes and perhaps this is an indicator of what may be a trend elsewhere if the U.S. Dollar goes hyperinflationary.Note that this is merely proposed legislation, and the reason this is in the news is because state legislators are trying to jockey themselves into position before the legislative session starts at the beginning of next month (January 2011).  At least in Utah, the legislative session lasts only 45 days and any legislation not passed by the end of the session is considered dead.  December is usually when the more outlandish things come out, but none the less I think this particular bill is going to be at least discussed in committee.It will be interesting to see how much traction this issue may have, and if other states might join with Utah in doing the same thing. I think this is a very good point to make:  The U.S. Dollar is incredibly weak (but so is the Euro and most of the other major currencies.... including I might add the Chinese Yuan: it is built upon the U.S. Dollar as well).There isn't any sort of mechanism or rational of what the U.S. government "defaulting" on the dollar might even be.  Other countries "defaulted", but they owed debt denominated in other currencies.  The U.S. government, at least at the moment, only owes money in U.S. denominated loans and bonds.  When Argentina defaulted on their loans, they simply refused to pay back the loans in dollars, which effectively cut them off from international loans of this nature, but shy of going to war what else are you going to do?  Argentina also let their currency go hyperinflationary, but that wasn't the key point of the "default".That may also be the case with a U.S. default, but what may happen (and I think quite likely too) is that the U.S. dollar is going to be significantly devalued.  Mind you, China has been playing this game for the past couple of decades and in fact prospered by doing so, although I don't know how they are going to react when others start to play their same game.The U.S. federal reserve has been essentially "running the printing presses" to create new dollars out of thin air to cope with the American economy.  I don't know the exact figures, but I've seen figures in the multi-trillion dollar range of "new money" being pumped into the U.S. Economy.  This is also relatively new behavior as the Fed has traditionally been rather reluctant to do this so overtly in the past.  With all of this money injected into the economy, it has to go somewhere and it is adding huge inflationary pressure on just about everything.  The main reason the U.S. economy hasn't gone hyper-inflationary yet is mainly that such things take time to work their way through the economy.The current bet on buying gold right now is to make a guess as to if this hyperinflation is really going to hit or not.  If you think the U.S. Dollar is going to collapse through massive inflation, although it doesn't necessarily have to be hyper-inflation, as even inflation like happened during the Carter administration would be sufficient to make a mess here.  Annual inflation above 10% is something not currently anticipated by most business plans in America.  I would call that a good tipping point right now:  If you think that over the short term inflation (as measured with the CPI and other comparable indexes) is going to go well above 10%, with ensuing political turmoil that will cause internally within America, gold is a good bet even now.  If you think there are "wise and intelligent people" who are in charge of the American government & Federal Reserve and that somehow they are going to prevail against those things which may attack the U.S. Dollar and that inflation is going to stay steady or that deflation is going to happen, sticking with the Dollar might be a wise thing to do.Historically speaking, the U.S. Dollar has been a pretty good bet, which is one of the reasons why it is a world reserve currency.  Traditionally, due to investment options and other things you can do with dollars besides just simply throwing it under a mattress, dollars have out-performed gold.  I'm talking T-bills and other "safe" ways to park dollars if you have invested into dollars which certainly have out-performed gold.  The presumption now is that gold is going to out perform even T-bills, which may be the case but I wouldn't call that a sure bet even now.  If the U.S. economy goes bust, gold will be nice to have but I think it would be stupid to put your entire life savings into gold as well.BTW, I think the long-term prospects for bitcoins are going to be better than gold, for many of the same reasons.  If you can get into investment strategies that are bitcoin-denominated investments, you will be doing even better still.  It would be fun to come up with a chart of gold vs. bitcoins, although I think at the moment you would have to reference the exchange rate in dollars to come up with any sort of comparison at the moment. I have thought about microtransactions in relations to Bitcoins, and while the threshold of what minimum payment can be made effectively with Bitcoins is something that is trivial compared to other electronic payment methods, I don't see payments less than $1 USD being effectively transferred without substantial cost in the near future.  Much of that depends on how the transaction fee system evolves as a matter of practice.  If transaction fees remain low, microtransactions will continue to flourish and be exchanged in the network... but don't count on it as a long-term business plan for the future.  Perhaps other systems like Ripple will develop for those transactions that are effectively less than $1 in equivalent wealth transferred.Where I do see Bitcoin really coming into its own is with microloans.... and not just such tiny "investments" in 3rd world countries.  I'm still trying to work out the technical details, but I think there could be a system set up where many different people could "invest" into some concept ranging from just a few bitcoins to thousands or tens of thousands of bitcoins under some mutually agreed upon terms.  If somebody has some idea for how to make money using Bitcoins, I think eventually some methods are going to be created to pool resources and get the initial investment available to those who want to create these enterprises.And I don't think it is going to be for the "illegal" stuff either, but rather something simple like setting up a website selling candles or "investing" in a programmer to make some interesting software.  We've seen some of that already on these forums, and I think that is only the beginning.  What Bitcoin does is to significantly lower the barriers to entry for emerging business concepts.... and that is something which may be very powerful in the near future blowing out of the water any of these "nefarious" concepts that have been mentioned earlier.Investing in bitcoins like you would baseball cards or gold has value, but investing in enterprises earning bitcoins for an expected return on investment is going to amplify that value much more. I've been trying to shepherd the article through the process that will get it accepted.  The article discussion page is currently going through the rounds trying to decide how much of the article ought to be based upon Satoshi's white paper, with one "contributor" arguing to throw that white paper out completely as a source of information.The article itself was put back as a "regular" article on December 14th, and has had a very steady rate of development since.  There is one agitator who tried to suggest it needed to get thrown back to the deletion discussion, but at least for now that idea has been quashed.  Essentially, Bitcoin has met the minimum standards for "notability" by the Wikipedia community which is why the article exists now.As a general warning:  edit the Wikipedia article at your own risk!  It is getting a whole lot of attention lately and as a result has some long-time veterans who are injecting their own spin on Bitcoin.  Most of them are only reading the press releases for information and are completely dismissing this website for information.  It sort of gives a jaded view of the project, but I'll leave that as it may be. Please, don't keep spreading the word that Satoshi is from Japan.  While I found a mention of somebody with his name graduating from a high school in New York (on Classmates.com), there is no reason to suspect that is even him either.Also..... don't say "bitcoin.com", which is a completely different website based off of a completely different concept, but still is electronic currency or at least electronic money exchange.  The confusion is something that I think the "bitcoin.org" community is going to need to confront eventually, but it generally is easy to distinguish between the two ideas. One advantage I can see with a "local" currency, at least initially, is that you could get the initial pool of coins distributed locally among the participants as a way to buy into the system.  If anything, I would suggest doing just that where the "mining" is not tied so much to the coin generation aspect but mainly the transaction processing (with fees).   Set the initial few blocks as a huge number of coins while you are getting the network up and running and then have a huge drop-off in the generation rate, distributing the coins locally in something like the Bitcoin faucet to jump-start the "local economy".  Putting 20 million coins in the genesis block and then 0.0001 coins generated for every block after would do the trick.While you have the stack of coins, it is essentially monopoly money until you start to hand it out, so don't be stingy.  1000 coins per new user would be enough to get it started.  The point of doing it this way is to keep the coins local instead of being spread around the world by miners who aren't in the local economy.  If you meet people face to face or find some way to trust them, it would avoid a problem of trying to allocate coins this way with Bitcoin as they likely wouldn't come to you multiple times to keep collecting those thousand coins to "work the system".If you do that, it would "keep the currency local", yet it could be exchanged for the main Bitcoins or traded with the government currency too.  None the less, it would be mostly an electronic version of something like Berkshares.  Don't peg it to any other currency, but simply let it develop organically.  If that is done, I think it could succeed for the purposes stated here. I think the main thing with a POS system is that you want to ensure that somebody isn't double-spending the bitcoins.  This is something more akin to a person writing a personal check and then waiting to get that check cleared.Rather than getting all fancy about this, what you need to have here is a way to "listen" to all of the current transactions that are floating around the Bitcoin network.  transaction messages are shared between nodes, primarily for the purpose of getting them included into the next block.  If you end up having a person trying to double-spend a bitcoin, it can be caught quite quickly and usually before it gets put into a block.Normally Bitcoin doesn't provide this level of protection in terms of the client interface currently being used, but a POS system would need to be a bit more robust in that sense and do much more indexing of current transactions being processed.  I could even see somebody specializing in doing just that for merchants, as a fee-based service, where the merchant could make a query to ensure that the coins aren't being double spent.  Run the transaction through the verification service to make sure that nobody is currently trying to double spend those coins, and perhaps even offer "insurance" to the merchant in case the service misses a double-spend.  This kind of service is something I could see being offered by a local chamber of commerce to its members as a "membership benefit" too, as it wouldn't be too difficult to set up and could be written as an open source app on top of Bitcoin as well.An efficient and well-connected service could respond in under 10 seconds for verification even if the server is under heavy load and certainly meet the needs of a merchant in a convenience store or coffee shop.  Nothing new needs to be added to the protocol itself, at least for most of the Bitcoin network.  I think 10 seconds would be tolerable for most POS transactions, and you could also set up "blacklists" of known abusers if it became a serious problem for this situation.I would imagine that for a POS store you would also insist upon including a fee for such transactions.  That not only gets the transactions put as a higher priority on the network for inclusion (something a merchant really would want!) but also stops much of the funny transactions too.  The real scamers would be trying to do simultaneous spends on a broad scale, but their window of opportunity would be so narrow that they would be quickly caught before getting away with too many purchases.  Ordinary people simply being absent minded and trying to double spend (like somebody writing a check to overdraft their "account") would not happen and would be easily caught with this system.A "real scammer" would be a whole group of people who are simultaneously trying to "spend" the same wallet at many places simultaneously.  They would also have to coordinate their purchases with clockwork precision as they would have at most about 10 minutes and likely much less to make all of those purchases before they would be caught.  Furthermore, such an attempt could also be identified for what it is, and could potentially even be prosecuted as fraud if you wanted to go that route.  It wouldn't be much consolation for the fact that the scammer wouldn't be getting much anyway.If you are a merchant trying to make a larger purchase like paying for a refrigerator or even an automobile, I think expecting the transaction to be verified by a couple of blocks before considering the transaction complete would be reasonable.I should note that this "system" would be by far and away much more secure and reliable than credit card transactions and a heck of a lot cheaper, even if there was some fraud from time to time.  The fraud would also be much, much less than currently happens with checks and credit cards too.  There are some bright people who will try to scam this system so I don't think you can completely eliminate such scamming but you can keep it in check and make it very difficult where only the most organized criminals could take advantage of the situation.  For the reward of the price of a latte, I think even organized crime would not find it all that profitable to try to scam this system, at least in that manner.  The only reason some fraud would exist is strictly for the convenience factor of trying to process the transactions faster. From a legal perspective, I'm not entirely sure that running Bitcoin is legal in the particular location I'm at due to anti-gambling laws.  I happen to live in one of the few places in America that doesn't permit a lottery of any kind at all, even though neighboring states (I live about 15 miles from the state line) do sell lotto ticket.The whole point of the coin generation is all about allocating the initial 21 million bitcoins anyway, and it should be pointed out that transaction fees are likely to be a much larger draw in the long run for running a "miner".  It still is a lottery in terms of who is going to get the next block, but you can demonstrate real "work" being put into processing the transactions to collect the fees, and that is beyond the effort to create the hash to "win" the block.  That might be sufficient to get past the anti-gambling laws... and the fact that no money is being tendered to "enter" the lotto other than using electricity and other resources.  Perhaps more like a sweepstakes entry like the Publisher's Clearinghouse, but you get to keep sending in additional entries to win the "grand prize" that isn't really worth that much anyway.The purpose of the mining analogy is to hide the fact that it is a probability based allocation system.  You can build off of the concept of a miner to say that a computer is trying to dig through hashes sort of in the fashion like you are sorting through a pile of rocks to find a gold nugget.  Unfortunately that isn't how mineral mining really works either except on a superficial level and only for some minerals as well.  If you wanted to use a mining analogy, it would be more like everybody running Bitcoin is in the same mine and sorting a stream of rocks where from time to time you happen to find a gold nugget.  The problem with that analogy is that it doesn't explain how only one person gets any nuggets at a time or how it stops somebody from working extra hard to find nuggets independently of anybody else.  The analogy really breaks down fast in part because it is a poor analogy.
In many ways, I hope that another block chain or two are started at least to compare different ways to be using cryptocurrencies.  If it is of any value at all, I'm sure that somebody will start to use it in exchanges.  Trading between Bitcoins and other similar currencies ought to be simple and straight forward.The main issue is the strength of the currency, which to me is going to be based upon the CPU strength of that currency over time.  I find it hard to believe that any "local" currency is going to be any stronger, but one thing that will happen is that perhaps there might be some incentive to introduce that currency locally.Wal-mart doesn't care how they get their money, as long as it is convertable to something that the Walton family can use ultimately in Arkansas in some form.  Other sorts of retail stores are the same, and certainly don't care if they get paid in dollars, euros, pesos, or any other currency as long as they get paid.  They many not want to do foreign exchange if it is an unusual hassle to deal with, but as long as they have several customers who all want to use that currency and it can make a difference in terms of additional sales, they'll take another currency with no trouble at all.The problem is mainly the exchange rate, which for a brand new currency is going to be essentially worthless. I really miss the "discussion" pages from MediaWiki, something that dokuwiki doesn't do automatically.  There are also some nice extensions to MediaWiki that also add some really nice features, such as putting in LaTeX-style mathematical formulas into the text of the wiki and some fun charting features that can be edited too.  You can also do some advance templating that also adds some strong features.BTW, I like distributing the content around a bit, especially since bitcoin.org seems to have some stability issues lately.  Nothing personal to Satoshi, and this might allow some extra flexibility anyway for the project. The current method employed within the "official client" is to ask essentially "what time is it?" from the other neighboring nodes and come up with an approximate average, operating on the assumption that most of the nodes are being honest or at least trying to.  It is something that can be manipulated if an attack is being done though.  Using this method can identify and exclude significant outliers (somebody sets their clock to last year or worse to 1970, so will be excluded) but you may have a standard deviation on the order of a few minutes and perhaps longer.  Outliers would be several standard deviations from the current mean, with a simplified algorithm simply excluding the largest and smallest values collected in this manner.The time is transmitted with the version message between nodes when the node first connects.  As I said, it is already a part of the protocol.  Its only use at the moment is to set up a "delta time adjustment factor" when time stamping blocks being mined by that client.That may be sufficient, and to "keep honest nodes honest" perhaps include a warning message to a computer user if their clock is significantly different than the clock mean of its neighbors, noting this could be a security enhancement if they set their computer's clocks to the correct time.While any node can reject any block for any reason, rejecting blocks because of temporal anomalies certainly could make a huge difference here in stopping a cartel attack like this.  If you can get the clock more accurate, it will help shorten the window of opportunity that a cartel could use to engage in an attack of this nature.  The more inaccuracy in time stamping that exists, the more of a window of opportunity also exists to manipulate that time inaccuracy to an advantage for a group wanting to skew block creation to their own ends. Essentially this is really just measuring the exchange rate itself, which isn't really an accurate measurement for a currency in terms of inflation.BTW, the Big Mac index has been used as a way to compare currencies in other countries, as it is something which is fairly widespread (McDonald's restaurants can be found in many countries around the world) and are purchased by local consumers made with local labor and local resources.  Some variations are usually included as a beef hamburger is generally not sold in India, although there is a local equivalent made with other kinds of meat or as a vegetarian burger.Unfortunately Big Macs, at the moment, aren't sold in bitcoins.  Give it time, particularly when employees might not mind getting paid in bitcoins instead of dollars or euros. This is more interesting to think of a way to stop this kind of attack through accurate time stampping.  So far, the assumption is that coming up with an accurate authority for chronological accuracy (aka a "trusted" time authority) is an intractable problem for a peer to peer network.  Bitcoin bypasses that entirely and at the moment mostly ignores the time stamp other than as a general "guide", and there have been some blocks already in the block chain created with timestamps that are before the previous block that it is supposedly following and hashed from.If there could be an accurate chronometer (within a 10 second or so accuracy) to verify a block and thus reject blocks "made" in the future or to reject sub-chains that include blocks with negative time differences, it would certainly help to stop or significantly restrict a cartel attack.  The trick is to establish such a time stamping authority that could be recognized by a peer to peer network. What is funny about the Yap stone money is that "contracts" were made which allowed transferring the money from one person to another without physically carrying to "coins".  It got quite sophisticated including loans and inheritance, where the stones themselves were rarely moved about.  Sort of like how the New York Federal Reserve Bank still has a gold reserve and transfers ownership of the bars from one person to the next based on contracts, but the gold stays in mostly the same place except for occasional physical transfers.These stones were more effective as real money than you might imagine.  Yap stone money also seems to have a lot more in common with Bitcoins than government fiat currency as it clearly was a "proof-of-work" based currency.  Anybody could grab a stone to create one of these "coins", and the value of the coin was directly related to the effort made to create that coin.  It isn't a perfect analogy to Bitcoins, but pretty close. If a cartel could somehow, by luck or circumstances, get "ahead" of the rest of the network for awhile, this sort of "attack" could certainly happen.  "Saving" up blocks "in reserve" is certainly a way to get ahead for at least a short duration, releasing block into the network on an as-needed basis.   Since the cartel would be ahead of the rest of the network, they would also be making hashes off of the latest block in the cartel, not the latest in the network.The trick would be to decide when to "cut losses" if the cartel somehow ends up on the losing chain for a bit.The whole point is that the cartel is "forcing" the rest of the network to "waste" their CPU cycles on blocks that aren't going to be accepted.  Any CPU cycles not spent on the longest block are clearly beneficial to the cartel.There isn't much lost if the cartel simply abandons a chain if they are one block behind.  That is essentially what happens anyway if you are not in a cartel.  You build upon the last block of the longer chain and move on.  If you have a block in reserve, flush the block out to the network to compete as a split chain, but if you get behind simply try again.BTW, are the "timestamps" on blocks put into the hash?  I'm thinking more along the lines of trying to figure out how to detect if such an attack may be happening.  Nothing conclusive, but I think you could "build a case" at least from a number of clues that such an attack may be underway from a series of "strange" things happening in the network.  An unusually large number of "competing" chains and block timestamps that seem to be regularly out of order might be a clue.  It would take some solid detective work including gathering data from "ignored chains", but I think such an attack could be identified if it was a persistent attack.  It wouldn't be easily detected and a simple algorithm may not be sufficient in terms of blocking a particular node from submitting a block due to being in that cartel, but broadly speaking I think it could be detected as happening and possibly identifying which blocks "belong" to the cartel as more data comes in... unfortunately after the block has been firmly established into the chain.This kind of "intel" could also be useful even for a cartel, as they might be able to detect if a second cartel is active.  Tracing blocks and money spent might be useful to identify who could be in the cartel.  Again, a single transaction might not be traced, but several transactions over a period of time tend to lose anonymity and certainly give some information not found with a single transaction. The Wikipedia article on Bitcoin has a field which describes what the "annual inflation rate" of a currency is at.  It sort of got me thinking about what sorts of data could be used at least in terms of what the deflation rate of Bitcoin might be, either on a month to month basis or on an annual basis.The problem here is mainly trying to find a "basket" of goods which can be used for comparison purposes and somehow "averaged" as a reasonable comparison to show the deflation.  About the only consistent transaction that has any sort of history is with the currency exchanges, but would that be a reasonable guide for such a calculation?  What other things ought to be included in calculating inflation?There is the price point of a pizza being sold for 1000 BTC, which is an interesting benchmark for the value of a Bitcoin in regular use and is otherwise independent of other currency transactions.  Bidding Pond might be useful here too, although the problem there is the lack of consistency for common goods to be compared.Perhaps the Bitcoin economy is still far too small.  If so, perhaps this is something that simply needs time to work on, but I think a discussion of potential benchmarks for calculating a figure would be useful. On the positive side, if somebody wants to become their own domain regsitrar, they can certainly get that done too.  On top of that, the financial incentive offered by a fee to register the domain might be sufficient to prevent domain stealing from happening as they will want to include a domain to collect the fee.  I was hoping that somebody processing registrations would be greedy and selfish. Since a registration is open to everybody and any block at any time could include the registration, somebody trying to capture a domain in this way wouldn't have much time to decide if they wanted the domain for themselves as well, presuming they were running a "corrupt miner".More importantly, I would think this would have to be automated in some fashion, so how could you algorithmically decide what is a "good" domain name to capture? This is easy for you to say if you have no clue as to the history of Wikipedia or the headaches that admins and editors on that project have been involved with.  I don't care to go into an exhaustive history lesson at the moment, but note that with only a couple of exceptions (that have also turned out awfully for the Wikipedia community I might add too) most of the policies have been created mainly to deal with trolls, vandals, and other folks who tend to do more harm to Wikipedia than good.  Harm in this case is destroying the quality of existing content or discouraging other people to contribute to the project.Are there trollish admins?  Absolutely, and the guy who performed the deletion here is certainly being trollish with his comments in this most recent deletion review.  Still, I don't see that comment having any impact upon the undeletion.Have patience young grasshopper.  These things take time, and unfortunately it is going to take a very experienced admin doing some custom work to clean up the mess left behind by other admins trying to salt this article.  It is something I could do in about 2 minutes if I had the tools, but I'll leave that to somebody else.  I never wanted to be a Wikipedia admin, which is why I don't have the tools.If this article doesn't get undeleted within a week and moved back as a "regular article", there is a series of increasing actions I can get involved with that will force the issue.  There are some admins in favor of "restoring" the article, so I seriously doubt I'll have to pull out all of the stops of Wikilawyering that I can do if I really cared. This guy seems to have a rather big ego, claiming that "nobody else has talked about these things".  That simply isn't true, but I'll admit that they tend to be a minority who claim that a "looming crisis" is coming in the American economy.If the U.S. Dollar stopped being a reserve currency, I think it would be a good thing as perhaps those companies who started to outsource their production might just start "bringing it home".   Still, it would be a painful several years while the economy adjusts.I really don't trust the current U.S. President to do the right thing if any of this happens as is said in this video.BTW, this isn't going to be "The End of America", but it will be the end of the current economic system.  Of course that is why I'm working on Bitcoins too. There are some very different philosophies here, so I think we may have a couple of different applications being developed, perhaps jointly.  I'm certainly not going to be implementing the Theymos/Nanotube proposal at least initially, but somebody else might. Yes, the amount of coins newly generated by a block will be diminished every 210,000 blocks. It is based upon what the rest of the network decides is the correct value for a generated block.  Keep in mind that the transactions are enforced not just by miners, but by other nodes in the network passing around blocks.  If somebody has a 25BTC block and tries to spend 30 BTC, that will be an invalidated transaction unless they have other blocks they are using as an input besides that mined block.Yes, several computers could recognize the value of a block to be in theory any possible value, but at that point they wouldn't really be using Bitcion but some other parallel network.  Any transactions that attempt to spend more than the number described by the network will be simply invalidated by that part of the network which still recognizes the gradual halving of Bitcoins.  This is much more than merely 50% of the network, but simply anybody claiming to even be using Bitcoins at all.  If you want to participate with Bitcoin, you will recognize that limit with regular halving of the value of new blocks over time, or simply go start your own currency instead as that would be much easier than convincing those on Bitcoin to change this system.In theory this could change on the "official client" right now and would likely be accepted across the whole network, but there already is strong resistance to permitting a change of this nature even if you tried.  The "majority" you'd have to convince to make a change of this nature would be the "overwhelming majority" of anybody who might even consider using Bitcoins, not just the small developer group or for that matter even a majority of the CPU processing power.When miners have to deal with blocks past # 210,000, I strongly suspect many of them are going to start to expect fees for transactions, at least if they are going to maintain their server farms that are currently being used to generate blocks.  The miners are going to follow the rules because they want their blocks recognized by the rest of the network, not just other miners.Keep in mind that while the issue of the IsStandard() function has been motivated by financial interests, there are other "political" issues involved too in terms of differing groups of people in several philosophical camps regarding if or how data other than financial transactions ought to be recognized by Bitcoin miners.  Some of the people who regularly "win" blocks through mining activity are looking at non-financial data as a chance to earn some extra bitcoins, but it is the political issue that is the central theme over what should go into blocks. There are two pieces to recognizing a block that is generated:  fellow miners and "non-miners" on the network.The selfish incentive to somebody who generates a block is that they want to be a part of the "longest chain" (in terms of demonstrated CPU effort), and as a result they want to grab as many blocks made by others and tack their own block onto the end of that chain.  If "their block" is on the longest chain, all other chains or blocks will be ignored by the design of the network.  Nodes which aren't miners will ignore those block chains which don't have that proof of work.  Therefore under "normal circumstances" it really is to the advantage of a miner to recognize any block which is generated... provided it follows the current proof of work standards so it won't get rejected.  Other miners will in turn want to build upon that longest chain as well at the expense of shorting chains.The "non-miners" will recognize a block you make because you have included their transactions into that block, including future transactions they may be involved with if they are receiving Bitcoins.  Therefore it is in the self-interest of a non-miner to propagate at least the blocks their transactions are coupled with, and on a more general note also other transactions as well if they ever expect to receive some of those bitcoins from others. This is a follow-up regarding the Wikipedia article:http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Deletion_review/Log/2010_December_12The Bitcoin article is up for deletion review again, this time I think the undeletion is going to stick.  I realize that there are many in the Bitcoin community who are not thrilled with the deletion process on Wikipedia, and that is understandable.  With the more recent articles that have come up, the "notability" of Bitcoin is not longer in dispute.Help with the article would certainly be useful from this point on, or with related concepts as they come up from time to time, but the article is going back up, and is much better written this time around too.Unless you are semi-regular on Wikipedia, I'd suggest you refrain from commenting on the deletion review and simply let it run its course.  Concentrate on the content of the article instead, and I give some extra kudos to those who have contributed to developing the article over the past couple of months. It is strictly based upon whatever block is picked by a particular miner, if all things are equal.  The chain splits in that case at least temporarily until the next block is found, deciding who "wins" the contest.  This can play out repeatedly where two or more "chains" can keep getting additional blocks simultaneously (more or less) and competing chains keep getting longer.  Probability will end up weeding one or the other out as one chain finally gets blocks when the other doesn't.  In theory what happens is that the block with more than 50% of the network CPU power will likely get the next block. I like the mining example on a number of other aspects too, as analogies aren't always perfect either.  Mining sort of indicates that steady sustained effort is going to get you the block.The point though is that the whole thing is random chance based purely upon probability.  The resources, what you devote, is strictly to generate more "tickets".  I'm sure some people feel that way when they buy up blocks of hundreds of lotto tickets as well.  And just like is happening now with Bitcoin, people also put lottery tickets into pools to collectively share any "winnings" based upon various rules of those pools.  I have heard of groups as large as 50-100 people in a pool of that nature win a multi-million dollar lotto too.The mining analogy breaks down as most miners usually look for a particular vein of ore and stick with that vein where extraction costs and ore quality are rather predictable.  Mining stops when the vein runs out, the mine shuts down, or when the extraction costs become too expensive, such as if the mine gets too deep underground to cost-effectively bring the stuff to the surface.  None of this has analogies to Bitcoin at all.Also, if you run Bitcoin with a generator for only a few minutes or a couple of hours, your "chance" of finding a block is just the same over the same period of time as if it has been running for weeks or even years.  If you are mining, knowledge of geology and minerals can make a huge difference, as can some test drills to sample rocks at different depths to find what exists "down there".  Mining for weeks will eventually get you something for your effort, where the same can't be said for somebody who has been attempting to generate some bitcoins.  You don't get to 90% of the way to getting a new block.  Either you found it (aka "won" the lotto) or you didn't.  A mining analogy would suggest that a 90% effort to getting the nugget is going to happen where just a little longer similar effort is going to get you that nugget.  That simply doesn't happen at all.Of course I find that some treat bitcoin creation as a sort of game anyway, and a whole lot of game theory goes into the collection of blocks. A short simple answer:If you create some bitcoins, you have to convince the rest of the network that those coins really belong to you.  The only way to do that convincing is that you have spent time with your computer to create a block and "won the lottery" to be able to claim the next block in the network, and more importantly convince others to build off of your block.  If nobody wants to use your block of coins, you won't be able to spend those coins with any other future block.So go ahead and try to create as many bitcoins as you care, but key to being able to use them is only if the other nodes in the network recognizes your bitcoins in the first place, with a strict set of rules to make that happen.  You can only do that by showing the proof that you have put effort into creating those blocks.---BTW, I think the analogy of a lottery is about the best way to explain this to non-geeks as it is something most people at least understand on a superficial level.  Each block is essentially playing a lottery with each attempt at creating a nonce being the equivalent of trying to win the powerball with a new set of numbers.  If you play more often (have more "tickets" or in the case of Bitcoin more hashes per second), the more likely that you will win.  The odds of a single hash "winning" the lottery of the next block hash is actually much worse than the multi-state lotto, where the odds are represented by the difficulty level.  Of course the "winnings" are also considerably less than the multi-state lotto too.While it isn't a perfectly accurate depiction of the difficulty level, it can be said that a difficulty of 1 is about the average likelihood an ordinary computer (no GPU client) can produce a valid block in about 10 minutes of "playing the lotto" or trying to generate a hash.  Pointing out that the diffculty is now in the thousands range wouldn't hurt either, and that as more people participate in Bitcoin only increases that difficulty. It depends on how SHA2 was broken.  You might be able to "fake a transaction signature", as you certainly can do so if it was signed with an MD5 hash.  Back when MD5 was created, a similar kind of philosophy was suggested where it was thought that you needed incredible CPU resources to do a brute force attack.... and even for MD5 that is mostly the case.  But with some mathematical manipulation and narrowing potential candidates to break such a signature an MD5 hash can certainly be broken right now if it was used as a signature for transactions with Bitcoin.  MD5 hashes have been broken in such a way, and there hasn't been such a similar absolute mathematical proof that such an exploit is impossible with SHA v. 2.  All we know is that there is no public acknowledgement that such an attack has happened or anybody studying the problem who has come up with such an exploit.Freezing the network only would work to help with an orderly transition from the SHA v. 2 network to whatever is decided upon for the replacement, if anything can be found at all.  It largely depends on how the hash was broken and how quickly "fake transaction signatures" can be generated from such an attack.  Presumably a more significant problem would be that block generation difficulty would skyrocket to insane levels where a series of valid nonces to create hashes of essentially all zeros would be the final block.  Block generation would also escalate considerably to the point that several blocks each minute, regardless of difficulty, would continue to be submitted to Bitcoin until the chain is frozen, indicating a problem with SHA v. 2 as an algorithm.  If you see the block count ticking up quickly after your client has been connected to Bitcoin for a while and you are pretty sure you have the strongest block chain fully downloaded, that would indicate the algorithm has been broken. I came across an idea that I think is worth discussing in regards to a kind of "attack" on the bitcoin network.  I'm calling this a "mining cartel attack".  I have no idea if this is being done right now, and I'm being pre-emptive in terms of describing it as I'm sure the thought has come across the minds of some other people too.  Perhaps I'm missing an essential element of Bitcoin here, but I think this could be a serious issue and I'm not sure of what protections, if any, are in place to stop this.The assumption right now is that anybody can create a new block through the block generation system in place on Bitcoin and simply throw CPU cycles that eventually will be recognized in one form or another.  So far that is true and in fact I've been able to create a block doing just that as have many on this forum and elsewhere.  I consider that at least for the moment "proof" this attack isn't happening right now, at least for myself.  As long as everybody is being mostly honest and understanding that the strength of the network thrives by having as strong of a block chain as possible, this will continue to be the case.Instead, in a "mining cartel attack", I'm proposing that a substantial number of "miners" who possess a substantial fraction of the computing power of the network, but not necessarily 50% of the network, could form into a cartel that would only recognize blocks generated by each other.  Perhaps they would let a few other blocks get past them from time to time to hide this attack, but the vast majority of the new blocks recognized by this cartel would have to be produced by cartel members.  BTW, the "letting a few other blocks past" also reduces the percentage of the network needed by this cartel to pull off this attack as those other blocks are actually contributing to the overall strength by including "independent miners".Bitcoin works by recognizing the longest block chain in terms of proof of work.  Since this cartel is mostly rejecting blocks from other nodes yet they have some substantial computing power under their control, they can create longer chains as a group than the rest of network, especially if the rest of the network is disorganized and consists of mostly small-time "independent miners" not in a cartel.  It doesn't take much here, even if only on occasion they are rejecting a few blocks from non-members of the cartel.  This in turn, from an economic viewpoint, is going to strengthen the cartel members by "winning" more blocks and thus block generation coins and transaction fees associated with those chains more dominated by the cartel.The programming for such an attack would be quite tricky, especially if you are trying not to get caught quickly that this kind of manipulation is happening.  It is something that could "scale" with the proportion of the network controlled by this cartel as the closer they get to 50% control of the CPU resources of the network also regulates how many "non cartel" blocks can be rejected in favor of cartel members.  I'd have to do some simulations to see what percentage of the network would be needed to reject any blocks from other miners as I don't think a single PC could do this attack at all.Presuming in an ideal situation where the mining cartel persists with this attack, on a social level many of the non-cartel members would drop out of mining (it is already happening anyway) as they simply can't get their blocks recognized and think the effort of running the CPU isn't worth the effort.  Cartel members would be claiming that the issue is mainly because of increased mining difficulty (which may be true as well) but it should be noted that isn't the only issue here.  Still, the net effect is that the mining cartel ends up with an increasingly larger portion of the network and thus firmer control over the ability to manipulate the network to their own advantage.Multiple cartels could also exist in this framework, with or without the knowledge of each other.  There would be strong incentives to try and identify other cartels and certainly to propose a "merger" of competing cartels if possible under all sort of arrangements.The primary issue on a technical level would be to identify which blocks belong to cartel members and thus should be used for building the next block of the chain by cartel members.  This would likely be done "out of bandwidth" as a separate communication channel independent of the main Bitcoin communications network, although an "in bandwidth" scheme could also be set up.The net harm to Bitcoin as a whole is that the block chain would ultimately be weaker as a result of this kind of attack, since CPU cycles "spent" by "independent miners" would not be recognized or used for difficulty adjustments on the network.  This is also something that a government could use to "capture" Bitcoin if they were patient and were willing to work outside of legal attacks.  Still, I see this mostly being done by self-interested participants who already have some substantial CPU resources and are simply being greedy.  Transactions themselves would not be harmed and those with Bitcoins already in some form or another can arguably even be supported by such an "attack" as the miners are doing some of the "dirty work" involved with running the network... something cartel members would assert anyway as a sort of "public service".Is this something to even worry about?  I don't see an "easy" way to stop this sort of "attack" either, although there certainly are plenty of historical examples of similar kinds of "conspiracies" to restrain activity like this.  Just look at DeBeers in South Africa if you need some examples to look at.
I'd have to dig through the archives for an exact quote from Satoshi, but the main thing would be trying to deal with the impact of having the current SHA v. 2 algorithm somehow attacked to make it trivially easy to create an arbitrary hash.  For example, the MD5 signatures, which unfortunately are still being used to prove cryptographic security on some software files, have a known weakness in its design where there are multiple numbers which can be used to create the same hash and in fact the hash can be "broken" if used in something like Bitcoin.  It is so bad of a weakness for MD5 that any certification authority based upon that hash algorithm should simply be ignored completely, including security certificates on "secure" http connections or software claiming MD5 certification.  I suppose it is better than nothing, but not much more than that and can be used to fool somebody into thinking that some software is much more secure than claimed.  The U.S. Government refuses to recognize MD5 as a valid hash for security purposes and insists upon the SHA v. 2 for all similar kinds of cryptographic security.If a similar kind of exploit was ever found for the SHA v. 2 algorithm, "bitcoins" protected by such a hash could be "cracked" where any bitcoins protected by the hash could be spent before the "owner" has a chance to use them.  That would be the real danger here more than anything else.  Essentially anybody could create another "wallet" to at least be able to spend an arbitrary transaction.  It would likely take some considerable computer resources to get that done even with such a crack of the SHA v. 2 algorithm.Depending on how bad of a cryptographic hole would be found, there could be either a transition period from the old to a new block recognizing previously created bitcoins or simply an abandonment of Bitcoin for some other system.  A more gradual replacement of the block chain would obviously be preferred spanning the frame of such a transition, and would likely happen over the course of a year or more in an ideal situation.  There are a number of ways that "old bitcoins" might be recognized with such a transition, and if a few "cracked" bitcoins came across too it wouldn't necessarily be the end of the world either for most people, especially if the bulk of the community came across early in the transition process.  It would still be an ugly process if that was to happen, and a few people complaining about their "identity" being cracked where they lost some of their money, even if that wasn't true and they were simply making that up to get sympathy from the community.The important thing to note here is that a great many other people rely upon the same algorithm for many similar secure documents, and that there is at least an attempt to improve that security by people who really know what they are doing. This in turn leads to multiple assumptions as to which domain is junk.  If one client recognized a 10BTC "fee" as proper for registration (going back to the Theymos/Nanotube proposal) but another expects a 20 BTC "fee", where somebody else made a registration for 20 BTC, that is the domain registration that will be recognized.... with a completely different IP address that it is pointing to.  If another "registrar" recognizes a 5 BTC "fee", it could be still another IP address.  In other words, the whole concept of a fee here needs to be rethought too if that has any meaning at all.  Even if the role of the "fee" is simply to get miners to include the regsitration into the block, there are other problems to worry about too.This goes back to authentication that isn't happening, at least to give a "definitive" version of what is in fact the correct IP address or any other meaning to the domain name.  Even slight differences in interpretation of the formatting of the data can lead to some "registrations" being recognized and others being ignored.  I see chaos particularly as multiple implementations of clients try to interpret this data in various ways each with their own assumptions as to which "registration" is definitive.  There is also no means to enforce that a particular piece of software is necessarily going to be the definitive and "authorized" software for this application.With such chaos in terms of trying to determine the validity and authentication of a domain, I fail to see how it would actually be accepted as a directory of IP addresses, which really is the purpose of a domain registry when you get down to the whole issue on a basic level. Sad to say, often inventors or founders don't always get to enjoy the fruits of their labors.  Philo Farnsworth certainly had to struggle even for sheer acknowledgement that his invention of electronic television even happened at all, much less that anybody was violating his patents.  Even now his role in the development of television is still dismissed by people who fail to study the history of that device, and Mr. Farnsworth certainly didn't become wealthy with an invention that did end up creating billionaires within his own lifetime from that invention.Where Satoshi is likely to be making money with Bitcoin is as a consultant, where some organization like Wells Fargo or Chase (yes, these are banks, but that is because they are worried about money) may hire Satoshi in the future in terms of being able to offer Bitcoins to their investors or customers on a more direct basis.  Considering how disruptive Bitcoins may be to the banking industry, simply getting onto the financial lecture circuit is likely going to earn a comfortable lifestyle.  Good for him if that happens too, although Bitcoin will have to be more widely accepted first.As far as how loans will work with Bitcoin, I think it will be something unique to Bitcoin as it is something very different anyway.  The normal issues which make a "bank" desirable for "borrowing money" don't exist for Bitcoins in a whole bunch of ways.  I could make some predictions (I have too, on other threads) for how "loans" will finally start to happen in a Bitcoin economy, but the fact is that the idea of bitcoins are so new that anything being said right now is a pure guess.  I can think of several ways to make a loan using a bitcoin, but none of them are going to be coming from a fractional reserve bank.  I might be mistaken even on that, however. You are certainly entitled to your opinion on this issue, but I will say you have a long and tough road ahead if you are trying to get your political ideas turned into public policy and law, or for that matter widely accepted custom if you hate the concept of laws themselves.What I don't understand is the attack upon copyleft principles when most of those who are involved with copyleft content development mostly support your view that substantial legal restrictions on the use of copyrighted content is wrong.  Copyleft supporters aren't your "enemy", but rather entities like Microsoft and Disney should be.  Of course I'm repeating myself now.  90%+ of the "licenses" on content (I would say 99% but copyleft licensing has made some inroads) have nothing at all to do with "freedom" or even "copyleft", but are purely to do with "proprietary" copyright restrictions.  By far and away the most common and to me the worst offender is the "end-user licensing agreement" (EULA) often seen with computer software but includes other products as well.  This is the "shrink-wrap license" where some courts have ruled that simply opening a package is the equivalent of signing and notarizing a contract.  Really, there are bigger fish to fry here, and attacking the copyleft community is only going to backfire any effort to further your cause.Perhaps I guess the idea is to convince those in the copyleft content development community that licenses like the GPL are somehow evil and should be abandoned.  The arguments here aren't don't a good job as they aren't dealing with the causes that create licenses like the GPL. I know I'm starting to sound like a broken record here, but the time stamping isn't the only issue here.  Fees are being proposed for inclusion with the "registrations", but I see absolutely no financial incentive to even recognize those transactions at all with the Theymos/Nanotube proposal.  These fees aren't going to registrars or anybody associated with the domain data control.  There is also absolutely no standard to establish which domain actually belongs to which set of IP address, much less any sort of other kind of authentication standard with this proposal.  It does include a hook to make sure that the data isn't tampered with, but that isn't the same thing.  Authentication is presumed and mentioned as coming from the Bitcoin block chain, but it isn't happening.I am strongly suggesting that the economic principles for sustaining this network with this proposal are not present in the proposal.I guess it will take seeing how it really works out, but I see so many potential "attacks" if this is implemented that I don't see it being sustainable. There is no need to trust ICANN, except for perhaps acknowledging that there are other systems for domain allocation that aren't going to go away and that other people will be interested in using.  I don't see any sort of DNS replacement system suggesting that the ICANN domains should be ignored, merely that they ought to be depreciated with new systems.  The history of ICANN is one of a small group of self-appointed individuals trying to gain control over the resources of the internet for their own personal financial gain.  It also concentrates this authority in such a way that allows governments to exert political influence upon the allocation of domain names for political purposes that have nothing to do with the technical operations of the internet.  One of the points of setting up a peer-to-peer domain allocation system is precisely to get away from this central authority.There is a sort of libertarian/anarchist bent to the whole notion of creating an alternate DNS system, which is one of the motivations for why this is being set up in the way being described.  Otherwise, I guess you can accept the system as promoted by ICANN.I quoted Karl Auerbach, a former director of ICANN and a leading computer & software engineer involved in domain registration, who pointed out that there is no need for a monolithic TLD structure.  I challenge this notion entirely as something which is outdated, but that is a debate that can be left to another day.  For me, restricting this to a single TLD or a small group of TLDs is not even necessary and I think anybody registering domains on this system should also be given the option to create some arbitrary TLDs at will too.  The DNS system does not require TLDs to function, and in particular a system with a peer-to-peer domain registration certainly doesn't need TLDs either.I happen to agree here that domains should expire.  Various proposals have also debated the term lengths, but charging fees to maintain those domains also has a side benefit of also helping out the network in terms of paying for data storage costs and network bandwidth to support the registration system.  That is also true for the ICANN system of domain registration too.That is the feature I love about this system too, as it does put the "ownership" of domain registration to a network as a whole instead of a single person.  It also lowers or practically eliminates the barriers to entry for becoming a domain registrar.  Wouldn't it be nice if you could be like "GoDaddy" and start accepting fees for domain registration? While I like this general architecture, the largest problem is how you set up the schema for authentication of the non-financial transaction data.  A node could deliberately ignore such data, but if a node is going to carry some data not directly related to financial transactions it should follow some sort of authentication rules for that data.  The question is mainly how that is going to be performed.Keep in mind one of the things that made the update with Bitcoin v. 0.3.18 sort of earth-moving is that the authentication rules for the network changed.  Many have assumed that the miners control the rules of what goes into a block chain but that is only partially true.  The nodes themselves also have a huge rule with that too, where even a non-generating node "participates" in the network deciding which node is going to be accepted by its corner of the network, and acting as gatekeepers over what data is passed along to miners.There are three things that are gained from using a bitcoin architechture that must all be necessary for the data to be effectively using the Bitcoin architecture to its largest extent:Time stamping - certifying the temporal order of eventsCryptographic Integrity - certifying that the data hasn't been tampered withAuthentication - certifying that the data meets some basic standardsAny sort of general or specific proposal for something like BitDNS really must include all three aspects.  Most of the proposals I've seen ignore the authentication or dismiss it as something irrelevant.The authentication rules are indeed different for domain names than currency, but the principles are similar.  With currency you don't want to have people "double spend" coins or creating coins "out of thin air" except under strongly proscribed rules.  In the case of domain names, you want to ensure that the same domain hasn't been "claimed" by more than one person.  Furthermore, you also want to make sure that if "ownership" of a domain has been transferred (thus giving authority to change properties associated with that domain), that such a transition is orderly.  Also, any properties associated with that domain such as IP addresses related to the domain or contact information can only be modified by the person who either created or has "ownership" of that domain.  If there are expiration rules, those rules ought to be enforced and managed as well.All of that is fairly easy to do in a monolithic central server, but it gets much more complicated when trying to do this on a peer to peer network.  If the authentication doesn't happen with some standard rules, you end up with chaos as different "domain servers" all end up pointing to different computers.  Even for computers trying to follow "the rules", without authentication being guaranteed with inclusion into a database of some sort they may still end up displaying the "wrong" information compared to a peer.  For domain registration, that is to me something fatal.  That is why I think pushing the domain authentication down to individual servers to decide for themselves as an optional thing and not integral to the network is a bad move.Furthermore, I am trying to suggest that the role which "registration fees" can play will both strengthen the network and to improve authentication shouldn't be underestimated.  This isn't just the transaction recording fee, but also the authentication that the data really belongs in the chain too.  The fees also help out on the problem of a tragedy of the commons, as it provides an additional incentive to not "spam" registrations, but that the resources or in this case a "domain" is really something needed.  Cybersquatting is reduced simply because it can be expensive to engage in hundreds or thousands of registrations.  A miner is double-checking to make sure that the data really does belong in the chain.  If a miner is being sloppy and doesn't do the authentication, or at the least is in error because of a bug in the software, the block containing the "bad" data should be rejected by the network.  Again, this is happening with financial transactions, and I'm saying that it should be happening with other data too.  A miner not doing proper authentication shouldn't receive authentication fees.  This is one of the reasons why I have suggested that this data be done in a completely separate block chain and currency system, as that way the authentication is done by miners with a self-interest to make sure that the authentication takes place.  A network dedicated to a particular kind of data would also root out people trying to abuse that data format.  Setting up currency exchanges is something that is already a well established principle with Bitcoins, and there is no reason to presume that it can't be used for other "parallel" currencies made for more dedicated purposes, particularly if they are allowed to float.  Apparently this concept of a separate currency is being rejected so let's explore including this into Bitcoin for a moment.If this is included into Bitcoin, both interested miners and network nodes wanting to perform authentication checks on a particular set of data should have some way to get the rules for that data.  So far the presumption is that the rules should be "hard coded" into the software itself.  Perhaps that could change too in some way.  What would the consequences of having some sort of "scripting language" that could be used for authentication of data that could be injected into the network?  I'm proposing this as a way to make Bitcoin extensible too so other forms of data could be applied to the network.  How a node obtains these scripts can be debated, as that may be something a node or miner can obtain from Source Forge, Git, or perhaps some protocol could be set up for spreading these scripts through the network itself.  It wouldn't need to be an ongoing issue as there only needs to be one script per data type, but the role of the script would be to ensure the authenticity of the data.If a miner doesn't want to bother with authenticating some data, they simply don't have to include that data at all in a block.  That miner would also be giving up authentication and transaction fees associated with that data, so it seems rather unlikely any miner would ignore that kind of data, but it still is completely optional.  The data can be authenticated, and on the positive side the network isn't just restricted to a very limited number of data types too.  I am doing some handwaving here as I'm not specifying the scripting language, but I think that can be developed.The one weakness I see here with this alternate system of actually including non-financial data into the Bitcoin Merkle tree is that for non-financial data the authentication is going to be weaker when used in a general network.  Far too many nodes are not going to be interested in authenticating the non-financial data or even passing it along.  Then again, that might be a reason to accept fees or set up a system to charge for network bandwidth between nodes.  Data storage and network bandwidth don't have to be free goods either. An interesting article (via Slashdot) came up that I think is of interest to the Bitcoin community:http://www.h-online.com/security/news/item/NIST-s-search-for-the-super-hash-just-five-candidates-left-in-SHA-3-final-1151325.htmlI know that Satoshi has at least planned for this, but it certainly is worth a look.  What the non-geeks who use Bitcoin should know about this:  The NIST is conducting a strong mathematical review of these algorithms in an attempt to find their weaknesses.  It may be possible that these algorithms may be "better" than the current SHA v. 2 algorithm that is being used in Bitcoin currently.  In other words, think of it like a mathematical "safe" for your Bitcoins that can have a much stronger system that is harder to break apart, presuming these algorithms work out.There has been an ongoing investigation and request for ideas on how to strengthen the SHA algorithm, with a sort of "contest" to the cyber-security community for quite a while.  This news is mainly that the list of candidates has been narrowed down and that some kind of final decision is going to happen "soon" in terms of which algorithm is going to be considered an "official" standard for hashing. If you are a miner and you "win" the block, yes, you can throw in any domains to the chain for free I suppose, and the network could accept or reject your block depending on whatever rules that network sets up to regulate that behavior.  That is like a Bitcoin miner can throw any transactions they care for as much as they care without having to pay a transaction fee, since they are paying for themselves.  Including a transaction fee in the process is just rearranging coins and doesn't change the net amount actually being spent or received.I think that is of limited utility, unless you are saying that miners can eventually "earn" the "right" to a top-level domain after a certain number of hashes and inclusions into the domain registry.  That would be an artificial form of scarcity that would be interesting to implement, but it still fails to get fees paid by registrants to the registrar.  It would just make you "god-king" over a particular TLD... if you really "owned" that.Such a non-coin "reward" also doesn't provide any incentive to maintain the database, while a coin-based reward would. This is indeed something that can be tweaked, but the issue has to do with network latency, which is independent of the purpose for which the "currency" was created.  10 minutes is a guess that has worked out pretty well.  Yes, it could be longer or shorter.  Shorter intervals increase hash collisions from multiple "miners" and a longer intervals decrease those collisions.  10 minutes is also something tolerable on average to somebody used to using computers, certainly if you have experienced sending information and expecting a reply by e-mail.  Domain registrations in particular may take a day or so for processing, depending on the registrar and the method of payment, so anything less than a 10 minute interval seems like a waste of effort.In short, the reasons why 10 minute intervals would apply to Bitcoin apply equally well to any other peer-to-peer cryptocurrency with what other applications are using similar principles. I dont see how this was a red herring.  Unfortuantely if you use a Bitcoin-like system of authentication of a transaction, you can't conduct that transaction in Bitcoins, at least for authentication transaction fees.I'm really curious about how you make this sort of transaction risk-free without having it integral to Bitcoin as some sort of authentication mechanism.One thing that really makes this nasty is that the "miner" is unknown until the block is added into an authentication hash tree.  You don't have the two key release mechanism because one of the parties in the transaction is unknown until after the hash is successfully put in, and even that is conditional.It makes it much more secure and coincidentally easier to scale to treat it as a simple exchange between two currencies, something that happens entirely outside of the system as evidenced by the various exchanges that already exist between Bitcoin and other currencies.  BTW, I agree that Bitcoin or any other monolithic application should not be the ultimate repository of all human knowledge and interaction, as I don't think any sort of system can possibly scale to that size.  I'm not even sure TCP/IP itself can scale to that size.This is much of what Jgarzik has said that it is unworkable, but going from a different perspective.  The problem is that everybody is trying to get these fees paid for with bitcoins, and I don't think that can be done at all, at least directly.  As an indirect mechanism, perhaps, such as a floating currency that isn't locked down until after the exchange takes place.BTW, the idea of a "locking exchange" would be a fantastic idea for a peer-to-peer currency exchange network, particularly for electronic currencies like Bitcoin or Liberty Reserve.  I just don't see how you can put any sort of authentication transaction fee in a block that is denominated by a currency other than the currency represented by that block itself. I think you got the context mixed up here.  The reason why the payment is irreversible is because it is derived from a completely different chain.  If there is a chain split in the domain registry chain, the fees spent as bitcoins (going into a completely different system) will have already been spent for those block in the "losing" chain.  Transaction going into that "losing block" are essentially a wasted effort.I'm suggesting that somebody simply sets up enough of the protocol to be able to appear to be following the domain processing rules so as to appear "legit", but they only have to make an appearance to get a block accepted.  Perhaps they even get some blocks accepted, but then start to make up stuff or somebody attempts to register an existing name (as a scammer claiming they can hijack a domain from somebody else or however).  If there is any reason why the rest of the network doesn't accept the block, for any reason, all of the fees collected by that "miner" or "registrar" would still be collected by that scammer regardless of if it actually gets into the chain.On the other hand, if the block being "authenticated" is a part of the same chain that creates the currency, this isn't a problem.  If the blocks get rejected by the network, any fees (set up in a system like how transaction fees are done with Bitcoin) are also similarly rejected by the network too.  Any chain splits remove any fees paid to "losing" blocks and therefore can be ignored.  This is why the authentication must happen in the same chain as the transaction.  Either that is in Bitcoin or a parallel currency, but if it is with Bitcoin, the authentication must happen within the Bitcoin network too.  Otherwise, there isn't a way to get payment to the miner with an outside currency that is similar to Bitcoin without fraud and a significant attack on the payment system.  This is fraud because a service is being claimed and paid for, but the service isn't being rendered.Hacking the data into Bitcoin transactions does not perform authentication of the data and pushes that need somewhere else.  In effect, it permits "double spending" of a domain name or allocation of a domain name to more than one person with ambiguity over who actually owns that domain. I have several complaints about freenet, and one of my early complaints was the lack of documentation of the protocol.  This has led to an incredibly inefficient design in the core network where the throughput of the data is so slow that it reminds me more of the days of dial-up modem access and other sorts of technical problems with slow network access.  Also, if you happen to have a high speed network connection, I found that the Freenet node tended to get dumped upon by almost everybody on the network.Of course my experience was several years ago when Freenet was much less established, but then again I don't think much has changed in that regard either.There are some interesting ideas put into packet distribution and plausible deniability.  If you want to maintain anonymity transmitting data over the internet, the base concept of Freenet is certainly something to strongly look at for ideas.  The overhead created by trying to make it anonymous is rather costly, however. If such a field was clearly proscribed and had to be linked to a transaction (thus costing bitcoins to be used), I think such a field could be useful.  It should be a fixed size and IMHO only large enough for a hash where the recipient must come up with some sort of context to that field.  Such a field could contain alphanumeric characters, binary data, a hash, a nonce, or some other sort of stuff whatever it might be.I would hate to see Bitcion getting turned into something like TwitterFS, but I think that can be kept under control through the use of transaction fees.  That may be unfortunate where transaction fees may have to show up for all transactions if this gets abused, but that is at least an option for the network miners to consider.  A flood of 0.01 BTC transactions all at about the same time would indicate some sort of mischief going on in that regard. There is nothing stopping you from creating an encyclopedia based upon other licensing models.  You must start from scratch and get a group willing to create that content in some fashion with those other licenses.  Such encyclopedias did exists and still continue to exist in other contexts, even though some have folded up shop.  Wikipedia wasn't even the first electronic encyclopedia:  ever hear of Encarta?You are also free to use Wikipedia's data, add value to it, resell it, and make money at the same time.  There are many people who are willing to do that and do so at a profit.  Nothing in the CC-BY-SA license used by Wikipedia prohibits you from making a profit, it just spells out the terms and conditions for reusing that content.  If you don't like the license, use somebody else's content.  What I see here is a complaint that you don't like the license and are expecting others who don't agree with you that perhaps they should adopt your philosophies for content usage.If you really think there might be some sort of advantage with some other licensing model for an encyclopedia, start it up and convince some others to help out with developing content.  Pay them for it if you must, but find some way to get it to happen.It is possible that many people who contribute to Wikipedia do so simply because they have something interesting to say and don't care about the licensing model at all.  You might get many or most of those people to join in your project too.  In fact, I know that there are some who participate on Wikipedia who explicitly do donate all of their contributions into the public domain as a whole and don't accept copyleft licenses.  There are also purely public domain images on the Wikimedia commons for you to use, including newer stuff that isn't in the public domain due to copyright expiration.  If you want to prove that having stuff in the public domain is useful and can create some useful applications:  prove it.  The content without a copyright is available for you to use if you but search for it.  Wikipedia isn't a solid wall of copyleft content as is implied here. BTW, I happen to agree on this point.  Adding new data to a block chain is going to raise transaction fees.  In addition, if some data which is at least for its bandwidth is more valuable than perhaps even the transaction data (which I think domain registration data fits that description) it skews the market for transaction fees in a negative way for those transactions which are purely financial transactions.On top of all that, some of the fee proposals I've seen with BitDNS would further skew the market and I believe even challenge those who would claim that miners will take in all possible transaction fees no matter how small.  It certainly would drive up the cost to both run a node (and in particular a miner) and drive out the free transactions from the network.For myself, I think it would be healthy to see what alternate currencies might do, but I do think it could drive Bitcoin itself under as a currency too, or at least marginalize it.  This isn't a given and only raw speculation based upon a gut instinct here and not based upon any sort of hard data.  I just don't know if Bitcoin could survive against other currencies based upon services which drive their value. The thing is that the miner receiving the transaction fee is just getting that as a sort of free lunch.  The fee may be in place to cut out spammers, but they aren't doing any work so far as anything to do with the DNS system.  Those computers which are processing and authenticating the raw data are not getting any sort of fee at all and the generators are not being compensated in Bitcions.  All that is happening is that the miners are getting paid essentially as a data storage service entirely, and that is of marginal utility in my opinion.This is also why there are some huge complaints about using the Bitcion blockchain as a generic data storage system... rightfully so I might add.Let's assume for a minute we have another block chain which contains just domain data which is cryptographically hashed, but may or may not have proof of work (let's ignore that for now, which I'll address below).  The purpose of the block chain is for the authentication of the data primarily where the "network" of domain servers can "certify" that the data fits the network rules and that domain data within that chain is valid in terms of who "owns" what domain.  As a public block chain, it also shows what the majority of the "network" agrees ought to be in that chain too.  Improperly formatted data that is not agreed to by the majority of the network is rejected from this block.  Since it is a chain it also verifies against tampering and does a timestamp, and more importantly by being outside of the main Bitcoin chain it reduces the data payload for what is admittedly a specialized service which not all Bitcion users are necessarily interested in.  These are the features of the Bitcoin transaction database that are being desired to be applied to other sets of data.So far that is the easy stuff.  We also want to set up some system where the "registrar" putting data into this chain is going to be "paid" for the registration and authentication of this system.  I emphasize this as this is both going to be a reason to be a registrar as to even exist as a registrar has a strong financial stake in maintaining the database to receive more registrations, and provides a reason to have fees to cut down on spamming domain names or abusing the public commons.  The fees are being paid to maintain the database, which is the important thing here.  Without this fee, at best this database is being authenticated and supplied to the world at large strictly as a public service for free.  Some people like that but I hope that those involved with the Bitcoin project can appreciate how being paid for such a service can be very useful and motivating.  The Theymos/Nanotube proposal and for that matter all registrations into the Bitcoin database through extra data in a transaction sidestep this issue entirely by ignoring authentication and only using the timestamp ability of Bitcoin, where this database would have to be built anyway but derived from Bitcoin and thus provided as a public service for free.Here is the real issue, however:  Since there is no central server, the registrant wants to make sure their registration is put in by whatever registrar happens to be in line to put in the next record onto the block chain, however that is decided (by proof of work or some other agreed upon system).  They want to send out some sort of generic transaction that can be received by the "authenticator" of their registration application who puts this registration into that block chain.  Only if their registration is accepted into the block chain should that authenticator be paid.A problem arises here:  A bitcoin miner may know that a fee is available from a registrant, but how do you decide where those coins properly belong?  Keep in mind that once a fee is processed in Bitcoin, it is irreversible.  If there is a chain split on the domain records due to a formatting/authentication dispute (it likely will happen just like it is happening with Bitcoin even now) those Bitcoin transactions may be going to an authenticator who in fact never did get the registration done because the majority of the network has ignored that domain registration block.  Some other registrar may pick up the registration and simply out of the kindness of their heart decide to include it in another block, but they won't be receiving any fee at all for that service.  Some system could be perhaps set up where after a block is down to a given depth in the block chain that the fee can be "released".  Still, regardless of how you set this up there will be some trolls who will be collecting fees, pretending to put stuff into the domain registry but not really caring about the domain registry protocols and siphoning off the fees for themselves, perhaps in collaboration with a Bitcoin miner.  Since this represents serious money, there will always be some trolls doing this.  Even an "honest" registrar is still going to make some mistakes due to a bug or something similar which may on occasion capture fees when they are deserved under this system.I believe the fee system is critical to the success of this domain registration system.  That ensures selfish behavior on the part of the registrars which puts it into their self-interest to maintain the databases, computer equipment, and everything else which makes this work.  Yes, there are other ways that a domain name server can earn some coins, and perhaps that ought to be done too, but registration fees are already a part of the marketplace and something which this system is trying to capture as well.In short, I am trying to demonstrate here that the authentication simply must happen with an entirely different currency, or that authentication of the data (not merely the time stamping) must happen within the Bitcoin client and that data at least in some fashion or another included more directly into the Bitcion block chain with the data authenticated by the miner itself.  A Bitcoin miner may choose not to process domain data, but some system must be set up that can certify that a given block including the domain data meets some sort of authentication standard to be accepted into the block chain to "earn" those registration fees.  Otherwise the system falls apart and any talk of fees other than as a pure transaction fee to a Bitcoin miner alone is meaningless, with that transaction only to be used to preserve the transaction database.I am also suggesting that to ensure promptness of registration, that it may also have to be a separate currency simply because not all miners are going to want to bother with domain registration authentication and over time the latency of even getting a domain registration into the system may be intolerably long (on the order of days or weeks) depending on the setup of the Bitcoin network and other priorities of the miners.  I'm not suggesting an alternate currency to drive this project out of Bitcoin as useless data, but to point out that it is unworkable even from the perspective of the goals of the peer to peer domain server concept too.  Putting the data into transactions isn't authentication and is also losing much of the power of what Bitcoin offers in terms of the authentication too.  The proof of work system as used by Bitcion is also the only reasonable way to ensure that the system stays decentralized in terms of deciding who gets to put in the next block.  Certainly some sort of common protocol for finding the next proof of work hash can be set up through a common mining pool between multiple currencies like this, but that is a completely separate issue from if it is to be a separate currency or not which I don't think has been decided on this thread.The only other solution would be for Bitcoin to fully embrace this and other similar concepts that might come along and provide hooks and some sort of standard protocol to authenticate data of this nature on the main Bitcoin network.  I think in theory that could be done and may be done in the more distant future in terms of "unifying" the proliferation of currencies that may result if it isn't done.  I just don't see how that is going to get into the main Bitcoin chain anytime soon and even that has a whole bunch of drawbacks which I haven't fully explored either. While I like the idea in general, it doesn't really solve the problem in terms of parallel currencies.  I don't think the idea of where the CPU power was going to come from for powering this network was ever an issue.  People who got into mining would go wherever the money was at and find solutions to "earn" whatever coins happen to be around.I do like the idea of pooling Bitcoin-like block chains in terms of attempting to "earn" hashes, and if there were more ways use CPU power to generate hashes it can only be beneficial to everybody involved.I still would like to use miners for "authentication" of the DomainCoin registrations in some way and I'm trying to come up with a good system to get that done.  By authentication I'm referring to basic "rules" that can verify that a domain hasn't been claimed, and a "miner" who doesn't follow those rules as accepted by the rest of the network gets that block rejected.  That is happening right now with Bitcion in regards to transactions, but doesn't happen with any other data and won't happen with other data at least as it is presented.It still gets to the issue I presented earlier on another thread:This is an intractable problem if you want to include the data itself in an authenticated form in a chain block and have that chain block directly connected to Bitcoin without a parallel currency.  Theymos simply ignores the issue entirely with his protocol.... which is fine as far as that goes but a miner isn't really being paid to process domain registrations and certainly isn't authenticating bad registrations.  The real "work" in terms of a DNS system is to authenticate precisely who "owns" the domain and make sure that somebody else can't claim that domain.  The Theymos/Nanotube protocol forces authentication into a free good, and puts potential attacks on the protocol into the hands of the Bitcoin network... where I don't think it belongs either.I firmly believe that the data for domains must be in an authenticated system, preferably its own independent chain (perhaps linked to Bitcoin), where all of those serving this data can agree upon the same information and there is no ambiguity about the data.  Previous proposals that shove the data into the transactions of Bitcoins fail to get that accomplished. I am mostly in agreement here too in terms of putting a hash into Bitcion blocks, and then letting whoever has data to lock in with a block to decide on the protocol to associate with that hash.  There is no reason for uninterested parties to have to deal with BitDNS data.... that is up to those who want to participate in giving that hash any sort of meaning, however that meaning is established.Satoshi himself seems to be mostly in agreement with at least that basic concept.  I'm glad that this is being addressed head on and being dealt with.  It is a hook to put data associated with a Bitcoin transaction block, not the data itself.  The data from a hash can represent a single byte or represent all of the data at various national repository libraries like the Library of Congress.  It is application specific for how that hash will have meaning, if any, and those are applications beyond Bitcoin.No, not really.  This is an additional service which can be provided to those in the Bitcoin community, and one that will also result in more widespread adoption of Bitcoins overall.  I think this is a good thing, even though I do think there should be some strongly proscribed limits in terms of how much of this junk data can be thrown in.  Restricting the extra data to just a single hash puts such a limit in.The issue here is that a block chain in and of itself has value, and that somehow some applications can be derived which can use the concept of a block chain in some way to serve their own ends and add value to something they are doing.  Domain registration happens to be a good fit, and furthermore it is something which is currently of interest among those who are trying to develop a peer to peer registration system outside of the Bitcoin community.  It is a ripe opportunity to both further the cause of Bitcoin and to reach out to others.I do agree that some sort of illicit types of activity would better be left to the side even though we as a community have discussed how to do various things like engaging in drug trade or sharing child pornography.  Bitcoin isn't a replacement for bittorrent and it certainly shouldn't see abuse like the Twitter File System.  TwitterFS is something to behold and really shows how a public free good can be abused.  The one check here, beyond rejecting "non-standard transactions", is also to charge for the bandwidth through requiring a transaction fee.On this I disagree, but then again it would be something settled in the marketplace of ideas.  I'm using economic theory here to suggest that Bitcions forcing these "non-standard" transactions into another currency is going to also drive value out of Bitcoin into that alternate currency.  If I am right and you are wrong, Bitcoin simply collapses as a currency.  It might be fun to find out though.... do you want to really engage in that kind of experiment?  That is why this is on the economic forum, as this is an economic question rather than simply a technical forum.If you are correct and I'm wrong, no harm to Bitcion, yet I think there would still be some value in the alternate currency so far as rewarding "miners" who create the blocks.  I outlined at least one alternate currency idea in the BitDNS thread, even though now it is buried in a wall of discussion.  I also expressed concern that it could conceivably become stronger than Bitcion and tried to come up with perhaps a few "tweaks" to deliberately make it weaker but I'm not sure if that is possible either.It is good money.  So good that in fact I think it might in the short term dominate Bitcoin for awhile depending on how it is done.  From a pure economic standpoint, we know for a fact that there are people willing to pay on the order of a few dollars to hundreds of dollars for buying domain names using existing domain registries.  Other figures are up that there are as many as 300,000 domain transactions per day going through InterNIC, so that represents potentially over a million dollars per day of overall economic activity for just this one concept.  That is huge money in terms of its impact upon the Bitcoin economy and perhaps even a "killer app" in terms of kick starting Bitcoin to being accepted by many more people than the current geek/paranoid about the government community we currently have.  I'm not saying that this would bring in millions of dollars for the collective BitDNS registrars in the first several years, but it certainly would bring in new users for Bitcions that don't exist.  By driving this concept into another currency, those people are thus driven from Bitcoin as well.Pandora's box is already open on this issue.  The main thing is trying to see how to limit the damage this might cause, not if Bitcoin can be used in this fashion.If you are setting up a second chain and thus a second currency, it is more than just security, it is also driving away a population of potential users.  Perhaps Bitcoin would be better off without them.  But that is a political and not a technical question.  I am suggesting that at this juncture that Bitcoin would suffer more harm than good.Anybody adding data to the current Bitcoin data chain (particularly for just a simple hash) is going to be required to "pay their freight" in terms of getting included in a particular block.  Large transactions already have to pay a per kilobyte fee that is rather substantial even with current network rules, and there is no reason why extra "penalties" can't be put upon those who shove other random data into Bitcoin.  I would suggest economic rules rather than technical rules to keep this stuff out if that is your goal.The real potential harm here is that it will end the day for free transactions (for the most part).  This new "additional data" is valuable enough that getting it put into a block chain is going to throw down the gauntlet of transaction fees and would compete against those who just want to experiment with sending a few Bitcoins back and forth to try out how you might start up some sort of enterprise with Bitcoins.  Instead, to get those kind of transactions included may require paying a transaction fee instead.  I can see where some people are angry with that happening, but it is going to be a fact of life for those using Bitcoins sooner or later.  Raising the bar on fee transactions where there is a market willing to pay much higher fees for a transaction than is currently the case is certainly an issue, but one that I think Bitcoin will survive.  Having more transaction fees included in a block chain is also going to add an incentive to create a miner, as on average much more money is going to be "made" by doing that.I really think the complaint here is on the part of those who don't want to pay transaction fees and want to keep that free. Yes, although I don't think the canceled transaction protocol is necessarily complete in terms of its current implementation.See also: http://www.bitcoin.org/wiki/doku.php?id=bitcoins_draft_spec_0_0_1#txThe "version" field allows somebody to send out a new transaction that effectively replaces an existing transaction with perhaps some new data.  As long as the transaction hasn't been accepted into a block, in theory you can "recall" the transaction and modify the transaction in any way.  Like I said, this is incomplete and the exact protocol to pull that off hasn't been included into Bitcoin yet.  But it certainly is a possibility and may be a feature in a future version of Bitcoin.Certainly the ability to "recall" a transaction hasn't been implemented yet in the UI, and once the transaction has been accepted into a block the only hope to really kill a transaction after that is to hope that the block doesn't get accepted into the main block chain.  Then again, if the transaction has been accepted into a block without fees it shouldn't be a problem in terms of recalling the transaction for adding fees either as the issue is moot at that point.
While you may not be aware of the costs involved, I can't think of a single monetary transaction that doesn't have some sort of costs of some sort or another, including pure cash transactions.  At the very least, a merchant has to account for "shrinkage" (typically shoplifting, but other forms of theft from the inventory too), counterfeit currency accidentally being accepted, embezzlement, and flat out theft of the cash register such as an armed robber.  A merchant makes up for all of that through expecting a higher profit margin when those costs start to mount, or they simply close up shop and leave.  Some inner city areas lack merchants precisely because the crime rate is so high they refuse to do business... and of course some silly "price gouging" legislation further mucks up the picture in those places too.  If you see a platoon of ex-marines patrolling a grocery store in order to keep the gang members from stealing things there including the cash register, expect to be paying $50 per orange or loaf of bread that you buy from that store.  That is a cash transaction fee.Most people are completely unaware of fees that they pay with credit cards or other similar financial instruments, and in effect the "cash paying" customers are really paying a premium over those who pay with a credit card.I am glad that the cost of a transaction is up front to everybody with Bitcoin, and I think that is a strong point to the currency.  If a "merchant" want to give a "rebate" to somebody for sending them some Bitcoins, that is their option and there might certainly be an incentive to do that in terms of paying for the transaction fees to process transactions in a timely fashion.  The amount paid for the fee would not be in dispute, and would be a part of the trust relationship between a merchant and their customer.The one thing I'll say about Bitcoin is that its structure is such that transaction fees will always be cheaper than the major credit card agencies for a great many reasons I won't go into here. It would be nice if there was some way that using the standard client you might be able to adjust the fee schedule for your own purposes and set "policies" for mining blocks and including transactions.  I think that is a source of confusion here as no such user interface is currently provided for doing that.Much of this is all theoretical at the moment because it is possible to make transactions "for free" and generally get them included in the next block at the moment.  I don't see that is going to be sustainable in the long run, but we'll see how that goes.  At the moment, it is important that most people using Bitcoins are simply hoping that the currency succeeds at all and aren't interested in making a killing or even a modest profit at it, which is why transaction fees are still mostly non-existent on the network. I don't think this is going to go away, as there are other application for Bitcion which can use this same principle.  As I've tried to abundantly explain, the method of "attack" here is also a more generalized database for other kinds of data besides DNS records.The benefit to Bitcoins is in regards to the mining activity needed to produce block chains containing non-financial data:  Either that CPU activity can be applied to the main Bitcoin block chain and thus strengthening Bitcoin as a whole or it can be applied to a "parallel currency".I've heard it suggested that nobody would want to abandon Bitcion and its blockchain as it already has an 18 month head start with a huge amount of CPU cycles already devoted to its construction.  Over time, I think that is generally true.On the other hand, with a parallel currency devoted to some task such as processing DNS records or perhaps something else that may even have even more CPU resources thrown at it, I would argue that over time this "alternate" currency may have a substantially stronger currency train.  There are no guarantees here, but certainly I could see some people throwing CPU cycles at some of these alternate application simply because of what they do in terms of say DNS records rather than even as currency.  They will have this "alternate currency" which is then even better protected than Bitcoins, and my argument here is that the currency is thus a stronger currency which will drive Bitcoin out of the market place.And like a Ronco advertisement, "that's not all"!  Since there are concrete applications for this alternate currency (buying domain records, paying transaction fees on the "Bitcoin stock exchange", buying certification from a document registrar, etc.) there is also built-in demand for this currency simply to have it.  That in turn is something that I think over time may even make this currency more valuable in terms of the overall size of the economy using these coins, further driving value out of the Bitcoin economy in a downward spiral.  Bitcoin will then just be a cryptographically weaker currency with fewer people trading a relatively worthless currency.  Is that really what Bitcoin users really want to see? No, this isn't going to cause a block chain split, it is going to cause a fork of Bitcoin.  I just hope that is thought through very well, and I don't think it has been.Since transactions aren't being forwarded that fail the IsStandard() algorithm, those who want to put "non-standard" transactions into a bitcoin chain must either hard-connect to a miner who would accept these transactions or force some sort of ad-hoc way of setting up a second tier in the network to find nodes that will accept these kind of transactions AND likely put them into a future block.That only one block may fail at the moment with this test is ignoring the current discussion where conceivably almost every block in the near future may have some form of these "non-standard" transactions. How are the miners going to get these transactions?  I don't think the transactions are even being broadcast from one node to the next if they fail to meet the IsStandard() algorithm, but rather they must be put in directly by a miner.  I'll have to dig into the 0.3.18 source code for the details, but the description is just an initial shot across the bow on this concept.  If you have a miner as a peer who ignores this algorithm, they might get put into the block, otherwise you might just be SOL.  From what I understand, if all of your peers are 0.3.18 clients (and presumably later versions too) they won't even forward transactions to other peer nodes that are "corrupted".It is a subtle change, but it is a big deal. Asking as a general question, is the whole concept of throwing the data into transactions a dead issue now?  With the release of Bitcoin v. 3.1.18 Satoshi has essentially thrown down the gauntlet that adding such data to transactions is considered a form of an attack on the network.  Miners who aren't using a codebase derived from the reference implementation still may add blocks to the network involving these "goofy" transaction packets, but by design the reference implementation will not recognize the transactions.  If we work around the IsStandard() algorithm, it is only going to change to stop whatever changes we make.This is a subtle but interesting issue where essentially the only way we can guarantee that a domain transaction can be put into a block chain is to create a custom miner and compete for blocks to put those transactions into the network.  That makes for some interesting problems in terms of latency for an effort like DomainCoin.Should we move onto the forked version of Bitcoin to implement this idea again? The issue here is that these "GenCoins" would in effect have greater value as it is a superset of Bitcoin, because it can be used as the fiat currency and have value to the data itself as well.  Depending on very subtle differences and perhaps the effort put upon these "GenCoins", it may be possible that "GenCoins" would have greater value than Bitcoins, and certainly it is possible that in the long run such "GenCoins" might be able to attract more mining activity due to more sources of transaction fees, thus making these "GenCoins" a strong currency in terms of a strong block chain.BTW, this is assuming that the "solution" here is to put all of this extra data as a fork of Bitcoins.  The reference earlier to the testcoins is not the same here as the testcoins have very limited utility and the total CPU mining effort on the testcoin chain is almost axiomatically never going to exceed that of the main Bitcoin chain.  As such they will remain substantially inferior to regular Bitcoins in value.  I can't say the same thing about these "GenCoins". This is the first update to Bitcion that I'm not jumping on and grabbing right away, because I think the choice of checking transaction types in blocks is not necessarily a good thing... at least while the question is undecided in the community.  It does impact the network but in a subtle and political way.At the very least I wish that Satoshi would at least express his view on what he thinks about putting extra data into transactions beyond pure financial data into transactions, and I think this is only going to start an arms race for those who want to play with scripts and those who are trying to keep scripts "pure".  All that has happened here is to simply lay the gauntlet down to get past the "IsStandard()" check and find transactions which can pass that test but still contain other data. In term of using the testcoins as an example of a parallel currency, about the only application I know of for using those coins would be to send and receive testcoins from the faucet.  That is useful in its own way, but other than simply for testing various kind of extreme concepts, it really isn't useful as a currency.  I would be curious what a testcoin to BTC exchange would do and what that exchange rate might be.  Then again, there might be some value in doing just that too. I think I've asked this question a number of times getting the run around.  Perhaps I'll be more clear with this example as proposed by Caveden:If you create this alternate "proof of work" chain (presumably to keep this junk out of the main Bitcoin financial traffic), how can you get those who are performing this work to be paid in Bitcions, based upon some fee system agreed to by the network running that proof of work chain?If simply running that network is its own reward, it doesn't matter, but if there is going to be a fee involved for adding information into that proof of work chain, I don't see how that can be done without actually putting those block into the main Bitcoin chain, or setting up a completely parallel currency to Bitcoins. Re-reading this, I think I "get" how this is going to work for registrars, at least how Theymos is proposing here.Each "Domain server" would separately and independently charge a fee for "registering" the domain on that particular server, where essentially everybody would be paid simultaneously when a new domain would be registered.Something here just doesn't sound right, which is why I keep bringing this up.  I don't see the mechanism for recognizing new domain servers or what criteria ought to be used so far as to whom these fees are going to be allocated.  A domain server which is regularly being used by just a couple computers in a small office would in this case be a "peer" to a domain server at a major university servicing perhaps thousands of computers for domains.  Yet in this case both would be receiving registration fees and from a network perspective would be indistinguishable.  However getting "your domain" recognized by that major university server would be much more "valuable" than the server in a small office.  Any attempt to report usage could easily be manipulated in a number of ways making it to me impossible to realistically distinguish between the two servers, at least algorithmically.Maybe I'm missing something fundamental here.  I sure hope so.  It seems sort of silly for somebody to set up a "domain name server" on their home computer and essentially sit back and earn bitcoins simply by being connected to the internet alone (no proof of work), receiving payments for domain registrations that are never used.  That sounds like a neat gig to get into, but I don't understand what "service" they are providing to the community for doing that or why the fees ought to be paid yet other domain servers who are clearly being used by thousands of computers are going to be considered "equal" and receive roughly the same amount of money? You could also use OP_IF in some sort of "if block" that skips over irrelevant hash data important only to an "outside" consumer of the transaction data.  OP_DROP is merely one simple way to set this up as the notion of scripting allows for multiple ways to accomplish this task.  Furthermore, any sort of distinguishing between random "junk" data and some more complex algorithm to protect data is only going to obfuscate the junk as if it was real data.Trying to come up with a schema that attempts to filter out random junk is only going to result in an arms race between those who want to put random data into Bitcoin transactions and those who are trying to get rid of that stuff.  At best all you can do is charge a transaction fee for long scripts... which is also already in the protocol and part of the standard Bitcoin client.  Otherwise what is needed is to get rid of the scripting entirely.... but you also lose a whole bunch of flexibility for transaction verification by doing that as well.  There are negative drawback to getting rid of the scripting system entirely. Then I'm confused about how else you would set up a system to arbitrarily remove a domain record from the DNS network?  If you got an idea on how to implement that, I'm interested.  The only system I can think of is to arbitrarily assign authority to "somebody" to take care of that issue.  You could have a "voting" system perhaps that would count up requests to eliminate a domain from a majority of the network and therefore "by consensus" drop the domain.  It would also provide an unneeded attack vector on the network as well as the "votes" would also be subject to some kind of manipulation that perhaps would be even worse than a trusted authority figure.I just don't know of an effective way to kill a domain record shy of simply letting it expire.  As long as the registration is following the rules of the network (however we set that up), I don't see how it could possibly be removed. If there were a bunch of venture capitalists who were going to give me $10 million USD to develop some kind of product or service, I would expect to come up with some sort of business plan that would return that $10 million in dollars with some sort of additional return to make it worth their effort, also in dollars.  If they are interested in Bitcoins, they should instead directly "invest" in Bitcoins either through an exchange or by mining and have some sort of venture where the investment is also being done in Bitcoins.That is why I proposed setting up a Bitcoin stock exchange where at least bitcoin denominated stock could be exchanged.  The idea is on the backburner for me at the moment, but something I do intend to get working on in the near future.  Much of the stuff going into the "DomainCoin" concept is likely going to be implemented with this exchange idea as well. Who would be given the "authority" to remove domain names?  That implies central authority of some sort that has control over this network.Domain squatting has a time honored and long tradition anyway and isn't going to change with how we are going to be running this system.  By setting up a system to "delist" a domain name, it also sets up the person or group of people with presumably some private key which can in turn authorize the removal of domains as a target for receiving judicial injunctions and potentially other sorts of legal problems.  If instead you can demonstrate that it is cryptographically impossible to change the domain registration information, all you can do is throw your hands up and say "I can't change that, sorry".The owner of the IP address referenced by the domain registration should be the target of attack, not the domain registration system. Agreed.  I suggested in my previous domain allocation system that the standard ICANN/InterNIC domains and perhaps to be fair some of the domains currently being done with other networks like OpenNIC and the .onion "domain" of the Bittorrent network ought to be held in "reserve" as a part of the internal protocol we are setting up here.  My suggested domain allocation system would have that as an organic part of the system although it would be useful to hold these TLD in escrow for whenever or if ICANN wants to have control of them.Since to use one of the TLDs with a server you would need to have it assigned to an IP address of some sort, somebody like Google could go aver "google.btc" as a trademark violation by searching for the network which assigned the IP address of the server using that name.  If the domain record points to 127.0.0.1, it really isn't a threat to Google until that address changes anyway.  I agree that this is beyond the scope of this protocol to take care of the Alexa top 1000 names and the only real issue is spoofing existing domain names being used by other DNS registries.As a side note, during the actual reference implementation of one of these servers it would be nice to throw a bone to OpenNIC and the "dot P2P" guys (presuming they set up their own system) to forward DNS requests that might fall under those respective domain registries.  This is sort of a tip of the hat to say thanks for making sure ICANN doesn't have 100% exclusive control over domain registrations and to support what I think are good projects in their own right even if they aren't a P2P distributed naming system.  That might even get a reciprocal agreement with those alternate domain registries to spread these registrations with the DomainChain registries much further at least initially. The only advantage I can see to having a script for authentication is mainly to allow for more complex "algorithms" to be employed for securing a transaction without having to change the protocol.  In other words, each person who is engaging in a transaction can choose their own security method (including no security at all) for conducting that transaction.  It also provides for adding new hashing algorithms which may be more secure than an SHA-256 hash (or double hash or whatever).  There are already two algorithms in the source code, and other algorithms certainly could be specified in a forward compatible manner.If there is some reason for storing data related to Bitcion and , I think it ought to be put into the Merkle Tree hash of the block itself rather than into the transaction.  That still requires some sort of support from miners, even if the short term "proof of concept" is easiest to put the data into the transaction.In that case, we perhaps could put into the protocol a method that would allow some "miscellaneous" data in the form of a hash that is limited in size and limited to just one of these "hashes" per transaction.  It would allow for inclusion of this information in such a way that doesn't overwhelm disc HD space or network bandwidth in terms of miners or those who want to keep this information out for the most part.  The data storage itself should not be done with Bitcoin, even if it is a hash reference to the data record. There are two things that are going to drive fees in the future even if that isn't an issue at the moment:  CPU bandwidth and disk storage costs.Simply put, running your computer is going to cost you money, as will storing all of the data.  Eventually there will be people dropping out of the mining business because the chance of getting a block is going to be very low.  I think this is happening even now.One thing that might induce more people to jump back in is to start demanding fees for transactions, and for that matter all transactions.  It is something I'd love to see put into the current client sooner than later, where each person could start demanding fees for transactions.  Satoshi is trying to put forward an idea of some "charity" transaction where at least a few "free" transactions get put in every once in awhile, but presumably there will eventually be a huge backlog on such transactions.It mainly is a matter of putting this into the interface where people can start selecting a fee they are expecting.  I realize that there are some who have suggested any sort of transaction with even the smallest fee will be accepted, but I am suggesting that eventually those who are accepting the smaller transactions will likely be "driven from the marketplace" when the number of transactions starts to be very large.  At the moment the issue is mainly that the number of transactions per block is quite small and therefore including any transaction at all is useful. In other words, this isn't really a distributed or P2P DNS system, or perhaps I'm missing something else here too.  Each "TLD" would have its own central server where you would have to "pay" to get onto that server?What I don't see is the mechanism for how or even why a particular DNS server ought to even receive these fees as opposed to somebody else creating a "registrar server" and following this same protocol to put that data into Bitcions for considerably less or even "free".  This issue of where the money goes has been to me the issue all along, and the only place that could be identified easily as having done some sort of "proof of work" in terms of organizing the data is the block miner itself.... that is the Bitcoin block miner and not the DNS block miner as there is no sort of DNS block here at all.I don't see any rationale for using a particular registrar other than merely because of sheer convenience and the hassle of setting up the software on your computer.If there is some way that you might show some cryptographic "proof of work" in processing domain records, I might agree that a particular "registrar" deserves some separate fees in addition to the Bitcoin miner, but then the problem is how do you get those fees to that particular "DNS Block miner"?  Otherwise there isn't any sort of effort being put forth by the registrar at all where literally anybody could create some software to put these records into the system.I could imagine a system where a sort of auction system on a particular domain happens where the person throwing the most number of bitcions in for a registration record "wins" the domain, but something seems a little off on that as well.  It also implies that anybody can "steal" your domain simply by throwing more coins at it than you have.  It is a great idea for miners, but lousy for those trying to register domains.This is all about the money from my perspective, and this part has not been cleaned up for me upon reading the documentation.  The actual storage of the registration data itself has always been to me a trivial piece of the puzzle.  Throwing those records into Bitcoin transactions are useful as they do provide the time stamping and hashing ability of Bitcoin software, but any fees beyond Bitcoin transaction fees seem to be a pointless exercise without any sort of further proof-of-work.  Any additional fees being thrown with the "registration" is not going to anybody actually putting effort in terms of running the domain server or doing registrations.  I could imagine some "greedy" DNS servers that might expect to be paid for bandwidth and being paid in Bitcoins or some other currency, or perhaps a very small fee for actually putting the transaction into the Bitcoin blocks for those who only have a "thin client" for Bitcoins, but those fees would be subject to a huge and highly competitive market where for most people it would be "free" anyway.This is why I was trying to put together some sort of proof of work chain for data of this nature too, in part to put some scarcity into creating domain records. I'm looking at the fees, which certainly would be a reason for a miner to include these into a block with a high priority.  Still, I'm trying to find any sort of motivation for a "DNS Server" to recognize any of this data other than as a repository of potential domain information.  There is a reference to a "vibrant market" for the fees being used here, yet this seems very altruistic that one of these servers would recognize any fee at all if they aren't getting any themselves.  I guess I'm missing the point of the fee other than as a way to provide an incentive for miners, and to put a little pain on the registrants involved here.I suppose that this is in effect a way to ensure that the Bitcoin network stays strong, as it certainly is going to be making any sort of mining activity much more profitable by doing this.What pricing strategies that would be used by a domain server which would have an adjustable price in the interface or config file and why one server would set the "price" at 10 BTC or another at 15 BTC or still another at 5 BTC?  Is this basically "filtering out spamsites" or is there something more serious going on here?  Is this simply an "open bid" for each domain where the most money invested "wins" the domain?Toward the end of the document there is a reference after a fashion about some more complex fee allocation system that passes around addresses which get deposited into some servers after a fashion.  I guess this is where I'm totally missing the point here perhaps or not understanding what is going on at all with these fees as there is something more implied by this document not written down.
I think that by far the largest problem for Bitcoin right now is trying to get the dollars into the system in the first place.  It isn't all that easy.  Getting the dollars out seems like it is a bit easier, but you do need to find somebody willing to make the trade.Once Bitcoins is a bit more established, there may be more possibilities in terms of people who would take Bitcoins for various services including web hosting and other services that Wikileaks may need.If somebody accepts LR dollars, however, I see little reason not to accept Bitcoins. Bitcoin could be modifed to exclude this kind of data however.There is an unmet need which is why this topic is even being discussed.  My concern is more when other sorts of garbage starts to get piled in like MP3 files, Wikileaks documents, and drug trade instructions.  If we were being paranoid about being associated with Wikileaks previously, having the material in Bitcoin is going to only make this a much larger target.Let's cut this down to the core of what is wanted here:  The desire is to create some sort of distributed public database with some kind of cryptographic controls to both timestamp, certify that the information has not been tampered or modifed unless through proscribed rules and protocol, and that effort to store the data be associated with Bitcoins so far as charging for either access to that database or more importantly to put information into that database.The perception and growing consensus is that the only way to accomplish this task is to shove it all into transaction blocks.  If you can find another solution to this problem, I'm totally open to a solution.  The best alternative is a separate block chain and hence independent currency which as creighto and others have suggested is not likely to succeed.  Saying that the whole notion here is stupid isn't going to get this issue to go away and it may get worse as well.Perhap Git will work in this fashion where perhaps putting a Bitcoin interface into that to transmit "fees" for adding content.  Perhaps some other system could be derived.  Much of this is also trying to explore just what advantage the block chain has here and if it even might have another application and use.  There is a thought perhaps that it might be useful. The #1 disadvantage:  My complaint about shoving useless and meaningless data into the transaction block.  It would work, but there may be changes to Bitcoin to get rid of this "feature" as it may be seen as an attack rather than something useful for the project.  I am not alone with this attitude.  It also opens a pandora's box of problems down the line as domain information is hardly going to be the only thing to put into transaction chains in this fashion.  Expect more resistance if you actually get a client to accomplish this task.  Bitcion is not bittorrent.  Transactions really ought to be about bitcion transfers from one person to another, and the purpose of the script is to permit flexibility in terms of the method used to secure that transfer.  It may be possible that the nature of the scripting language itself may be changed to specifically exclude a "payload" being used in this fashion.Another huge disadvantage is that this really isn't any sort of system for registering domains in a secure fashion.  You might put into the "payload" any sort of in here, but there is no reason for anything or anybody to recognize this data.  Instead you would likely need some other application which is reading all of the transaction and either "accepting" or "rejecting" the domain registrations.  Such acceptance or rejection would be completely arbitrary and there would not be any sort of clear "ownership" of any sort of domain, or any sort of consensus as to which domain record takes precedence in the actual domain usage system (aka the DNS end of this registration system).  Two people trying to register the same domain simultaneously would have no real means to identify who actually has the domain with this system.I admit that some of this could be worked out simply by saying that the first "registration" takes precedence, including in the same block.  Other systems could be set up (likely as an external app) scanning transactions and pulling out domain records that would "apply" the rules which identify a valid transaction.  Competing software could put in different "rules" for the same data as well and put different domains as valid.It was also pointed out that transaction records can be dropped.  For instance when you send a coin like this:Generation Block -- > Alice  -- > Bob -- > CharlieSince all that is necessary is to simply keep track of where the coin is currently at, all you have left is this:Generation Block --> CharlieAnd all of the previous transactions are ignored and "forgotten".  If your registration record is in one of those other transaction blocks, it is then lost.This could work.  It would be real nice to see what Satoshi thinks of an "abuse" of the transaction scripts in this fashion.  My own preference is to permit additional kinds of blocks as a separate payload that is linked into Bitcoins, where some clients may only read them to verify the block hash and then dump the data and other clients could keep the data for their own purpose.BTW, one advantage to going this route is that it would not require any reboot of the networkI do have my reservations about the direction this is going, but I'm willing to have an open mind about it. The interesting thing about Bitcoins is that the overall tendency of the currency is going to increase in value relative to other currencies over time, including gold.  What I'm saying is that even if the value of the "gold bitcion" is technically worth more than the current exchange rate with the U.S. dollar to Bitcoin rate, there is strong reason to think that will change and be more favorable to the value of a Bitcion.  Buying such "gold bitcoins" might be an interesting statement of trust that the situation I'm suggesting here is very likely going to be reality.The real trick would be if somebody gave this "trusted authority" some of those "gold bitcions" and that trusted authority couldn't redeem them for the electronic bitcions.  Of course that would result in a run on that "currency" too or like what was called a bank panic from a century ago.I'd be curious about how you would stop "counterfeiting" of coins, even solid gold coins in this sort of a situation?  You might rely upon the legal system to protect you, but I think you might find that backfiring on you as well if you tried, particularly as government usually guard the ability to coin metal as an exclusive right for themselves. There is a group of private individuals near where I live who have proposed to build a fairly long bridge (about 5 miles long... not a single span of that length but it will cross about that far in relatively shallow water) and to have that bridge paid for completely with private funds.  The proposed route happens to cross a fairly large lake (380 km^2) that happens to have a major urban area immediately adjacent to it with a large and growing population on the other side of the lake.What is interesting here is that this group is basically offering to run this bridge as a completely for-profit private enterprise where this company would be entirely responsible for maintenance and operation of the bridge.  All they are asking for is to set up toll booths to pay for the bridge.  It happens to be in a state where until now there are no toll roads are found and all highways are public (with a few other minor exceptions, but access to those roads is without a toll).  The debate right now is to see if the state is even going to let the thing happen, as the lake itself is considered "state owned property".  The land needed to connect the bridge to state highways that isn't underwater is already purchased and owned by this company, including potentially a route straight to an interstate highway interchange that could be upgraded to expressway standards and several thousand cars per hour for traffic.As for another perhaps even more concrete example of transportation infrastructure being paid for with private funds, the Las Vegas Monorail is interesting as it is a completely privately financed mass transit system where the operations of the line are paid for through fares and advertising alone.  To the best of my knowledge they aren't getting any federal mass transit subsidies and I could be mistaken, but I do know that no state or local taxes are being used to pay for the system.Private transportation systems can work if allowed, which I guess is my point here including these examples.  The government doesn't have to do everything for you and you would be really surprised what "government services" can be performed by private organizations if they are but allowed.  I can't think of any sort of government service of any kind at all including military protection and police services that aren't being done by private organizations outside of the direct control of a government agency. I'm always interested in alternatives.  Take your time though, and I'd like to see how it is different than what we've proposed here. I would add to this that Bitcoin also verifies block and transaction information to identify if it conforms to some sort of network protocol standards, which include aspects like making sure that double spending isn't happening and weeding out some flood attacks on the database.  Placing data into the transaction script as random superficial data is not going to be measured against any sort of network protocol at all or verifying that the data may have been duplicated.  The only defense against abusing this vector of attack is the transaction fees for transaction size.I could see a thin client only having to be "watching" for recent blocks sent around and verifying that a transaction got incorporated into a block, and furthermore that the block was accepted into the primary chain where additional miners are adding on additional blocks.  Such a client would not be in a position to identify double-spending, however, without the full block chain.  That could involve "trust" of the core nodes which are involved in the mining activity.The validity "guarantee" as I've described above is to see that the data being included meets some sort of criteria for inclusion.  Verification of "ownership" of a piece of data is also included here, such as if somebody has the ability to spend a particular transaction output.  In the case of something like BitDNS, it would be to verify that the person making the transaction has "ownership" of the domain record to be able to make changes or modifications to that data and to produce a chain of evidence in terms of who authorized those changes.  Currently Bitcoin only performs this "service" for transaction data alone and my suggestion was that perhaps it could be more generalized in some fashion to include other data.A "thin" BitDNS client would only have to see the changes to the data records and not the full chain of evidence in a full block chain, and perhaps they might only be interested in information about "their" domains thus filtering out even more information that is of interest to the central nodes for full verification.In terms of deciding where to draw this balance as you are trying to suggest, that is what a market is for.  Certainly no single individual is going to figure that out, but setting up in effect an auction market which makes this prediction through economic incentives is something that I think is going to provide a much stronger balance for this situation.  If too many domains are created and created on the cheap, fewer people will be interested in participating in mining and processing the transactions.  If domain creation is too expensive and rare, there will be incentives for somebody to create a new node that starts to accept more domain transactions at a cheaper price and where many more people will start to participate in the network.The issue here to me isn't if the concept of domain registration done in this way would work, but rather how it is going to be paid for and who pays for that service.  My hope here would be to get those using the service to pay for that service, and ideally to pay for that service in Bitcoins.  This could be a source of additional revenue and fees for miners and thus strengthening the main Bitcoin block chain with additional CPUs as well as growing the size of the Bitcoin economy.  If the members of this community don't want that money, however you define that money, it will go elsewhere.  There is a market for a service of this nature with real demonstrated demand for such a service.  I just think it is sort of sad that it is being driven out of the Bitcoin economy is all. That seems to be a full circle of monetary units if it happens, where a digital abstraction becomes something physical again.You are correct that such an issuing entity would have to be trusted and that trust would be the key to such a physical currency.  The problem with pegging two currencies to each other is fraught with all kinds of problems where scarcity of one or the other is going to have an impact upon how they are used and the exchange rate.  The person at the middle of the exchange, namely the person "backing" the coins in some way is going to eventually get to the point where they will break when the two currencies get out of balance.What you are also suggesting here is a fractional reserve currency, even if it is a physical coin rather than a paper note.  Even if every "physical bitcoin" is 100% backed up by a similar number of digital bitcoins, it still is a "fraction", although a relatively safe fraction of 1:1 reserves.  The moment you mint more coins than you have digital bitcoins in "reserve", the fraction is going to be smaller on the reserve to issued ratio.I will ask this:  are you really serious about creating a Bitcoin-derived fractional reserve currency?I always thought Bitcions were a stronger form of currency than gold.  This sort of proves the point where gold could be issued as the face of Bitcoins being held in a fractional reserve. The only place I currently see that being used is in scripts.  Thanks to Theymos the ideas behind scripting are less opaque but it still is pretty arcane for those who really want to get into the gritty details of Bitcoin.In theory it could be put into the protocol eventually as a way to save bandwidth, but so far I haven't seen it used in that way.  If that was a goal, it would seem that there would be some other concepts in place that would facilitate data compression more effectively and perhaps even be more extensible too. An interesting thread related to this can be found here: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2124.0Theymos has been discussing how to put miscellaneous data into the transaction blocks themselves, but there are dangers to doing that.  It also shows some incredibly strong resistance to "tweaking" Bitcion itself as a software package to permitting this kind of activity, which seems to me as coming from at least a source that would end up killing any attempt to put a patch into Bitcoin to permit data inclusion for something other than the "stealth" method with transactions.While the suggestion that Git itself ought to be sufficient for cryptographic timestamping and cryptographic data storage (that is interesting by itself... something I haven't thought about), I don't know enough about Git to say much about it at all in terms of its distributed nature.I firmly believe you should "pay your own freight" so far as anything which costs others to do, which is why I think this proposal is incredibly useful.  There are costs associated with domain name registration and data storage, and they aren't trivial expenses either.  The concept of Bitcions enables those costs to be borne by those who use the service.  I tried to explore this idea further on this thread:  http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1764.0This is indeed a political idea here too, which is where perhaps it is getting some resistance as well.  The idea could be summed up with the concept that "you get what you pay for".  Places like Source Forge offer their "services" for free, but there are hidden costs including being tied to other outside interests.... mainly the advertisers and those who are paying for the "service".  With what we are proposing for BitDNS/Domain Chain is that the service is going to be focused upon those who are paying for the service.... which is those who are making the registrations.  They have the most to lose if this project falls apart.  If the registrants aren't happy with the service, fees are going to go down and the DCC is going to collapse as a currency.  That in turn is going to cause developers to be very strongly focused upon meeting the needs of that community.The other aspect which is really interesting here is that the process of becoming a "registrar" has a very low barrier to entry.  I'm sure many people would love to have had the chance to do something like being BigDaddy or Verisign in terms of processing domain registrations and receiving the fees for doing that.  Now the chance to perform that sort of "business" at least on a part time basis is at least possible.  No single person or even central organization is going to be receiving the fees but rather a "community" that is open to newcomers and even people with modest technical skills.I've also seen complaints that "open source software" doesn't pay.  Bitcoin can change that model, including doing things like we are talking about here with the DomainCoin system.  Not only can a bounty system be set up for integrating a specific feature into the system, but the developer can also have a continuing source of income afterward.  BTW, in deference to Kiba, the license itself is immaterial here too and can simply be thrown into the public domain, even though I think that copyleft licenses tend to offer much stronger protections against idiots who would attempt to mess with you in the legal system.  You may want to avoid the judicial system, but sometimes it comes and bites you hard even if you are active in trying to stay out of its reach.  Time is really the one resource that anybody has to sell when you finally get down to the gritty details of economics, and it takes time to be a developer to create projects like this.  Also, even simply maintaining the software afterward takes time and effort, fixing bugs that show up and perhaps putting in tweaks.Anyway, enough of the issue with the overhead costs.  I am afraid that this is going to effectively split or fork the Bitcoin network, and that isn't a good thing either.  I want to work with the Bitcoin community, but if they won't have us, we may have to move on.  Threats to Bitcoin will still be relevant and I'm not going to leave completely in a huff, but as a separate application it will be essentially a fork of Bitcoin if we proceed with the path I've suggested in terms of a completely separate coin chain and currency.  It might be interesting so far as a social experiment is concerned to see which way is better and which "coin" is going to be more accepted in the long run.  I am challenging some of Satoshi's assumptions here too, but not overly so.  Two very similar project with slightly different goals but which also support each other might be beneficial to each other as well, especially as there is going to be a huge amount of common ground to work with. I agree, but that implies theymos is also full of it when he says that any new project requiring a block chain is going to fail, as there are other projects which need a block chain.  The role of the block chain is more than merely timestamping, but also to cryptographically certify the integrity of that data.  It is precisely for that reason which the data is desired to be put into the chain as a way to identify tampering with that data, not merely as a storage medium.Another is to find some way to utilize the technology of Bitcoins in some other application that doesn't involve necessarily digital currency but provide some method to use Bitcoins as a financial incentive to participate.  So far the choice is to create a separate block and currency system or put that in with hooks and using Bitcoins as a data storage system.  If you know a third choice, I'm totally open to the idea.Another possible alternative is a flat out fork of the project altogether and a schism of the community where these hooks are put in as I've described.  I don't think that is desired either.As to if WIkileaks documents qualify as something needing to be both timestamped and having been cryptographically secured from tampering in a distributed network, that seems dubious on a few different levels, especially the time stamping, but I am talking about other similar kinds of data too. We need to get Satoshi's approval if something goes into the main Bitcoin client.  There are other applications involved here besides the DNS system, even if that seems to have high priority at the moment.  We could create a patch that would put hooks into the Bitcoin software to permit these kind of changes, but it could also be for naught if Satoshi rejects that patch.  Since this is also a major architectural change to the software, it seems highly unlikely that it would get accepted unless we can demonstrate a clear need for this idea or show some huge benefits that would help Bitcoin be adopted as a currency.  It is also a whole bunch of software development that depends on just one person accepting that change on essentially a whim.In short, if we decide to put this into Bitcoin, Satoshi is the gatekeeper.  We could completely fork Bitcoin, which is essentially what we are proposing here anyway as the alternative with these separate coins.  That is our choice. What extra hooks could be put into the Bitcoin chain to be able to add extra kinds of data into that chain?In theory there is the potential to put in additional message types beyond transaction and block messages to the whole getblocks/inv/getdata sequence.  Some of these blocks could in theory be other kinds of data such as a stock exchange purchase or the DNS data that has been talked about.Where I see a problem is coming up with the algorithms to be able to process these extra kinds of data and getting them accepted into Bitcoin directly.  Bitcoin simply isn't that flexible at the moment.  There certainly are no hooks for processing those extra kind of data and verifying if they conform to some sort of standard or not or even identifying who might be involved in establishing those verification standards.It could get there.  There might be ways to work Bitcoin up to put this extra data into the chain, but is that something which Satoshi is going to accept?  I really don't know either way.I know you can shove all kinds of random garbage into the Transaction blocks that has nothing at all to do with Bitcoin balance transactions.  Is that really the way this project ought to go?  It is going to scale when Bitcoin transactions are huge as well just processing coin transfer information?  I don't see this scaling very well even if your proposition is correct. It could be put into the Bitcoin protocol itself, but keep in mind that would require changing the miners in a way that would also have to set up the rules for accepting and rejecting the domain registrations.  It also makes this a hack onto Bitcoins to be performing tasks that aren't financial transactions.  Some Bitcoin miners wouldn't be willing to participate and may end up rejecting blocks with the domain information buried in the block.  This gets back to burying the data into the transaction record itself, and then you get problems again trying to decide what blocks get rejected and which ones don't.  On top of all that, it makes this a one-time only change and is not extensible to incorporating other ideas that may be similar.Really, the only way this is going to work is for a completely separate block chain for the domain data.  That implies a second currency.If we could get some hooks into Bitcoin that would open up some additional data types which could be put into the Merkle tree for the blocks and have some way for a miner to bootstrap verification rules for those additional types, perhaps we could put it into the main Bitcoin chain as well.  We would also have to come up with some sort of scripting language that would be used to "verify" those extra datablocks sort of like the current scripting language being used to verify coin transactions.  Would that be worth some extra effort to make a "generic solution" that could be added to Bitcoin for this and other similar kinds of data types to be added to Bitcoin?It would require a major network-wide upgrade regardless.  Coins wouldn't be lost, but older clients would have to be abandoned with an update of that nature.  Miners would receive any transaction fees for simply following those rules.Another question here, and this is perhaps the most important:  Would Satoshi be interested in putting in these kind of extra hooks into Bitcoin?  By creating a separate currency that is essentially a fork of Bitcoin for a specific purpose, Satoshi's blessing is irrelevant other than coordinating the effort of the two projects to relay problems identified in the two efforts and to make sure fatal problems get updated in bother projects.  If we decide to put the data (even as a separate data structure) into Bitcoin, Satoshi needs to be in the middle of all of this discussion.  Bitcoin, as it currently exists, really doesn't deal with this kind of issue.No, that coin is received by the miner processing the transactions and handled just like coin transaction fees are right now in Bitcoin. Coin transfer transaction fees are also important here as well.  It allows the cost to be scaled with the size of the network and note that there will be coin transactions in this network as well.  There will be coin transfers independent of domain registrations as there will at least be transfers to and from exchanges and likely from miners to people wanting to make registrations directly.  There may also be other applications that use these coins that haven't been developed yet.The "50 coins" they may collect are not going to be generated coins but rather fees collected from processing domain records, presuming they are getting 50 domain registrations in a single block.The only role that generated coins play is strictly to bootstrap the exchanges.  You have to get the coins from somewhere, and giving them to miners is as good of a way as I can imagine without simply creating them all in the genesis block and then handing them out like the Bitcoin faucet until that feature runs out of coins.This is another currency that is essentially identical to Bitcoin, but with a few tweaks and miners more concentrated on working with domain records.  We could put this into the main Bitcoin protocol, but then we would have to change the Bitcoin miners as well. One of the reasons to maintain the 10 minute interval between blocks is because of network latency from distant node in terms of "hops" between nodes.  If you shorten the interval you risk more "collisions" between nodes that may have simultaneously created a "successful block".  In turn that also can make even longer "chains" start to compete against each other.In other words keeping the 10 minute interval may be a very good idea or even increasing the interval could have benefits.  I know of at least some blocks even with this average that have time stamps which even go "negative" where the successive block is timestamped a few seconds before the previous block.  More likely it was created at almost the same time but the other block literally was created a matter of a few seconds earlier.I would like to put in perhaps a more continuous or shorter interval between difficulty adjustments, but then again there are some network attacks which are thwarted by the two-week readjustment system.The exchanges might really appreciate at least some fractional quantities to play with, although that could also be internal to the exchange itself.  The real advantage is for some granularity in terms of competing miners which might want to snag a few additional registrations.  It would also help in terms of setting up a per-kilobyte charge for people throwing stuff into the coin transactions too.  Attacks on the network can also happen through filling up coin transaction information with useless junk, and charging a fee for that can help stop or at least slow down such a flood attack and at least put cost to such an attack that must be borne by the person making the transaction.  Such a charge may require at least some fractional coins, even if it isn't nanocoins necessarily. The link on the tweet I got was very close to the donation address.  It went straight to the page with the list of various donation methods, although I had to scroll up to find the Bitcoin address.The address for the EFF donations, 1MCwBbhNGp5hRm5rC1Aims2YFRe2SXPYKt, is listed right there. Trying to create a futures contract for a currency that doesn't even exist yet?  That sounds very interesting in and of itself.BTW, I like it! Unless of course it is the politician who is buying those hookers and trying not to get caught.  You might find some strange political allies if the government got into the game.  Not all politicians are beholden to the major banks, even if they may not be people you would want to have babysitting your children. A coin would represent the work or effort to administer the database.  That is the "reward" a miner gets for processing the domain records.  That it might cost 1 DCC to enter a record into the database is just the "fee" to play the game, where you are buying the effort from previous record keeping efforts.
Doing peer to peer currency exchanges is beyond the scope of this project.  If there is going to be some sort of peer to peer currency exchange (I think it might be possible, especially for non-reversible currencies like Bitcoins and Liberty Reserve Dollars), it should be in a completely different project.  All that I'm suggesting is that some sort of API be set up so one or more "trusted exchanges" can be selected to facilitate the "purchase" or exchange of these "coins" for some other currency.  I just don't see too many people going through the hassle of trying to obtain these "domain coins" by selling other services in these coins, even though that would in theory be possible.If we could dump this idea of another currency, I'd be all for it.  I just don't see how to do that though.On the positive side, the fancy API and GUI exchange methods won't be strictly needed at all at least initially.  We could even use essentially the existing bitcoin software where all we would do is to simply "tweak" the low level features so we would be including the domain information into the blocks.  If we did that as a quick bootstrap of the network, websites like Mt. Gox could use the same JSON API system for Bitcoin on this system as well, particularly as the exchanges wouldn't have to play with the domain information but rather just the coin trading mechanisms.  Exchanges would want to get into the act as there certainly are arbitrage opportunities between the DCC and BTC currencies.Our hard part is to define the "rules" of what domain information needs to be present, and when a block can be rejected because of mal-formed domain data.  That is where I think it would be wrong to put this more directly into the Bitcoin block chain, as rejecting Bitcoin blocks because of a malformed domain record seems to be harmful to Bitcoins. This thread gives a link to how it might work:[url]http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=737.0[/ur]The trick is to set up some system to keep somebody from "spending" the electronic representation of the value of that bitcoin.  Scratch-off cards seem to be the current best system I've seen, and that doesn't seem to apply to a minted bitcoin.If you put the wallet information for a bitcoin address that represents 1 BTC and put that physically into the interior of the coin in some fashion, you would have a coin that really is a "Bitcoin" coin with the actual value of 1 BTC.  To get the electronic value of the coin, you would literally have to destroy the coin.I don't know if that is possible, but it would be interesting to find out. I've been involved in working with legislators who are trying to write legislation of various kind where coming up with a legal definition of something is often very difficult.  Yes, "the word" can go from legislators to law enforcement agents that essentially one particular thing is simply not wanted (aka Wikileaks) but even there you get unintended consequences that essentially outlaw.... well things that campaign donors care about so it becomes embarrassing politically when that happens.I'll also say this:  Software developers of a small group (especially open source projects) can certainly get things to happen and change faster than any legislation.  A monarch or a totalitarian dictator may be able to get things to happen quickly, but most of us live in places where the government is by design inefficient and slow to change or adapt.  As an individuals we might get attacked but it is hard to get everybody, especially when we are in so many different jurisdictions. I think you got the ideas down.  The role that the "DomainCoins" (DCC) are playing here is to give a financial incentive to "miners" who are creating a cryptographically secure domain registration database.  It is also a work-around due to the fact that we can't seem to figure out a way to accomplish the goals of getting Bitcoins directly to the miners, so instead we are going to be using an alternative currency which can be traded for mining.  To me, the only reason for putting any sort of coin generation into the blocks is simply to "prime the pump" to get some DCC put into circulation.  Hopefully what will normally happen is that DCC will be exchanged for Bitcoins in both directions:  Some folks will "buy" some DCC with Bitcoins (or LR Dollars or whatever) so they can pay for domain registrations and the miners will "redeem" the DCC for Bitcoins as earnings.Trade between DCC and BTC will be almost insanely easy by design and the exchange mechanisms may even be put right into the GUI interface.  I could even see custom clients that might even combine transactions for both "currencies".This same system could be used in a number of other similar situations, such as an idea I floated about creating a Bitcoin-based Stock Exchange.  If such a stock exchange is set up, a similar parallel currency may have to be implemented to also pay for mining the transaction blocks.  I can see many other kinds of "databases" set up which would require some sort of cryptographic time-stamping.  Something I played with a while back that could be useful here would be "timestamping" police evidence (especially digital evidence such as a dashboard camera video feed from a police vehicle) in a chain of custody system.  An engineering company could set up a custom "bitcoin" system to keep track of engineering documents to be used as a defense against a patent lawsuit to both show date of creation and prove that the document file hasn't been tampered with since its inclusion into the database.  Seriously, this system is something that has a whole bunch of possibilities that I can't even start to describe the kinds of things that would be useful and we are just scratching the surface. The question as to how many domains to include in a block ought to be something dependent upon the miner alone.  This certainly is a useful point to bring up and likely an early "reference implementation" limit will be 50 domains per block merely to increase scarcity.  Still, that up to 300k changes might happen eventually with this system, perhaps more considering that the cost is likely going to be considerably less than the current domain registration system.----I have a few other thoughts about this now that we are getting to something a little more concrete in terms of the software architecture.  Would it be reasonable to expect the cost of a domain registration to be 1 DCC (Domain Coin Currency)... at least as the "default" cost expected by the miner to "register" a domain?  I think that would establish at least an initial value to the currency and help to self-regulate those who want to jump in early and grab up a whole bunch of domains early on.  I might even go so far as to say 2 DCC for registration and 1 DCC for information changes.  If you run your own miner, you can "tweak" this if you want to be more competitive, but this is the way that you can spend the currency and what it is based upon and a fair benchmark.In terms of a social effect that may be negative (depending on your viewpoint) some of the country code TLDs represent a substantial source of income for some of countries involved.  One in particular, the country of Tuvalu, has only a little over 12,000 citizens and is the smallest member-nation of the United Nations in terms of population and pretty close to that in terms of land area.  Only the Vatican has a smaller population in terms of a sovereign state.  Its current TLD (*.tv) is currently run by a company in California but a significant portion of the revenue from that domain goes to the country's government under contract.On the topic of small countries and their "country codes", it seems like if we could get this software rather stable, we might even want to offer this "service" to some of these smaller countries for their domain registrations, where I'm pretty sure that this would be cheaper than whatever contract they currently have with their current service provider.  That goes under "marketing", but something else to think about.  I certainly think that it would be awesome if we could get a whole country like Tonga to switch to Bitcoins as their national currency, and is much more likely to happen than the major western countries like America or the EU.  Just dreaming there. I wish that were to be the case, but in current legal environment in America, that is simply no longer the case, particularly for computer technology.Dimitri Skylarov was arrested for "divulging" an "important trade secret" used for the encryption of e-books.  The "super secret cryptographic system" used for that encryption?  ROT-13.  I am not kidding, where ROT13 was considered to be a "dangerous munition" and "illegal for export" and this guy spent several months in jail for merely presenting a paper about this algorithm at a major cryptology conference.There was also the story of DeCSS, where it is still illegal for websites in New York State to publish or display the contents of this particular program or to engage in its distribution.  This was a federal court ruling, but it only applied to the circuit courts over New York and not the rest of America and unfortunately was never appealed.  The software was released under the GPL, so the only rationale for its prohibition on distribution is strictly because the idea itself is illegal to spread.There have also been many attempts to kill any publication or discussion on how to build a nuclear bomb.  This isn't saying that you are building the bomb, but if you publish the details on how to make one it has been routinely taken to some courts.  This has been particularly true about Hydrogen bomb more than ordinary fission bombs, even if you can document every single piece of information was derived from public sources of information (aka you didn't "steal" the documents from a leak like Wikileaks).Since we are on the subject of cryptography, any sort of "strong" cryptography is illegal to "export" from America due to restrictions placed upon it by ITAR regulations.  If anything, Bitcoins itself may qualify as that sort of "strong encryption", as the makers of the PGP algorithm found out the hard way.I wish that you could freely talk about ideas, but unfortunately law enforcement bullies tend to take a different view of the concept for some strange reason.  Freedom of speech is unfortunately a "right" that is sometimes ignored. It is funny how 1 BTC is now worth more than 1 piece of eight (aka 1 bit).  I like the reference, however! That just creates another floating currency.  Nothing is stopping somebody from doing that, but is there a specific reason for getting that accomplished with what would be a much smaller purpose than general transactions like Bitcoins?  Any such currency would generally be weaker than Bitcoins.I don't think it would necessarily be worthless, but it would certainly be easier to attack than Bitcoin so far as Bitcoin would likely have a much longer and stronger chain since it is older.  The longer Bitcion runs, the stronger it will get in that regard and be all that much tougher to replace. I don't see any reason why we should try something different.  If it breaks for us or for Bitcoins, one or both projects should get the issue fixed with an alternative solution.  There certainly are strong reasons to keep this system, as Satoshi's white paper points out in pretty good detail too. I know this discussion is going like nuts here.  I think this is a very good idea and should be fleshed out much more.  If you have some experience or knowledge about local domain name servers, your expertise here would be invaluable.  I know just enough to get myself into trouble on that matter and to debate the policy questions, not enough to really dig into the guts of them.  I've operated a domain server for a brief period of time and have experimented with OpenNIC myself. Wondering aloud even more, what need do we have for a fractional bitdnscoin?  I could imagine having a little bit of "change" but is there going to be any need for more than about three or four decimal places?This is essentially the same issue just thought through from another perspective.  Right now I think it is about 100 million "bitcoins" to the smallest unit as defined in the Bitcoin protocol.   We really don't need that many decimal places even for trade purposes.  I still like the uint64 structure used in the Bitcoin protocol, but with a mild sort of inflation happening to the currency (relative to Bitcions) I don't see any major deflationary pressure pushing the value down like I see for Bitcoins.  Again, I am not an economist and this is going to take some hard economic theory and guessing which way even this currency might go in that perspective.  The only other "currency" to make a real comparison about here is the coins on the test network, and the main thing there is that those coins aren't being traded... which makes even that a bad example.I don't know of any other currency that uses this sort of allocation system even remotely.  Of course that is why this is so groundbreaking. I'm fine with that.  It is an easy way to allocate the coins.  The role of the halving of the coins "mined" every 2-4 years was mainly to strengthen the currency from an economic perspective, and something which many of those involved with the development of Bitcoin feel is necessary including Satoshi.  I don't think it is nearly as critical in this situation, and as Bitcoin itself has proven there are people who will find value in the currency even if it doesn't half (as it hasn't yet). Well, I've proposed that Bitcoins be used as an incentive for mining the chains, which I suppose is a way to promote the use of Bitcoins as well.  If you are talking about the "miners" simply creating their own floating currency that could then in turn be put into one of the exchanges.... that may solve the problem of getting miners paid (hmmm.... I've got to think about that one for a little bit) but it does create the problem of what anybody is going to do with that "floating currency"?Just thinking aloud here... if we used a "floating currency" in this system instead that was a "DomainChain coin" similar to Bitcions but not pegged to Bitcions as all, could that work here?  I'm sure Mt. Gox would certainly be interested in exchanging these coins if they had some value, and the point here is mainly to come up with the formula for creating these coins.  The only real use of these coins would be to pay registration fees for domain names, so I think the drop-off could happen a lot faster than is the case with Bitcoins.  In theory we could even set up some sort of link to Mt. Gox or some other trader so that in the interface you could do a "quick buy" of these "DomainChain coins" in such a way that for an end-user they would be buying them with BTC and then putting those recently purchased coins right into the transaction as a fee for the miner to claim when it gets put into the chain.  If the transaction block is rejected, that miner loses the claim to those coins and they become unconfirmed.... where it is the responsibility for the exchange to worry about the validity of a particular set of "DomainChain coins".  A similar kind of "quick exchange" could even happen with LR Dollars or any other currency that may be tied to some exchange system, or they could simply get the "coins" on a "manual" basis from the exchange if they wanted to get a better exchange rate or have somebody "send" them some of these "DomainChain coins" with a direct hand-over of cash.I like this a whole lot.  It may "solve" this problem I've been thinking of in terms of getting miners paid.  Are there any other hiccups anybody sees with this situation?  The exchange itself isn't even fixed.The only real problem I see is that it sets up a situation where this kind of currency could supplant the main Bitcoin for intrinsic value.  Not overnight, but gradually.  We need somebody with a whole lot more economic theory behind them to figure this one out, because I would vote for a "weaker" currency than Bitcions be set up in this situation, however we want to define that.  How would you set up the parameters for a relatively strong currency that the desire would be to trade it in for Bitcions instead when possible?  Would the fact that Bitcions has an absolute limit but these kind of "DomainChain coins" would continue to inflate (aka the 50 DCC produced per block would continue to be produced indefinitely creating a mild sort of inflation over time) be sufficient to make Bitcoins stronger?I need to think overnight on this particular subject as it is starting to make my head ache thinking about it, but it sounds like an interesting idea to seriously consider. The existing standard is that ICANN is being very stingy on allocating top level domains.  That, for myself, is a major mistake and if you read some of the links above written by Karl Auerbach he points out that this is completely artificial and arbitrary.  There is no current reason to exclude any alphanumeric sequence for a domain name of any kind.So, who cares if there is a collision?  If somebody registers that domain, somebody at InterNIC can try to find out who owns the domain with DomainChain and negotiate a price to transfer that domain to themselves.  BTW, I think some sort of "comment" field could be put in with domain registration so you can attempt to contact the domain owner (completely optional BTW!) if they might be interested in "selling" the domain.  That seems like InterNICs problem, not ours.They are the competitors to this protocol and this is something they should have done from the beginning.  That they aren't doing these things is more why this is something that should be done in this fashion.  There is no reason a million or a billion TLDs can't exist.Yes, I realize that the current DNS structure allows you to use a "dot" off of the previously established domain.  The only reason for sub-domains is to create a system where "ownership" of a sub-domain can be transferred and have that ownership be kept track of through the DomainChain rather than as something arbitrary which can be revoked by the domain owner.  In other words, once "mtgox.btc" is registered as a sub-domain, it in effect becomes a full-fledged domain in its own right with the protections and controls that would go with a proper domain and would be recognized with a separate domain server for any of its sub-domains.  Basically this is a way to create the notion of a "TLD" registration system too if you wanted to stick with the convention of <server> <dot> <TLD>.  In practice I think such notions would eventually be dispensed with entirely, but perhaps there might be a reason to keep it going.  This system also meshes in a bit better with the current DNS system where collisions would be avoided as a natural part of the protocol rather than a hard arbitrary exclusion of certain words and names... thus simplifying the overall protocol.  Those TLDs currently operated by InterNIC and ICANN can be held in "escrow" by a member of the development community until such time as ICANN decides to pay up or take ownership of those "domains".Note here that you can go to a domain server operator and "pay" them some money to create a subdomain off of say "mmorpg.org" for a game you made called "coolgame.mmorpg.org", but you are still at the mercy of the domain name server in the same way that everybody is at the mercy of ICANN and InterNIC (as well as the other domain registrars) for simply getting into the game.  That sub-domain can be arbitrarily terminated for any reason at all and would force you to go through the judicial system to get the subdomain put back in.  I think that is something the network philosophy is trying to avoid in the first place.  This alternate method would imply that such sub-domains can't be arbitrarily shut off unless the sub-domain owner is willing to relinquish control. The only thing I am banging my head against right now is the issue of how to get the block miners of the DNS blocks to get the transaction fees.  I don't know if that is going to require a change in the Bitcoin protocol or if it can be adapted into the existing protocol.  This idea shows some promise as one way to implement the idea, however I really don't like putting this data into the main Bitcoin transaction database and turning that into one huge monster generic database of home cooking recipes, porn, mp3s, Wikileaks documents, Heroin traffic routing instructions, and other miscellaneous junk.  If you thought Bitcoins faced problems before in terms of governments wanting to shut it down because it is a competing currency, I think that puts it completely over the top without any of the protections that Freenet has put into the message routing protocol.Where I'm having the problem is mainly that I don't think a "DomainChain" miner should get paid until the block they made is accepted deep into the chain, like at least 10 or so blocks deep (perhaps adjustable on that length with some formula too?)  For the most part I don't think most miners are going to care as long as they eventually get paid for the work they did, but those who are attacking the network may want to suck up the bitcoins for themselves and not really doing any work in terms of generating the blocks necessary to keep this whole thing going.By banging my head on this problem, I really mean that every possible option I've considered has a fatal flaw in it.  I think the registration fees are an important part of this whole concept, however, as it makes the difference between a public commons free good and something where the consumer "pays the freight" for the network.  I also think it will make the difference between limited vs. widespread acceptance of this system too.If you want me to go over some of the ideas I've had, I'll gladly put those dead ends into another thread, as I've come up with at least a dozen different ways to solve this problem in detail... including ideas I even started to type up in various replies to posts on this forum and then simply hit the "x" on the tab in Firefox before I hit the post button because I realized it wouldn't work.  Even the method of putting the data into the Bitcion transactions has a fatal flaw so far as it turns the BTC miners into DNS miners too (they keep the fees for themselves) and it enables some different kind of attacks on the DNS network as well.  I hate to say it though, it may very well be the best route to take shy of some protocol extension to Bitcoin itself that would recognize independent data chains as a source of transactions. Ooooooo...  I like BitRegister.  DomainChain works out pretty good too and is very descriptive.  I'm so used to BitDNS that I am still somewhat partial to that, but it doesn't exactly explain in a single word what this is going to be other than a shortened form of "Bitcoin DNS".I'd like to get back to the topic of the scope of the domain naming system itself.  I would like to propose the following specification for actual name of the domain itself:A domain can include combination of unicode (UTF8) characters with the exception of the period character (U+002E).  We may want to look at some other restricted characters mainly for conformance with normal URL schema as defined in RFCs and avoiding control codes, but I say that right off the start we permit non-latin characters into this scheme.  Other "excluded" characters may include the "/" character (U+002F) or the other non-alphabetic characters common found in the original ASCII specification.  The period character here is something more special, however.Some possible domain names would be "excluded" from this schema and held in common such as excluding domains named "com", "net", "edu", or any of the standard country codes as currently under the purview of ICANN.  If ICANN wants to get into this game and claim those few domains, I don't mind giving these domains directly to ICANN, but the issue here is mainly to avoid naming collisions with other network resources.  If/when that becomes an issue, a technical solution can be found and it is irrelevant."Sub-domains" can also be established using a "dot" structure off of a previously established domain name.  For example a certain oil company could create a domain called "bp" and then create a sub-domain like "usa.bp".  When a registration of this nature happens, some sort of signed public/private hash key confirming permission to create the sub-domain is confirmed (similar to transferring ownership of a domain) before the sub-domain record is kept.  It may be possible to create a domain that is simply a "free-for-all" of sub-domains and defined as such when the domain is created.  An example of this would be a domain named, "bitcoin" and "btc" which would permit the creation of a domain like "mtgox.btc" or "mtgox.bitcoin".  On the other hand somebody creating "this.sucks.coca-cola" may have to negotiate with the domain holder of "coca-cola" in order to create those sub-domains.Since the sub-domains have their own record, they can also point to separate resources including separate IP addresses.Essentially, this is also allowing anybody and everybody to create their own top-level domain and charge whatever they want to use that "top level" domain, but it also makes such TLDs essentially worthless for the most part too.I'll be nice and give "p2p" to perhaps the "dot p2p" folks as well if they want it.  I'm sure somebody would be willing to donate 0.01 BTC to get that record into the database.Are there any flaws with this idea, or should it "go official"?   I saw one of these sites where they would have you come up with some sort of task that is tedious and perhaps monotonous for somebody to perform but needs a human eye to perform.  An example would be to verify signatures on documents of some kind (like a voting petition or signatures on checks).  OCR matching on stuff like this isn't so good, so setting up some system where a person in a 3rd world country that would look at two signatures and click on one of two buttons to say "yes, it is the same" or "no, it isn't" would help you to "earn" a few cents per signature that you clicked upon.More complicated would be to assist in correcting OCR'd text to verify document spellings that might have been missed from the original scan... sort of like what Distributed Proofreaders is doing.In both of these cases you would have some checks where you wouldn't trust just one person but would have several people see the same thing and "vote" on the correct information.  Somebody who consistently shows up in the "minority" (aka is being contrary) to the acceptance or rejection might eventually get fired so they have some motivation to getting it right.I've seen it suggested that you could use a simple computer like the XO computer developed for the OLPC project as well, although a common cell phone could certainly be used to check signatures in this example.  Presumably any group doing this would have a contract with the cellphone company to pay for the data delivery fees, so the only cost for the participants would be their time and possibly some "free" airtime on the cellphone as well.  In some places of the world, if they could earn $5-$10 in a day, they would be doing very well.Since Bitcions can be used for micropayments with considerably lower overhead costs, I think it would be useful for a situation like this.  Bitcoins in this case could be put right onto the phone itself for use elsewhere.  If you told somebody that in order to get a loaf of bread all they had to do was to compare a couple hundred signatures, how many people might be interested? In a way, we are writing a Domain Name Server.  The hope here is that eventually the data we throw into this database is going to be extracted and used with the current DNS architecture as used on the internet, where computers would have the DNS resolution pointing to this database as a "fall back" position if it can't be resolved through the regular DNS channels.  That is how OpenDNS is currently working right now.The only differences here is that we aren't relying upon a central server to act as a gatekeeper of this information, and it would be something that you could simply put into the search path through the network configurations of your own.Getting the DNS protocol hooks working is to me a much more trivial thing than getting the domain registration itself going, however.  Once you can demonstrate that the domain registration is working and that the domain name can be resolved cleanly, getting the DNS portion working is simply plugging through the RFC protocol documents to make sure you get that side working.  The revolutionary thing isn't the DNS server software (which can already be downloaded for free as in beer and speech) but rather the decentralized database keeping track of this stuff and securing the data from getting tampered with. There is a "sub-version" field that I believe it is a string rather than a numeric value that is transmitted with the version message.  This might be useful to be used in a fashion like the HTTP headers that identify the browser/operating system/version identification for a particular client for general identification purposes on the network and could be useful for an individual client which is playing around with experimental features to put that into the header.  A dozen extra bytes would not overwhelm the protocol in this case, particularly as it is transmitted only once per session and not per message.In this case, the "version" field would indicate the protocol version (however that is defined) for the network as a whole that you are using that you guarantee to follow that protocol and any extensions are simply on top of that.  Any implementations ought to be 100% compatible with that protocol so far as anything transmitted from your node to any other node should follow that protocol unless it specifically identifies a fellow peer with a specific sub-version.I agree that the governance of the protocol documentation ought to be established in some fashion so far as "blessing it" as "official" when the time comes.  I created this specification based upon the source code but I know full well that it is missing some gaps, particularly right now on block and message acceptance rules and chain forking policies, as well as references to the hashing algorithms used.  My hope in creating that document was to eventually get it to some point that it would be "blessed" as the formal spec for clients like Cdecker is doing right now.I really don't know what the official client is putting into that field right now, but it might solve the problem at least temporarily in regards to a specific re-implementation of the protocol. Just doing some freehand stuff, I came up with this "alternative" that you might want to play with:Obviously that needs to be cleaned up a whole lot, but it seems like a variation on the theme you used here.
I like the simplicity of the symbol and it works a whole lot better than the Thai Bhat symbol that most people are currently using.  This symbol also seems to encompass the essential element of the concept too, being a "digital currency" (the 1 & 0) and keeping the letter "b" in there as well.My only complaint is the part of the zero that falls off to the left side that is sort of just hanging there.As a monetary symbol, I've seen much worse even for government currencies.If you could work in the elements of BTC into that symbol (even a flipped "c" or something like that) it would be perfect. GUI design is important, but it is also something that non-techies can help with even if all you do is make a mock-up in something like MS-Paint or GIMP.  Getting the buttons to work is a bit harder, but not really so much.  The tough part about GUI design is that it is an art skill, something that techies often lack.  There is much more about artistic balance, the golden mean, and selecting colors or icons that aren't offensive to certain cultures (yellow buttons are a bad idea in Chinese culture, for instance, or showing a swastika to a bunch of germans).I agree that there are priorities in terms of getting the network layer put together first, but if we can get more people involved I don't think it should be dead last in priority either and certainly can be worked on concurrently with other projects. In terms of the use of credit cards to buy Bitcoins, most people who exchange Bitcoins for government currencies including all of the "major exchanges" for Bitcoins simply refuse to use credit cards or worse yet PayPal for financial transactions.  For those who did for a short time got burned real bad and gave up right away.  Seriously, a credit card is one of the worst possible "financial instruments" that I can possibly imagine and it hurts both the purchaser and the merchant in more ways than I can count right now.  About the only people who stand to gain from credit cards are scam artists who "work the bank", "identity thieves", and the banks themselves.If there was some legislation that would prohibit the exchange of Bitcoins for U.S. Dollars through a credit card at the moment, it would have zero impact of any kind upon the Bitcoin economy and most people who use Bitcions would say "duh, you shouldn't be using them anyway".  The only reason as a merchant you might want to accept credit cards is strictly on the hope that you might get more customers that way by having more options to pay.  If most customers to a store stopped using credit cards and paid cash instead, a typical merchant would drop the credit card option like yesterday's bad news.As far as buying groceries for any monetary unit, most grocers that I know are willing to try just about anything as long as they can get something for it and run their business.  I think a solid business plan and rationale can be made for a grocer to use Bitcions for the purchase of their product, provided there might be farmers or other food producers who would accept Bitcoins as payment for product (you might be surprised!) and if any of their employees might take Bitcions as a wage.  The primary motivation factor however would simply be if there are customers who have Bitcoins and are willing to spend them in a store that accepts them as opposed to a competitor who doesn't.  If a grocer can get several hundred or thousand dollar equivalent in Bitcoins per day, it would be a no-brainer and they would even put advertising "We accept Bitcoins" on their door and newspaper ads.  Grocery sales are such a low margin business that any kind of competitive business advantage would be huge.  The only reason you don't see that now is simply because the customers don't exist... yet.I should also note here that I have gone to places like Brazil and Mexico with U.S. Dollars (where clearly there is a local currency too) and as long as I was paying cash (forget the credit cards) I was able to survive completely with just the dollars.  You perhaps shouldn't expect change (as they may have none in dollar denominated currency... you may be surprised however) but as long as you pay in small bills it isn't too much.  This included buying groceries, paying taxi fare, and even renting a hotel for the night or buying a meal in a restaurant.  I also know of some places in America that also accept Euros directly, mainly in heavy tourist areas or near airports connecting to Europe, but you might be surprised there as well.  There is nothing that says you can only use Dollars in America, only that you can't counterfeit the currency.  Coining metal is a bit trickier, but you aren't coining precious metal with Bitcoins.As for "illegal activity" with regards to money laundering, prostitution, "ponzi schemes", illegal drugs, and other kinds of "black market" financial activity, that has been going on and will continue to go on without Bitcions.  How do you think the Kennedy family in Massachusetts got their money in the first place?  Smuggling Irish Whiskey during the Prohibition Era proved to be incredibly profitable.It may be possible to ban Bitcoins, but they would want to do that in a generic way where they would also try to keep other similar kinds of currencies being created in the future.  If they were to outlaw "cryptographically secure electronic money transfers", that would essentially ban almost all transfers of money electronically in any form.  About the only thing I can see is a government requiring you to have a license to conduct an electronic monetary transaction.  Even that would backfire by essentially making all on-line purchases illegal in any form.  Really, it would be very hard to come up with a legally tight definition of Bitcoins that would distinguish what Bitcoin is that other currencies aren't when transferred electronically.  It is like stupid attempts to outlaw peer to peer software, which almost always backfires on those legislators and ends up ignoring how TCP/IP is even set up in the first place.  An attempt to outlaw Bitcoins is essentially outlawing money altogether. That money is going to go somewhere, and somewhere I read a funny thing about a situation where you have lots of money chasing too few good and services.  I forget what that economic term is, however.   BTW, is that just for the region around St. Louis Missouri?  That is a whole lot of money getting poured into what is mostly three states and smaller portions of just four others.  That was the size of the entire U.S. economy less than 20 years ago. There still are some technical challenges here that I am not completely sure how to solve.  In this regard, all of the help we can get will be appreciated and there will certainly be some "heavy lifting" where I think there can be some good division of labor in terms of separate parts that can be worked on.Major areas will include:* GUI design - coming up with the visual appearance and organization for the project.  Most GUI design is simply awful, and it is something I've struggled with over the course of decades and still don't get done very well.* Networking communication - How the client will communicate with other nodes?  Even that is something which can be sub-divided after a fashion, but it will be a crucial piece.* Database organization and communication - Even choosing a database route isn't going to be easy, either from a "roll your own" to something like MySQL or BerkleyDB.  Potentially this is something which could get into the terabyte range for storage requirements, so we do need to be careful on some of the decisions we make here.* DNS communication - ideally what should happen is that the client would become a source of domain information that could be referenced with other DNS records.  For a home office/small business this could be on the same computer but for some businesses or schools they could even put this in their server room as a part of the main domain resolver path for their network.* Interfacing with the Bitcoin network - How will the usage of this software connect to the Bitcoin network, transfer payments from "registrants" to "registrars" (aka "miners"), and what is a "fair" way to make sure that the people receiving money are going to be paid?* Thin client design - How can you set up something that would retrieve the "database" yet not be a miner?  Is this even an issue?Non technical issues include:* Establishing Problem Domain - just what is it that this software needs to accomplish?  Who would use it and why?  What is it that they need?* Potential Social Conflicts - What sort of "legal" requirements might there be for "domain registrations" and what do we do about them?  Do we care?  Even if we ignore the law in this case, what would most network users expect from a domain registration?* Marketing - How do we sell this software so far as to get people to use it?  How can publicity be spread about it once it becomes available.  What sort of outlets are there which might be interested in using this.  If we told a business they could run a domain server and make money (by "mining" registration applications) simply by having it in their server room, would that be something they might adopt?* Finding "customers" for domain registration - This is more to the marketing, but with a concentration on just those who might want to use domain registration.  Some of this is also going to be an issue in terms of breadth of the adoption of the concept, but what groups might be interested in using this as registration?  Obviously bitcoin users would be an early adopter, but anybody else?Some of these have some "milestones" that must be met before other things can happen, but at the same time there are things which can be done simultaneously.  Any other ideas for things that might be facing this in terms of a breakdown of tasks? For the source repository, I am agnostic toward that as long as I can get the source files in and out.  SourceForge has been pretty good to me in the past and it has worked out with other projects I've been involved with, so I sort of lean that way although it appears Kiba love Git.  I'm fine with that too.As for a project name, how about DomainCoins?  Otherwise I love more obscure ancient dieties/demigods as names and there are a few out there.  I guess the choice here is one that is more functional or one that can be memorable.  Does anybody know a name of some ancient diety of finance or accounting?  Babylonian and Aztec gods would be especially interesting.  Either that or simply a whimsical name that may not mean anything at all.For a build process, I'm not really particular either but I do insist upon "free" or "open source" tool chains.  I personally am not a big fan of C++ (sort of antagonist about the language) but I'll contribute however anybody else wants to go.  I agree that it should be built on all of those platforms and be capable of going to more.  I have a stronger preference to C# on Mono if that matters any where MonoDevelop is a pretty good environment.In term of reading up and understanding the Bitcoin source code.... I'm way ahead of you there.  I've been pounding my head against that for awhile now.  There still is more to pour through, but I'm finally starting to get a good grasp of the base network layer now even if some of the details like the block rejection rules aren't quite so firm yet.  Expanding the documentation would be still beneficial. What kind of time-frame are we talking about here in terms of getting at least a "proof of concept" project going?If it took a year, it seems like something else would be taking its place, but if we got some software up and going in the next month or two it seems like the "distributed DNS" supporters might really pay attention to BitDNS.  Indeed, with the philosophies of Bitcoin already established, I don't think there is nearly as much "debugging" to get this going as it may seem.  Some, yes. But it isn't the end of the world.  Getting something done by tomorrow may be a bit more difficult.The time frame of this idea is something that I believe has a short time span to at least get something to the table, even if there might be some competing ideas.  The strengths of using Bitcoins and a Bitcoin-like system are things that solve many of the problems being proposed from what I've seen.Writing up a white paper?  It would be nice and if you want to start that I would be willing to contribute to the content, but I would rather be programming right now at least to come up with a rough mock-up of the idea. I'm sort of wondering just when that might be?I've stated my position on this, but I'm willing to listen to group consensus on this issue to so far as this isn't an irreversible decision.  The fact is that there are dozens or hundreds of other opportunities that Bitcoins could help with, and I'm willing to work on most of those other ideas well before even trying to lobby Wikileaks for accepting Bitcoins as a donation.If Wikileaks finds out and advertises the link for Bitcoin donations, we should be prepared for what might be a huge influx of new people into the forum and as users.  I think the common consensus is that would happen even without a push by the Bitcoin community at all.  Bitcoins are also low key enough that I personally don't think the popular news media (and with that the government regulators) would pay attention to Bitcoins on any sort of scale, but I can understand why people on this forum don't want to expose the Bitcoin community on this issue.I still think it is the right thing to do and I personally am not afraid of what would happen to Bitcoin as software or to the network if such an influx of users and attention happened.  Something is eventually going to break like that, so the Bitcoin community ought to be prepared for that eventuality.  If this concrete example is somehow going to spur on developments that make Bitcoin more secure, it sounds like even the possibility that Wikileaks may use Bitcoins is a good thing.  If not this particular incident, there will be something else like this which may eventually push Bitcoins into the limelight.If Satoshi wants to stay timid, that is his opinion.  We can't stay like this forever though. This is an amount I can show to my wife and justify blowing of a couple of dates.  Seriously, this is enough to actually get the thing started so far as an incentive.  It will be interesting to see how many others might be interested in claiming this bounty.Yes, I know that it is for stuff completed.  We'll see who gets that to happen now. This is one reason I prefer peer to peer solutions as opposed to a client-server protocol.  If you put your money (LR dollars or BTC) into Mt. Gox, you depend entirely on the server operator and his security protocols for the exchanges.  I'm not dissing Mt. Gox here as it is a very valuable service to the community and is becoming a defacto standard place to do exchanges, but a court injunction or some idiot blowing up a car bomb next to the physical server could in theory take out the website.  That can be fixed after a fashion with backup sites and real-time double databases (MySQL supports such a feature where you can have one server acting as "backup" recording all of the database transactions and then "instantly" switch to the backup database as primary if necessary).  Still, it becomes dependent upon what that server operator may or may not do in that situation.  A court injunction is real bad so far as keeping a backup site running would be seen as contempt.  Well, I suppose that is bad for the server operator but not the people using the exchange.  A "failsafe" that could be put into Mt. Gox where at the press of a single button or something similar could "flush" the Bitcoins back out to the users who put those bitcoins back in or have the "backup site" simply perform that flush if the main site went down without some sort of password.  Mt. Gox as an exchange would still be down and the site owner perhaps facing criminal charges, but the coins themselves (and presumably the Liberty Reserve dollars too) could be returned to the rightful "owners" of that money.There are counter measures, but if you get involved in some of these exchanges, you should be aware of the potential risks.  If you have a claim to those coins through the Bitcoin network, this isn't a risk at all at least along those lines and the coins are as safe as the network as a whole. http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2072.0 While a major global thermonuclear war would make life miserable for a great many people and cause some heartaches, I don't think it would necessarily erase all technology.  Still, it is interesting to think about alternatives to the current system of communication and look at alternative.The funny thing about IP over avian protocol is that a carier pigeon has the highest current bandwidth as measured in terms of bits transmitted per second.  The method has drawbacks, of course, but strapping a thumb drive on a pigeon can certainly haul a whole bunch of data in a short period of time, and do so rather cheaply. Sending a hard drive via FedEx is a good way to ship data over intercontinental distances if you have large quantities to transmit, which really is just a variation of that protocol.  While optical transmission methods are getting better over time, a standard "hard drive" has consistently outpaced and in fact grown faster in terms of data density and therefore using a courier for data transmission has been by far more productive to ship large quantities of data than using a communications link.The worst I could see computer technology getting to in a technological collapse is having chip production get reduced down to the 7400 chip series of discrete gates.  The Apollo Guidance Computer which took astronauts to the Moon was built with that technology, as was the Altair computer that started the microcomputer revolution.  While that is a step back, surprisingly something like Bitcoins might survive even that sort of "downgrade" of computer technology, where communications would happen over a simple modem or modem-like telecommunication system.  Once the chip production was going again in any sort of production line, Moore's Law would kick back in all over again as well with all of the benefits (or curses) that come with that kind of technology development.  I don't see a reboot of civilization after such a major war going through the vacuum tube stage of computers like the ENIAC or the UNIVAC systems.  It might be funny to see Bitcoins implemented on something like an Apple II computer, but I think the basic concept could easily be done that way at least with a "thin client" protocol. I think this is a good argument against almost any peer-to-peer distributed database of any kind.  This isn't something unique to just Bitcoin.All of this is sort of strange, as I thought the whole point of the exercise was to try and decentralize the DNS database.  Instead, there is going to be a central point of control for the whole thing and an official "authority" who is going to be acting as a gatekeeper.  Really, this seems to be a betrayal of whatever it is that they were trying to accomplish and they are now becoming an alternate to ICANN, not something which is really a genuine distributed domain repository.  There may be some differences as it may become a sort of Napster of domain registration, but it still has that point of attack, whatever that attack may be from either a digital, legal, or physical kind of attack.It is too bad that they aren't rethinking the entire issue down to its roots, which is an attempt to create a "directory" of the internet.  They are also getting IMHO hyper-paranoid about trademarks, as if coca-cola.com isn't sufficient to identify a particular corporation that most people know anyway.  So what if somebody creates coca-cola.p2p?  Or for that matter wikipedia.p2p?There also seems to be a mindset that it must follow the convention of:<computer> <dot> <domain> <dot> <top level domain>There was an historical reason for the original divisions for .com, .mil, and .edu.  They represented three distinct and separate networks originally called "COM-NET", "MIL-NET", and "EDU-NET".  It is sort of like how telephone systems used to be completely separated between business exchanges and residential exchanges.  When the three networks were finally linked, they had to use some way to identify how to access computers on one network to another, so the "TLD" system was originally set up and some other side "TLDs" were made for "miscellaneous organizations" (.org), "international organizations" (.int), and generic "network resources" (.net).  When people outside of America were participating in adding their networks to the internet, they were identified by their country code , now the various "country code top level domains".Mind you, when the codes were handed out, there was the .us domain which seemed redundant (it was) but those already having .com didn't want to go to a longer .com.us.Anyway, I contend that the whole notion here of a top level domain is something that completely unnecessary, and that viewpoint has been long advocated by Karl Auerbach.  If you've never heard of this guy, it should be important that he was the one and unfortunately only official elected representative of North America to ICANN, and sort of a major rebel.  He was one of the "at-large" directors that had to get a California court to force ICANN to actually show him their books (he was one of the members of their board of directors and supposedly recognized as such by the organization) and because of his efforts his position was dissolved by the appointed board members made up of people hand-picked by major corporations.  The whole experiment of democratically elected representatives to ICANN was killed by the U.S. Department of Commerce... isn't that something?Anyway, if anybody knows DNS backward and forward, it is Karl Auerbach, and one of his positions when he was on the ICANN board was that there was no need to even have a top-level domain system at all, and certainly the number of top level domains could certainly number in the millions or more.  It is simply a directory.This history paper about DNS goes into the gritty details of how it finally got started.  This really is a seminal paper on the history of DNS in terms of how we got to where we are today.Another paper by Karl Auerbach is certainly worth reading so far as to see what a very well thought out objection to the current DNS system as implemented by ICANN was and how when the whole system was created had people proposing some significant alternatives.  Since supposedly we are talking about alternatives to the centralized DNS, I think this ought to be at least one of the key papers worth reading.  It shouldn't be surprising that the problems he identified over twenty years ago are still present in the current system, and it is important to note that there was opposition back then even to the current system.  If you read between the lines, he was even upset over how IP addresses were allocated... which is a completely different beast altogether.I don't think that those working with this new "dot P2P" effort are really reading stuff of this nature.  I find it too bad as well, as it shows the immoral and arguably illegal actions taken by those who set up the current system almost as if it was a sort of Jekyll Island episode of the Internet.  There are a whole bunch of common parallel themes between the formation of ICANN and the Federal Reserve.  In this sense, perhaps Bitcoin really is a good fit as it sort of is a merger of the two systems that have been corrupted by aristocrats in a supposedly egalitarian and "officially" classless society.In short, I think that the "dot P2P" effort is doomed to failure if the continue down the path they are going and not addressing the real problems facing the current system.  Many of those problems are being addressed by BitDNS, even if it is a bit marginalized at the moment.  And I also think that the argument about lost keys is not something nearly as significant either compared to the major issues about what is wrong with the current DNS system. I don't see this as an argument to keep this particular set of code as it current exists.  While the concepts as used with the IP address authentication might be useful so far as helping with thin client transactions, that sounds like a significant protocol extension that goes beyond how it is currently implemented at the moment.  A good base, but something that needs significant upgrading and may even have to be completely rethought and reworked.Essentially, it would be depreciating these messages to be something completely different.  Maybe I'm missing something else here that I'm not seeing.  I don't see the need for backward compatibility to maintain the unauthenticated raw IP address method of requesting the Bitcoin address information.  Keeping that backward compatibility even introduces a potential attack vector which would be nice to close. One of the reasons that I've been trying to document the bitcoin protocol is precisely so we can have a programming language agnostic document for reviewing the software and to find potential flaws in the protocol.  The key is documentation, where the secrets aren't hidden in the code.  You may not know how to program software, but reading protocol documentation like this can also cut through some of the extra stuff that is necessary to simply make the software work which can also be a distraction when reading the straight software code itself for understanding.I also want to add here that I've been building on the work of a whole bunch of people when writing that documentation, and I've got to give a whole bunch of kudos to theymos both for answering my silly questions and correcting some of the errors I've made in terms of assumptions and even misspellings.  I'm not doing that effort alone.  There is quite a bit more to be done on that documentation effort, so if you are interested in helping out, please join in that effort!There is also a need to push for alternate implementations of the protocol.  I know of at least efforts in Python, C#, and Java that are at various levels of completion right now to do just that in addition to the current C++ version that is the main client.  To me, that helps so far as eliminating any sort of central authority over the spec and democratizes the network in the long run.  If one particular implementation of the protocol goes bad, the rest of the network will continue to move along without it, or perhaps the "rogue" implementation will expose a fatal flaw in the protocol.  Either way, it helps to make the network as a whole all that much better.  It also makes the key to protecting the network more about the protocol itself rather than having to do a full security audit of the particular client (although that could be done too).Recruiting people that may be interested in Bitcoins is useful, and perhaps as much as anything else we need people from a more diverse background to get involved too.  Lawyers, merchants, doctors, engineers (of disciplines less related to information technology) and even plumbers, carpenters, fast-food burger flippers and department store sales associates are needed too.  Some of it is to find out what they want and need or would like to use Bitcoins for, and at the same time get them to poke at the software.  By far and away some of the best software analysis I've ever had came from people who had a very different background and did things that I never expected... usually not "experts" but rather very ordinary people who pushed a button or did something in a way I never would have ever thought of trying.  School teachers in particular are very rough on software testing and don't pull punches.In terms of legal protections, I think the whack-a-mole issue that comes from peer-to-peer networks is perhaps the best and most powerful feature of Bitcoins.  This kind of software is a hydra that simply can't be killed, and governments have a very hard time coping with it.  Repeatedly I have many people on these forums insisting I consider a client-server with a fixed address for some project ideas I've proposed, and one of the reasons I am against that is in part because of the role that an oppressive government can have upon somebody whose house can be searched & confiscated.  I think more effort out to be done to encourage more peer to peer programming using Bitcoins, but it takes thinking along those lines to get that to happen.As for possible attacks, the presumption of a government entity wanting to engage in an attack is based upon a belief that governments have command of limitless funds and resources.  That implies both smart people on the government payroll and access to equipment like super-computers and server farms of incredible size.  I suggest that the emperor has no clothes on this point so far as the combined computing power of ordinary people is by far and away much larger than what the government has, but it may not be so easy to pull that many people together to fight the government.  It would be interesting to see what sort of government-sponsored effort to wipe out Bitcoins might be, but I think only a brute force attack would really be effective.  It would involve hundreds of people running tens of thousands of computers at incredible cost.  More to the point, such an attack would have to be approved at a high level where Bitcoin would have to be perceived as a substantially greater threat than other potential enemies.  Even though you as an ordinary citizen may not think that cost is a huge issue, it does become something very important for those who have to manage the resources of a government, even a totalitarian government.  One good defense here is also to make any attack to be far more expensive than any possible gain.Keep in mind that many of the cryptographic techniques used by Bitcoins have been reviewed by the top people in cryptology and have been vetted to one degree or another, even if the specific assemblage as used in Bitcoins hasn't been.  The neat thing Satoshi did here was to put the whole thing together in one neat package from a wide diversity of ideas that have existed for years in computer technology.  I never considered the idea, and I was certainly aware of all of the pieces as separate elements.  I do give Satoshi kudos for coming up with the idea in the first place and that certainly was a stroke of genius.Anyway, this is a good summary you've done here Kiba in terms of outlining some of the major issues facing Bitcoin as a project.  There are some real threats to Bitcoin, but there are also protections and defenses which need to be realistically considered as well. There are currently three messages in the Bitcoin protocol directly related to conducting IP address transactions:- checkorder- submitorder- replyThe only use for these messages is to conduct transactions over an IP address (unless somebody gives me a better excuse).  I get that backward compatibility with earlier clients might make it useful to keep these messages for a time, but at this point the entire notion of sending transactions to an IP address is almost completely refuted as a really bad idea.  Other alternatives such as "accounts" and perhaps other systems could be developed through the network itself that I don't understand even the need to maintain these data structures and messages at all.Is anybody still using IP address transactions?  If you want to keep them in the current client on the philosophy "if it ain't broke, don't fix it", perhaps it isn't doing any harm, but it seems like generally a bad thing to encourage other alternate implementations to create this backdoor that isn't really being used.  I'm glad that the default situation is to simply prohibit people from using this from within the GUI interface, but my question is mainly if they should be formally marked as depreciated messages that are not going to get additional attention in the future?Certainly if you are re-implementing a bitcoin client with the protocol, there is no need that I can see to putting these messages into that client.  Perhaps I'm missing something as to their importance in the protocol, if so, please enlighten me. My largest concern is turning the Bitcoin transaction database into a more generic database for things completely unrelated to transactions.  In other words, I think stuff which isn't a transaction ought to be strongly encouraged to have a completely separate database for that information.  Perhaps a reference to that other database, but we shouldn't by design shove things into bitcoin transactions like jpeg binaries or Wikileaks documents.  Not only is that a waste of bandwith and storage space, it ultimately does more harm than good for Bitcoin as a piece of software on a whole bunch of levels.It isn't that we can't, because such data can be put into a Bitcoin transaction.  I'm suggesting we shouldn't.I should note that one possible "savior" to keep this from happening is that there is a transaction fee for large data dumps... as it should be.  Of course that is only going to drive up transaction costs if that happens regularly too and crowd out transactions for pure monetary exchange.I've seen Twitter used as a file system, so I suppose this would be no different.  Any arbitrary limits could be compensated with through multiple transactions, but I think there ought to be another way to get that accomplished if that was a goal.Perhaps for the BitDNS the data payload would be small.  If so, that wouldn't be the end of the world but other projects would also be dumping data into Bitcoin data as well and any single project would find that they are fighting an uphill battle.BTW, I also agree with theymos so far as when the block chain for Bitcoins is huge that it would make the ability to implement a good DNS server much more difficult and something you likely wouldn't be hosting on a small computer.  This also seems like a strong argument to have a separated database. What would go down the drain?  Really, I think this is making a mountain out of a molehill and if you want to stay anonymous I'm not necessarily stopping you from doing that either.  Some are willing to stand up and others want to hide in the background.  I choose to stand in front if that is necessary.  Many are participating on this project using a pseudonym, and if they are very paranoid through a Proxy IP address and using https for communications to this forum and perhaps taking other precautions.  I am not, because I'm not afraid.  I'm not necessarily against anonymity and even would encourage it for those who find it necessary for whatever reason they have.In short, I don't wish to impose this risk upon others but I am willing to take this risk for myself.I also fail to see how this would marginalize Bitcoin as a software project either.  The best thing, from a political perspective, would be to completely ignore that Bitcoin even exists at all.  If that is marginalizing Bitcion, how is that different from what is going on right now?I suppose the hope here is that Bitcoin will be used by a bunch of people first (it already is) and that perhaps Bitcoin can be known for doing other things than financing Wikileaks.  I am not encouraging that the main page of bitcoin.org have a huge banner across the top "the official fundraising method for Wikileaks".  We don't have to tie ourselves that closely, and anybody who checks out Bitcoin will discover what it is.... an alternative to PayPal and other on-line financial transaction systems with perhaps some other interesting benefits as well.  Is that necessarily a bad thing?  Is there anything new that hasn't been said repeatedly elsewhere?  If you were trying to stay off people's radar, publicity should be avoided altogether.This is also about doing what is right, and this is the right thing to do.  I get the arguments advocating caution, but sometimes you also have to take a stand on an issue too.  There is a down side, and talking about concerns over that perhaps is useful.I agree, success is not guaranteed.  Sometimes you have to take some risks and sometimes do so with imperfect knowledge.  It is a golden opportunity right now for the Bitcoin community, however, to encourage Wikileaks to accept Bitcoin donations and I personally don't think the extra publicity that we may or may not get from having a link on the Wikileaks website would necessarily be a bad thing.  There isn't even any sort of guarantee that Wikileaks will even take Bitcoins if they are being offered.But seriously, what are the downsides anyway?  Do you really think the "Men in Black" are going to shut down Bitcoin?  Really?  If Bitcoin is that fragile and vulnerable to attack, what are we doing anyway and why is it so consistently being defended? Let's put that into the API.  It would be by far and away easier to add a single command that merely exposes something the software is already doing than it is to create a whole new library + API from scratch.  If you have a specific request, I'm sure those involved with active development of the main Bitcoin software would at least consider the idea and might put it into a future update, particularly if you can show it is a pretty trivial request.What other features would be needed with the JSON API that are currently missing?  Even building a "wish list" of requested features would be useful, and I don't think it would be particularly long if it involved simply exposing things already sent around on the network like transmitting data of an existing block or transactions from that block.  It is being built right now on an "as needed" basis, so what is needed? This is so true.  There certainly wouldn't be a shortage of "reliable sources" about Bitcoins at that point.  I think it would likely show up on the front page of most newspapers and be talked about extensively on both radio talk shows and the other broadcast networks too.For myself, I'm getting to the point to say "bring it on" in regards to Wikileaks.  Note that I'm using my real name here instead of a psuedonym and I'm willing to personally say "bring it on" in terms of being associated with Bitcoins as a project.  I've had police come into my house without my permission already and do all kind of stupid stuff, so for me that line being crossed has already happened.  I am also connected to enough people politically that if something was to happen to me that it would be noted and things would happen too.It is the morally correct thing to be supporting Wikileaks, and if they'll take a few of my bitcoins, I not only want to donate but to let the world know that they can donate to Wikileaks through Bitcoins as well.I can't speak for everybody here in the Bitcoins community but I am speaking for myself on this matter, and I'm not afraid of anything that the U.S. government might do to me if I was associated with backing Wikileaks financially.  If anything, it would show that I no longer live under a constitutional government any more.  If the U.S. government wants to tip their hand to expose themselves in that way, so be it.  If the U.S. government kills me or puts me in jail, I'll certainly set a way for this community to find out.  I really don't think it would come to that either, but I don't care if it did.If I have to "vote" on this matter, I would encourage the Bitcoin community to take up the plate like we did with the EFF and encourage Wikileaks to put up a Bitcoin address on their website for donations.  It would bring in some new blood into the Bitcoin community regardless, and it might be beneficial to Wikileaks as well.  Leave it to Wikileaks to see if they want to use Bitcoins or not.  In terms of governmental review of Bitcoins, we know that is going to happen sooner or later, so why are we fighting that inevitable result?  Anything other than a low-key investigation is only going to make more people interested in Bitcoins, which is only going to help the project even more.  It can't be killed as a project, only slowed down a little bit in its growth at this point and more likely its adoption would be accelerated by any kind of publicity that would happen.The only possible concern I would have is over how sound the protocol itself is right now.  If anything, a major flux of new people into Bitcoins would help there too, and the worst that could happen is that Bitcoins itself would be broken in some way where a new cryptocurrency would have to be created fixing the problems of Bitcoins.  It is the idea of cryptocurrency that would then persist, and it is incredibly hard to censor an idea.Basically, bring it on.  Let's encourage Wikileaks to use Bitcoins and I'm willing to face any risk or fallout from that act.-- Robert S. HorningLogan, Utah
I hope we aren't at cross purposes here as there are multiple ideas.  My idea was more that you would throw in a "transaction" that would have a few bitcoins attached (as the transaction fee) so that any potential miner would be encouraged to put that particular "registration" into a block chain like the Bitcoin mining blocks.  The "owner" is merely the person who paid the fee and is identified by a private/public hash like the Bitcoin addresses are being used right now.  In fact, I would propose that the "owner" of a particular domain might as well be a Bitcoin address unless we can think of a more secure way of claiming such ownership.... which would be of value to the Bitcoin project if you can show it would be unsecure.  It is tying the domain ownership to your wallet.dat file making your wallet even more valuable if you got one of these domains.  The actual hash is irrelevant other than it should be defined in the protocol.A block would have a limited number of "transactions" in it... perhaps just 1 but it could be 50 or slightly more.  I don't mind putting a limit at 50 per block in the sense that it might drive up the value of an individual domain and set up some interesting economic theories so far as supply and demand are concerned.  That is a network rule to define in this case.  Obviously a miner could create one of these "domains records" for "free", but then again they are contributing to defending the integrity of the database through CPU proof of work.So really a domain entry would be: - the name itself (e.g. example.bitdns) - a hash of the owning public key (e.g. djiusjfkrhffhdehyormavtrr...) - an optional key which could identify a "new" owner in the case of somebody transferring control of the domain - the IP address(es) of the authoritative DNS server for the name (e.g. 1.2.3.4) - transaction fee paid in BTCA block entry would also have a timestamp that could be rejected if it was for some time in the futureAs a network rule any name collisions that can't be resolved as from the same person making a request for changes would be rejected.  The cost to run this network would be through the transaction fees, where a "miner" may be as inclusive or selective as they care based upon the transaction fees involved.  Miners might have a different fee schedule for "new" domains as opposed to existing domains and could discriminate on that basis... or simply only select to process one kind or another.  All of this would be essentially a marketplace where those trying to "register" domains are playing chicken with those making the blocks, presumably with the miners wanting higher fees and those registering domains wanting lower fees.  My bet is that domain registration fees would be considerably lower than what GoDaddy charges or for that matter any other domain registrar other than those who simply do it for free.  Maintaining the DNS records does have a cost, which is the purpose of the transaction fee as well.The only glitch here that I can see is trying to get those transaction fees to the miner.  The miner needs to be able to demonstrate proof of work before they get paid, and presumably that the proof involved has generally been accepted into the network before they get paid as well.  Otherwise, all I can see is that people are being altruistic and simply mining as a free public good.... which has problems related to a tragedy of the commons as well.  I personally think that you should "pay your own freight" for things like this.  Besides, it provides another way for people to earn bitcoins simply by leaving their computer running if you can get the transaction fees for running such a DNS mining application processing these records.BTW, I created a stub of a document on the wiki for this concept if anybody is interested in filling out some more details of this idea in terms of a formal spec:http://www.bitcoin.org/wiki/doku.php?id=bitdns_draft_0_1I'll see what I can contribute to filling this out, and I'm thinking of bumping this idea up on my own priority schedule for perhaps writing an application to do this.  It sounds like something to really get my teeth into even though I got a couple of other good ideas I'd like to try.  Besides, it sounds like there is some real interest to get this going sooner rather than later among many in the Bitcoins community. This is exactly what I was looking for.  Thanks!  This is also where it isn't just the chain length isn't the important or critical feature but rather the blocks representing more work which is by far and away more important.  Merely having more blocks or a "longer chain" isn't the critical factor here but rather showing that all of the CPUs involved in developing the chain have produced more proof of work."Funny" timestamps can also be a clue something wrong is going on, but that isn't nearly as important.I'm glad to see that Satoshi is a step ahead of me on this  I'm talking two large chains where perhaps the "larger" chain has blocks with inferior hashes with significantly lower difficulty.  The trick would be to somehow do a "sneak attack" with your now much longer chain and to get the miners creating new blocks to accept that new longer chain as the "official" chain and hopefully capture more than 50% of the network CPU effort from that point on.  In theory, you might even "tweak" the difficulty in some way so that most of the blocks in this "new" chain are low difficulty but you ramped that difficulty back up again to match the current network difficulty... making a check of the last block of each chain seeming to be almost equally valid.  This could only be done with a fairly large number of blocks (more than about 5000 blocks or so).  It isn't something you could pull off with just a dozen blocks.  Then again, 5000 blocks represent a whole bunch of mined bitcoins and would invalidate a huge number of transactions too, particularly transactions based upon those blocks as the generated source.  5k blocks may not be enough for this kind of attack.Timestamps would also have to be "faked" in such a situation and some considerable effort to really understand the protocol, but I am suggesting this could be an attack on the network if the difficulty for each block isn't being used as a criteria for inclusion into what the client thinks is the "official" version.  For any given block, yes the hash and the difficulty is very easy to derive.  But over the course of thousands of blocks it isn't nearly so easy to get.Then again, with this kind of attack you would know full well when it hit as I'm sure you would hear collective screaming going on all across the fruited plain as people see their transactions disappear like the morning dew and have Mt Gox collapse with this "hacked" weak chain.  It would be incredibly disruptive if such an attack hit.  This is in fact one of the reasons for putting in the checkpoints, in part to stop this kind of attack and similar kinds of attacks.Since block difficulty is already built into the protocol and is being sent with each block, it would be something easily checked and trivial to compute if a major chain split happened in terms of deciding which chain was the "real thing".  I just don't know if that is happening right now is all.  Scanning the chain for "funny timestamps" might also be a way to combat this kind of attack. Bitcoind is compiled from the same source code as the main Bitcoin with a user-interface, but it is two different packages created from two different makefiles.  As far as network connections are concerned, it is the same software where they both look and behave identically.What you may want to look at is this page:http://www.bitcoin.org/wiki/doku.php?id=apiAlmost every function from examining the structure of the blocks & transactions to sending & receiving coins is there.The primary advantages I can see to perhaps creating a new library is to permit some hooks that allow changes to block inclusion policies for miners, different fee schedules, or tweaking some of the network protocol to include new messages or "services".  Some of that may not even be supported by a library but rather simply re-implementing the protocol on a more basic level in the network itself.It depends largely on what it is that you are trying to do, but I am suggesting that if you don't want to put the effort into writing the library yourself or to re-implement the whole protocol, that using the JSON RPC library is a good way to get much of what you may want to accomplish.  It is deliberately set up in such a way that you can access the information about Bitcoins without having to provide all of the features that a full re-implementation would force you into.Mind you, I'm not even dissing the concept of perhaps a better connected library like libpng which allows you to render images of that graphic format.  What I am saying is that the library does exist after a fashion and if there was something specific to add to the already existing API might be a better route to take unless you are doing something on a very low level related to the network itself.  Certainly you could largely re-create a custom user interface for a specific application using the JSON API going through Bitcoind as it is currently implemented. I'm sort of curious about this particular issue about chain lengths.  Would the current network accept a longer chain that was produced with less processing effort?  In other words, if I happened to create a block chain with say 120,000 blocks with perhaps a couple of buddies or a small server farm (tweaking things a bit to get there), would this new longer chain be accepted as the "official" chain?I can think of a few ways for that to happen right now, even with the current checkpoints "hardcoded" into the software.  I can't think of anything that would squeeze past those checkpoints easily, but from the last checkpoint on there certainly could be some mischief along this line.The one saving grace I can see here is with the block difficulty.  If from block 74000 on you let the block difficulty gradually decrease (it would take some serious hacking to pull this one off) on the "fake chain" it would become progressively easier to make more and more blocks until you then had a longer chain.On the "official" chain, the difficulty would remain high or has happened recently that the difficulty has even increased.  As a result, is it really the chain with the more CPU effort rather than necessarily even block length that ought to be recognized?  I'm just curious if that is implemented as a check or not in the current network client?  A sum of the difficulty level of the chain might suffice here as that additional sort of check, which would defeat a hacker group bent on churning out a whole bunch of corrupt blocks.  Difficulty level is something that would be hard to spoof as it would be directly related to the "proof of work" hash on each block.I'm digging through the verification code, but I haven't been to that part in the official client yet. There is the Bitcoind software that can be used as a library with an API already implemented if you choose to perform actions on the Bitcoin network but don't want to re-implement the whole protocol.  For about 80% of the applications I can think of, that would be more than sufficient.If you are trying to tweak performance, yes a library of functions that allow you to connect to the various parts of the Bitcoin network would be nice as well.  When are you going to write it? In terms of another application here, I could imagine that the day may come for a bunch of "local merchants" that might set up a similar kind of sub-net where they would engage in day to day transactions in a "community" (however you define that term) accumulating credit or debt with it eventually getting settled on the main Bitcoin backbone.  The local "chamber of commerce" might be willing to extend what amounts to be credit to a new "citizen" in the community for trade on this sub-net with the understanding that all debts will be eventually repaid.  Failure to make payment would get you kicked from the sub-net and likely make it difficult or impossible to engage in trade within that community.  A "visitor" may have to put money into the sub-net as a sort of escrow against debts.This is presuming that the main bitcoin backbone is getting hammered real hard with massive numbers of transactions, and that petty transactions worth say less than $100 USD (in BTC equivalent) aren't even worth looking at and would rarely be included in a block.  I can also see that perhaps happening in the future if Bitcoins had widespread adoption the bandwidth and CPU processing needs of running a primary Bitcoin node would be huge even if you weren't doing mining activity at all.  The purpose of the sub-net here would be to isolate the community network bandwidth from the backbone bandwidth, where the transactions within the community (say buying groceries, gasoline, or a burger at the local McDonald's)  would certainly be of interest to the local merchants and they would want these smaller kinds of transactions to happen in their "community".  The purpose of the main Bitcoin network in this case would be to carry on transactions between sub-nets if this situation happened where it started to become difficult to carry on these sort of more mundane kinds of transactions or if transaction fees on Bitcoins started to get to higher levels than most people would want for day to day transactions.  It would also support the use of thin clients a whole lot better if those thin clients stayed on the sub-net.Yes, I realize that this particular sub-net system isn't really needed at the moment for these kind of transactions and that 0.01 BTC is still currently less than $0.01 and requires no transaction fee at the moment either for 90%+ of the miners current on the network.   I guess this is also anticipating into the future what might be a way to scale Bitcoins in such a way that it could administer to other groups when I do think there will be people complaining about "those greedy miners demanding those outrageous fees". Yes, the system needs to be decentralized for the application I have in mind and I'm fully aware of what problems happen with what amounts to be two different floating currencies.Using a system of "voluntary" credits where if somebody owes more than 0.01 BTC would get kicked from the network might be sufficient.  The amount owed would be known to the network as would any transactions between the two parties on the main Bitcoin network.  There are other solutions here, but the intention is to set up a way to exchange fractions of a bitcoin, not some other monetary unit.The real problem here is more of one addressing the issues of micropayments that are on the order of fractions of a cent.  As good as the Bitcoin concept is, it really doesn't address small quantities very well in practice.  Any such transaction is currently presumed to be a flood attack and will usually not get put into blocks with a typical miner requiring a fee that will be greater than the transaction amount itself.  Furthermore, if micropayments did happen commonly on this scale with Bitcoins, it would chew up perhaps more network bandwidth than really ought to be used for Bitcoins with what amounts to be some specialized applications that ought to carry their own bandwidth requirements "out of band" instead.IMHO, if you want to rely strictly upon the Bitcoin network itself, these sort of extreme micropayments simply won't happen.  I presume that when 0.01 BTC is worth a dollar, that miners will relax the rules to permit smaller values to be processed for transactions, but I don't anticipate most miners would really care to process transactions where the fee plus the transaction is less than a cent in FRNs or the equivalent in Euros.  There might be some very altruistic miners who from time to time would process those kind of extreme micropayments, but if the network gets flooded with tens of thousands up to millions of these kind of transactions most miners would ignore them altogether and there likely would be blocks on the nodes themselves from even forwarding these kind of transaction messages to miners in the first place.  In a large part this is anticipating potential problems before they even happen. Are you asking about the message header "size" field, indicating how large the message packet itself is?  I thought that was just a simple 4-byte int value followed by a 4-byte checksum.  That format information comes from main.cpp and also implemented in net.h:Code:    //    // Message format    //  (4) message start    //  (12) command    //  (4) size    //  (4) checksum    //  (x) data    //On the whole, most messages are quite small, with the exception of the transaction messages themselves which can grow to sizes on the order thousands of bytes (10k is the limit for a single script per input or output).  In theory some of the other messages could get fairly large, but still on that order of magnitude peaking at about 50k in extreme situations.  I can see where a shortint is perhaps too small and that a complex transaction with dozens of inputs and outputs might need more than 64k bytes, but you are correct that there is no need to get past the gigabyte range for message sizes.*Edit* I also found this little snippet of code relevant to this discussion:Code:static const unsigned int MAX_SIZE = 0x02000000;(from serialize.h)This is the current maximum size for any single message on the network at the moment, as something larger than this is simply going to be rejected. In terms of well-respected cryptographers involved with the "technology" of Bitcoins, there certainly is quite a bit of research that is happening with the SHA-256 algorithm including trying to find out weaknesses and hopefully make up a better algorithm that would accomplish the same job if not do a better job.  The NSA is active in that investigation including some candidate algorithms that are being examined that might work better than this algorithm for cryptographic hashing.As for really examining the Bitcoins algorithm itself, that hasn't really been heavily reviewed but that is something happening right now mainly within the community.  That is certainly something Bruce got square on in terms of talking about the "open source software" as many eyes do make bugs quite shallow.  There have been some significant updates which have fixed some problems in the past, and I expect to see some in the future because of community involvement to point out weaknesses in the network design.  Legitimate weaknesses will be addressed if they are raised.. There have been plenty of discussions about how to add extra digits onto the right of the decimal point if we ever had the dire need to get that accomplished.  The basic conclusion was that in the 50-100 years it will take for that to become an issue and the number of people who will be involved with Bitcoins when that becomes a major issue, the data structures necessary to make the extra digits work can be found.  There are a whole bunch of extensible data structures that could expand the number of digits that in theory could be used to number the elementary particles in the whole universe and last people using Bitcoins billions of years.This is a problem that would be nice to have, where Bitcoins has grown so much so fast that we have to use the full granularity of the protocol as it currently exists. Fine, don't make it an official client, but you certainly can have other clients that implement the main protocol and put in extensions.  That, BTW, is one of the reasons I'm trying to document the protocol in the first place because I also agree that a project of this nature shouldn't have everything pushed into a central repository that can be attacked.  Gnutella survived precisely because its specification was published and many variation of the client were created.Of course it took shutting down the distribution of the "official client" to make the variety of clients pop up, but it still happened. It is also important to note that new coins are being introduced into the overall network at a slow and very measured pace.  The "goal" is to permit only one new "block" that contains new bitcoins to be created only every 10 minutes by anybody anywhere in the entire world using the Bitcoins network.  Each block contains 50 bitcoins, and the only way you can get one of those blocks is to compete for obtaining that block through a "proof of work" effort that has everybody searching for a "hash".The difficulty of that effort varies, and if the number of blocks arriving over the course of a few days doesn't meet this goal of one every 10 minutes, the difficulty creating these blocks increases or decreases depending on how many people are active in trying to create these blocks.  If you were the only person on the network creating these blocks with a typical home computer, the difficulty level would be about 1, which would have given you the ability to get a block every ten minutes.  Right now the difficulty level is something like at about 8000, and has shown a very steady rise for as long as I've been involved with Bitcoins.  I expect the difficulty level to be even higher than 10,000 shortly.  What this means really is that you have about a 1 in 10,000 or worse odds of getting the next block in the next 10 minutes (it varies depending on the computer hardware and options you are using, but that gets the idea across).  It is for this reason that on average even if you have a pretty good computer system you shouldn't expect to get more than about one of these bitcoin blocks about every few months even if you are actively trying, and for people with slow CPUs like a laptop may take a year or longer to generate one of these blocks for yourself, and that is with the current difficulty.Think of trying to get blocks as something akin to a lottery ticket, where Bitcoin users are entering literally thousands of tickets each second, and some are even entering millions of tickets each second to see if they will "win" the next block.  Only one person, on average, will get the next block over the next 10 minutes and thus win 50 BTC, or about the equivalent of about $12 at current exchange rates for that effort if it was traded for dollars.Running bitcoins simply to make money is in the long run not going to be very cost effective if your goal is to earn them by "mining" the coins.  It still helps, but the main point is to use the software for trading the coins for other considerations like buying stuff with them or selling things for bitcoins. Digging around, I found this very interesting article apparently written by Satoshi:http://www.scribd.com/doc/35298188/Digital-Gold-Currency-Magazine-August-2010I wish I knew more about the Digital Gold magazine, but it is a very nice and well written article about Bitcoins. The reason this isn't really a financial pyramid is that the foundations of the concept of Bitcoins are pretty solid and based upon scarcity.  By definition a single Bitcoin is a rare item that is uniquely identified (it comes from a specific block number generated by a specific user and can only be owned by a single person).I should also note that not everybody or anybody can get 50 BTC "for free".  All that is happening right now is a very steady and controlled process where bitcoins are gradually being added to the system.  Satoshi could have been in the situation where he and he only controlled all 21 million bitcoins and then handed them out to others freely to conduct transactions.  Perhaps that might have been a better way to start out as well, but it would have concentrated a whole bunch of the wealth in the hands of just a few people.  What the current mining activity does is both give an incentive to be active in the protection of the network and provides a currency distribution model that places more coins into the hands of more people.  Those people who are currently running miners are essentially playing a lottery game to try and win additional bitcoins where they are entering thousands of "tickets" (called "hashes" by miners) to see if they can possibly "win" the next group of 50 BTC that will be generated with the next block.I've been successful at winning a block of 50 bitcoins exactly once, and I consider myself to have been very lucky to have done that.I consider it wrong to even think of bitcoins to be a form of electricity but rather than a bitcoin simply is a unit of luck.  You can "buy" that luck or simply have the universe align itself to give you that luck.  What it means to have luck turn out to be a quantifiable value can have some profound philosophical questions if you really think about it. This is an unfalsifiable statement because I have no idea what might be an historical example which could demonstrate how "intellectural property" promotes growth, what that growth may or may not be, or even or even what exactly it is that you are talking about by "intellectual property" as if some thought pattern in the neural cortex of a brain can possibly be "owned" in an exclusive manner.As such, it may be a belief as in "I believe in the flying spaghetti monster that when it arrives from the Andromeda Galaxy it will eliminate all universal hunger."  It may even be a firm belief, but it is grounded on nothing at all.If you may, however, I'll try to define some of these terms.  In particular this main thread is talking about copyright law, so if we stick with "copyright law" as opposed to "intellectual property" we might be able to somewhat narrow the focus of this statement a fair bit.  I am also going to define perhaps "growth" relating to the number of new books published over a regular time interval with those works available for anybody to be able to read or view, furthermore defining those as books which have been mass-produced in quantities greater than two.  Hand-written journals and a single copy for personal enjoyment don't count... this is something written by an author with at least the strong intention that more than one other person is expected to be able to read the thing other than that original author.I'll also furthermore define a specific time frame to look for historical examples, and will put that at the invention of the printing press with Johannes Gutenberg starting at roughly the years between 1400-1500 A.D. and continuing to the present day.  Prior to the development of the printing press the value of a book was mainly in the transcription of that book so the book itself was considered in and of itself to be a valued and treasured item that would be more akin to "real property" as opposed to "intellectual property".  In the year 1000 A.D., if you owned a "library" of more than one book (or even simply had a book at all) you would be considered quite wealthy as the production of something like the Christian Bible represented about a year's worth of labor or more.  Copying the contents of books was more like worries over trade secrets rather than encouraging somebody to create the written content in the first place.  People copying the Bible was actually illegal because the priests of the era didn't want ordinary "lay people" to find their "secrets".  A great many people including William Tyndale literally gave their lives simply for copying the Bible, and in that sense is the foundation of free speech laws and constitutional amendments to make sure their lives weren't lost in vain.I should also note that like the creation of the internet, the printing press was an incredibly disruptive technology.  Somebody copying something like the Bible or heaven forbid as William Tyndale did to even "translate" that text into such a vulgar language like English was simply unheard of.  And then as Tyndale did to furthermore mass-produce that text at great personal cost (it ultimately cost him his life) and see to it that it was distributed to as many people as possible.  As a side note, much of the "King James Version" of the Bible is derived from the original translation by Tyndale.  His contribution to world culture certainly was quite significant.Getting back to this growth issue, there certainly were a substantial number of books produced before copyright law was even enacted.  The first law covering English language texts was called the "Statute of Anne", passed in 1707.  Interestingly, this was created by what amounted to be a trade guild for printers in London called the "Stationers' Company" and set up a legal situation where only members of this guild were permitted to publish anything at all.  All other printing presses by non-guild members were to be destroyed along with whatever they printed, and money earned from that activity to be confiscated (and kept by the British crown).  Let's just say that this was seen as incredibly draconian and it was something that also impacted people in North America as well because it made publication of the Bible by anybody other than a London printing house to also be illegal.  Ben Franklin might have pushed boundaries hard for much of what he did, but that was one line he didn't cross until well after the American Revolution happened.  The monopoly was eventually relaxed, but copyright law was at this point firmly established as a principle about this time... in response to the printing press.Basically, the assertion here is if copyright law has any sort of encouragement role for authors to publish their works.  I suppose I can give a personal testimony to the fact that I do consider it to be an incentive for myself, and I know of others who would consider it to be so.  Still, let's stick to objective facts:We do know from registration records from the Library of Congress that the number of publications since its creation has shown exponential growth in terms almost every possible metric that can be used for measurement.  This can be in terms of the number of authors registering their works, the number of titles produced, the number of different subjects covered by those titles, the kinds of media used to create published works, and the physical size of the library itself.  Even now the "Library of Congress" is currently used as a standard in the information technology field representing perhaps the sum total largest possible amount of data that is currently being used and exchanged on a regular basis, where holding a "LoC" of data is considered perhaps a holy grail for data storage specialists.  The data would be counted in terms of how many letters there are in all of the books in the library together with digitized versions of all of the illustrations combined as a whole, or digitized versions of all other reproducible works of art.  It represents a substantial amount of data and is something which can certainly be approximated to within an order of magnitude or so in terms of how much material that library has and how that information in the form of books has been received by the library over time.  Records at the library have historical information going back to the establishment of the library by Thomas Jefferson, in terms of when the books were first published and when they were received by the library.The problem here is that any sort of conclusions drawn from the statistical database made up of depository records at the Library of Congress depends upon a great many variables including population growth, technological changes, changes in legislation, and a great many other factors that unfortunately doesn't offer a control group to effectively compare the growth and creation of content under copyright law vs. growth that would have occurred without it.  Registration happens with the Library of Congress explicitly because of copyright law, as at least in America all publishers are required to "donate" a book or other media to the library in exchange for copyright protection.  That also accounts for its size as well.The main problem is that there is no "control group" to be able to make a fair comparison as to how much content is produced in a place that lacks copyright law and someplace else of a similar demographic nature which has a strong copyright law.  However it can be pointed out that there has been growth of reproducible works of art including books while there has been a copyright law in effect, that copyright term lengths don't seem to have a major impact on the number of works created or the growth of that creation either.  This can be and is in fact used by proponents of strong copyright laws and longer copyright terms.  I tried to use examples of Chinese and Russian copyright as an exception, but the largest problem there is that both countries have copyright law and have had it for nearly a century each as well making any sort of comparison mainly over copyright term lengths rather than the existence or lack thereof for copyright law itself.In this sense the only even remote control group is during the brief period of time from when the printing press was created until most countries adopted copyright law.  That there certainly were people willing to publish books and to do so at a profit without copyright law in effect can certainly be seen.The only other possible sources of comparison that I can think of then would be with computer software titles in some sort of overall survey in terms of the various economic models being used for software distribution.  It may be possible to dig up the number of titles that have been produced with either a pure proprietary license, those which have been simply placed into the public domain, and then comparing other sorts of "copyleft", non-commercial only, and perhaps "shareware" titles as well.  This gets back to the argument of "copyleft" vs. "copyfree" and based upon my experience I would dare say that those works which have been placed directly into the public domain haven't seen nearly as much growth as the other kinds of software distribution methods.  Furthermore, "copyleft" has been certainly outstripping "non-commercial only" licenses at a much faster and higher growth rate from many objective measures.  In terms of the number of titles or even the number of "copies" shipped of "copyleft" as opposed to a "pure proprietary" licensed software, I would say that my gut feeling is that they are roughly the same at the moment.  Proprietary licensed copyrighted content (like say Microsoft Windows and Adobe Photoshop) still dominate the marketplace, although the measurement metrics are not really fair comparisons even here.  About the only objective measurement I've seen of this is to take a very active website and count up the various kind of web browsers which include operating system data and do a comparison of each browser with the assumption that each unique IP address represents a different person.  One place to look at for some of these statistics can be made here: http://www.w3schools.com/browsers/default.asp  Since presumably the servers themselves are agnostic in terms of what browser or operating system is being used, it provides a sort of apples to apples measurement in terms of what might be the relative "market strength" of each kind of software and how far have the ideas penetrated.  "copyleft" software has certainly shown a strong showing and in fact rank as the top kind of licensing model, considering that Firefox represents the current largest number of browsers on the internet and Apache usually running on Linux represents by far the largest number of servers.  In terms of the operating system of the browsers, it is by far and away held by Microsoft, although Linux and the Macintosh operating systems certainly seem to be holding their own.  Nowhere to be found here is any sort of "public domain" software in any of these statistics or anything that might be close to the definition of "copyfree", so the question I would raise is "why is that?"Copyleft software, at least by these numbers, is shown to be a viable distribution model that people will support both for development purposes and for those actually using the software once it is created.  The ability to create works and simply "give them away" and to put them into the public domain has also been around for about the same length of time, yet it hasn't been nearly as "successful" in terms of adoption and growth in the market place.  At the same time, a straight out "all rights reserved" and commercial content distribution model has also been very successful in terms of actually getting the software to ordinary end-users and providing the quality of software that they are needing.  My question would then be to point out how perhaps "copyfree" might do that job better.  If not, it is going to be a mime that will die.  Where is the growth that comes from abandoning copyright altogether? If you are planning on creating such a service, at least "consult with a local lawyer" and see what kind of legal requirements you may face.  Running such a site might be illegal in many jurisdiction.Heck, where I live even connecting to an on-line gambling site is sufficient to throw me into jail, where there have been some prosecutions on the matter.  Gambling debt (aka any credit card charges made for gambling) is also unenforceable in the local courts where I live too, even though Guido and his buddies roughing you up for non-payment may try to discourage you from backing out of such debts.If you are looking for legal advise, contact an attorney.  If you are wondering what laws might be on the books about gambling, I could point to some specific statues although it largely depends on where you live.  I would imagine in Nevada that you can set up such a website, but you would have to register with the state gaming commission... although federal law prohibits on-line gambling as a general rule throughout all of America and similarly make enforcement of debt (aka credit card charges) unenforceable in regards to gambling too. I just listened to this intereview.  BTW, you did a really good job, especially once you got going.  If you ever get a chance to talk about this again, you might want to come up with an "elevator story", aka explain the key parts of whatever it is that you want to "sell" in less than 30 seconds.One HUGE mistake you've made here is to suggest that there is no cost for transactions.  That really isn't true even if at the moment it may be the case.  The interesting thing about Bitcoins is that the transaction cost is VOLUNTARY!  You can attempt to make a transaction where you don't include transaction fees, but you can make a "donation" to the "network" with the benefit that the transaction will be "confirmed" faster.  Transaction fees do take a bit to get your head wrapped around them, but once you realize that it is a sort of tip jar for processing transactions, it makes much more sense.  It is also important to note that the latest version of the official client (0.3.17) just introduced a way to add the transaction fee (aka the "tip") into the transaction.  It is the "miner" that collects the fees.Another thing that perhaps would be more useful to explain is the concept of a "miner".  Most of what the casual user is doing can be more compared to perhaps some of the early California gold miners in 1849 that were panning for gold where running your computer is more like dipping your prospecting pan into the river and getting perhaps a couple of dollars from finding a little bit of gold dust.  There are some people (mentioned on these forums) who are much more serious about the issue and have set up server farms and come up with specialized software like the GPU mining software which creates the "hashes" for creating new blocks.  These would be analogous to the big mining companies that later came to California to do some serious digging up of the ground.  You can run the Bitcoin client, but it really isn't going to get you all that much money and you have to be lucky.It also didn't get across very well another concept, and that is that blocks creating new bitcoin blocks are only generated about once every 10 minutes.  To me personally, this is by far and away more important than even the 21 million BTC limit and at the moment the only real thing that is maintaining the current value of Bitcoins.  There may be mild "inflation" right now in the overall Bitcoin economy, but it is at a very controlled rate and that when a hundred thousand people come onto the network, it will become much more difficult to "generate" or "mine" new bitcoins because there will be more people trying to compete for this limited supply of new coins being generated.  At any given time, there is a current overall limit to the number of coins available by anybody.  I've argued that the 21 million BTC limit isn't necessarily important at all, but that is my own political philosophy going at the moment and it is irrelevant other than to note there are different opinions on that topic too.It also would have been nice to mention the notion that the overall size of the Bitcoin "economy" has a net worth of more than $1 million USD.  That number comes from the total number of Bitcoins currently available multiplied by the current exchange rate.... sort of a market cap type calculation.Anyway, those are all trivially things to nitpick about, but on the whole you at least got the idea across that there is something real going on, and that real people are "investing" real money into the concept of Bitcoins. I don't have a problem with somebody "renewing" their lease in some manner where they have at least "first try" at keeping that lease.  The "public good" coming from paying the lease fees is maintaining the network.I don't understand this "sending it to yourself" however.  The domain registration would be something confirmed by a network.  If you were mining these blocks, you might get lucky and mine the block you are also using to register a domain, but perhaps you wouldn't be doing that either. Another interesting source surfaced that certainly would be of interest to Bitcoin users, and it shows that the word about this project is getting out there:http://www.thejakartapost.com/news/2010/08/31/power-the-people.htmlThe preface to the article is particularly interesting, although it sort of implies that nobody is creating anything new on the internet anymore.
Here is an interesting thing that could be added to the Bitcoin protocol:Right now there is an 8-byte (64 bit) identifier which can be used to identify which "services" that a particular bitcoin node is participating with.  (see http://www.bitcoin.org/wiki/doku.php?id=bitcoins_draft_spec_0_0_1#version for details) The only field currently used in the client is the "NODE_NETWORK" flag, with a value of 1.Presumably, if somebody was running a node that would act as a "server" for concentrating mining activity and forming a core for pooled mining activity, that could be "broadcast" as a separate "service" that the node provides.  If none of the nodes you are currently connected to has that service, you could keep searching for other nodes that might be offering the service you are looking for.The trick here is to define the protocol that would be used for such a pooled mining client/server and perhaps more significant would be setting up some sort of trust metric that could also be applied as well.  The purpose of the trust metric would be to know who to trust if you perform work for a particular node.  Some nodes would be "greedy" and keep all of the coins themselves and others would be "generous" where it can be confirmed that coins have indeed been distributed due to mining activity.Special "messages" could be defined for those nodes that implement this particular "service", which would take care of actually sending and receiving the handshaking data necessary for such distributed mining activity.Note that none of this really needs to be put into the official client right away, but if it was implemented in this manner with coordination through Satoshi in terms of implementing this as another service, it seems likely that it might be "blessed" as official in a future update.Another advantage of doing it this way is that it would be done through the "peer-to-peer" network itself, so you could have some "part-time" mining servers that could go up and down from time to time.  If one server goes down, you can switch to another server as it is merely another nodes that is acting as a pool collector.  The switch could be automated, with priorities going to nodes that have a high trust value (and a trust metric that can be tweaked "manually" by the person running the client software).This sounds like a fun project to try out. I think you basically hit upon what the Bitcoin equivalent to these "credit coins" really would be:  Coupons redeemable by a merchant or service provider.  There are some businesses who do recognize coupons of competitors and will even do some funny things like "double coupons" where they double the value of the coupon sent out by a manufacturer.  I could imagine some kind of cryptographic coupon that could be issued by a manufacturer, sent around to different places and perhaps even traded as if it was sort of a form of money only to eventually be "redeemed" by an end consumer who buys a product or service from that business who issued that coupon.I know that there have been some laws put into place to try and stop "coupon exchanges" and prohibiting merchants from doing the "double coupons" or even having coupons at all.... usually local laws that are trying to "protect the consumer" when in fact they tend to do the opposite and the net effect of such laws tends to make for higher prices that the citizens in those towns have to pay for day to day things they use.The one thing a smart merchant would do is to put limits or terms upon the coupons... mainly to keep the merchant from going out of business.  A 10% off coupon is pretty reasonable in terms of "advertising" to get somebody to come into a store that has never been there before.  In this sense, a 10 BTC "coupon" that could be certified to be unique might be something worth doing, or even without cryptology or other certification too.  I've seen plenty of merchant coupons that you can print on your home printer and take to a store, simply giving proof that you've seen their website.  It certainly is something that is completely compatible with Bitcoins and IMHO the cryptographic process of Bitcoins actually make coupons of this nature much more attractive for on-line shops where you could produce coupons that couldn't be duplicated.  Traded perhaps, but once they are used it would be pulled out of circulation.  It would also by their nature limit their use, but it could be a form of "money" in some circumstance.If we can get the Bitcoin banner ad business going, throwing in a promise to get a Bit-coupon provided that the visitor to that website click on the banner ad might be an interesting marketing experiment in its own right.  It sounds like something to at least try out. I guess oaths are meaningless now and in this case the last person to take this particular oath never really intended to actually read the document that he was supposed to "perserve, protect, and defend".  I suppose he thought that as long as the National Archives building was covered with federal agents, that as long as nobody was physically stealing the actual document, that his oath was fulfilled.I don't understand why people like Tom Flanagan aren't just ripped apart by those who supposedly claim to follow philosophies as outlined in the document that I'm quoting here.  Similar principles supposedly also apply in most other countries of the world, but apparently it doesn't apply to Julian Assange or anybody working with Wikileaks.  That "no law" may be made is a pretty bold statement.  It can't be regulated or have legally defined limits.I can only hope that those in this world are starting to wake up and just see how corrupt these government officials are that talk about doing all kinds of things to Wikileaks and trying to "make a law" that will stop a group like Wikileaks from being able to do what they are doing.This whole thing just disgusts me altogether.The best thing that the governments of this world could have and should have done is to ignore Wikileaks as an organization.  If asked by the press, the response should have been "Who?  Never heard of them." and left it at that.  "Talked about in the news media?  I don't watch those shows, sorry. It depends on the domain registrar and a few other factors.  Back when ICANN ran domain registrations directly, all you needed to do was to simply spoof the e-mail address of the person who made the registration and change the contact information... hoping that the reply from ICANN would get lost in the junk mail with spam and other garbage.  Once you switched the contact information, switching almost everything else was incredibly trivial and a piece of cake.It is a bit harder now and the domain registrars do require a bit more identifying information, but nothing that a good private investigator would be unable to provide.  Really, the current domain registration is incredibly insecure and there are even "legal" means to "steal domains" that merely need a pretty competent attorney to cover your back if you want to do it through the judicial system.  That is how nissan.com was taken from a small business in southern California in spite of the fact that the last name of the guy really was "Nissan" running a used car business with the name "Nissan Motors" and registered the domain well before the perhaps more famous automobile company got the domain changed.On top of that, the DNS system itself is very much open to attack as long as you can somehow get trusted as a "peer" by one of the main root servers.  There are various kinds of attacks upon DNS records themselves which can be done, some easier than others and some of them requiring better knowledge about computer networking than others, although there are some "kiddie scripts" and "hackerwarez" that you can get to do all of this is you really want to.  I'd strongly suggest staying away from those program mainly because they are trojan and virus sources if you try to just Google for them.  In other words a good way to get your system rooted and part of a bot net not under your control if that is your goal.  If you want to go the hacker route, learning about the protocol itself and sticking to discussion groups is a much better route to go.None of this is new to somebody who is familiar with the DNS system, and it really is just a house of cards much flimsier than what anybody can possibly believe if you aren't familiar with how it was all set up in the first place.My point is that using a simple sort of cryptographic storage for the registration of the information is vastly more secure in terms of making sure the information doesn't get tampered with or manipulated that the current system.  Even DNSSEC, the supposed "savior" of the DNS system to keep spoofing from happening (and largely unimplemented by most ISPs unfortunately even for that level of security) is only as good as the domain registrar's security.  Social hacking can still happen.It is for this reason that I think a bitcoin-related system would work much better and be insanely simple to operate.  On top of that, there would be no gatekeeper in terms of who gets authority to decide if you get the registration.  You simply apply, throw in the fees for processing the application, and the domain registration gets put into the system.In terms of the "leasing" option, the only advantage of doing that which I can see is to make sure that the domain itself remains in the "public domain" at some point.  Domain registration is a public service and unfortuantely there are people who have taken domain registrations as a sort of "land grab" where the earliest get the best stuff first.  By putting a leasing ability into the standard (and the "lease" is from all of mankind, not any individual), it forces those who grabbed the domains early on to do some "work" or at least pay up to maintain those leases.  Presumably if maintaining those domains is expensive, they'll simply let them expire rather than having to constantly renew the domains.  It also provides a source of revenue for those who are mining blocks as well so it also maintains the integrity of the database... in other words the chain of blocks being used to keep track of all of this information. What do you need explained? In theory you could also put a "lease" on that domain so that after a certain period of time defined within the network protocol the lease would expire.  In this case, if somebody "lost" their wallet the domain could become available after the lease expires.  It wouldn't necessarily make the domain worthless either, as the IP address associated with the domain would still be valid, and the domain would still resolve even after the wallet was lost, but if there was an issue where the person owning the domain switched to another network (and a different IP address) it could be a bit of a problem.None of these are intractable problems, and IMHO much of this makes domain addresses much more secure than is the case at the moment with domain addresses you get from GoDaddy, Verisign, or ICANN directly.  Social hacking and some other generally minor hacking by somebody with just some casual knowledge about computers is all that is really necessary at the moment to change most domain registrations or "steal" a domain. Exactly!  It would become a marketplace where those people willing to put resources into building this chain would set the fee they think is most appropriate.  I really don't see this happening without fees getting put in at some point.This is also something where deflation would be dealt with through the marketplace as well, as there would be increased competition if transaction fees started to get a little high where somebody offering to take on perhaps slightly lower transaction fees would push their way into the block making competition.  So if 0.01 BTC becomes worth $100, there might even be many "miners" willing to charge perhaps only 0.001 BTC or an even smaller amount. In terms of a thin client, I'm not entirely sure that blocks would be necessary at all.  Certainly a thin client may only have to keep track of the last few blocks to confirm transactions have been accomplished and what blocks may have coins they are using.  In addition, they would have to listen to and transmit unconfirmed transactions that are floating around the network, but it wouldn't have to be all that much data. Presumably if the protocol requires a renewal transaction, the identity authentication system (likely a public/private hash key) would allow you to create a new "transaction" on the network submitting the necessary information along with a transaction fee.  Good luck with this one.  I'm sure that there are going to be a whole bunch of questions which will be raised from some very skeptical listeners.  I know when I first heard about Bitcoins (via Slashdot originally) I thought my leg was being pulled hard and that there was no way it could possibly work.  Skeptics with an open mind ought to be your target audience here for explanations.Mention how one of the first significant "real world" transactions was buying a pizza.  That is something many people could relate to, not to mention showing how the value of a bitcoin has gone up considerably since then. It is funny how people are thinking about the same issue at the same time.  I have been trying to think of some way that another "chain" using Bitcoin principles of hashing might be able to use Bitcoins as a transaction fee:http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2028.0The issue here is that you would need some way for those "mining" new blocks into this sort of DNS data block chain (or any other kind of similar data protected by a hash chain with miners) to receive some sort of transaction fee for processing that chain.  In this case, the incentive for processing the DNS entries would be to receive these transactions fees.... which could be quite considerable depending on what people would be willing to pay for a domain name under this system.I have considered perhaps an alternative, which would have the main Bitcoin miners of the main chain have as "optional" transactions to be processing in such a way that could let the miner itself keep these transaction fees.  My main objection to doing that is that it puts far too much processing into miners and makes a bottleneck that I think we would all rather not have.  Bitcoin miners ought to be for bitcoin transactions alone, but it is at least something to consider.This thread I mention here goes into the technical details, but it is something that could help with this idea too.  I haven't completely "solved" the problem, but I have at least identified what issues need to be solved.Besides, it would be nice if there were other ways for those interested in using Bitcoins to be able to earn them since the main mining of coins is now being locked up with with stronger computers and GPU miners of various kind including server farms.The one advantage here of using a fee is to avoid a tragedy of the commons, where those who want to register a domain or transfer "ownership" of that domain would have to put up real money to do so.  The fees don't go to some central processing bureau or organization, but rather to those who are doing the real work, which is processing the actual domain registrations itself. Going over the transaction specs, I noticed a "lock time" attribute on each transaction.  With this, there is apparently some sort of protocol envisioned for being able to push transactions to various nodes but also require them to be included at some future block instead of being processed immediately.  In other words, it is a request to miners to not include the transaction "no earlier than" some particular block number.  In addition, there is the ability for details about the transaction to be modified subsequent to its inclusion into a block.My question is in a couple parts:  Is this in the roadmap for getting implemented in the future or is this simply an idea that hasn't really been completely thought through?  What kind of security issues are there in terms of a 3rd party "changing" the transaction information and simply updating to a new transaction version?  Or is this a "no later than" type of notification where the transaction expires after a certain block number has been created?It is an interesting feature to Bitcoins if it could be pulled off.  Apparently most miners are not paying attention to this attribute as well, and it may be something to reconsider. Given the choices, I would vote for #1 I thought of a system which would be essentially e-mail postage, where as a variation on this theme you could pay 0.01 BTC per message (linked to a BTC address), and perhaps set up a mailing list that would charge per subscriber that in turn would send the messages back out.  In this case the e-mail recipient would receive the money with the e-mail and ditto with the mailing list (per message).  That does get to the problem of people trying to build up multiple e-mail addresses for the purpose of earning money too, so it isn't a perfect solution.Still, that would certainly cut out the spam in a hurry, yet still not be too expensive.There was an earlier discussion about USENET, which fits right in with this concept where if you want to talk about a technology which was overwhelmed by spam and the commons in general.  It worked for many years until finally the signal/noise ratio was unbearable and more often than not the binary lists were filled with viruses.  That resource could have remained valuable had some economic system been in place.As a general concept, I like this idea and certainly think it needs some extra throught.  I love the diversity of ideas being presented here too! This outage was a bit strange as it seemed to impact a couple of different Bitcoins related websites.  Perhaps that was coincidence as well.  The coincidence with getting a Reddit link seems to be more than mere coincidence too.  That is why I wasn't sure if this was a denial-of-service attack or simply a bad server that may have given up due to a crush of incoming volume.Setting up a usenet newsgroup isn't too hard, particularly if you run a usenet server.  The problem is mainly one of if anybody wants to bother as Usenet has been so full of spam that it generally isn't worth reading anymore.  The nice thing about Usenet is that it is decentralized... not quite peer to peer but pretty close and allows "live" synchronization between the various archives so no single server being down will necessarily keep participants from continuing conversations on the various threads or discussion groups.  I've run some quality usenet server software that takes all of about 5-10 minutes of configuration, and if all you are doing is a "private" or "custom" newsgroups with peers that you trust or know about, you can ignore the other newsfeeder services altogether.  I would suggest avoiding Google unless you are more into the Google Groups themselves, not because of usenet services.Most quality e-mail reader software like Thunderbird has built-in usenet readers as well.  It just takes getting used to using the forums in that manner. I have an interesting discussion going on with another thread that brings up a technical question regarding Bitcoins itself:http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2001.0There was also another discussion started that suggested some alternate ideas about how to use Bitcoins and a bitcoin-like generator for other purposes:http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1790.0I'm sure that other discussions of a similar vein have been started too, but in these discussions I've considered the problem of how to transfer Bitcoins to potential miners in this situation.For instance, I would like to set up some algorithm where you could "set aside" some Bitcoins for somebody who can perform a publicly recognized and "certified" form of work.  The exact criteria could be defined in some other manner, but what would happen is that the coins would be put perhaps in some sort of escrow until that algorithm releases those coins to a designated Bitcoin address when the work is completed.Explicitly what I'm trying to do is find a way to have miners of a secondary chain be able to collect bitcoins for their "proof of work" hashes on those secondary chains.  The issue really is more of a synchronization issue where there is an agreement to have transaction fees on the secondary chain get put into the primary Bitcoin blocks as Bitcoin transfers between users of defined addresses.Specifically, the algorithm I'm thinking of using here in regards to the stock exchange block is one where the share transactions are collected by "miners" for the stock exchange chain and all Bitcoin transfers are in turn relayed to the Bitcoin network as ordinary Bitcoin fee transfers.  Since there is the potential for competing nodes and competing chains (based upon similar principles to Bitcoins) the actual transfer of Bitcoins for the miner shouldn't happen until after the block is clearly accepted into the chain, for example when the block is 10-15 blocks deep into the chain.  At that point this particular "hash miner" will receive the coins for its part in preparing and processing the transaction of the secondary chain and the "escrow" will be released.I can see this being done with other kinds of escrow services where perhaps some sort of double hash or certification algorithm would be set up with the escrow service then releasing funds when agreed to by both parties.  Perhaps this is the same thing, but then again it might be a different problem domain altogether.The real trick here is that it involves a third party in the form of a miner who is receiving funds from at least one of the parties in a transfer "with consideration of other things", and then on top of that this third party isn't defined until after they have performed the work to build the block and get it accepted into the chain.  We do this with miners of the main Bitcoin chain, but since they are processing the transactions themselves they also can be selfish and keep "leftover" bitcoins in the form of transaction fees.  It gets even more complicated here because a fourth party, the main Bitcoin miner, is also involved in trying to process the fees in question.  It is one person sending money to three different people (potentially) where only one of those people is known ahead of time and the other two people must show some kind of "work" to "earn" the money set aside for that work.Perhaps this is impossible, but on the other hand I think it could be resolved in a number of different ways too.  Perhaps all of this must be incorporated into the main BTC mining chain as an "extended service" where miners could earn some extra coins (at their option).  Perhaps it simply can't be done at all.  I'm willing to think "beyond the box" here and realize this isn't an easy problem to find an elegant solution.  My preference would be to find a peer to peer network solution, but if it can only be done with a central server doing transactions, so be it too.Please keep this to the technical discussion of this particular problem and not get into the stock market philosophies... which should stay on the other thread. When I see somebody claim that Y2K was a non-event, I have to either assume this is a strawman argument or somebody who is completely clueless about what actually happened.There were billions of dollars spent at trying to make sure Y2K wouldn't become a disaster and regular audits of software from all levels that it would be Y2K compliant (aka not blow up on the big date).  The reason why it became a non-event is because some advanced planning happened and the herculean efforts of a whole bunch of people to make sure it was a non-event.  Had that effort not taken place, Y2K could have been a major disaster.  BTW, there were problems that I was aware of even with the software I wrote and the customers I worked with that happened due to Y2K.  Nothing serious and all of it was easily dealt with after the fact, but had the effort to review the software not been done it could have been a whole lot worse even for the company I worked for.That is sort of like saying there is a major Hurricane or some other natural event which normally kills people but because everybody got into action to make sure nobody would die, nobody died.  Then when you go back and look at it and think it wasn't that big of a deal because nobody died in the event and furthermore consider all of the effort and perhaps even money spent on evacuating a city or doing what other preparations were made necessary to protect everybody was a waste of time and money because nobody died.  Really, this makes no sense at all.  Perhaps the next time when an event hits which is similar perhaps people will get complacent thinking that nobody died the last time and therefore won't die this time and no money or effort needs to be done to protect people when it happens again.  Good luck with that one.  How much was spent on Hurricane Katrina recovery/restoration efforts and how many people died there again?  And you are telling me that preparation for that couldn't have been done for a much cheaper price had some state and city officials actually thought ahead on some of the problems that happened?  Usually $1 (or a similar amount of effort) spent before an event of that nature saves $100 or $1000 later, and that certainly would have been the case in New Orleans, even though people are angry when that $1 gets spent as it is perceived as a waste of money, but scream their head off that they aren't getting the $1000 later.What we are conducting here is a social experiment, and it will be interesting to see how it turns out.  There are other problems with Bitcoins that do need to be resolved and I'll agree that this particular issue of block #210,000 is certainly not even on the order of magnitude as the Y2K issue.... Bitcoins will survive in spite of this "issue" being in the algorithm.As for the confidence in the currency by changing the algorithm, I don't buy that argument either.  This is beta software right now, and it should be treated as such including the protocol itself.  It is a mistake to think that we have come up with all of the solutions and that what we have is some gift from God himself and the protocol is perfect.  Even Satoshi admitted that there might come up some sort of bug or problem that might even require restarting the whole blockchain.  So far, everything that has been a problem has found solutions to keep the current chain going or at least apply the changes from a certain block onward.  That is precisely what is being proposed here too.I'm fine with those who say that the current system is simple (I LOVE the KISS principle) as an argument for simply leaving well enough alone and that the current system of halving the value of mined blocks doesn't need to be tweaked any further.  That is a solid argument based upon logic and good design principles.  But saying that it is a non-issue because other similar kinds of problems have been non-issues is ignoring why they were non-issues in the first place.  I don't get it. If you read a typical corporate annual report, it usually is reduced to just monetary transactions eventually, usually in the form of assets vs. liabilities.  Materials acquired, sales, capital expenditures, salaries, and more are usually laid out systematically as things for which the bottom line depend, and almost always there is a bottom line that everybody relates to, particularly with publicly trade companies.  Either the company is making a profit, or it is not.  An audit is usually performed by some very well trusted 3rd party auditing company (generally not a government agency) who certifies the results of the audit, but the "net worth" of most public companies can usually be seen as a published number.  I think for a group using Bitcoins in a similar fashion such "bottom line" figures will also be important to their investors.I personally have problems with those companies who have in their charter the explicit clause that "the purpose of this company is to maximize profits and increase shareholder equity" as there are many other possible reasons to organize a company besides pure profit.  Still, if you grabbed the corporate charters of almost every company on the NYSE I'm sure you would find either that statement explicitly or a variation of it in some form.  CEOs in particular are interested in returning a profit for their shareholders as it is a dominant part of their job and the explicit reason why they got hired in the first place.The trick when investing is to take into consideration perhaps some of those non-monetary aspects that you are talking about, but that is something which is also a part of the "goodwill" and "trust" that the company over time brings to its investors, employees, customers, and the community at-large.  It tends to be something that markets in general are very good at evaluating in general, particularly a large auction market that has reduced barriers to entry.  It also takes freedom as in free exchange of information that is critical.  A group which is hiding their activities from their investors is going to earn bad will and eventually be rejected from the market, contaminating other enterprises they get involved with. However there are cryptographic methods of voting and stuff that is "good enough" in terms of overall governance of an organization.  In fact, I've participated with groups that are really organized almost exclusively over the net and seem to be able to build up a relationship of trust in some fashion or another.  I think you are completely correct that it is reputation here that is the key, and those who are disreputable will eventually be driven from business.In terms of "auditing the books", Bitcoins presents an interesting situation where in there everybody could be performing an audit of some group's finances simultaneously.  While this sort of spoils the anonymity aspect of Bitcoins (and talked about elsewhere), shareholders could insist that every transaction involve the same address for an audit trail.  If there are transactions which happen "off the books", it would be tantamount to embezzlement.  There are still ways to play games with the accounting here, but you could certainly be aware of the vast bulk of the finances of a company and at least know if it is solvent and the kind of places where the money is going to or coming from.  Other accounting systems could develop too, but the fact is with at least the Bitcoin economy itself the entire transaction history of the world is available at your fingertips.  That leads to some interesting areas of speculation, but tracing the money is something that could be done independent of an individual comptroller simply telling you how much money the company has.  Money spent and received through exchange with other currencies would be much harder to trace, but not impossibly so and that gets to an area of trust as well.I agree that the judicial system of a country may not be the best way to deal with all of the issues involved here in terms of enforcing ownership of a company.  Mediation services I think would be perhaps even more prevalent where it isn't a binding resolution but something trying to bring the two parties together to a common understanding.In terms of the history of judicial systems, much of it is simply finding a "trusted and independent 3rd party" who can resolve the dispute where both parties agree to the final decision.Undoubtedly there will be some people who will "run home to mama" and get the real world judicial system involved, which is something to at least concern yourself about, but I'm not so hard-ass to suggest that is the only solution to these problem.I guess I'm thinking historically to the early renaissance-era merchants who organized vast global enterprises with usually nothing more than a shake of a hand and a simple contract operating out of minor countries like Denmark and Holland who had courts that had very little teeth anyway.  17th & 18th Century Holland was indisputably wealthy but most of the merchant ships coming from or going to that country (and elsewhere) were for the most part unarmed.  That was expensive and a waste of their investor's money, and besides it slowed the ships down and required having sailors paid to take care of the cannons and stuff therefore eating into the bottom line.  Did goods get confiscated by some governments?  Yes, and it was the duty of the people running these enterprises to make sure that didn't happen either through clandestine or "legitimate" means.  18th Century privateering certainly made the distinction between piracy and patriotism quite relative as to how your real loyalties were at.There was a time when most of the corporate regulations didn't exist, yet extensive trade still happened and some people got insanely wealthy.  If anything we are talking about getting back to the roots of these institutions and trying to re-think how they ought to be operating.  This whole thing is so new that we can and ought to be considering the broader picture on these discussions. Yes, you could set up a simple server using a client/server model at a fixed location.  That would give a physical location for an attack on the system, however, which may be good or bad depending on how you felt about it.  That would also require you to conform to the laws of that particular location as well.  Other problems would happen as well, but that is just the beginning.I think the problem is more of legal enforcement.  How do you get somebody who has received a whole bunch of money from an exchange of this nature, through an IPO, that they will do what they claim that they will do?  The judicial system is indeed the teeth that normally back up the purchase of a security as you take "ownership" of the assets of a company when you typically buy a share.  It is a separate issue from the exchange itself but it is tied into the concept of a "share" and what that means.For example, if somebody decides to use the exchange to get a "loan" for buying a car, they may say in the prospectus that they agree to pay monthly dividends as "payments" for getting the loan.  If they stop paying those dividends, what sort of guarantee is there that the "shareholders" can get anything of value from that person who is given that money?To me, it would be a form of fraud in a situation like that if you failed to follow through and do what you promised.  The next question would be:  would any court actually enforce any fraud statue; of course after a long and perhaps tedious explanation about what Bitcoins are, what this exchange is, and some of the details about the sale of the shares themselves?  It is entirely possible that a court would throw the whole thing out as an invalid transaction, but then again they might consider this to be a form of a private contract with a formal promise to fulfill the terms of the prospectus.Shareholder lawsuits are a regular staple of corporate attorneys, so none of this is really all that new.  Usually when it gets real ugly with a lawsuit of this nature, the security on the exchange is delisted or at least its trade halted until a judgment is entered.I think this is an excellent question, and I don't know how to even begin to address it other than to suggest that we muddle through, and that it is "buyer beware" about the whole thing.  Some people will earn a reputation as being worthy of investment, and it is those people who would be the most likely to be successful with using this tool for raising money.  Just as there are "blue chip" companies who are reliable with regular earnings and perhaps even dividends on a regular basis ("we pay a monthly dividend of 5 BTC each month per share!") such groups would show up and generally not be questioned.  The problem is when the company starts to fall apart, who gets the pieces?It also gets more back to the principle that you should invest locally first, and learn all you can about your investments before you throw money at it.  When a stock broker calls you up and says "I have a hot tip for you.... buy 3000 shares in this penny stock mining company today!" and that is your only knowledge about that company, you are being a lousy investor.  And yes I've had stock brokers give me such a phone call before.
The block chain would be to process the transactions in the market, where the "miners" would receive the transactions fees.  As far as I can see, there would be only one huge chain just like with Bitcoins, which would deal with the CPU issue.  Perhaps you could get CPU power to overwrite the chain, but it would have to take out the market as a whole.  Creating a generic transferable "transactions" in Bitcoins that could be used by miners of bitcoin-related concepts might have to be added to the main Bitcoin protocol, but it is at least technically possible.Individual issues would be more like addresses in Bitcoins, although some mechanism might be put in place in terms of allowing additional "public offerings" to expand the number of shares.  Yes, it is a bit more complex than Bitcoins itself, but I think it could work and wouldn't require separate chains.  In this sense, for a distributed system you could set up some sort of protocol where actions impacting each "security" could be decided by some sort of "majority vote" based upon shares owned.  For example, if some group wanted to expand the number of shares available, there might be some protocol in the system to allow individual "shares" to vote on expanding the number of shares available.Keep in mind that when an IPO would happen, the number of shares would be fixed, so there is no need to keep mining or expanding the number of shares outstanding.  All that is needed is to simply to keep track of the transaction of those shares.  So in this sense the IPO is a single event that certainly could be organized in some fashion.  I would dare say that in this case, transactions (including the IPO) would have to be tied to regular Bitcoins addresses.Think of it like this:  Somebody "creates" a new "security" where they define the parameters of the security, mainly how many shares that are outstanding but there could be more things put in with that.  It would also have associated with all of those shares some sort of Btcoins address.  At that point they own 100% of all of the "shares" in that security.  The BTC address certainly could be "owned" by a group but that would be up to how that group itself is organized and has nothing to do with the exchange of securities in this case and maintaining that address with its associated wallet is not the concern of this exchange.When they want to "IPO", they "advertise" their business plan (perhaps a link to a website or even prospectus is included with the generation of the shares originally) and then can offer some or perhaps all of the shares onto the market.  How the market is set up can vary and there are different auction systems which could be used here (perhaps simultaneously too!), but the point is that they would be made available for purchase at a known price per share that would then in turn "transfer" ownership of those shares as a transaction + fees for processing the transaction (for the miners who are collecting the transactions and putting them into the main chain).  Since Bitcoins are involved here, the share would then be transferred to a new BTC address and that person would then "own" those shares, and the share price would be transferred to the original owner of that share, in Bitcoins.  All of the protections of Bitcoins would make sure double spending of those coins would not happen and perhaps the Bitcoin transaction would have to be "confirmed" by a miner before it is included into the share transaction chain.Really, this is all pretty simple and not all that more complex than Bitcoins itself.  I do think this ought to be a completely separate chain from the main Bitcoins chain, and likely have separate miners involved, but there certainly would be a whole bunch of synergy between this market and the overall Bitcoins trading economy.  As long as the whole transaction chain is completely accounted for, the value of and ownership of those shares would be as solid as a bitcoin itself.   Any attack on that share would be an attack on the whole concept of bitcoins.This gets back to my point that I don't think there even can be a gatekeeper in terms of stopping somebody from issuing a "security" on this exchange.  If somebody says that their business plan is to take all of the Bitcoins and spend them in Las Vegas after converting them to dollars hoping to beat the casinos, that is something for the individual investor to consider for themselves.  A "share" is as valuable as the person standing behind it, so you could use this for social causes (Let's donate to the EFF!) or for many other things as well.  The purpose of this is to set up a mechanism to concentrate Bitcoins for some social good, and for most purposes would be to make a profit for those investors.  In this case, it would be up to the market to decide if an individual business plan is worth further investment or if it is a waste of money.The only real issue I can think of here is some way to keep spam attacks from happening, where somebody creates a security that is essentially worthless and sends transactions between a couple of addresses repeatedly with essentially bogus transactions.  I'm hoping here that a transaction fee would stop that from occurring, as it would essentially be a direct donation to the miners.  If you can't sell a security for more than the transaction fee, it becomes worthless and is effectively de-listed from the exchange. It would be a nice idea to set up a unique BTC top-level domain with OpenNic or one of the "more reliable" alternative DNS groups.  Hmmm... I need to think that one through a bit more, and I hope that others give it some thought as well. The problem with fractional reserve banking is that the ratio isn't 1:1.  Generally it is more 9:1, where the bank has $9 out in loans for every $1 in deposits and investments.  That gets even more bizarre when you think that "BigBankA" makes a loan, it gets deposited into "BigBankB" which in turn gets that 9:1 ratio applied to it for substantially more "growth" where another loan happens with similar fractional requirements and gets multiplied where another loan from "BigBankB" gets depositied back into "BigBankA" for perhaps even more than the original loan.If this seems confusing, it is.  If the current system maintained a 1:1 ratio between loans and deposits, there would be little need to worry about a bank run or a bank collapsing.  The real issue comes up because of the fractional reserve being loaned out multiple times so it is also in theory possible to completely wipe a bank out by just a few very bad loans. In terms of the legality, if the entire exchange was set up through a peer to peer network, I think it would be insanely difficult to get law enforcement to stop the activity on the market.  For example, if I got arrested for setting up this market and my computers get confiscated, it wouldn't stop the exchange and for that matter it wouldn't even cause a hiccup in the market.  Indeed one of the more interesting aspects and perhaps side effects is that securities could be exchanged in this fashion in almost complete anonymity.  That by itself might scare some governments into action as it is a unique kind of beast that has never existed before other than being another hydra coming from the internet.One of the things that I'm sort of bashing my head against is how to organize an IPO using this exchange.  Somehow there needs to be a mechanism where an individual can come up with a proposal for an idea, lay out a "business plan" for how money will be used, and to set up a system to then "sell" shares in that idea.  The "real world" way of doing an IPO is so utterly corrupt that it turns my stomach thinking about all of the people who "pad" the price of shares in a company on the current major exchanges.  If a company has in the bank more than 50% of the "market cap" value of its shares an hour after the IPO, I consider that to be a very lean and efficient IPO.  In other words, it need to be done almost by definition as something different from how the major exchanges get that job done.Another aspect of the IPO is also setting up the "standards" for letting somebody organize a security.  In this aspect, perhaps there really shouldn't be much of a barrier, but I'm willing to hear from others on this.  The SEC acts as a huge gatekeeper for such actions and getting an IPO on the NYSE takes a team of lawyers and passing a whole bunch of reviews about the company involved... even if it turns out that the company is full of a bunch of people who are going to disappear with the money and run the company into the ground afterward.  Indeed any sort of "gatekeeper" on letting somebody set up a security on this exchange seems to be almost futile unless you have a central server that can be shut down, confiscated by law enforcement, and therefore putting that gatekeeping role into the hands of a single person or small group that may or may not include the original team putting the exchange together.There would be rules to this exchange, but to me it would have to be something that can be put into software, which is certainly going to be an interesting governance model.  I certainly don't know of any security exchange that has been governed strictly by mathematical principles alone or in this case a networking protocol.  There are certainly other "virtual" exchanges, but you almost always get back to a major gatekeeper on the idea in every case.If the danger is using the terms "exchange", "securities", and "IPO", perhaps we ought to get away from those terms, but I think there is also power of words and that these terms mean something real.  I'd rather not run from potential legal threats by trying to be a marketing genius and inventing new terms when these terms fill the niche.  If there is a new terms that can apply, let's use them, but it ought to be for completely new ideas unlike the conversion of "used" cars to "pre-owned" cars.Yeah it is playing with fire.  I am fully aware of that.  It strikes right at the heart of what a corporation even is and sort of flips the bird at the very notion of government after a fashion, at least for commercial law is concerned.  An exchange made in the fashion I'm proposing sort of throws out the conventional notion of a state-chartered corporation, even though such an organization certainly could use this exchange to raise funds.  That goes back to my gatekeeper argument above.... which might make this particularly interesting for government regulators wanting to get their claws into this concept. I think there are a whole bunch of reasons for the success of Wal-mart, with perhaps the reason Wal-mart itself offers is because they have so completely optimized their distribution system that the cost of shipping product to the end-consumer is so cheap (per unit) that they can undercut all of their competition.  That is something the "mom and pop" stores hate to hear and it is something hard to compete against to when Wal-mart can continue to sell items at a retail price making a profit at prices lower than most stores can purchase products for at a wholesale price.Yes, there is bullying of suppliers for deep discounts and other factors there too which make other merchants angry with Wal-mart, but without that logistics system they've built it wouldn't work.  When you can buy bottled water at prices cheaper than you can pay for it out of your faucet, it becomes a huge concern.  No, Wal-mart isn't there yet, although I've seen proposed water rates by the municipal council where I live which would make it so.Customer service is a part of the overall picture, but I will note that I don't consider Wal-mart associates all that friendly or pleasant, and requests for special products or for that matter even finding something they had for sale six months ago is often very difficult.  Wal-mart takes care of the main bulge of what most of its customers want, but they don't take care of the "long tail" very well.  Amazon.com, on the other hand, does go after that "long tail" perhaps to a fault where books which have been out of print for 30 years or more can be found with that business.Regardless, you overall thesis is sound and businesses who listen to their customers are ultimately the ones who profit.  The "wealth", as such as it is, can be found with the service that they provide where access to those services is the true wealth.  A place without a Wal-mart store likely has overall higher prices in their stores.  It also makes those "mom and pop" shops to really have to earn their prices by being extra kind to customers, doing those special orders and filling niches that big box stores like Wal-mart won't provide. "The internet" is by design very decentralized and based upon public specifications and frankly a whole bunch of very libertarian concepts that are woven deeply into its structure.  Attempts to legislate behavior on the net is something that has almost always been fraught with extreme difficulty, as evidenced by Wikileaks and other similar projects.  Pirate Bay seems to be a website that just can't die and there has been an organized effort to try.  China has the "Great Firewall" and even that still has so many "leaks" that the Chinese government really can't keep data out of their country in terms of subversive websites like Wikipedia that insist on telling the world what happened in Tiananmen Square... in Chinese of all things too.The saying goes, "the internet routes around censorship as damage".  I used to think that was a silly notion, but every time I've seen problems and ideas being censored, it only spreads the concepts even further.  Peer to peer networks make that doubly so.If Hilary Clinton can't keep embarrassing details about the State Department from getting published widely, a few people playing with alternative currencies is going to be ignored.  Besides, to most outside observers what we are doing is using play money acting as if it is real.  Using bitcoins is really no different than using Linden Dollars or gold coins from World of Warcraft or Runescape.  If governments aren't really all that concerned about thousands of dollars being used to buy a "Vorpal Dragon Cleaver with invisibility", Bitcoins and other digital currencies are way, way under the radar even from that at the moment.BTW, digital currency concepts are almost as old as the internet too, and you can find explicit literature on the topic going back at least 30 years or more.  I need to get copies of some of that simply for ammunition against some idiot who decides to patent some of these concepts, but don't think this is something new and original.  The thing that Satoshi did which is unique is putting it into a peer-to-peer network, which is novel.The internet is in this sense one of the strengths of Bitcoins, as if it goes away there will be rioting in the streets and perhaps armed insurrection.  It could have been stopped years ago but became too big too fast.  Thank goodness for a bunch of hippies from the Western USA who came up with the concept, and more amazing that anybody else paid attention to what they were doing.  I believe stuff like Bitcoins to be subversive, but in a good way.  It will force dishonest people to become honest, which may get them to stammer and scream and try all kinds of stupid things, but they won't be able to fight it.  The honesty comes because they can't double spend coins or make stuff out of their hind end any more.  Ordinary people will be very ticked off if they can't get their Netflix or Hulu, and Bitcoins is sort of hanging on for the ride at the moment.See this thread for details:  http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1989.0Yes, Bitcoins can be used in a setting somewhat removed from regular network access.  You may also want to look at this article:  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Delay_tolerant_networkThen again if you want you can also take the current bitcons client and set up your own network of just a few friends and "trusted" associates with a fresh genesis block. I wouldn't recommend it for a number of reasons I won't get into at the moment, but an isolated network from the main grid certainly could use the tools of bitcoins on a separate network for your own purposes.There are many different options available to both use the concept of Bitcoins for other purposes and to distribute Bitcoins themselves in ways that don't necessarily need to be connected to a network or even a computer for that matter.  Printed Bitcoins have been suggested... again I won't go into details but computers aren't completely necessary here or at least fancy computers.  A $10 MP3 player has sufficient computing power to be able to conduct transactions with Bitcoins and a USB port is all you really need for a connection.It would be treated as a separate currency, subject to an exchange rate where you would need people willing to trade between the currencies. The more that I read about Calvin Coolidge and how he dealt with the Panic of 1920, the more impressed I am with him.  He shared a whole lot of attributes with Dwight Eisenhower so far as how they governed in the White House... attributes that I personally wish the current resident of that palace on Pennsylvania Avenue would pay attention to.  Heck, attributes I wish the last three residents had.I agree with you too that I think Roosevelt's intervention policies likely prolonged that recession and turned it into a full fledged depression.  I've wondered myself a sort of "what if" had Congress and the White House simply left well enough alone over the past two years, would America be in the middle of a major recovery right now or not?  My own gut feeling is that the monkeying around with tax rates, increasing regulations, and pouring insane levels of money into the economy (from both congressional actions and actions by the Fed like QE2) are only going to be shooting themselves in the foot.  Talk of hyperinflation certainly has a sound basis of fact. I look at this issue more from a human perspective, where the big jumps ever 210,000 blocks are likely to have a disruptive impact upon the exchange markets and the use of bitcoins.  Essentially it is an automatic doubling of difficulty for mining coins.  A more continuous function would be much, much more predictable in terms of market stability and people knowing how much a bitcoin is going to roughly be worth.  It is something I've thought about too in terms of perhaps coming up with another system for determining what the value of the mined coins in each block ought to be.The markets will adapt regardless of what happens that way, but it certainly will be significant in the long term.While I appreciate the simplicity of the system, we are already dealing with a fairly complex algorithm in terms of the SHA-256 algorithm and the private/public key system for addresses.  In comparison to those algorithms, this formula is really trivial in comparison, although it does need some mathematics perhaps to explain what it is doing.The only real problem I see is that block # 100,000 is close enough that it would "force" everybody to upgrade to the latest version of the client, certainly before block #100,000 is created and that would be disruptive to the network.  It would also impact many of the private miners making blocks, where potentially if enough of those miners refuse to make this upgrade that it could cause some significant problems.  At least this isn't going to be as rushed as the update from 0.3.9. An interesting article just poped up on Google when I was doing a scan of items about Bitcoins:http://www.agoravox.fr/tribune-libre/article/pour-occulter-le-dollar-rouvrons-84553And for those wanting to read in English:http://translate.google.com/translate?js=n&prev=_t&hl=en&ie=UTF-8&layout=2&eotf=1&sl=fr&tl=en&u=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.agoravox.fr%2Ftribune-libre%2Farticle%2Fpour-occulter-le-dollar-rouvrons-84553It only tangentially talks about Bitcoins, but it does provide a reference to the main site (yea!) The implication is that the Euro and the Dollar are likely to collapse requiring something different to take their place.  All stuff talked about on these forums, but I have no idea who this french fanboi is that loves Bitcoins.  If this is a regular reader here on this forum, I'd love to give you kudos. When a block is rejected obviously the "mining" transaction for that block is also rejected (as you suggest here), so there is at least some loss, plus there is entropy in the system where from time to time (as people turn on and off clients) that over time transactions will be dropped.I know this is semantics and splitting hairs, but there is at least an outside possibility where transactions with no fees or low fees will not get incorporated into any block at all... depending on the rules that most of the miners are using.  There is a sort of mean lifetime of a transaction and if it doesn't get incorporated into the chain it may eventually vanish altogether.  Transactions of coins less than 0.01 BTC are examples of transactions that will likely not be incorporated in any particular block (if there is no fee attached) as most miners reject those transactions.  Some miner might, however, and in that case if the block where such a miner incorporated a transaction of that nature but the block itself was rejected for some reason (including that in the competition for "winning" the block somebody else got their block in first even though both blocks had "successful hashes") those transactions simply bounce around the network as unconfirmed transactions.It is also possible that peers may choose not to relay all unconfirmed transactions, for whatever selfish reason they choose.  I know that the current client is usually agnostic in that regard, but there isn't anything stopping a node from relaying only transaction from any domain ending in *.pk or excluding all transactions from a *.ru domain (to give an example only... I'm not picking on any country in particular!) Other criteria could be developed but once the transaction is incorporated into the chain recognized by the vast majority of the computer power of the network, such games for unconfirmed transactions are over.  Rejecting blocks by a particular node when the rest of the network accepts the block will end up being a futile exercise. I'm curious about where it might be illegal among Islamic countries as they certainly have plenty of banks very well connected to the banks in Western Europe and most of the Persian Gulf states seem to have plenty of fiat currencies floating around their capitals that it would seem like such a concept is more lip service than any real illegal behavior.  I'm not doubting that it may be declared illegal, but if you are tied to the global economy, I don't know how you are able to get away from usury in some form. As sad as it may seem, IETF RFC 2549 has more scholarly publications, and is more widely referenced than anything for Bitcoins.  I sure hope that changes and happens much sooner than later.This concept also is the basis for more "legitimate" networking concepts such as the "Interplanetary Internet" and other "Delay-tolerant Networks".  While it did start out as a joke and the original authors never planned on it being actually implemented or finding a useful real-world application, there is some value to thinking about the issues which such a data transmission system might introduce... because of the real-world applications that come from the concept. The thought came across my mind that there is a niche to be filled for some kind of securities exchange that might be dedicated to transactions involving Bitcoins.  This may be something perhaps that is premature or perhaps legally too encumbering.  Basically I want to float the idea and see where perhaps those on this forum might even see a way for this to begin.The role of a stock exchange, so far as I see it and how it would certainly work for Bitcoins, is a way to concentrate wealth in such a way that a useful enterprise might be started.  Not everybody has access to huge mining farms to collect coins, they may have started later and not have coins, and certainly the number of things with which you can spend the bitcoins on is more limited and sort of chaotic.There would certainly be some sort of programming which would need to be done in terms of setting up this exchange, but I see most of the issues dealing with an exchange to be more political than technical.  Rules would have to be established for what qualifies as a security, how those "securities" are organized and recognized by the community at large, and how such an organization could be set up.So far as bitcoins are concerned, electronic securities are essentially the same thing as a bitcoin and would likely have similar hashing algorithms for authentication.  Much of the "trading floor" may even be possible to be done with peer-to-peer clients and "seats" on the "trading floor" would likely be much more direct.I am worried a little bit so far as the legal implications of doing something like this are concerned.  I came across this page via the SEC website which goes into some of the current laws that at least a "nationally registered exchange" must follow.  Then again, if it is a peer to peer network thing with (at the moment) very low volume in terms of dollar value traded it might just fly under the radar until we can afford some more competent legal counsel to make the whole thing "legit"... or perhaps inspire somebody else to build a more "legal" exchange if it is necessary.  In this regard, I'm more of a damn the torpedoes kind of guy as long as everybody knows that this is all experimental using an experimental currency which may all fall apart anyway.  The law in this case would be a good guideline, however, in terms of what rules we ought to consider for establishing this exchange and we might as well follow the law so far as making that an ultimate goal.The NYSE started as a bunch of merchants gathering underneath a tree that happened to be next to the city wall on the edge of New Amsterdam (hence "Wall Street").  A Bitcoin security exchange can certainly have as humble of a beginning.  There certainly are enough enterprises of various kinds using bitcoins that perhaps some way for people to invest in those ideas could be organized with the idea to create an investment mechanism for Bitcoin-related enterprises.Yes, I'm trying to be serious here, and it is something I would like to get organized.  Other than the legal issues, I don't see any significant show stoppers but I'd like some feedback on the idea. A difference between bitcoins and other currencies, so far as lending money from a "bitcoin bank", is that such a loan would be more of an "investment", and in fact a bank could be thought of perhaps as a "mutual fund" rater than a conventional bank as it is normally known... with the same benefits and risks."Depositors" into a "bitbank" would risk some of their coins on various kinds of "investments" which may be paid off eventually or not.  Much of it depends on how everything is structured, but conventional fixed interest rates might actually be the exception rather than the rule.  You might have "banks" which specialize in risky investments or ones that only invest in a sure thing.  It is for this reason that I think it would be better to look at such deposits more as buying shares where you get a pooled return on investment.One of the things that a fractional reserve currency offers is that there is a much larger disconnect between the depositors and the loans, where usually a depositor doesn't really care if a loan fails or not.  The video sort of explains why.  On top of the things in the video, there is also depositor's insurance which adds still an extra layer on top of everything else.  You could perhaps get such insurance, but it would be rather expensive for Bitcoins.All told, I would think that the stock market would be a much stronger source of capital for projects than banks, and bank loans as you normally know them would be a relatively rare thing.  Perhaps businesses could get into the game of making loans for houses and automobiles, but credit requirements would be incredibly tight compared to what is currently typical for such purchases under bitcoins.  On the whole I think this is a good thing as it would make investments into businesses more "democratic" so far as the sources of investment capital wouldn't be concentrated with just the banks.  It certainly would take some time to adjust and cope with the concept.  Banks certainly can't "inflate" the currency due to fractional deposit loans which ultimately is how banks usually are cornering the investement security market.I'm still undecided so far as how "evil" usury really is and I don't think it is as big of a deal as was expressed in this video.  Hoarding of bitcoins has been abundantly discussed on these forums and is generally not seen as a problem by most current Bitcoin participants or commentators. Thank you for making this patch.  You've been trying to get this to work by providing the data and working with the people who are struggling with downloading data over the network.  It will be interesting to see how this works out in terms of building the index. I read this article and I will say it tempers my attitude somewhat towards the idea of banks doing this.  One of the things sort of not stated is that most current banks assume that you know about fractional reserve currency already and that you have agreed to the system.  Perhaps that is the real scam, although if you asked a branch manager or bank executive I'm sure they would explain the system in detail if you were interested.  There still is something just a little off, however, in terms of the system actually used within both Europe with the EU, the GBP, and how the Fed deals with dollars.With a "bank" running under bitcoins, such a bank can loan out all of the money which has been put in by depositors, but there is no mechanism where the bank can make more loans than deposits.  That, BTW, is the "fraction" which the banks are doing, where they are indeed loaning more than they have in terms of deposits and investments and the deposits are a "fraction" of loans.  Since a Bitcoin has to be mined with a clear history of the coin from when it was first generated to when it is spent, it can't be inflated except as something leveraged from loans from others which must be paid back.Thinking a little deeper about the videos, one of the key tests of Bitcoins is going to be when there is a significant enough of a dispute between two parties in the same legal jurisdiction (to keep things simple) where the judicial system is going to need to step into the dispute over a transaction involving Bitcoins.  Fiat dollars are treated as money precisely because courts recognize them as instruments which can settle a debt including the ability to pay taxes with them.  That may not be the case for Bitcoins.  Does anybody know of any legal case between say two Liberty Reserve users or some other "alternative money" in American courts that might be used as precedence on that issue?  I'm not asking for the formal brief, just if anybody has heard of that happening before?: If you want to be petty with ad hominem attacks, at least be more blunt about it.  I don't really consider myself a hardcore statist but I do believe that there is a role for government in society, although it ought to be in my opinion a very limited role.  I think true anarchists simply don't know what they are talking about and would not want to live in such a society if it existed. Well, I guess you could move to Somalia if you cared.  If you think I'm a Stateist, I wonder what you think of Barack Obama?Reform IP law?  I suppose that is true.  Again, you are using the notion that there even is "IP law" which is a false notion.  It doesn't exist.  There is trademark law, copyright law, and patent law, but not "IP law".The principles I'm talking about here are in regards to how copyright was originally formulated and why it was enacted in the first place.  That seems to be missing in your responses.Futhermore, to you Kiba, if you don't give a shit about how I earn money, don't ever expect to get anything I made.  Certainly you shouldn't expect any sort of software maintenance on my software and if it permanently corrupts you computer, perhaps you ought to reconsider how I earn my money.  You talk about freedom here, but you are taking and not giving back.  There might just be some cool software I could write if only I had better means to support myself, which is sort of the point of being able to find financial incentives for creating stuff of that nature. The problem so far as abolition of copyright altogether is to come up with a system where an artist/author (including programmers, photographers, 3d modelers, and other forms of art perhaps not even created yet) is able to sustain themselves in a market economy.  There is the potential of raw donations like street musicians are able to accomplish, although my own experience with trying to get that to work with computer software is rather dismal even for tools that people like and use.  Shareware is a good example of this, and for awhile was a common distribution method.... particularly before the internet became popular and before copyleft licenses were even created in the first place.  This is also called perhaps the PBS/NPR distribution model named after the radio and television networks that use this system for generating income.Another possibility is the patronage system.  Of course this implies that artisans are relatively few in number and serve at the pleasure of the very wealthy.  This still happens even now, but in terms of potentials for journeyman artisans it is very difficult and has some strong political consequences.  Modern examples of the patronage system include the National Endowment for the Arts, the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, and other government-funded artistic endeavors.  Content produced under this kind of system doesn't need copyright at all in order to function.Some works of art will be created as a hobby and a side project.  For much of human history this was the only way art was made and it still is pretty much how quite a bit is done, some of it which is pretty good.  Much of the open source software is created as a hobby (not all of it!) and there certainly can be some satisfaction when creating art for its own sake.  Wikipedia is an excellent example of what perhaps even a collaborative group of people working together can accomplish on a hobby level without ever really seeking an income.To me, copyright fills a niche by allowing ordinary people of ordinary means to acquire art of some kind (books, prints, movies, and more) through mass production and distribution.  There are real costs involved with creating art, and somebody has to bear those costs.  Ideally, if you have an effective copyright system that isn't overbearing, it is the most "democratic" kind of system through which ordinary people can support an artisan.  The key here though is that the relationship can and ought to be more direct between the artisian and the end-user/consumer.  Where the problems of copyright really come in is with tranferred "rights" which bypass the artist, or worse yet kick the artist out of the loop such as how must RIAA/ASCAP contracts usually pay paltry royalties if any at all to journeyman musicians.I mention the journeyman artisians here because that is the real issue here.  The novices or "apprentices" are going to be doing stuff mostly as a hobby and will be doing "amateurish" work most of the time.  Yes, there is sometimes outstanding stuff made by somebody with "natural talent", but 99% of the stuff produced is garbage that doesn't deserve any special recognition or attention.  I love my kid's drawings they make at school, and I do put it on my fridge at home or show it to grandma, but I don't expect to impress anybody with that stuff.  There certainly are some amateurs who don't really care to get paid because they are doing other things with their lives, but I'll note that there is an upper limit to what they are able to do on that level too even with natural talent.Those who are "masters" or at the top of their game will make money or at least get in a comfortable situation for their basic needs regardless of the political, economic, or social system they happen to be in.  They are the "stars" of their respective field and those artisians are usually quite famous.  I'm sure you can name a few of them.Where the problem comes in is trying to come up with a way for those who are good enough to move beyond the raw amateur ranks and attempt to make a profession out of some kind of craft, whatever it may be.  How does somebody get the experience necessary to become a "master" at the craft?  It takes time, often years of effort, and certainly resources that are at a level often well above that which the novices have access to.  We also have to be honest here that the vast bulk of "professionals" fall into this category never becoming a "master", although I will also point out that if you can develop this mid-level group and cultivate it, you will have many more "masters" emerging and society as a whole will be richer as a result.  That is the dilemma that copyright is trying to solve so far as providing a means for a gifted amateur to break out of the pack and take care of themselves, to justify the extra time and effort that will be expended towards that craft, but at the same time they don't necessarily have to be at the absolute top of the game either.So in this sense I reject the notion that copyright in and of itself is necessarily evil.  I am open to other ideas so far as somebody in this middle group is able to emerge.  I love to use the example here of American Idol (Pop Idol in the UK and similar programs elsewhere), because it illustrates how this "middle group" no longer exists for the music recording industry.  YouTube is full of the amateurs as are the American Idol auditions.  You also have the big music stars, but nobody in between.  There used to be a time with regional bands and then local bands that would play at weddings, school dances, and other social engagements.  Over time musicians could gradually improve and become more recognized by the next higher tier.  Unfortunately, as can be seen by these "Idol" competition, those talented amateurs no longer are able to move up in the ranks.  It takes an extraordinary "event" to filter out those amateurs and find those "stars".  In short, this to me "proves" that the music industry itself is fundamentally broken, particularly when people like Kelly Clarkston would never have even had the opportunity to perform on the national stage except for a program like American Idol.If you accept copyright, it would be to help permit perhaps another source of revenue for those trying to work their way up to being the best of their field.  It is to provide a financial incentive through the use of "promoting the Progress of Science and useful Arts, by securing for limited Times to Authors and Inventors the exclusive Right to their respective Writings and Discoveries" (U.S. Constitution, Article I, Section 8, Paragraph .  Madison, Franklin, Jefferson, and even Washington thought this was a pretty good idea with an understanding of the abusive copyrights that were the case in England... something I could write many more paragraphs about.  Current U.S. copyright law is far more abusive than the English copyright law of the 18th century, which goes to show how much people writing such laws pay attention to James Madison about the topic.  Getting to the topic of copyright term limits, a "limited time" ought to be just that.  I don't know how long that limit should be, but typically most movie sales take place within less than 5 years, and the same could be said for most music and books too.  Computer programs receive by far the bulk of their sales within about a year or two of release, even for commercial sales.  There are certainly exceptions, but they are rare exceptions.One interesting proposal I saw suggested that copyright registration ought to become mandatory again (IMHO a good thing too... you have to put forward some real effort to get copyright protection) and that for every 10 years of copyright protection you have to pay 10x the cost.  In other words for 10 years, $1.  20 years, $10.  30 years, $100, and ultimately for 100 years $100,000,000... all paid as fees for registration.  You might even argue that perhaps the interval should be shortened to the same increase for every 3 years or something if you want short terms., where perhaps a major movie studio might not mind paying a million dollars for copyright protection that lasts 30-40 years but ordinary people may have a couple years to prove their stuff is marketable otherwise it goes into the public domain.  As a means to make copyright something rare, I think it would get the job done and be a tool to eventually abolish copyright as well if that was a goal.  It may very well serve most purposes if only a handful of things are formally copyrighted and that they quickly enter the public domain for their re-use in society.Current copyright law allows for personal fair use, where you can use use your computer any way you see fit as long as what you do is for yourself.  Reverse engineering, for example, is explicitly indemnified and mentioned in copyright code as legal... contrary to what some EULAs would have you think.  What it doesn't permit is for you to take the hard work of others and give it to 3rd parties without permission.  What I consider to be immoral is being a leech on society living off of the work of others and not producing anything yourself.  There is also so much stuff in the public domain that if you insist upon sharing something, look at the public domain first.  Furthermore, the goal ought to be in terms of expanding the public domain instead.Right now copyright law is stuck where no new content is entering the public domain and won't for another decade (and likely not then either).  Perhaps copyright has a role, but it shouldn't stop of human culture where major cultural works are all "owned" by individuals forever.  As has been suggested (and yes, some effort was made to this end) I don't think the heirs of William Shakespeare deserve any kind of royalties or residuals for his plays and it is a shame to think that even the potential exists where his plays may be taken out of the public domain.  We ought to be able to share recordings of Buddy Holly, Jimi Hendrix, and John Lennon.  What I'm saying is put the anger where it really belongs.I'm fine with Yoko Ono getting some minor residuals for some recordings to support her and her children as a result of some unreleased recordings... as she did.  That was deliberate on the part of John Lennon and good for him on that too.  But how long has the guy been dead?  Buddy Holly has been dead for over 50 years, yet his recordings are still under copyright.  Something is most definitely wrong with that situation.  I doubt that many teens today even know who he is, and a great deal of that is precisely because his stuff is locked up under copyright and not going into the public domain.  On that, I am angry, and part of the anger comes from those who pervert the principles for which limited copyright was permitted in the first place.If this "copyfree movement" is in response to the abuses of copyright and the criminalization of copyright infringement (yes, you can go to prison or even be killed over a copyright violation... as absurd as that seems), perhaps there is some merit to the idea.  There are many approaches to take, but you should also look at the root causes which put us in this situation too.  I don't think the answer is so simplistic as expecting everybody to put their stuff into the public domain.  If you choose to do that, it is your privilege to do so and I'm not stopping you.  I just choose to go a different path too.  You might also be lucky due to circumstances that permit you to make art in some way that you can be self-supporting that can ignore copyright.  I certainly am not in that position, unfortunately. While that is an interesting license, I seriously doubt it would hold up in court at all.... even to be used as documentation of granting content to the public domain.  If you left the license name as-is, it certainly would be thrown out.It isn't the same thing.   Perhaps it is more like leasing your care for a day to a neighbor or something like that, but it isn't selling a car.That is sort of the funny thing about reproducible content is that you can give a "copy" to somebody else, but you still essentially have the original.BTW, I am a firm believer in the "first sale doctrine" which does give you the ability to receive a book, or a lithograph, or any other thing if you have legally purchased it and sell that particular copy to somebody else.  Just like a car.  You just aren't allowed to reproduce that item and sell it to several people.  Again, like a car.  This is also enshrined in at least U.S. copyright law explicitly and contrary to any other EULA or other sort of "license" is perfectly legal.  Many other countries have a similar kind of legal principle (but not all of them).One of the vexing problems with computer software is this first sale doctrine and determining how you can sell a copy of that software to a 3rd party.  This is something that really hasn't been dealt with by the judicial system very well.What is not defined is this reproduction right, which is something addressed by copyleft licenses as it spells out the terms and conditions for how you are permitted to redistribute that software when making multiple copies.  The first sale doctrine is still there and you are certainly free to resell a GFDL'd book under the first sale doctrine without even considering the licensing terms at all.  Better yet, the person who buys that book doesn't have to negotiate redistribution terms as they are also spelled out so that 3rd party is certainly free to redistribute that book including making multiple copies if they choose.If you want a signed contract, you are certainly free to contact the author or content creator and sign a contract and perhaps even negotiate separate terms explicitly for yourself.  The licensing terms for a copyleft license essentially are a contract that you are in turn permitted to extend those terms of that contract to a 3rd party.... at your pleasure of doing so or choosing not to redistribute multiple copies to anybody else either.  If you choose to ignore the terms of a copyleft license, you certainly are not compelled to do anything more.  Many proprietary licenses on the other hand can compel you to do things you may not want to do.I guess I'm a part of a different "libertarian" group than you are, but then again the group I've been working with is more concerned about actually winning elections and trying to get people with a libertarian philosophy into political office.  And yes, there have been some successes in that regard.  I will agree that those who profess to be libertarians tend to be very individualistic and hold to their own opinions rather hard, which is sort of why I like to hang around them too.  There are also far more people than you would imagine who hold libertarian philosophies in general, at least subscribing to many of the libertarian philosophies.In terms of intellectual property myself, I also happen to agree with Richard Stallman on the philosophy that the very term "intellectual property" is a horrible term and is improperly used in the first place.  If you are talking about that, there are three completely separate (possibly four) principles you are talking about which are governed by completely different laws.  They are copyright, patents, trademarks, and trade secrets.  These are so distinct in America at least that they are regulated and monitored by completely separate branches of government.  That is about as distinct as you can get.  Copyright is regulated almost exclusively by the legislative branch through the Library of Congress, which doesn't even report to the President of the U.S.A. but rather to the Speaker of the House and the President Pro Tem of the Senate directly.  Patent and trademark law is jointly administered by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, however even that has separate divisions that independently regulate patents and trademarks as separate issues entirely.  And trade secrets aren't even a federal issue at all as they are regulated exclusively in America as state law rather than federal law.  So when you talk about intellectual property, it gets real messy unless you are talking something specific.  It is the mixing of these concepts that causes much of the problem, and even an "intellectual property lawyer" who doesn't specialize in one of those four areas more explicitly is likely going to be a lousy lawyer.I've stated that I like copyleft licenses, but that I also think copyright terms are far too long.  I've seen suggestions of reverting to a 17 year time span for copyright protection (what the Copyright Act of 1789 originally proposed).  That would put stuff even with the most draconian of copyright protection into the public domain yet it would provide those who wish to use copyright to earn an income to be able to do so.  I really don't see why anybody is going to be desperate to make money off of something they made over 15 years ago.  On this, I happen to agree that more stuff should be in the Public Domain.  George Lucas has made plenty of money off of Star Wars and it is about time that Darth Vader enter the public domain.  I really don't think George Lucas is being inspired to make another Star Wars movie (heave help us!) because Star Wars episode IV is going to be re-released in the theaters to help him pay for that.  Ditto for the "Sound of Music", "Citizen Kane", "Gone with the Wind" and many other cultural treasures which really do belong to all of mankind at the moment, but are considered "owned" by some big studio. or in the case of "Gone with the Wind" it is owned by Time-Warner by way of Ted Turner.  Again, I don't think Ted Turner (who didn't even make the movie, he just "purchased" the "ownership" rights) is going to be inspired to make a sequel to "Gone with the Wind" because of residuals earned by rebroadcasting that particular movie.  All this said, I think there is a role for copyright protection for the individual author and it does make a difference.  The scope of copyrights certainly could be significantly curtailed where it would help all of mankind in general.Patents are something that I would have to agree are simply bogus to the point that it is a con game going on by Patent attorneys and telemarketers who are trying to sell the dream of perhaps making it big with some cool invention.  I know of many people who actually have patents issued to them including co-workers and relatives.  Of those, I don't know a single person who made a dime off of a patent.  I know of at least somebody who saved their behind in a patent infringement lawsuit by having another patent that could be established as "prior art" and turned the lawsuit around as the litigator turned out to be infringing and forcing a settlement of essentially dropping the whole lawsuit with prejudice.  That was cute and interesting, but it certainly wasn't a money earner and shows the corruption with the patent system.  Patents don't preserve human knowledge, nor do they really tell you how to be able to reproduce an invention based upon the claims issued in a patent application.  That at least is the supposed rationale for why patents exist in the first place as it is supposed to preserve a record of human progress and the advancement of science.  It doesn't work that way, unfortunately.  Being overly vague, broad, and ignoring prior art makes their use in human society completely worthless.  I would not recommend anybody getting a patent except explicitly to cover their behind in an industry full of patents.  Even then, consider the patent grant as an ego stroke and something to throw into the bottom drawer of a design studio until it is needed as a legal version of a nuclear strike.  They are about as useful as a nuclear bomb too.  I consider patents to be a legal experiment which has simply failed in practice.Trademarks are also heavily abused, but their use in trade has a role.  As a brand when used as an adjective (aka "Kleenex brand tissues") they serve a role in terms of preventing fraud and acknowledging who is in fact responsible for making something.  If you have a Ford automobile that blows up when the gas pedal gets stuck to the floor, you have a company you can sue for negligence.  If somebody makes a car claiming it is a Ford but in reality is made by "Honest John's auto builders", they are engaging in a fraudulent relationship with the customer who is buying that vehicle.  The brand has real meaning and helps to know that you are getting something from a particular person or organization.  I have a problem with brands that are "licensed" to the point they are worthless, such as quite a bit of "merchandise" with the Coca-Cola label (much of that stuff not made by the Coca-Cola company of Atlanta, Georgia) or worse yet the "General Electric" trademark which is completely worthless in terms of even remotely knowing who made the product with that trademark.  In particular, I think the use of the term "Realtor" is a gross misuse of a trademark and should have been declared a generic term through its usage.  There are problems with trademarks, but the general concept does have merit.  Much of the abuse of trademarks come from people trying to turn a trademark into copyright, but without time limits.  This also gets back to the whole issue of "intellectual property" I mentioned above.Trade Secrets have a role, but that is mostly contractual.  If you agree to keep a secret, that agreement ought to be a formal and signed contract.  I've done that on a couple of occasions and perhaps it was necessary considering what I was dealing with.  If you let a competitor know about what it was that you are doing, it can give your company or group a disadvantage in the market place.  Again, this is heavily abused and in this case the complaint about having a 3rd party "forced" to agree to contract terms they didn't sign or engage in is completely justified.  I am especially disgusted by EULAs which claim to use copyright as a means to enforce a trade secret, as if something an end-user who didn't sign a contract is somehow liable to divulge a trade secret to a competitor of a vendor.  If you want to keep something secret, simply don't tell anybody, or if you must get contracts signed all of the way around to spell out the damages that would happen if the secret was divulged. This has been an entertaining video.  I will agree that fractional reserve banking is perhaps one of the greatest frauds ever invented by men and is going to end up causing an eventual disaster when the scheme falls apart.  I also agree with the sentiment expressed in the video that it makes no sense at all for the government to be borrowing money from bankers who in turn are borrowing the money from the federal reserve pocketing the difference or better yet "depositing" the interest as reserves and "loaning" more money created out of thin air to the government.More to the point, I think the time of reckoning is near at hand.  Right now service on debt is such a large portion of federal spending in America that a complete elimination of all "discretionary spending" would still not cover the interest owed each year.There have been some threads on the Economy section of the forums talking about fractional reserve banking and essentially the conclusion is that Bitcoins would be immune to such activities.  Banking could still happen in the form of deposits and loans, but it would have to take the form of something more like a corporate investment rather than fractional reserves.  Banks also wouldn't have nearly the same monopoly over potential sources of investment in such a situation.The one flaw in the video I see is that money, while it is created by pressing some buttons in response to creating loans, will exist without debt.  The fiat currencies would perhaps collapse (or not if the government simply runs the presses... causing other problems), but money would still exist in some form or another.  Bitcoins itself is proof of that.
The advantage of a transaction with many confirmations as opposed to just a few is that you can be more "certain" that the transaction has been accepted into the network.  There is the potential that what your personal client thinks might be a confirmed transaction may be in a block that is accepted by some nodes and rejected by others (aka a fork in the blocks).  This happens from time to time and it isn't something to be very worried about, but as more confirmations happen the deeper that transaction is into the block chain making it much less likely that the block it is attached to will be rejected in the future.If a miner creates a new block and rejects an old one, the old transactions are either incorporated into that new block or are sent around the network to be incorporated into what ever new blocks are created.  Even non-generating nodes can reject blocks and push the transactions back out to the network (of course verified that no double spending will happen).Therefore, a transaction with one or a couple of confirmations is something being processed, but a transaction with hundreds or thousands of confirmations is rock solid and it would take nearly an act of God to get pulled from the network.  I certainly don't know of any blocks deeper than a hundred or so that have been rejected by a new block and generally accepted by the network as a whole.An unconfirmed transaction is one that hasn't even been put into any block at all, so far as your software is concerned or aware of. There is a huge difference between selling art and the concept of putting something into the public domain.  Perhaps we are talking past each other here then as well.As an author and software developer, I take these issues very seriously and it significantly impacts my ability to provide those things I need to survive and to take care of my family.  As a result, I have become about as well versed in copyright law as a master electrician would be with the national electrical code.  It is the tool of my trade and how I'm able to sustain myself.When I "sell" a piece of software, I either sell the whole package and everything to it, or I sell a copy of that software.  That is two rather different things on a legal basis, as I think it ought to be as well.   In the case of those to whom I have sold the entire software package, I am selling all of the "rights" and legal options to that package as well and essentially giving up any control over that software to those making the purchase.  BTW, I make most people pay dearly for that option as well and usually charge at a minimum of $50/hour for software that I develop in that fashion, or demand a comfortable salary with generous benefits and a long-term contract.  I write the software, but those who are paying for it can do whatever they want including throwing it away and never using it.  That also seems to be the story of my life that most of it gets thrown out, but that is a side issue.If you have a copy of my software, on the other hand, what right do you have to turn around and start handing that to anybody you please?  I'm also talking here the difference between an artist who makes an oil painting vs. a bunch of lithographs.  Artists that make money off of lithographs depend upon the limited availability of their works again to make a living.  Perhaps some other way can be made to pay the artist such as the patronage system of centuries ago, but in a mass market that seems to be the best way on how artists can pay for their time they put into that art work.There is indeed some stuff that I've done where I've literally given it away, essentially placed it straight into the public domain.  Some stuff that I've made as copyleft content, and I've even tried shareware and "postcardware" (just asking people to let me know that you are using it).  I've also sold commercial software too.  The stated purpose of copyright law is to give incentives to an artist or author (in my case) to have a financial ability to earn an income or perhaps have "other considerations" applied to my work.  The "other considerations" with copyleft licenses is that I insist that you "pay it forward" to give others the ability to also share in what I make and you can't hoard it for yourself.Nobody is forcing a third party to enter into an agreement with copyleft content.  They are free to take or leave that content as they see fit, but if they take the content they must follow the terms of that content.  Copyleft is usually a distribution agreement that spells out the terms and conditions for distribution of the content, where as the GPL explicitly states if you choose to ignore those terms then the license is completely void and you have no distribution rights at all.  If you say you aren't against voluntary contracts that disallow distribution under certain terms, I fail to see why the GPL is necessarily such an "evil license".  If anything, it give more freedom because it allows 3rd parties to have the option to engage in distribution where most other similar kinds of contracts simply prohibit such a practice altogether.  With a "standard" distribution contract, a 3rd party can't use the content other than to simply view it, and even that is heavily regulated.  Something like the CC-by-SA license on a movie would certainly permit it to be projected on a huge screen in Central Park in New York City... without even paying a royalty to the creator of the movie.  In fact, people watching such a movie could pull out their camcorders and make a complete copy of that same movie, post copies of that movie on YouTube or even press a DVD and sell that movie at a retail outlet.  How many "proprietary" licenses allow you to do that?  All that the CC-by-SA license insists is that those who buy the DVD and then decide to show it in San Francisco (or wherever else they may go) permit the same ability to others to freely copy the movie.  They can't ban camcorders as a form of copyright violation on the subsequent showings.  That, to me, sounds a whole lot like liberty and fredom.I do have problems with EULAs and in particular shrink-wrap licenses, as it really isn't a license at all.  Those are things I find horrifying that courts even permit them as they include terms and conditions that can extract monetary damages and basically give a blank check to some of those companies to even perform identity theft and get away with it legally or other things that are really hideous.  Again, if you want to find a place to attack, it is something like that which has perverted even the very notion of copyright.  Attack the real evil even if you think that copyleft might be the lesser evil.BTW, I really don't see how this is "the libertarian position", as I know many libertarians who certainly embrace and support the copyleft principles. I don't understand the path or means to achieve the ends claimed here then.  Placing content into the public domain seems to me more akin to placing property into a public commons.  Property rights are about exclusive control of something, so if it is about property rights this seems like a backwards way of getting the goal accomplished.Presuming that the day comes where a vast majority of the content is produced with a copyleft license, by its existence it discourages lawmakers from extending copyright terms or coming up with laws that give more control to authors and originators of copyright.  In fact, under such a situation there will be pressure to reduce copyright terms and put further restrictions on copyrighted content on the part of those who are selfish (aka MPAA and RIAA) so they can maintain their business models.  Microsoft doesn't want GPL'd software to have strong copyright protections so they may be willing to lobby congressmen to weaken copyright law if only to potentially kill off a competitor.  It may shoot themselves in the foot, but their goal would be to capture the GPL'd software for their own uses.I just don't see that happening with weak licenses or even flat out public domain content.  If anything, the historical trend has been to enact laws which capture content in the public domain for the exclusive use of the major publishers and those who would be content gatekeepers.  The GPL and other copyleft licenses are now a defense against that from happening.I also think it would require something akin to a radical revolution and complete overthrow of governments in order to abolish copyright as a concept.If you want to give your stuff away, that is your option and pleasure.  I happen to disagree that it is the best action to take.I guess where I have a problem here is that it seems like the concept of copyleft is itself under attack by this philosophy more than being critical of copyright restrictions by those who lock stuff up in a proprietary way.  I'm saying that there is some common ground to work together to stop those would would keep public domain content from ever being created in the first place, which ought to be the first order of business.  There certainly are people who would rather you never be permitted to place stuff in the public domain and I find it unfortunate that it is now so incredibly difficult to do so even if that is your deliberate intention.  If you want to give your stuff away to others, you should at least be free to do so.  At the moment, unfortunately, you do have to explicitly "license" your content to the public domain, as weird as that should seem. My own experience with hyperinflation was while living in Brazil during the mid 1980's, where local inflation was above 1000%.  I was lucky compared to the people I lived with at the time as my assets were mostly dollar denominated and did a monthly foreign exchange of dollars for (at the time) Brazilian Cruzados.The Brazilians at the time were able to cope as the minimum wage was indexed to inflation (something I think would happen in most western countries if this became a problem).  Interestingly it turned out that most salary negotiations that I remember usually involved either a foreign currency (they demanded dollars, pounds, or deutschesmarks for a salary) or it was in multiples of that "minimum wage".  Using minimum wage as a currency in itself is sort of an interesting monetary unit in a hyperinflation environment that I don't think has been really well explored, particularly when that also becomes inflationary in its own right as it became in Brazil too.It was rough when the money I had at the beginning of the month was only worth about half that value by the end of the month (sometimes less) and it did impact the kind of purchases that you did.  The most frustrating to me personally was that I couldn't really do price comparisons between one vendor against another for retail purchases, as literally the prices would be changing every day.  Pretty much if you saw something you wanted to buy, you made the purchase based strictly on if you could afford to buy the item or not.  I'm sure for merchants it was an even larger headache.To give an example of how bad the inflation was, I noticed a huge pile of coins in a cash register that wasn't even being used.  When I asked if I could "buy" some of the coins, the cashier simply handed the whole heap to me thanking me for essentially taking out the trash.  I also knew a few people who literally used the money as a replacement for tissue paper in the bathroom because the tissue paper was more expensive.I also encountered the situation where dollars as money unto itself simply were being used instead, and the government turning a blind eye to the practice as long as it was kept in relatively small amounts.  If I went to the street markets to buy fresh fruit or other goods and paid for them in dollars, they were gladly accepted and in fact I would usually get more than the typical exchange rate would have purchased instead.  Small denominations were the most useful, as you would only get change in the local currency (typically), but the dollars were certainly accepted and in fact more desirable than even bulk gold bullion.Comparing this to Bitcoins, I can envision a time in the future where major world currencies are encountering massive inflation where many people will be looking for alternatives.  As a practical matter, if you offered some bitcoins where the merchant realizes that they are stable or even deflationary, they will gladly accept that as currency instead and even make extraordinary efforts to accommodate such a transaction.  Life will go on, governments will continue to collect taxes and commerce will continue to happen.  It will be rough and there will certainly be "winners and losers" in such an environment, but society certainly won't collapse if that was to happen.  The threat to governments under hyperinflation is mainly general hardships for the population as a whole and general discontent that something is wrong needing to be fixed.  That may encourage a coup d'etat or certainly major turn-overs in the political parties running the government, but it doesn't imply that any particular country is going to completely collapse into anarchy in such a situation.  People and countries have gone through this before and survived just fine, even though it was certainly a huge ouch during the hyperinflationary period.Of concern is of course what happened during the Weimar Republic and the political party which took over in Germany because of the hyperinflation, and the reaction of the German people which happened when that political party was able to bring inflation under control.  That tends to give the leaders of such a government close to a "blank check" to do a great many things that may not be politically acceptable in other environments. I can see how a sneakernet would work with both engaging in transactions and confirming transactions, although its use in mining would be dubious at best.As a stop-gap, you certainly could use a thumbdrive which contains the blk0001.dat and blkindex.dat files from an active node to receive the confirmations and come up with some system to store transaction data separately which could be "uploaded" by some node.  This drive could be passed around to several computers which  are "off the network" and perhaps even swap longer chains that come in from time to time if older data happens to be on a thumbdrive.In terms of where to send the data, it would be essentially irrelevant as long as you are not double spending the same coins and that eventually the data gets incorporated into the main "internet" nodes.  Confirmation would obviously be substantially delayed.This thread went over some of these somewhat related concepts and is worth reading:  http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=506.0The issue here really is one of what happens when you have isolated networks that occasionally have communication with each other with latency on the order of tens of minutes, hours, or even days.  In the case of a sneakernet that latency is on the order of weeks or even months potentially.Unfortunately this other thread digressed into silliness, but it really is a variation of the same theme. I have never heard of this guy and had to look up his Wikipedia entry just to find out who he might be, and I expect that the "mainstream news media" would mostly ignore him if he got sued, even if the "gaming news" would be screaming "off with their heads" and all sorts of legal defense funds being organized.Similar events have happened on much less terms, including the definitive legal case of SCO v. IBM.  Why a bunch of idiots in Provo, Utah decided to take on the Nazgul in a direct head to head fight over intellectual property is beyond me, but what is especially funny is how it actually strengthened open source software as a direct result.  FYI, the IBM legal department is commonly referred to as "The Nazgul" because of their tendency to suck the life out of you once you get on their radar... and that they don't give up until they win.  They almost always win if they get into a court room too.  That IBM also scored some brownie points by defending software written with a BSD license is a huge bonus too.  In spite of the major players involved in this particular legal fight (including Microsoft supporting SCO) it barely got any sort of press attention at all.  One of SCO's main arguments in this case was that copyleft was somehow "UnAmerican" and somehow unconstitutional abuse of copyright law as well.  Essentially, once the content was put "out there" for free, it could be appropriated by anybody without regard to licensing at all.. or at least somewhat on those terms.  SCO kept changing their story over time so it is hard to nail down their exact argument here and with even the BSD license it became awkward for that group.What I find interesting here with this "Copyfree Movement" is the attacks against copyleft, such as demonstrated with this thread.  The real fight ought to be against those who would lock up all content and not permit any sort of public domain content from getting created in the first place.  I really wish that Eldred v. Ashcroft has a different result, and the dissenting opinion by Justice Breyer (certainly worth a read if you get a chance) about the attacks on the public domain through essentially perpetual copyright are by far and away of much greater concern.Copyleft is merely one approach in an attempt to ensure that content made available to everybody will remain so.  I hope that a common area that we can agree upon is that "Steamboat Willie" can and ought to be in the public domain.  Some have argued that perhaps it already is too, but that is a digression that would involve the Disney legal team. The mistaken notion here is the perception that governments necessarily are so powerful and have access to unlimited resources.  While on a personal level you may have that perception and it may generally be true when government officials gang up on an individual, there is strength in groups that stick together.  That is the reason you have a coup d'etat which happens from time to time in various parts of the world."The government" and banks can't take over Bitcoins through a brute force attack as they really don't have the computing power to do so, and what computing power they have is usually devoted to many other far more "important" tasks.  Of greater concern if you live in a democratically elected government is over the growth of the government, but then again my personal political philosophy is that government ought to be small for many reasons including the ability of the citizens to keep the government in check.I really don't see how some entity like the Federal Reserve or even the Department of Defense, even if it devoted 100% of their computing power to mining bitcoins would be a threat as the citizens of America alone have access to far more computing power on a collective basis.  That kind of attack simply wouldn't happen, and a dedicated server farm with a blank congressional check spending billions of dollars to subvert Bitcoins would also get noticed eventually by the participants of Bitcoins too.While the network is small it may be vulnerable to attack, but then again we are flying under the radar of the government here too and not being noticed.  It isn't something for the government to worry about.  As long as there are different governments around the world, even that minor threat is even more diminished as long as some governments perhaps might even support the aims and goals of Bitcoins turning such a brute force attack into an international incident bordering on an act of war.The real threat is legislation that could potentially make using Bitcoins illegal, or a series of legal disputes in the judicial system, in any country for that matter.  There have already been attacks against peer to peer software in a number of situation, including what appears to be a current take-down attempt on the BitTorrent network in particular.  The same legal tools being used against that network may also be applied to Bitcoins, so it is a bit of a concern. I agree here that removing this thread was a bad idea and shouldn't have been done.  While the discussion on that thread perhaps was going away from the topic a bit (suggesting moderation, not deletion) I also think that the discussion of threats by governments against Bitcoins is extremely useful.  There certainly are plenty of examples that I'm sure participants on these forums can point to where software developers were imprisoned or had other substantial legal consequences happen to them simply for participation in something which law enforcement officials were thinking was dangerous.I sure hope that nobody forgets the situation with Dimitri Sklyarov, which to me was one of the most embarrassing moment in recent history in terms of injustice and wrongful arrest that I am aware of.  I don't want to see that situation happen with Bitcoins developers and it is certainly useful to talk about what limits would generally be a problem to avoid when dealing with law enforcement and the intersection of software development and politics.While I openly admit there are some troll around where content should be deleted because it only opens up a flamefest, I don't think that particular thread qualified in that manner.  Some very well reasoned and thoughtful responses were on that thread that I guess is now lost forever? I guess I do have a misunderstanding here, although there is another side effect in terms of hashes being made for blocks that aren't won.  Clearly that is a form of "proof of work" and at least represents effort being contributed to the pool and I guess I'm not convinced that "good faith efforts" to perform a hash ought to go unrewarded, but that clearly would be a part of the "rules" of the pool.  As long as everybody is agreed ahead of time and this point is clear, I don't see huge problems in that regard.However, excluding potentially successful hashes would have the tendency of driving out weaker participants.  I also think it would introduce a significant bias statistically toward the server operator as the number of successful blocks "won" compared to successful partial hashes for the current block would be considerably less than the 1/40 ratio.  I envision a situation for pooling groups like this with more mundane clients where it would be common for only one person to get rewarded for a successful block hash using these rules.  Or to put it in another context, on average there would be no benefit at all for somebody to join into such a pool with such rules where they would simply be more effective generating coins with the network itself.Again, I'd like to see some statistics of this in practice, as all I'm making here is a conjecture based upon my own understanding of statistics.In terms of verifying a "near hit", it would be verified against current rules but for a reduced difficulty.  There is a statistical probability that such a near hit may even be a successful hash.   Some "client" of the coin farm who is consistently reporting "false positive" on a hit would be almost instantly verified as such and be considered a troll where certainly they would not be rewarded or even recognized, and it would be in the interest of the server operator to simply blacklist those clients altogether or at least dump the connection.Still, I get what you are saying here Satoshi in terms of the miner writers not producing something which produces these false-positives.  This is something that ordinary economic theory would resolve so far as those mining clients are concerned.  Somebody who comes up with a software package which only contains the communication protocol but doesn't produce results would be quickly discarded by its users.I love the idea here that somebody could install a miner on their computer without even installing the Bitcoins software itself.  This implies that perhaps you could even put a miner on a cell phone or some other device if you cared (but of course chewing up battery life as a consequence).  It does open up a whole bunch of potential ways to mine coins and expand the pool of potential CPUs engaged in this activity. Unless I'm mistaken here, what this implies is that at the moment the "official" client presumes that blk0001.dat contains validated data, so if you download that data from another source which may have been compromised, at the moment there is no way to verify this information.  This is but a temporary danger to be aware of while the software attempts to cope with this particular issue.On the other hand, somebody could also put into the UI or as a command-line switch on bitcoind some sort of "reverifications" of the block data which would be performed locally.  I think there are other applications for this including perhaps as a precaution against some virus on your computer manipulating data in the block chain where this would be useful anyway, but it seems like an option which ought to be added to the software.  Since the verification code is already in the software, it is merely setting up the algorithm and triggering mechanism to perform that verification.  Indeed if there is a particular block which is of concern during the verification process, an effort to "heal" the chain based upon block requests to peer nodes could be used to fix potential errors or even discard the whole chain.I hope such a feature eventually is added. One of the potential problems I can see is that you may have to tweak the "reduced" difficulty level in some way so that it really is about a 1 in 40 chance of getting a successful hash.  It would seem to me that a reduction of even a couple of bits in the expected hash would have major consequences in terms of how many "reduced difficulty hashes" are created and it is possible that reducing the difficulty to 1/40th of the "official" difficulty level may create many more "successful" reduced difficulty hashes than 40, perhaps even to a higher order of magnitude.  This is something to test with a successful experiment of this idea to see just how it might turn out.Furthermore, it is also going to be random in terms of how many reduced hashes are going to be created per successful hash cycle, as you are dealing with probability here and not mathematical certainty in terms of how many are going to be generated by the "farm" even if it does produce in this example on average about 40 "reduced difficulty hashes".  It may still be worth the effort if it turns out that on average that is all you have to spend for an increase in successful blocks created, but it will be some blocks where the hash farm server makes a bunch of coins for the server operator and other times it may be at least temporarily a loss.Another potential problem I also see is if you happen to be requesting hashes where you've received a couple dozen reduced hashes and then the network has a huge spike in difficulty.  This is a potential liability issue so far as the "owner" of the hash farm server is concerned, as it would substantially impact the "profit margin".  Think of it this way:  If the current difficulty is at say 800 and you've received 30 hashes with a difficulty level of 20 (1/40th of the difficulty, as you suggested here), then the difficulty increases to 1600, it is very likely that you may have to plow through another 30-40 hashes at the new higher difficulty level of 40 before you get a successful block into the chain mining the coins.  If in this example you are still paying out 1 BTC per reduced hash, it could get very costly for the person running the hash farm in this case.  It may wipe out any profit earned and certainly is another potential liability issue to think about.  I'd have to think through the statistical probability on an increase of difficulty some more in terms of giving some hard numbers, but it is something that should be accounted for.Then again, difficulty could drop brining in at least statistically more money to the server operator.  The current tendency is for increases of difficulty, however.Otherwise, I think the basic concept as outlined here is pretty sound and would tend to work rather well.  Almost too well as I could see this being put into a botnet and having the computers in the botnet be sending back potential hashes without having to worry about any payments.  Network bandwidth would be trivial and almost unnoticed, and you could even "throttle" the CPU bandwidth or throw it onto the GPU instead.  I have no doubt that eventually somebody is going to build one of these botnets if it hasn't already been built for Bitcoins. BTW, thanks for providing this service.  I thought it was on the official distribution and I do recall some earlier efforts to distribute these blocks in other ways.  Hopefully your act here will prompt it to be put onto the "official" download pages.I'm running 32-bit Ubuntu Linux on this computer and it seems to be running just fine.  About what block # was that block file from?  It was pretty fresh stuff there. I hope you've looked at the "draft spec" that I've been writing where I've put some of this information in, but your input is very much appreciated.  I forgot to mention the byte order as it is a huge detail, but something I've come to expect from projects like this.  About the only thing that is recorded in "network byte order" that I'm aware of at the moment is timestamp structure, and that is in part because the structure is defined in a library not written by Satoshi.  Nothing personal against Satoshi here either, as all that is going on is that he isn't re-ordering the bytes as the vast majority of the clients are using Intel architecture on their computers.  It simply makes the software a whole lot easier to write so far as transmitting the data.This is also a pet peeve of mine as it opens up the whole little endian vs. big endian debate.  This is also where Intel going against the grain on this issue has sort of messed things up and a tale of how architecture decisions made decades ago continue to come back and impact everybody in sometimes significant ways.  For the most part, other than as a potential bug when you are trying to read/write data on a shared data format used by multiple computer systems (aka on a CD-ROM or via the internet) it rarely is even a problem.At the moment I'm trying to wrap my head around the transaction and block formats in the network data sharing protocol.  A whole bunch is buried in there and isn't very well documented in terms of what it is doing.  If you could help in that regard, let me know too! Neither approach is really all that friendly toward copyright law in the first place, it is mainly a matter of perspective on how that should be dealt with.Public domain content has been around for years, including public domain software.  This isn't really all that new of a concept.  Copyleft is somewhat new which is why it has been sort of controversial and has been disruptive, because people have been forced into adapting to the environment created with copyleft content.  It has also "put legs" on content created with copyleft systems.In terms of me creating something and then slapping on a content license, which would you prefer?  Something like the GPL or a proprietary "all rights reserved" license?  I guess that is part of the issue here too.With public domain content, I can certainly use the freedom enjoyed by those who have put it there, but at the same time I can create a derivative work where I claim copyright "all rights reserved".  I can't do that with GPL'd content or similar licenses.To throw some further thought on this, there are also those who insist upon "non-commercial use only" licenses such as the CC-SA-NC license and some others that are there for sharing content, but have even stronger restrictions.  I like the fact that the GPL does allow me to make a profit and engage in commercial activity with software under that license and a "non-commercial" license doesn't do that either.Copyright laws exist, and you can't get away from it.  In fact, unlike in the past you don't even have an option any more to avoid copyright unless you explicitly demand that the content must be in the public domain, such as what is being done here with this "Copyfree Movement".  That wasn't always the case.  From a political and philosophical basis, I think the original sense of the U.S. Constitution is really a better way to deal with the issue so far as "granting for a limited time" protection to authors who "promote the useful arts and sciences".  Life + 70 is not the limited time the framers of the U.S. Constitution envisioned, and protecting a gene sequence isn't "promoting the useful arts and sciences".I really think the concept that a copyright has no force until it is formally registered is a good idea too, but that is irrelevant for this conversation.Certainly there is no reason to bash copyleft explicitly other than to suggest that there is a philosophically different approach going on here.  Both copyleft and those putting a weak copyright license on stuff are trying to share content, the difference is how.  When I copyleft my content, I am expecting that the content will remain free, which is my motive for doing so.  If you don't care that it remains free, it is your privilege to open up your own content in that manner.  You are also free to ignore what I make as well. Copyleft is also about freedom, although I will admit that it is using the existing copyright legislation against itself.... which BTW is one of the things that I find so powerful about copyleft is that it uses the legal tools of those who have corrupted the copyright system for their own ends in such a way that it doesn't work.  If Microsoft (as it has) puts a GPL'd or even LGPL'd software into its operating system, the original authors can point out such use is contrary to the license and therefore it must be removed.  Microsoft can get belligerent about the issue, but they can't "take over" the software without shooting themselves in the foot by essentially opening up their own software.  It is also why Microsoft also looked at Linux as its largest competitor, yet as a company they couldn't engage in the same tactics that they used against other software developers as both the motives and tools to fight "open source" or copylefted software simply wouldn't work.  Taking on a copyleft project became a game of whack-a-mole where you couldn't stop the software from getting distributed.Perhaps the most telling is the spread of Gnutella, where contractually AOL simply had to acknowledge that the software was GPLd so therefore they couldn't get a court injunction against its distribution.  Try as they might, and AOL did have a huge legal team trying to stop it, Gnutella kept spreading and growing on every attempt to stop it.I was also somewhat involved tangentially with the DeCSS software that went around the world for awhile.  That it was released under terms of the GPL gave it tremendous power so far as the tools to squash it as a piece of software simply couldn't revolve around copyright legislation at all.  The authorship of the software itself was never in doubt nor the ability to copy it freely.  The complaint was more of a contract dispute and "stealing trade secrets".The point of copyleft is to maintain that freedom, and to ensure that others will also continue to have that freedom in the future.  If you try to ignore copyright legislation as though it doesn't exist, hard cruel reality sets in where essentially you will be pushed to the side and ignored or as I've said you will even be prohibited from using what you made and credit for your work stripped from you.  Most "public domain" licenses seem like naivety on the part of those who put them together.More importantly, a copyleft environment is a means to the end of bringing down copyright by making it absurd in its application.  I see public domain advocates as simply burying their heads in the sand pretending that copyright doesn't exist at all.To use another analogy, it is like heading off to a battle field unarmed on the hopes that everybody is going to be nice to you because you aren't shooting at them.  Wonderful in theory but in practice it tends to get you killed.Public domain content is not a new idea and what I'm trying to say is that I've seen many people get burned from it.  With copyleft content, it hasn't been nearly so bad and as a practical matter the copyleft content tends to survive much longer and gets a foothold in society where public domain content usually doesn't.Yes, I do understand why some are arguing against copyleft licenses, but you should also understand why such licenses are put together first before you start attacking them too. I have seen so many content licensing methods over the years that this does seem like something near and dear to my heart.I got started in programming computers early enough that I remember the "gifting culture" that existed when people were more than willing to share software and content with each other freely, where the problem really was more of how to get the content distributed rather than worrying about the price of the content.  Much of modern computing simply wouldn't exist except for people freely sharing knowledge about how things worked, including some rather large corporations willing to share their knowledge of what it is that they were doing.The largest problem I have with public domain works is that it is more like leaving your car parked in the front drive with the keys in the ignition 24/7/365.  Perhaps you don't even mind if a neighbor takes off with the car for an errand and usually tops off the gas tank when they are done driving and brings it back to the same spot, but eventually you get some scumbag that comes along and totals the car without remorse or simply leaves with the car and never comes back.  Perhaps worse yet, they file a lawsuit against you because a spring in the driver's seat puncture their thigh and caused some medical bills that ended up costing more than the value of the car itself.Public domain licensing is very much like this on a number of levels, and I've seen people get hurt in a number of ways from it, often when they are trying very hard to be altruistic and generous.  You can throw on legal terms and conditions (aka "use this software at your own risk" and other legal disclaimers) in an attempt to protect yourself, but liability can be a huge issue by itself even if you give something away, and a simple disclaimer often isn't sufficient.Also, using the stolen car example, I've seen far too often where something put into the public domain was simply "appropriated" and then a copyright assertion was claimed on that public domain content where the original author or developer had to go to court simply to use stuff that they wrote themselves.There is also what I see as a sort of intellectual dishonesty when somebody gathers several public domain sources of information and content of various kinds and asserts 100% proprietary ownership over that collection (aka "all rights reserved").  One of the worst offenders of this was none other than Bill Gates, who received so much from others giving him stuff to help him get Microsoft going, but gave so little back.  Microsoft as a company is particularly known for incorporating public domain software into their products without even so much as an acknowledgement that anybody but a Microsoft employee wrote the code.For all this and many other reasons, I'm much more strongly inclined towards licenses like the GPL which give people the freedom to reuse the content and to make changes, but keep the content from getting taken and used in ways that keeps the original authors out of the loop entirely.  I do lean more towards the LGPL more as I think the purists who insist that the viral nature of the GPL must be preserved is also sort of wrong as well and not everybody is in a position to release everything as a GPL'd software or book.  I do understand some of the push-back against the GPL as well.I'm sort of curious about why this "Copyfree Movement" is different from the "Free Software Movement" and other related content philosophies, and what advantages that it has?  More specifically, since the overall aims are pretty much the same, what complaints there are against the "Free Software" philosophies of Richard Stallman that make this so different?  Some really deep thinking and discussion on this issue has happened before, including the merits or lack thereof over the public domain. Part of the question is where to move?  Yes, there are some places for Americans to move to if you want to say "go to hell" to the American government, but there are trade-offs for doing so in every case and to me no strongly compelling place in terms of where to move to.  I could go through a list of countries around the world where perhaps life might be a bit easier that way and list the various trade-offs for each country, but none of them seem particularly inviting to me.  Certainly if there was a breaking point where large numbers of Americans wanted to get out of the country, I don't think there is any place on the Earth that would even want Americans in large numbers.For myself on a personal level, I've considered New Zealand as a particularly strong alternative instead of living in America, but as I've said there are some major trade-offs even going to a place like that and I'm certainly not locked in even in that way.I certainly have no particularly compelling reason to stay in a particular U.S. state myself, and have lived in three different states over the years, where "voting with my feet" has been precisely what I've done.  When local politics and economic circumstances are particularly tough, pulling up roots and moving somewhere else certainly seems like a good thing to do.  I also have what might be considered a family tradition of doing that too and certainly my family hasn't really been nailed down to a particular spot for nearly three centuries or more.  I certainly don't expect my kids to hang around near me at a distance of less than a thousand miles when they finally leave home, and likely will be living much further away.If you have problems with a particular tax system, that by itself doesn't seem to be necessarily a compelling reason to leave a particular location.  Of course my priorities are perhaps different than yours.  Where you choose to call home generally is a rather complex issue and at least at the moment my hope is to work within the system to change it to something more comfortable, even if that is tilting against windmills. OK, so this article is from a widely read website.  Is the information accurate and reliable which is in the article?  Can the information from this article be used, with of course other "reliable sources" to compose the article?While perhaps the overview of what Bitcoins really is can come from articles of this nature, I don't think it is going to be that useful to go into the technical details of how Bitcoins actually work being derived from this article or from sources of this nature.  Far more useful from articles like this are the social impacts of using Bitcoins and what they are being used for rather than how it actually works.Also, who are "they"?  The "cabal" who hangs out poking the AfD discussions and shooting down articles with weak sources?  What bias are you talking about, that "they" are looking for high quality sources of information?I'll say it again, Wikipedia is about what already is, not an advertising forum to say what you'd like it to become.  Do you really think everybody who would ever be interested in Bitcoins has already heard about it and nobody else cares?  If you are looking to advertise Bitcoins, there are many other much better places to do so.The purpose of Wikipedia is to write content which encompasses the whole of human knowledge, but it must be based upon some rational source of information.  I realize that the standards of Wikipedia are perhaps higher now than they were in the past, but at the same time Wikipedia is getting recognized for those standards and what I see here is a complaint that the standards are perhaps too high.  Unfortunately for most of the content the complaint is that the standards for including Wikipedia content are too low, so the participants creating Wikipedia are responding to that by raising the standards.  This Bitcoin article is caught in the no-mans-land of that fight, which is why I'm trying to be patient here to explain Wikipedia policies and perhaps help to explain why the current Bitcoin article there isn't quite "ready for prime time" and why there even was a drive to get it deleted in the first place. I'm not sure what you are implying here.  I'm not an admin on Wikipedia, but I've been involved there for some time and do have a feel for what might generally be expected by the Wikipedia community.Bitcoin is a noteworthy concept and certainly deserves more widespread discussion in a variety of venues.  This article proves the point too, and it is about as mainstream as it comes.  This article certainly comes close to being a "reliable source" so far as to prove that the concept isn't just a flash in the pan.  One of the reasons for the notability guidelines is to keep crazy things like some snake oil salesman or UFO "researcher" from essentially making stuff up out of whole cloth and claiming that there are "sources" to support their theories.  That has been the case so far for Bitcoins in terms of similar self-published sources and I've always said that the goal here is to get the word out beyond that.Encouraging more articles like this one to be written can only help the cause.  Just give it patience as more will be written as well as other cultural references to Bitcoins eventually as it becomes more widely used.By the formal rule you can now point to at least two independent and "reliable sources" that at least discuss Bitcoins in length and describe its behavior.  There is even a third significant source to point to for those in doubt.  That is significant.  Now the trick is to simply write the article in such a way that it describes the concept of bitcoins without sounding like an advertisement.  That isn't as easy as it seems where you have to work hard to keep the tone of the article neutral.As for the Irish Times article itself, I'm glad that it is written and as an article written for an average person, it is nice.  I'd like to see something about Bitcoins in a more technical journal that goes into the technical details or better yet some peer-reviewed white paper or scholarly article that goes into details about Bitcoins, but this article is an excellent start and shows there is some "buzz" about the concept in general.  I'm expecting many more general news articles about Bitcoins before the scholarly papers get written, particularly given the nature of the peer-to-peer networking community. I'm old enough that I got my SSN when I was 15, and applied for it myself without assistance from my parents.  It is true, however, that since about the mid 1980's that all kids have been given SSNs at or near the time of their birth, and I ended up applying for SSNs for all of my kids with forms that came with their birth certificate information that I filled out in the hospital.  The IRS keeps track of Americans through SSNs including child tax deductions where you have to list all of your dependent children with SSNs on your tax forms.  If you have a divorce, the first parent to file with the IRS "gets" the deduction as a sort of game and can become a big pain in the behind if your ex-spouse is simultaneously claiming the deduction.It is very hard to get "off the grid" to the degree that you have no SSN and also be an American.  Technically it is still possible, but you have to live a lifestyle that is completely self-sufficient and keeps the IRS agents away from you.  Perhaps some Amish colonies might have some people and especially children without SSNs?
That is the point.  If the blocks are included in the update it would also by definition include blocks you already have obtained via the network.  This is why I'm suggesting that it ought to be a separate but strongly recommended download for new users instead of something combined in the normal distros. My personal suggestion is to have the block data as a separate download, but strongly recommended.  If you want to simplify the installation for Windows users and otherwise clueless computer users that can't take a block file of this nature and put it into the correct directory, perhaps setting up a formal installation file to put it where it needs to go would be more "user friendly", but all it really has to contain is just the block data.The purpose of this is mainly so those who are updating to a new version can do so without having to also keep downloading the same block data, which by definition is going to grow over time. The main issue raised by this thread does seem like something of concern for the long-term health of this project, as there does seem to be the very real possibility that the current limit is not going to be sufficient for "ordinary" transactions at some point in the future.  Using examples for data processing rates and transaction rates for other payment processing systems like PayPal, this current limit is not only going to be insufficient but woefully insufficient.  I realize we aren't anywhere near those demand levels, but it still is an issue to think about.There are also plenty of examples where decisions of software architecture including the use of constants or other features in software architecture have profound real-world impact simply because the software design team has been short sighted and didn't anticipate the future very effectively.  Examples of this include the Y2K bugs, the Unix 2038 date overflow bug (remains to be seen how it will be completely solved), and perhaps most similar to this current situation is the IPv4 address space issue.  There are other instances where a coded constant of some kind also can come up and bite end-users in unexpected ways... one of the reasons computer software developers call these kind figures "magic numbers".  When you have some very intelligent people who are complaining about an issue of this nature as having some significant impact, it is at least something which needs some attention.The specifics on how to avoid this problem is the point of this thread, and a strong suggestion that "rules" ought to be incorporated into the network in terms of how to somehow allow this hard coded limit.I will say in regard to the control of the network by the miners, that is mostly true but not 100% of the time.  Blocks sent out by miners can also be rejected by "the vast masses of clients" who simply refuse to recognize a block.  Perhaps some other miner that fits within the rules set up by the network will do something that another miner doesn't take into consideration, and that particular block is simply going to be rejected.  With the rules as currently established, a miner who chooses to create a very large block is simply going to have that block ignored by the current network.  Essentially this is "proof" that the miners don't have absolute authority here.  Miners also work at the pleasure of the network as a whole, and have "constitutional limits" imposed upon them by the networking rules.  This particular issue with the maximum block size is one of the few rules that is outside of the control of a single miner.  Other kinds of similar rules could be adopted by a significant portion of the clients that may exclude certain miners or even groups of miners providing a check to a sort of "tyranny of the miners".I'm not going to speculate about how such rules might be established or what other potential rules might be, other than suggesting that the block limit rule is one such rule and that needs to be somewhat reconsidered, certainly as a fixed size.  The long-term consequence is that without being changed, transaction fees may potentially escalate to absurd levels as more people trying to get the network to incorporate a particular transaction becomes a sort of "fees arms race", particularly when miners simply would be unable to get blocks of a larger size incorporated into the network.The opposite situation is a voluntary self-limiting feature on miners who simply choose not to grow blocks to large sizes.  As long as somebody somewhere is allowed to have an arbitrarily large block, it will deal with the transactions with a low fee or perhaps no fee at all, even if it will take awhile to get those blocks incorporated into the network. While a bit older, this article is certainly worthy of inclusion for a list of "notable" articles about bitcoins:http://www.hartfordadvocate.com/commentary/is-it-time-for-digital-only-dollars-2Responding to discussions about blogs, the main concern about blogs is the self-published nature, where at least in theory you can make stuff up out of whole cloth that may or may not be factually correct.  Usually if there is some sort of editorial review process which goes on, where at least somebody other than the original author generally looks at the article before it is "published" and does some "fact checking", a review of sources, and polishes up the content in some way (traditionally called an editor in newpaper and book publishing industries) it can be considered a reliable source.LWN.net certainly qualifies here as does this above article.  There are some "blogs" that have status as a reliable source because they put some substantial effort to get quality information and generally can be considered a "news source".  If I catch verbatim copying of content from somewhere else, I consider one or more of those sites (perhaps all of them) with identical content to be of dubious quality and generally worth ignoring.  istockanalyst.com is a site that I consider of especially dubious nature especially if they are copying the whole article and ignoring copyright altogether.  In that case, there is a reference to the original article (sort of good) but no link to the original content at all.I'm presuming that the purpose of all of this is to collect stuff for the Wikipedia article.  I'm glad to seem some more "mainstream" sources of information about Bitcoins, and I hope that this trend continues.  It would be useful anyway to put something off from the main page of the Bitcoins website that perhaps lists these sites as a sort of "Bitcoins in the News", as it would be useful for visitors to the site and people trying to learn about the software know that it is getting some sort of outside press coverage.BTW, I love the bitcoinblogger website and it certainly serves a good niche within the Bitcoin community, and as such deserves recognition within the Bitcoins community in general as an "honorable mention" of major sources of information about Bitcoins. The specifics of the application I'm looking at in particular is with an on-line video game with a persistent "avatar" (essentially an MMORPG) where players could exchange "goods" between each other and be paying for "services" within the environment of the game itself.  The environment here would by its nature be open and arbitrary clients could come and go as they please, and "custom" clients or user interfaces into the network would be permitted.  There would exist other forms of communication, so the payment part would only be a sub-section of the main purpose of the software.... still it would be something I think would draw people to playing especially if they could "earn" real money while playing the game.One of the purposes I have here to insist on a P2P solution is an attempt to keep from having a massive server farm to run the whole show, and I think Bitcoins itself is a key element to make all of this happen.  This is an application that simply couldn't happen without Bitcoins.Anonymity would be a nice goal but it isn't for me a key feature and isn't strictly necessary.  Essentially, I'd like people to have to work to prove the identity of somebody but it wouldn't have to be strictly important to be completely opaque in terms of identifying who is using the network at any given time.  If possible, I'd like to give people the same level of anonymity that is found within Bitcoins itself.  Not perfect but pretty good.Can debts be accumulated?  Yes, but I'd like to keep it small so nobody is really burned hard.  Owing somebody $0.01 USD is likely not going to be that big of a deal, even if they owe that amount to a hundred people.  The main point is that somebody who set up say a virtual restaurant can accumulate a couple bucks every now and then from the "customers" over time.  Somebody trying to milk the system will eventually get booted and may even have something to lose by acting with bad faith.I have considered that there may even be "exchanges" with "alternate currencies" of the sort that would be found within the game, but those would be floating currencies by their nature and be more typical with MMORPG currencies.  The central part here is to set up some system that would permit content builders (aka somebody designing a village or a dungeon) to "earn" some bitcoins for each person who passes through and uses those features... as this is something which has an existing market and people willing to pay for such content.I also think there are a great many other applications where something like this, or an adaptation of this concept could be used outside of a virtual world, which is why I'm bringing it up here in this forum section. I suppose a similar kind of system could simply accumulate "credits" and "debits" until somebody owes a predetermined amount to a given individual and the "network" simply expects you to make good on your promise to make the payment as verified by some kind of confirmed payment on the main bitcoins network.  The amount owed to any single individual (aka node or address hash) would be modest (at most 1 BTC or perhaps even less like 0.01 BTC) and if they fail to make good on the debt owed they would get booted from the sub-net automatically or at least further transactions couldn't happen until the payment is made.  That might work and it could even be decentralized.  It could still use a transaction hash system similar to what Bitcoins is using and develop some system for "publishing" transactions... perhaps even into a chain.  The difference is that no coins would actually be mined in such a system, only a list of credits and debits to each other that are owed.If there is a major transaction that would have to happen, it would have to go through the main bitcoin network.You would want to process the chain simply to be a part of the sub-net, and the threat of getting booted due to bad faith might be sufficient to convince participants to make good on their promises.  The bitcoin payment would be automated to "keep the honest people honest", but there might still be some modest losses that based on whatever it is that you might be doing would be considered acceptable simply because you can't stop all trolls.  Perhaps a very small "fee" could also be collected by the processing node that is accumulating transactions in such a network too that would build over time from each person conducting a transaction.Payment systems of this nature exist anyway in the form of Paypal and credit cards, where the "network as a whole" absorbs the losses of fraud and graft.  I would imagine that a system of this nature might have less fraud than is typical for a credit card.  I'm sort of curious... how much of a loss does a typical retail merchant usually expect from credit card charge-backs and other losses simply from accepting credit cards in their business?  I know there is a monthly fee plus a per transaction fee already established for merely normal transactions... fees that typically a customer is not aware of or for that matter even the cashier even deals directly with but the shop owner sure knows about.This is certainly giving me some food for thought here.  I don't know if this helps anybody else, but it certainly is a new dimension to Bitcoins to think about. I guess I'd like another requirement on this sub-net too:  It should be peer-to-peer and not a centralized solution.  Yes, a central server could perform this kind of system with all of the headaches and problems that such a solution also provides.  I would personally like to avoid having to turn Bitcoins into a conventional client-server model with a central authority which can be attacked.  It goes against the grain of why Bitcoins was originally established.Bitcoins itself could be built into a central server system too, but I perceive the peer to peer nature of Bitcoins to be an essential strength of the system and something to be modeled onto sub-nets too. Fascism is technically government of corporations and monopolies.  The reason why it is used extensively in American political dialog is because after a fashion that is what American society has become:  a government dominated by major corporations and legislative bodies who seemingly care only to appease the donors... generally only the very wealthy and major corporations.Fascism tends to be very "efficient" in terms of organizing businesses and can be used to maximize profits for the companies involved.  In both Germany and Italy of the 1930's and 1940's, the governments in those countries were dominated by the major corporations with the CEOs and board members of those companies playing an active a major role in terms of setting government policies.  Toward the 1940's in Germany, after the Reichstag was abolished, the major corporate leaders essentially became the key people outside of the "inner circle" who set policy and made political decisions.  Think of it as if Congress was abolished and the lobbyists essentially took over as the legislative body instead.  In some ways, I don't think most Americans would notice much of a difference if that happened.What is being mistaken here is the personal prejudices and feelings of the individual leaders for what was going on.  Fascism is so nasty because it concentrates political power in the hands of just a few people, where their individual whims such as "the final solution" could be carried out with tremendous allocation of resources to accomplish something which may ultimately be counter-productive to a healthy society.  In America, you need only look as far as the TSA to see something similar happening, but you also see similar concentrations of political power to unelected bureaucrats and other groups that make people uncomfortable with what is going on.I don't know how this is going to turn out in America, and the current system is dependent upon the "powers that be" in America keeping ordinary Americans well fed, plentiful affordable housing, and luxuries that are better than what their parents and grandparents had before them.  When that changes, you will start to see rioting and mass protests happening.  The Tea Party stuff is just the beginning and I predict that will be considered the tame protests compared to what might be in the future.  Most Americans are simply bewildered and knowing that vaguely something is most certainly wrong, but they can't put their finger on what is the problem nor on how to fix it, but it is a political vacuum that will eventually get filled.  The elections of last month proved that there are some people really ticked off with what is happening and aren't happy with the current system.The reaction of the government itself is the key, and I agree that if those in key government leadership positions decide to strong arm the citizens of America into submission, it is going to simply turn ugly.  Some will submit, but not everybody.  My hope is that some of those government leaders remember their government civics lessons (which are unfortunately not really taught in American public schools anymore) and return the authority back to its citizens.  That does require the people in authority to give up political authority, so it isn't something to be assumed either and goes against the current trend. I think the "Mae" family of banking institutions was set up to sound benign when in fact they aren't.  These are monster institutions where often you aren't really sure you are even dealing with them half of the time as you have local bankers who are usually acting on your behalf when exchanging money with these organizations.... where even the banker isn't quite sure that you are going to be working with one of these companies until it is a done deal.  As an American, even I don't totally understand the process in spite of the fact that I've gone through three different mortgages myself and have my name signed onto some documents that in reading the fine print turn out to be loans through one of these agencies.  Even that wasn't clear and it was only a couple of years later that I found out that the primary guarantor was Sallie Mae, I think.  It wasn't even very clear in the loan settlement papers either nor explicitly stated.There are the usual ways to "owe money" through either stolen or perhaps even mistaken identity.  I had a problem where some government agency told me that I owed back child support on a kid that I knew nothing about to a woman that I had never heard of before.  It was even tougher as it was my wife who got the initial phone call from that agency.... about three months after we were first married.  Yeah, trying to explain why you own child support to a newlywed spouse isn't easy.  It turns out that I shared a somewhat uncommon name with somebody else and this agency simply presumed I was in fact the same person.  I've also had other bills and even court judgments come my way where I had to "prove" my identity was somebody different.  One creditor I simply said "take me to court.... I dare you!" and then they stopped talking to me (and I checked my credit report to make sure they didn't put a lien on me either).My brother-in-law, who happens to be a CPA coincidentally and should know better about these things, had somebody somehow dig up a copy of a credit card application (from something that was thrown into a trash can apparently at a store he applied for credit at) and used the information on the application to open another dozen credit card accounts and even an automobile loan totally nearly $50k USD in debt over the course of about six weeks.  He finally found out that there was a problem when he started to get collection notices for some of those cards, where they got his address from the credit report rather than what was used as the mailing address for the cards.  Needless to say, it took him nearly two years to prove he wasn't the person who took out the loans and it still has impacted his credit score in spite of that mess and dealing with police on the matter.I'm not too happy with the American banking system, and it can mess with you hard if somebody wants to ruin your life.  Usually with persistence, time, and unfortunately spending a fair bit of your own money you can get out of these outrageous kinks in the system, but the presumption is guilt until innocence is proven conclusively.  Considering that some of this can enter the realm of criminal matter too, it makes the whole system even more ironic given the standard of innocence required by some of these bureaucrats you have to deal with.  Simply because some bureaucrat or loan officer punches in the wrong SSN while filing paperwork can cause years of headaches. I have a question, but I'm going to pose it in the form of a problem domain first:I have a software application which is going to require the use of a substantial number of micropayments (hundreds to perhaps thousands of transactions per day, per client) which will be going out to many different people.  I'd like to use Bitcoins for this, but it seems like it would become the equivalent of a flood attack on the network, something I'd like to avoid.The other problem is that Bitcoins seems to be increasingly more averse to micropayments in general as of late, in spite of the propaganda that is being spread around with the issue.  Yes, I could throw in 0.01 BTC with every transaction, but that eventually is going to start costing some real money if I'm not careful.  At current exchange rates, 0.01 BTC is too large for the kind of transactions I'm looking at here.  Again, I don't want this to turn into a flood attack either.The other part of this problem domain is that at least in theory most of the people who are going to be exchanging these micropayments will be a part of a much smaller group and don't necessarily need to interchange with the rest of the Bitcoins community, except on an occasional basis where conventional Bitcoins network rules are more than sufficient.... such as buying $100 USD worth of Bitcoins or selling a similar sized hunk of them.I'm trying to come up with perhaps another alternative way to deal with the problem, and one of perhaps several solutions I've thought of is to set up a parallel "network" that would perform all of the transactions within the sub-net for these microtransactions but effectively maintain value with Bitcoins.In theory, I could imagine creating a whole new block chain for this purpose that would have slightly different rules than Bitcoins but following a similar system of blocks, hashes, and accounting between clients.  Essentially a parallel currency which would have a one to one exchange rate with Bitcoins and be recognized as such, although the exchange mechanism between the two currencies seem a bit murky at the moment to me.  Attacks on this sub-net, since it would have at least some worth (perhaps substantial worth) in terms of Bitcoins might make it attractive to go after instead of the main Bitcoins network, so this may be a completely worthless solution too.Perhaps a debit and credit system could be set up instead that could be secured, where after awhile some sort of accounting goes on to "settle up accounts" on perhaps a weekly or monthly basis where the main Bitcoins network would then be involved.I would imagine that such a sub-net might have applications beyond just the one specific piece of software I'm going to be using it in, which is why I'm also being very deliberately vague here as well.  So in this sense it really is a genuine "sub-net" of Bitcoins and could also be used as a means to scale the activity of Bitcoins as well in a number of ways.  With sub-nets of this nature, the "backbone" of Bitcoins could be dealing with the major transactions while the sub-nets deal more with the petty transactions of day to day actions.Any other thoughts on how to crack this kind of problem domain? I have mixed feelings about this.  Part of the problem is that there is perceived to be a free good, a network hosting service in the form of Source Forge, which will certainly allow those performing software releases to include considerably more data than is currently the case for Bitcoins.  If somehow we were paying for this service as a community in terms of $$$ per MiB, I think it would be a no brainer that this should stay out of the distribution.  Unfortunately for this consideration, it is a free good from the perspective of most users.The other issue is that the network bandwidth between nodes is also a free good.  I've suggested in this thread that perhaps the presumption of network bandwidth may also not be considered a free good either.  In fact, I believe that it shouldn't be the case, but that is a completely separate issue entirely.The network bandwidth for downloading the blocks is to me a wash either way, although a new client coming "on-line" trying to get the full block chain does suck up a whole bunch of blocks through the Bitcoin network and that impacts anybody who happens to be connected to those nodes.  BTW, this is one of the reasons I think it would be incredibly useful to start "charging" for bandwidth as a means to discourage this behavior... and of course to earn a few extra Bitcoins on the side.  If you can obtain blocks "free" from another source, some people might get more creative on how to get that accomplished including downloading a second package on some free file hosting service (perhaps included with the main client distributions) or coming up with a scheme on how to bootstrap new clients that impacts the network in a less obtrusive fashion.I guess what I'm saying is that while this is a simple solution to a complex problem, it doesn't solve all of the problems including perhaps clients which may store the block data in another format.  There also isn't any apparent reason to necessarily encourage other software client distros to include this kind of data or for that matter to put in more than the most minimum number of blocks.  Still, raising the issue is useful here and I hope it raises a discussion about the problem.I agree it seems very odd that you would take something which is by its nature distributed through P2P channels and instead put it into a conventional client-server distribution model.  Part of why I'm saying that perhaps more thought ought to go into this is perhaps to encourage a bittorrent distribution connection of some sort for a large collection of blocks if somebody has had their client off for awhile or some other kind of experimentation on how to solve this same problem.  The problem is that new clients are demanding the whole block chain and really can't get into "mining" or confirming new transactions until they have that chain.  Let's solve that problem, which is a larger issue.The other issue is that it seems like a waste of bandwidth to include these blocks in a client when all you are doing is updating the software.  I would be just as worried that the block chain might get wiped out by the installation software with this "older" version of the chain, forcing older clients to update to the current block all over again, although this is certainly an installation bug.  Just because it is a free good doesn't imply there are no other consequences to going this route. As a matter of fact, I missed that page.  Thank you so much for putting the effort into writing that explanation.  It really does make a difference.As a side note, we really need to put together some menus or something that links deep into the wiki, or at least put references to it on other pages.I've been trying to collect content related to the protocol for some time, so every little bit helps.  Again, thanks! For those familiar with the network level protocols, what is the difference between getblocks and getdata?  Both seem to be a list of hashes representing blocks which need to be sent to the requesting node.One difference I can see is with the "getblocks" command/packet type will request a range of blocks, while getdata requests individual blocks.  Is this the only difference or is there something more significant that I'm missing here?  I'm trying to figure out when this particular packet type might be used instead or why there seems to be a duplication of block request methods seemingly doing the same thing. I think this is the wrong way to look at it, particularly given the mostly volunteer nature involve with the operation of Bitcoins at the moment.  There have been several attempts to start the documentation process, and the important thing to do now is to build upon those efforts and get what information anybody knows down into some usable form.  Documentation of Bitcoins all around is sort of weak, and even if you aren't a programmer it would still be useful to at least try to explain the concepts of Bitcoins in some way that perhaps even non geeks can understand them.There is also a whole bunch of useful information which is now getting buried in these forum threats, so indexing these discussions would also be helpful in some way, although for the specific details of the operation of Bitcoins ultimately falls upon the source code of the reference implementation written by Satoshi.Like trying to eat an elephant, it takes time and patience where you can only take one bite at a time.  If you can read the source code and understand even a portion of it, get that knowledge recorded or simplified if you can.  At that point we can debate the merit or lack there of for specific decisions in the current design.  My experience is also that once something is established and not challenged, that it tends to become something permanent in nature even on an "open source" project.  Right now, most people don't even know what to start challenging because the details are buried in code.  I'm hoping that a "good enough" documentation effort can at least bring some of those issues to the front. I've thrown some additional information onto the wiki already, at least enough to start.  I've found at least some of the relevant sections in the source code for Bitcoins and will try to get some more information put on there, as well as some threads to look through as well.  More theory certainly should be put together, and perhaps an evaluation of some of the decisions already made... which can certainly be useful. I've also seen software written without any sort of specification or for that matter any sort of planning at all turn out horribly too.  There obviously needs to be some sort of balance to the whole thing, and I'm not against people trying experiments out before formalizing the behavior.Indeed, it might be useful to simply state that any sort of desired inclusion into a specification ought to be implemented in code first to see if the thing works at all before it is added to a formal specification for Bitcoins.  I wouldn't mind supporting such a notion too.  A semi-formal process or even informal process for writing the spec documents would especially be useful at the moment.I remember Steve Wozniak complaining about a full day meeting he was involved with in terms of arguing about the placement of semi-colons in the implementation of Pascal on the Apple II computers.  He thought that effort was a wasted day in his life and certainly I'd like to avoid that kind of minutiae debates.  A wiki goes a long way to fix that kind of argument too.  The Citizendium is all but dead as a community.  There are several issues involved there, and some interesting social dynamics that have been played out as a result too.  The funny or perhaps even ironic thing is that the Wikimedia Foundation is talking about hosting the Citizendium, as they seem to be running out of money in terms of being able to pay for their hosting service.  There seems to be some fairly widespread support for the idea.A pledge drive like we did for the EFF might be worthwhile too, If you could say that the WMF could get the equivalent of $200 or $500 for doing a conversion of bitcoins to dollars, they might find it is worth the effort.  It is in those terms that the effort would be made. I suppose it is my time to waste getting such an effort done.  The issue here is that the protocol is the network.  I know that some software developers hate to be hamstrung with a formal spec that they must work from, under the presumption that perhaps too much planning in advance will straight jacket their ability to code.My own personal experience is considerably different, where the time spent in planning and documenting ahead of time is time very much worth the effort and makes the job of any sort of coding considerably easier.  It also tends to make for much, much cleaner software that is easier to maintain, easier to extend, and as an indirect result less dependent upon a single person to make all of the decisions.This is essentially the difference between a mere computer programmer and a real software engineer too.  A programmer is somebody who pulls out the compiler/editor to figure out how to get a project working, where a software engineer starts with a word processor.  That coding needs to happen eventually is true, but setting out a roadmap for how the project is to be developed is usually a good start.We could debate and discuss various models used for software development here too, but by its very nature Bitcoins is something that deserves to have some significant effort at bringing eyeballs into its development, and the more eyeballs that we have the better that the network will behave.  At the moment it is just a minor amount of money involved, but it soon may represent some significant economic activity.  To me, this deserves some solid software engineering principles which includes documenting the effort going on here.I'm not expecting anybody to necessarily participate in this effort, but it seems strange that there is resistance to even start such an effort and potentially thwarting such an effort.  If Bitcoins is incomplete, let's make it more complete.  If there are gaps, those gaps need to be filled. The paper describes the principles of the protocol, not how the protocol is actually implemented.  The "official bitcoins client" is really what is called a reference implementation, but its behavior is not formally specified except in the C++ programming language.  I personally think that is a bad thing and has a number of shortcomings as a result, but at the very least it has to work when specified in this fashion, which sometimes isn't always the case with stuff written down on paper.At the moment, the real description of the protocol is not really specified anywhere else besides the source code to the client, although there have been a number of efforts that have partially described the protocol and some very informal descriptions of the protocol being used, none of which would allow you to re-implement the protocol without some massive reverse-engineering. I"ve been unfortunately far too involved with Wikimedia politics.  The structure of the Wikimedia Foundaion is one that certainly is stacked deliberately with people who share his philosophies, as Larry Sanger certainly can testify (who arguably is the legitimate title of "founder" of Wikipedia, not Jimmy Wales).  What Jimmy Wales offered was the initial server farm which supported Wikipedia at a time when you couldn't put something like that together easily without personally buying the equipment yourself and hiring electricians to run the wiring, including network support.Of course many people don't want to admit that much of that was financed by the porn industry, which is particularly ironic given some of the prudish actions by Jimmy Wales of late.  He does try to brush quite a bit of his past away, and it doesn't quite square with his current squeeky clean public persona that seems to be present at the moment.  He deserves some kudos, but he also can cause a whole bunch of problems when he steps in and tries to act as a "god-king".  A good example of how there is huge push-back on his actions can be found on this page:http://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/Requests_for_comment/Remove_Founder_flagIf there ever was a peasant revolt among the Wikimedia user community, this is it.  It was also a successful coup-d'etat so far as it did ultimately strip Jimmy Wales of a number of significant abilities and drew a firm line in the sand past which this guy simply can't act.  Sort of like a Wikimedia version of the Magna Carta after a strange fashion where the powers of the king are now significantly limited.  I agree that he should be thanked for his service, and then told to move along.Getting back to the main topic at hand, which is trying to persuade the Wikimedia Foundation to accept Bitcoins for donations.  Perhaps an open letter to the Wikimedia community would work out and they might be willing to accept donations like the EFF is doing.  If this is done, a very well formed letter could be put onto the Foundation-l mailing list, which is by far and away the best place for us ordinary serfs to communicate with the WMF board.  Sometimes they listen and sometimes they don't, but I promise that there will be some significant feedback if it is done, mostly by nay sayers who love to shoot any proposal down.In terms of historical examples, e-gold put some significant effort into trying to get the WMF to accept them as at least a donation option and bent over backwards to help out with the technical side of getting things integrated into the donation pages.  It was a little more complicated than simply displaying a bitcoins donation address, but not much more.  Other alternative currencies have come and gone over the years too, and it simply isn't a part of the WMF mission or the philosophy of those in power with the WMF to support alternative currencies.I might be surprised as sometimes all it takes is to ask, and I would certainly be willing to post such a message created and formed here on this forum to make an open letter to the WMF and the Wikimedia community in general, certainly to give my personal endorsement.  I do have at least some pull so far as some credibility I've built up over the years, so it wouldn't be dismissed immediately if I made the request.  I can't make any promises and it does seem like a proposal that may get shot down, but it wouldn't hurt to at least try.The most likely response is that there are plenty of ways to donate to the WMF, and that people should try to use those methods first.  Still, I know that some rather "unconventional" methods of donation have been used in the past, including the donation of several thousand shares of Google stock.  Of course that has real tangible value that doesn't need explaining.  It may also simply be premature to use Bitcoins for the WMF at the moment.  As a practical matter, it might be easier to persuade the Wal-Mart board of directors to use Bitcoins than the WMF board of trustees.  Where should we put that kind of effort?
I've seen specifications take years to get completed, so much of it depends upon how much detail that you put into the specification document. Some of them are pretty good, some are abysmal in terms of how close they are to reality and even in terms of ease of re-implementation based off of the specification.The one nice thing about having a clean spec to work off of, besides the fact that you can create a new implementation without having to copy software, is that you can also argue about specific parts of the specification as a common framework in a fashion like you argue about legislation.  In fact, the process is very similar in terms of how laws are passed in a legislative environment.  The difference is that engineers, not lawyers have to be able to use whatever it is that you come up with.One of the best real specifications that I've ever read was the PNG image file specification:http://www.libpng.org/pub/png/spec/1.2/This is of course not similar to what we have here with Bitcoins, which is instead a networking protocol.  That would be more similar to the Internet RFCs which can be found here:http://www.ietf.org/rfc.htmlIf you want to read a real specification and at the same time see a bit of nerd humor, I'd suggest that you read this particular spec here:http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1149I would expect this to take several man-months of effort at the least in terms of getting it prepared for one of these international bodies.  Preferably, I'd love to see this submitted as a formal network RFC once we get everything nailed down real good.  That would give Bitcoins some solid legitimacy and is a pretty high quality target to hit.There are other standards bodies we need to work with as well, including the ECMA (European Computer Manufacturer's Association) and the W3C (Web standards committee). I'm very hesitant to support a protocol change that puts any sort of restriction at all on what a miner must put into a block or leave out.  That can and should be something which is decided by the miner itself.  Also, it is possible that the miner node itself can put in all sorts of bogus transactions to fiddle with this sort of arrangement anyway, and that just adds overhead as well as wasted data storage when miners have to deliberately make stuff up to get some fees.  A miner could include a whole bunch of transactions that would "lower" the average TX fee allowing the miner to include some additional "real" fees, if any.Still, it is an interesting way to set up an algorithm that also puts some emphasis on transaction fees.  I'm sure people who have dedicated miners would love this.  You could also say that blocks of a certain size (current max size or perhaps a bit less) could include more "free" or "cheap" transactions or simply follow the current rules.  There is much to be said about this concept.  I wonder if there is a way to "fix" these problems? There are several threads that have been talking about this specific issue, and it is something under consideration.   There is a plan in place to deal with the possibility that the SHA-256 algorithm, which is the one currently being used by Bitcoins, would eventually be replaced.  There is also an effort by the NSA and others involve with the cryptology community in general (much more than just Bitcoins) that is trying to find something more secure than this algorithm and put it through a rigorous analysis in terms of ensuring that it really is more secure.This thread goes into much more detail about this issue and includes a quote from the lead developer that is relevant to you question:http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1854.0In terms of the ability to verify a transaction is valid, the effort to do that is trivial, on the order of a few cycles and a fraction of a second for even an ordinary computer.  The transactions get incorporate into the hash blocks in terms of getting put into the network and recorded on a "permanent" basis as having been confirmed.  In this regard a considerable amount of effort is put into confirming the transactions and in fact is one of the major functions that is "rewarded" by giving those nodes who are processing these blocks some bitcoins for performing that effort.In terms of scaling this effort to billions of people, there may have to be some modifications to the network and include some core machines doing a "backbone" effort with Bitcoins and some leaf nodes who are accepting and transmitting transactions.  Some of that has been discussed on these forums already, and I'm not really sure what the specific plans are, if any, when that happens.  It is certainly scalable to many thousand computers even in its present form and a whole lot more room to deal with the current scalability with the network as it stands.  If it may be approaching something of a problem, I'm sure there will be plenty of people very capable of coming up with alternative solutions to fixing this problem.  The main issue is simply getting people to show up and participate... a much larger problem I would think.Scaling issues would be a problem we would all wish to have here. I've been very active with Bitcoins and a long time Wikimedia user (I've been an admin on several "sister projects" even if not on Wikipedia itself).  This article isn't going to be restored into the "main namespace" of Wikipedia until it becomes more famous.  Wikipedia uses the term "notability" but "fame" is perhaps a better word to use here.Simply put, you need to show a "buzz" about the topic.  For something like Bitcoins, you need to show that several people are talking about it and more significantly, there are reliable sources of information.I know that there are people here who would like to perhaps use Wikipedia as a promotional vehicle.  Wikipedia users hate it being used in that way, which is the problem here.  Don't force this and make bad blood with the Wikipedia admins on this issue.  Either Bitcoins will become "famous" and be talked about in a whole bunch of places, or it will fade away as another software experiment.  It is still way too early to tell right now, but my gut feeling is that eventually there will be a Simpson's episode featuring Homer spending Bitcoins, a report about Bitcoins on Dateline: NBC, and other widespread discussion about the concept including perhaps an article in the New Yorker.  I've seen this happen to other projects, including Wikipedia itself.  I got involved with that project back when it was just a couple hundred people who got together as a result of a slashdot article.  It wasn't even called Wikipedia at the time, but rather Gnupedia, which eventually folded into Wikipedia and a related effort called Nupedia.I also saw a similar kind of gradual adopting to microcomputers, Linux, and many other things that most people are familiar with today.  It takes time for the world to find out about what it is that is going on, even if it is the most impressive thing in the world.This article not only went through a formal "deletion discussion", but it also has been through two formal "deletion reviews".  This statement is perhaps the best one that sums up the general attitude of people on Wikipedia about Bitcoins: (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Deletion_review/Log/2010_September_26#Bitcoin) - Andrew LenahanThe LWN article is certainly an excellent start towards that end, and with the article from Hartford Advocate (http://www.hartfordadvocate.com/commentary/is-it-time-for-digital-only-dollars-2) technically qualify as two formal and independent peer-reviewed sources of information.  It would be really nice if there was more.  The issue here is how to get Bitcoins publicized, and attempting to do that on administrator's notice boards on Wikipedia seems to be fighting a losing battle.  There are many other much easier ways to get that accomplished. I faced sort of the same situation when I lived in Brazil during the mid-1980's... the currency was going through massive inflation where over the course of a year you could put two zeros onto all prices compared to what it was at the beginning of the year.As a practical matter, the currency unit that most people used while I was there was the "mil", or a thousand in portuguese.  If you asked how much a bunch of bananas cost, they would tell you 3 mil or 4 mil (whatever it was at the time) and you would hand over some money.Based on this experience, I think the idea of a millibitcoin as a unit of currency sounds interesting, as in 40 mBC == 0.04 BTC.  With the current rate of deflation, I would expect this to be a common unit of exchange. The other thing to consider is if you start to create your own chain in some sort of presumption that the "rules" aren't "fair" with Bitcoins, that new network is potentially going to be incredibly vulnerable to potential attack by not just this dominating group of CPU processors, but also by any other group that may be lurking.More seriously, the way to fight people who are "hogging" all of the mining is to simply throw more CPUs at the issue.  That helps make the network all that more secure from outside attacks.I'd also like to put it this way: If some group is getting 95% of all bitcoins because they are throwing huge amount of CPU resources at generating blocks, they also deserve to get them because they are spending real-world money trying to get all of those blocks.  I would beg of somebody to demonstrate that the coins they are currently earning through mining activity is even doing something like paying for the electrical costs of running Bitcoins, much less paying for the computer equipment at the moment.  Perhaps that may be true in the future, particularly if transaction fees become a big deal, but I don't see anybody really "making money" in terms of mining bitcoins at the moment, at least through mining activity.  There have been some early adopters who are doing pretty well, but that would be true regardless of the mining rate.The question that you can ask:  Are those who are contributing CPU bandwidth following the rules and generally trying to include transactions into their blocks?In terms of "fairness" of who gets what for bitcoins, it has been debated extensively in these threads:http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1764.0 (Rethinking Bitcoins)http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1688.0 (Removing Mining from Bitcoins)I'm sure there are many other thread about "fairness", and if you know of some feel free to reference them too.It would be nice if Bitcoins was "fair" in terms of allocating roughly the same Bitcoins to all active participants, but how would you determine that?  In terms of mining the bitcoins themselves, I can't think of a better system than simply using CPU bandwidth as the deciding factor for mining the coins.  Some system needs to be used, and in this case it is verifiable so far as how often you get new coins that are generated as opposed to "earned" through some service or good that you provide to other Bitcoin users.  It would be nice if you got paid for network bandwidth and perhaps a few other metrics, but CPU bandwidth is currently the best and at the moment way to engage in the initial distribution of the coins.The presumption here is that a majority of the people (and by logic most of the CPU bandwidth) are pretty decent an honorable people, even if there are a few "bad apples" who like to spoil it for the rest of us.  As more people become aware of Bitcoins, the hope is that they are also going to be donating CPU bandwidth to help out the whole network.  All you have to do is get a few blocks in, say once a month or less often than even that.  Doing so will in a small way increase the difficulty and make it all that much harder to hijack the network.Regardless of the currency, there will be some people who have more than others.  Live with it.  Perhaps they are lucky, smarter, or have better experience and circumstances to take advantage of opportunities presented.  All of that and more plays into personal economics and your ability to get money. One way to look at increasing difficulty is that the total sum of CPU power being devoted to Bitcoins is also increasing.  This is an excellent thing so far as it demonstrates that it is all that much harder for some small group or a single individual to "take over" the network in some malicious attack, so in that regard increasing difficulty is very much a good thing.Another metric that can be used in terms of at least an approximate gauge of overall Bitcoins popularity is to calculate the number of coins being transferred in transactions.  I'm not sure if mtgox is keeping track of this, but it would be an interesting statistic to pull up, and the details about the coins being processed is in the block chain so historical information for the whole history of Bitcoins is available.I'd like to do some statistical analysis of the chain myself.... let's see what is going on that way. Almost everything that you have asked for is already in the current client, with the exception of the nice user interface to make it all happen.  All you are asking for is some custom programming for a particular application and it wouldn't require any substantial changes to the Bitcoin network itself, just a custom version of the client to do what it is that you want to do here.At the moment you can "manually" create new bitcoin addresses where somebody buying stuff from you has a unique address to send coins in your direction.  There are a number of good reasons to do this including security and staying anonymous, but on top of that it also allows the merchant to know when a payment has been sent by a specific person for a specific order.  Acknowledgement and indeed confirmation will show up on the next time or two that a new block is generated.None of this is very complicated.  The API could use some much better documentation in terms of how to access this information from the daemon version of Bitcoins, but the hooks are already in the code to accomplish all of what you are asking her.If you think this kind of thing has value, set it up.  We could use some better tools that make Bitcoins work easier, or set up a bounty for some programmer to help you out to make this work. The one concern that a "meatspace vendor" would have to deal with if you conducted a transaction is to make sure you aren't double-spending the same bitcoins.  The confirmation latency is an issue that I haven't spent too much time to think about, and it seems like an issue that needs some work, but for a straight person to person transaction it would be more like writing a check.You will have some level of trust with a merchant (most likely) and there are already existing laws in place if you try to screw over the merchant.  That would be a form of fraud at the very least and certainly would be non-payment of services if, and this is the catch, you double-spend the same bitcoins with multiple merchants.Normally banks have as much as a full week of latency in order for a check to clear.  I'm not entirely sure what country you live in, but I would think that getting a "check" to clear in 10-20 minutes would seem like a godsend to a typical merchant in this respect.  You wouldn't get far before some police radio channel is buzzing that some idiot is kiting "checks" or Bitcoins in this case and is presumed to be in the process of doing it again.  The penalties for doing stuff like this is far worse than shop lifting.  Also, a merchant can confirm that you have the coins "available" and possibly will charge you a small "transaction fee" as well to make sure your purchase in this case has priority.  They would know that at least within the past 10-15 minutes you had the money to make a purchase, which might be good enough to them, particularly if you are a regular customer.  The fact that you authorized the transaction giving enough information to make it included into the next block would be sufficient for many merchants... presuming that they or somebody they trust has thought this through.As a further incentive to "stay honest", merchants would presumably be connected through the network and could also receive messages from each other (using existing Bitcoin network protocols.....nothing new even needs to be added here) where they could in theory scan to see if those same bitcoins have been spent somewhere else but not yet included in a block.  Those messages are floating around the network too and can be used to stop dishonest behavior.  In short, the concern about the network latency is misplaced.  It may take some extra programming and a special "merchant" client that has tools to try and prevent this kind of fraud, but it is possible and doesn't need changes to the network as a whole, just to the particular front-end software that the merchant is using.  Presumably that would be something custom anyway due to the needs of a typical merchant.The value of gold can also crash real hard too.  I love to use the analogy of finding some ultra-pure veins of gold on some asteroid.  If you could get a million ounces of gold @ $10 USD per ounce (in theory something which could happen), it would certainly send the gold markets crashing if those guys decided to dump it on the world markets all at once.  The days of a major gold rush to somewhere still aren't over, but they are going to be found in more exotic places than we've seen in the past.  If that happens, Bitcoin users are going to smile and those who are hoarding gold are going to look foolish.  The only similar kind of event with Bitcoins is if somebody who is hoarding a large number of bitcoins decides to dump them onto the major currency exchanges for Bitcoins to push the value down.  I think that would only be a temporary situation anyway.  Somebody doing that is also shooting themselves in the foot, and self-interest is one that would encourage you to put a large hunk of Bitcoins into such a market much more slowly.The value gold has is such that it would still be worth more than the other heavy elements, because there are a number of electrical, biological, and metallurgical properties gold has which make it incredibly useful for many industrial applications.  It is biologically inert as the human body or for that matter most other forms of life really don't react to it... unlike lead which is incredibly hazardous.  It is very dense, has a unique color  (useful for art), incredibly ductle (can make some very thin wires), and with ordinary tools can be pounded down thin enough to be just a couple of atoms thick.... useful for many scientific experiments and again art.  Its use in the electronics industry is primarily due to the fact that it doesn't oxidize very easily, again unlike lead and for that matter most other elemental metals.  These and many other properties add value to gold well above and beyond the ability to easily make coins out of the stuff.Uranium is hitting a bubble right now because there are a whole bunch of nuclear reactors going on line, along with a few countries like North Korea, Iran, and China who are eating up Uranium for making nuclear bombs.  The previous bubble like this hit during the 1950's and made some instant millionaires, but when America and Russia stopped making new warheads in large numbers and curtailed the construction of nuclear power plants as a result of Chernobyl and Three Mile Island, the bottom fell out of the Uranium market.  There just aren't that many other uses for the metal and the one remaining application, as a super-heavy metal for gunnery (depleted uranium bullets) isn't enough to sustain the market.Gold is a much more valuable metal in and of itself, even if all of the metals of the world could be found in equal quantities, of which gold is rare because of raw physics and the make up of the Earth, it would still be one of the most valuable of all metals. If some "normal user" happened to get a transaction adopted into one of these forks, they'd sure notice.What decides which part of the chain split is accepted is the 51% of the CPU processing.  This isn't even a theoretical speculation, as there have been similar chain splits in the network already, most notably when the clients upgraded from 0.3.9 to 0.3.10.  The "bad" transactions were thrown into "good" blocks and the block rejected as falling out of the rules by some of the generators but accepted by others.  Yes, it created a mess, but what I'm saying is that the network as already dealt with this situation and it passed with flying colors.Of course warning messages had to be passed around for everybody to "know" which chain was more likely to be permanently accepted by the network, as it did take place with the upgrade of the clients + generators.  This is also why there is still a warning not to use clients prior to 0.3.10 right now because they are missing some of the rules which stopped what appears to be an attack on the network.BTW, otherwise "valid" blocks were dropped because they were included in the "wrong" chain, and unfortunately this did include a few legitimate transactions.  Not many transactions were lost, as the warning messages were sent out that it was a problem at the time.Agreed, but that doesn't imply that the rules to the network must always stay the same either.  The main point is that most of the network must agree to the same rules, and if the rules change it must be something seen to be implicitly necessary to keep the network running... usually to stop spaming or some attack on the network would be the most logical reasons for adding rules.  This is similar to other networking protocols that do changes from time to time, sometimes because of malicious attacks on the network.The reason to deal with this issue now, rather than later, is that we can talk objectively regarding what solutions or algorithms we might want to implement to resolve this issue.  If there is huge pressure because the transactions are starting to pile up and transaction fees are escalating as a result, any changes in the algorithm and network protocols are going to be seen as being a huge advantage to one group or another and it will become a political process instead.Politics and computer programming don't mix very well. I just don't think we are talking about the same thing here.  Wal-Mart, also sells regular gift cards without the VISA logo and they are treated strictly internally as a debit purchase but can't be used outside of Wal-Mart.  There are no fees for their use at all, either to Wal-Mart (they sort of act as the bank in this case to themselves) or to the customer.  They may have the card number encoded on the magnetic strip, but I don't think it is a VISA routing number in this case.  The card number is printed without the raised relief numbers.Regardless, if you can get a VISA gift card, it can be used a little more universally, so it may be a better approach to take.  Just make sure it has that VISA logo on it before you buy it or put more money on it.  The use of the VISA card does cost the merchant extra money to use, but it is no different than other credit card purchases. There have been some threads that have suggested a way to at least compensate for the fact that Bitcoins is an electronic currency, such as this one:http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1514.0If you have somebody you can trust which is printing out Bitcoin notes in some fashion, it can de-couple the currency from the network and computers.  I would see this most useful in a situation like a farmer's market or small trade group of some kind, but it could also be used in 3rd world countries where computer access is considerably more limited.  The stability of Bitcoins compared to currencies in 3rd world countries is something I think might be appealing enough that some smaller countries might even accept Bitcoins perhaps as a national currency, especially if they could "stick it to the man" in terms of Euros and Dollars. Wal-Mart has VISA gift cards, but I wasn't aware that they were the same thing.  The ones I am familiar with don't have the VISA logo nor do they have any numbers on the outside, although they do have the same digit encoding system that most credit cards use.It might be fun to try it out and see if I can buy gas with one of those Wal-Mart gift cards.  Somehow I don't think it will work. Do any of the exchanges have RSS feeds of their trade data?  That would seem like a reasonable way to transmit information of this nature and might be fun to have something like a stock ticker-type of application which would show trades happening in "real time". I don't know specifically what is being referenced here as I usually don't use that term, but the cultural reference is to pre-paid gasoline cards that look similar to a credit card and can be used for purchase of motor fuel and snacks at a fuel refilling station.  Sometimes they may be more widely recognized with other business establishments too, depending on how they've been marketed.In terms of something to use in America, I was thinking perhaps something like a Wal-Mart gift card might be a bit more universal.  The nice thing is that you could use the money for nearly anything you might want, at least if you are interested in buying cheap Chinese goods or want to buy some groceries.  There might be some resistance as there is sort of a cultural meme fighting Wal-Mart too in terms of some who don't want that store to take over all retail business in America (a perceived if not actual threat) but it at least would be a realistic way to convert bitcoins to dollars without having to go directly through credit cards or services like PayPal.  As far as I know, you can't do a "charge back" on a Wal-Mart gift card, unless you purchased it with a credit card in the first place.  That becomes Wal-Mart's problem, not yours.The one down side to gift cards is that they are "backed" by the company who operates the store that you purchase them from.  Then again, if Wal-Mart files for bankruptcy, America is screwed and unemployment nationally will go up a percentage point or two.  They are a large enough company that at least in the short term that shouldn't be a major concern.I did briefly think how cool it would be to buy gift cards and fill them directly with bitcoins.  From a technology viewpoint it would be a trivial exercise, but any merchant doing that directly would certainly have to buy in to Bitcoins as a currency and have something to do with them once they are received. I'm curious, how would the floating block size limit reject a block that is following the rules?  I'm not convinced on this issue here. The expected maximum size of the block would be known before the block is created, and that a block size limit exists is something already in the network.  All that is being asked here is that this size become a variable rather than a constant, and it is a variable which can grow with the activity of the network as a whole rather than throwing in a whole bunch of exceptions.Rejected blocks would come if this rule change creates blocks larger than the current maximum size of blocks, where it would get rejected by earlier clients following older rules without the variable block size.  I am suggesting that would be rare and likely not happen until well after the whole network (or at least 51%+ of the processing power) switches to this new rule, if it is adopted, whatever the rule is that comes up here from this idea.I realize that this is to limit the potential damage which a malicious attacker might try to force a whole bunch of miscellaneous data onto the network in an inefficient manner.  If anything, an algorithm using this concept might actually reduce the amount of data needed by miners and coin generators under such an attack, at least while the number of transactions is still quite small on average.  The question is how to set up such a formula so such an attack is essentially futile and would only result in forcing participants to engage in adding fees to their transactions?This would require a persistent and prolonged attack, something that I think those contributing to Bitcoins would pick out well before it starts to even remotely cause much damage in terms of sucking up a whole bunch of permanent storage.  On the other hand, it would allow flexibility for where special exceptions wouldn't have to be made a couple of years from now if or when what most people genuinely acknowledge is a large number of "legitimate" transactions that really would on average require that much data storage.  It is a problem we are going to be facing eventually, and it seems like trying to put off a problem that we know is going to come. I also think this is a useful idea to follow up on.  In this case, it might be nice to have a "floating average" of say the previous 2000 blocks plus some constant or constant percentage.  I'm suggesting perhaps the mean + 50%, to give some flexibility for it to expand?  We could quibble over the exact amount for the expansion room (perhaps allow it to 100% or 200% of the mean) but some sort of limit certainly sounds like a good idea and is something very easy and quick to compute.  It could also be calculated independently by all of the clients quickly to accept or reject a particular block.A genuine and sustained increase in transactions over the long duration would be accepted into the network at the increased rate and wouldn't put too much "push back" as the network adjusts to the new level.Besides, we can run the current chain through the algorithm (whatever we come up with) and see how the network would have adjusted based on "real world" data.  It might be fun to see just how that would have worked out, too. I presume this has been used in the test network, but are there any blocks where that has been necessary in the regular client?  I'm not asking somebody to deliberately force enough messages to be processed to do that, but more as a general question, is it something which has been done?Yes, I realize that it is in the current release. Correct me if I'm wrong here, but it is right now a very rare situation where blocks are even close to the maximum block size?  In fact, on average most blocks don't even have transactions included in them at all.  In other words, all they are doing at the moment is purely generating coins.If there is a situation where there is a huge pile of transactions backing up, perhaps the ones with fees could get move to the front of the pack, so to say, but the rest would generally be cleared in subsequent blocks.There certainly isn't anything stopping you from modifying your source code on Bitcoins and only accepting transactions with fees for at least blocks you are able to mine and create.  Essentially, if you are going through the effort to generate a block, you ought to be paid for any transactions in that block, at least if you think that way.  If enough people don't want to process transactions without getting paid, those without a fee simply won't get processed.  It really is that simple.For myself, I'd love to see this as a option in the User Interface itself where you could set the rules up in some way for how you would personally want to process transactions, and make it more of a market-based approach.  There is room for multiple rules regarding how transactions are processed. In a worst-case situation, would the whole chain have to be restarted with a new genesis block, or do you think some algorithm from some arbitrary block number, say block 200000, would require the new hashing/cryptographically securing algorithm?Apparently the NSA is trying to work on "stronger" hash algorithms and are willing to keep the effort to upgrade the algorithm as declassified material on the presumption that American civilians also need this kind of improvement to help protect network communications in general.  Undoubtedly there will be stronger algorithms found in the future, and there may also be something which avoids the use of prime factorization and other approaches which are currently used for securing these hashes.Yeah, it will be something that will impact far more than Bitcoins, that is for sure.
I, for one, would love to work with somebody or a group who is interested in helping put together a formal specification for Bitcoins.  I think it is something whose time has come and has been discussed on a number of other thread.  It isn't strictly necessary, but a formal specification rather than depending on the reference implementation (something also needed BTW!) is incredibly useful.I've plowed through some of the source code in an attempt to try and find out how it all works, but it has proven to be a very tough nut to crack in terms of trying to "grok" the source code and figure out just what is happening.  I really could use a "guide" to at least help out in terms of navigating the source code and knowing what to look for.  The question is also how to organize the documentation effort for the protocol.I think the wiki itself is sufficient in terms of the collaborative writing of the protocol document, but there may need to be some place for discussions beyond that in terms of organizing the content.  Any ideas on that would be appreciated.  Yes, there are a number of holes in the documentation and things that could be improved towards that end. It depends on how the the SHA-256 algorithm is broken.  If somebody creates a quantum computer with 400 qubits and is able to create any arbitrary SHA-256 hash with any other prefix or expected "proof of work" with a Big O(1) level of difficulty, Bitcoins as a program would simply be screwed and potentially attacked as if somebody just brought on a million new machines into the network.  It actually would be worse, as somebody with this kind of computing power would literally be able to create as many new blocks as fast or as slow as they cared, depending strictly on the speed of the computer to spit out new blocks.  This could conceivably happen in this situation about a thousand times per second or more, which would set up a DOS attack on the network like you've never seen before.  Difficulty could conceivably go to infinity in this situation and still not stop the flood of new blocks.  They would also all be valid new blocks, at least according to the current algorithm, and could not be rejected based upon increased difficulty.Luckily, most current quantum computers are insanely expensive (that are genuine quantum computers) and have right now a dozen qubits as the largest register they are working with.  There is reason to believe that Moore's law applies to Quantum computing, so it is something to worry about in terms of future plans for the currency, but I put this on the order of an issue decades away, if even that.  It is also something which can be defeated at least temporarily by increasing the number of bits in the hash.Quantum computers and in particular Shor's Algorithm (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shor%27s_algorithm) is a known weakness to encryption algorithms that depend on the public/private key method for them to work, of which the SHA-256 algorithm is certainly a member of that class of algorithms vulnerable to this kind of attack.   This algorithm isn't O(1), but it is awfully close.  What keeps it from being used is mainly a lack of hardware capable of carrying out the methodology, not a lack of ideas for it to work.It is possible that some sort of conventional Von Neumann architecture-type computer (what most people call simply a "computer") would be able to "partially break" the algorithm where hashing would be made considerably easier than is currently the case.  In that situation, it would merely be a refinement of the algorithm and speeding up the process, in which case increasing the difficulty would protect the network at least for awhile (in terms of years of protection).  Even then, it would be wise to look at replacing the algorithm with something else.That is ultimately the salvation for Bitcoins, and at some point in the future there will have to be a change in the basic algorithm used to creating blocks and used within Bitcoins.  We should be planning for that eventuality, even if now it is purely hypothetical.  The worst situation is an immediate and mandatory upgrade like happened to 0.3.9. A couple of points:Not every miner is going to expect a given fee.  This is sort of an auction market where miners are free to choose any fee that they desire.  This is the reason there has been resistance on this thread to impose any hard rules on the network and in particular the miners.  Thinking it through, I think that is on the whole a good idea.  The possibility exists that rules could be enforced on fees in terms of what blocks get accepted into the network, but what is being said here is that the miner is the one that ultimately decides to accept the block.BTW, I agree with the principle that miners should be completely free to accept or reject transactions, and would go so far as to say that there shouldn't be any restriction in the network on those blocks for this purpose.  I know this contradicts what I've written earlier, but I guess I'm convinced now that this is the best way.  To me, it is an issue of freedom, and one where a market approach fixes potential problems.  For those who posted earlier, I'm sold!Into this market place, there is going to be some sort of competition to collect transaction in order to "earn" the transaction fees.  There may be some users who want to try and push the fees to higher levels, so they will be rejecting a transaction that includes a 0.1 fee (to use your example).  However, either through altruism (they just want to be nice to newbies and paupers) or perhaps they are being simply greedy (they want to collect every last possible coin, no matter how little) there will end up being somebody somewhere that will eventually process the transaction.I'm sort of curious if somebody would include a 0.000001 BTC fee in a microtransaction of < 0.01 BTC, how many miners would process that transaction?  This isn't theoretical, as the current "default" network already rejects these sort of transactions, so it would be up to a new miner that would have to accept these sort of transaction.  Apparently there have been a few miners who are processing all transactions right now.As the intrinsic value of Bitcoins increases (which seems to be a general trend and strong reason to believe it will continue), the desire to accept minor transactions will increase.  That sounds like a strong limiting factor on the maximum fee that on average a typical bitcoin user will have to pay in order to get a transaction into a block.  You may have to wait a bit longer, but it shouldn't be too long of a wait.  You trade off transaction fees for speed of processing, where a higher transaction fee will be more likely to be accepted.  There certainly will be times where the timeliness of getting the transaction processed is critical, so there are valid reasons for a person making the transaction to want to pay a higher fee from time to time too. I'm sure that some kind of DNS-like system or "real world" naming system could be set up that could be put internal to Bitcoins, and it could be made as secure or perhaps even more secure than DNSSEC.  While a current system used by other network services could certainly be adopted, I would think to make it secure it would have to be a custom re-implementation specific to Bitcoins itself in some fashion.What is being suggested here is a way to name addresses in something that is human compatible and memorable as opposed to a long bitcoin address.  On that point I think this is something worth discussing.Some points worth noting:Name collisions would have to be dealt with in some fashion.  In other words, if two or more people claim shop.bitcoins as an "address", some method must be set up to deal with the collision, including potentially malicious attacks on the naming system.  This is why DNSSEC is mentioned, and even that isn't foolproof.Going onto the idea of name collisions, there is another vector of "attack" in terms of somebody looking at common mis-spellings and using that as a vector to intercept coin transfers.  You want to send some BTC to shop.bitcoins  but instead you typed in shop.bitcons as the address.  Don't count on the coins getting to your intended destination if that happens.  This should be addressed even if it is looked at and ignored.Some sort of culling process should be put into the naming system to keep the list from growing to uncontrollable levels.You could of course simply have some way to collect addresses in some sort of notebook as a feature on the client app where you could manually assign a name to an address, so it would keep the naming relationship local, but I presume that the goal is to advertise in some way "If you want this cool T-shirt, send 5BTC to shop.bitcoins!" On the whole this is a good idea, but one that needs some serious work to get it implemented. I came to this project from the original Slashdot announcement and was incredibly skeptical that this idea really would work as suggested.  The idea for electronic money first grabbed my interest back in an issue of Byte magazine almost 30 years ago, where the article went into details and even had some software published with the article about how to implement the currency and how to even send that money by e-mail (the suggested method at the time and WAAAAAY before the web happened).  The one fatal flaw that I saw of this particular money system was the need for a central authority to perform the record keeping, but the basic concept was pretty sound and I kept an ear to the ground in terms of future developments of the idea.When the slashdot article suggested that somebody figured out how to decentralize the record keeping aspect and maintain the integrity of the currency, my first impression was "bullshit" and to think it was some major scam.  It was something I studied and even implemented in terms of a test currency.Satoshi certainly deserves some kudos with putting together some ideas from different places and shoving them together to make something new and different.  None of this is really all that new by itself, and I was aware of nearly all of the pieces even before Satoshi created Bitcoins, but never thought of putting them all together in this fashion.  I even vaguely remember HashCash, but didn't think of using it for real money.This is also an enabler concept, as it opens up a whole bunch of other possibilities, some of which I've described in other posts, some of which I still have yet to act upon.  We've really just started to come up with the power of this idea, and I don't think it will be restricted to just this current implementation of Bitcoins either.The government issue is perhaps the worst part of it.  My hope is that it becomes popular enough fast enough that it will be like e-commerce:  It hit the government so hard and so fast that regulatory agencies weren't able to cope with it, but it was adopted slow enough that the grandchildren of senators and congressmen were involved enough that those regulation would have to put the relatives of members of congress in jail if it was made illegal.  Even now the concept of sale taxes for internet purchases is still a huge issue, yet most state legislatures have broadband internet access in the legislative chambers now.  If Bitcoins becomes popular enough that members of congress are using it before it is regulated, we might have a chance to avoid this bombshell.  Had congressmen thought that the internet was for distribution of pornographic GIF images and playing NETTREK, I doubt they would have funded DARPANET or even permitted it to remain in operation.In terms of services, I think it is trying to find the "killer app" which in and of itself justifies the use of Bitcoins.  I'm talking something which can't be done unless you are using Bitcoins.   Other things will be nice in terms of helping expand the overall market and other applications will show up, but that is to me what will make or break Bitcoins.  I have no idea what that might be either, and I don't think anybody has come across it yet.  There could be a gradual discovery of Bitcoins and several small things that together will eventually add up to be something big, but I don't think you can use existing e-commerce sites as a template for this "killer app".My fear is that perhaps hyperinflation and/or civil unrest is going to show up and become the "killer app" that will make Bitcoins necessary.  If people stop trusting the fiat currencies, Bitcoins might be a salvation together with other alternative currencies, but then again that might give a reason to do regulations on those alternate currencies to try and prop up the fiat currencies too.  It will make a whole bunch of people who are currently on this forum quite wealthy, but that is a world I'm not sure I'd like to live in either.  Perhaps wiser heads would prevail and be grateful that trade is happening at all and turn a blind eye to something like Bitcoins in that situation too. There is of course the Laffer Curve that suggest there is a point in taxation past which there are diminishing returns.  In theory you can point this out clearly where nobody would be willing to earn anything if income taxes and other forms of taxation were at 100%, hence giving no taxes to the government  The converse is also true where a complete elimination of taxation is likely to not bring income into the government. I say likely not because there are some people who even now perversely do name the IRS and various governmental organizations in their wills and want the government to take all of their wealth as a deliberate and intentional act.  Good for them, as it would be interesting to see what would happen if the government used a PBS model of fundraising with telethons and pleas for donations.  But that doesn't deal with the topic at hand.Some politicians do talk about maximizing the revenue into the government, where perhaps lowering taxes might encourage more economic activity and thus increase the amount of taxes raised.  There are also many who are advocating higher taxes which are being suggested not to increase revenue but instead for some kind of political advantage or for pure political control.  Perhaps to "right a wrong" or something else, but it certainly isn't to raise revenue for the government.The debate even if you take the premise that the goal is to maximize revenue to the government is to decide what that rate might be.  Over time people adjust their spending habits, so what might have been a good point in the past to set at a maximum revenue might be different today.  Other laws might show up that are indirectly a tax that also influences this, for example environmental protection laws or occupational safety laws which can increase the cost of doing business.  Even that cost isn't directly obvious and with occupational safety laws might even save a business in the long run too, but it does add some short-term costs that are real... to give an example.I agree that you shouldn't listen to 15 second sound bites and certainly should distrust a politician who is overly simplistic in their explanation of economic policy.  A politician that says the answer is complex is being much more truthful.  A politician who votes to raise taxes on the premise that the tax increase is going to increase revenue may very likely discover reduced revenue instead and get into a vicious feedback loop as well trying to keep raising taxes with even further reductions of revenue and failing to admit the whole process of raising taxes might have been a mistake. Getting onto another topic that I initially tried to raise, I've been trying to think about even perhaps how you could "earn" bitcoins for network bandwidth, as a way to encourage participation in the network.  A few basic ground rules I'd like to put into this discussion however.This is something that would have to be put on top of the existing rules.  In other words, if this were to be done it would have to be completely compatible with the existing network rules, and more importantly it would have to be something that could work with earlier versions of the network client so it would have to be forward compatible with the current version of the client.Axiomatically, based upon the the premise of the previous requirement, the actual "mining" of Bitcoins themselves would have to be from the generation of the hashes themselves and the creation of new blocks.  This isn't something that would be a way to create new bitcoins, but merely a way to pay for the service itselfCharging for bandwidth would have to be something that is voluntary, in part because not everybody would agree to this at least in the beginning.  It limits the options perhaps on what you can do, but it also forces you to think of different opportunities as a result.The advantages for moving in direction would have to be beneficial to the network as a whole and likely be adopted by Satochi even in the reference application, aka the main Bitcoin client.My idea that I've considered is essentially where some system could be set up where data sent from one peer to another has some kind of payment arrangement based upon bandwidth delivered.  A trust metric of some sort would have to be worked out here and perhaps even a "leap of faith" of some sort too, but I'm suggesting something sort of like the following:Alice connects to Bob, where Bob claims to have blocks in the network chain that Alice doesn't haveAlice has some experience with Bob, or Bob has established some sort of trust with Charlie, who Alice trusts.  Note, this is something that still could be worked out, but at some level there is some modest level of trust.  Not hard trust, but that things may work out.  Blacklisting and Whitelisting is possible here.  Bob can similarly establish trust with Alice on the same premise or rules.Bob lists the price for the blocks (yes, a microtransaction) with payment address, Alice agrees to pay that price or reject the fee.  If the fee is rejected, nothing happens.  Alice sends the coins, possibly to a trusted escrow.Bob transmits new blocks in the chain.Alice receives blocks, scans blocks as valid, and releases escrow (if in place).If everything works out, trust metric is strengthened, or if things don't work out, trust metric is weakened and "reported" to the network as a troll or bad relationship.In this case Bob could be altruistic and transmit the blocks for no fee at all (aka the current system), be greedy charging a high fee for the blocks (likely to be rejected) or charge a competitive fee (and get lots and lots of Bitcoins from "customers"... well, perhaps some at least).  The advantage somebody gets from "buying" blocks in this system is that they can perhaps get blocks from high speed connections or at least get them from users who are willing to open up their connections.  In the long run, you would be more "connected" if you are paying for blocks as opposed to those who aren't.  You might even "win" in terms of tie breakers between who creates (mines) the next block by paying for the connections to the core miners on the network.  For those with high bandwidth, they have an incentive to offer more network connections and become a network "core" that is distributing blocks to other users.  The more connections they have, it gives them many more opportunities to earn Bitcoins.-------Now to problems I see in this scheme:This really does make the network a whole lot more complex, and substantially increases the number of transactions in the network.  If nearly every node in the network is going to be receiving at least a couple transactions, it pushes the bandwidth requirements up and out of sight.  There are a few ways this might be taken care of including perhaps setting up "accounts" with other Bitcoin users where you agree to ship so much bandwidth off of a single payment transaction.  In other words, you could send 0.01 BTC to a "friend" or at least a trusted member of the network, and the "charges" would be deducted between the two users until it is time to send another 0.01 BTC for another batch, which might be enough for a few hours, days, or even weeks of block transferes.  Some kind of credit between clients would happen in this fashion and thus minimize the transactions for a specific block being transferred.  The presumption here is if coins are transferred between users, that there would also be incentives in place to connect to each other and continue the relationship.There is the potential of scaming going on here, where false blocks could be transmitted.  This would be an attack by Bob on the network, claiming that he has lots of blocks, and thus extracting payment from lots of users, and then fails to deliver.  This kind of attack would be identified quickly where the actual data would be shown to be bogus using the existing rules.  "Proof of work" would be shown as not really being proof, or being duplicates of previous blocks.  Verification could also happen (with bandwidth being paid for from other clients), but again Bob would be shown to be untrustworthy.  "News" of this lack of trust with Bob could spread through the network quickly where Bob could even be effectively kicked from the network and possibly even have payment rejected as a transaction before it gets into the next block.Alice could attack too, spreading false rumors of lack of trust in an attempt to damage Bob's reputation.  On the other hand, depending on how the trust metric system is set up, Charlie and others could show they they trust Bob and possibly start to reject Alice as a false rumor.  As a result, Alice would be kicked off the network instead.If Alice and Bob are starting out with no trust relationship at all (one or both of them are new to the network) a "leap of faith" could happen where a few freebee blocks could be sent by Bob or some minor amount of Bitcoins could be sent by Alice to start the trust metric.  Perhaps both, but it would be an establishment relationship.  Some users may not want to get into a leap of faith, which is an individual choice.Still, there are wheels in wheels here where undoubtedly there will be somebody who will figure out how to turn this into a scam.  The whole thing works only if a super-majority is "honest".  My experience is that that more than likely would be the case.  A couple of bad users would be weeded out quickly, but it isn't a guarantee.  I'm also not completely certain that this sort of system would work.I also see that potentially with these webs of relationships that perhaps you might even get isolated Bitcoin networks due to trust relationships creating an "island" network.  That may or may not be a problem depending on how it is set up, but it would be important to know if you are on the "main" network in some fashion.  Certainly blocks created on the isolated island would not be recognized by the rest of the network.Perhaps this is making something overly complicated, but it would be a way to "pay" for something that at the moment is a free good, namely network bandwidth.  It would provide another way for even new users to Bitcoins to make a little bit of money on the side simply for running the software, as people who stay connected to the network would over time earn more Bitcoins than those who connect for a brief while and then disconnect frequently.As a separate note, the issue of microtransactions is something I thought was an overall goal of Bitcoins.  If microtransactions aren't working out very well, perhaps that too is something that needs revisiting. I'll work on it.  for instance:This statement from the documentation is simply incorrect.  When you sen transactions, you don't know in advance that "they're going to have to pay a transaction fee" or even how much it might be.  It is a guess, and as mentioned here on this thread the rules about this are not "shared among all Bitcoin users".  It may not even be most Bitcoin users that share any given transaction fee philosophy.Yeah, it is a wiki.  I can change that and rework that sentence and fix other documentation there, but I am saying that the network rules on this issue are as clear as mud and the only documentation about it is the source code of the reference application, and even that isn't really all that clear.  This thread is to me clearing that up considerably, and I thank those who are at least trying to be patient with me on it. Correct me if I'm wrong here:  When you send out the data for a transaction, you also send out some coins for a "fee" (which could be zero) that may or may not be accepted by a miner.  If it is accepted, the miner processes the transaction, keeps the fee, and the transaction is adopted into the network.  If the fee isn't sufficient, the transaction is rejected and not incorporated into that block.The default reference implementation doesn't necessarily require fees except for transactions less than 0.01 BTC at the moment, which is perhaps where our lines of communication are getting fouled up.  This represents the "typical" acceptance of new blocks into the network, but individual miners can choose their own policies and perhaps even be as selective or indiscriminate of whatever transactions have been forwarded.It is an interesting aspect of Bitcoins and needs to be documented elsewhere.  I'll see what I can do on that end. I know this is getting off-topic, but I'm curious what sort of time limitation there is to dollars when the chairman of the Fed can simply type in some number in a desktop computer to create a trillion dollars and send those dollar electronically to buy securities or whatever The Fed cares to buy with them?  It is a bit more complicated than than, but not much more so.  It certainly doesn't require the printing of any physical medium.If there is a practical limit, it has been the historical reluctance of central banks to do this kind of wild sort of intervention or performing substantial inflation causing actions.  In other words, it is the whimsy of individuals who have the power to inflate the currency, not any sort of actual limit.The fact that Bernake doesn't seem to have this kind of restraint is something I find especially disturbing, but this is getting very much off topic. This wouldn't even require 50% of the network CPU power.  20% would be enough to "slow the network down" with a significant degrading of service and ramp up the difficulty for the rest of the network considerably.  Then again, you would be a fool to pass up on potential transaction fees simply by only accepting transactions that would permit a high fee or an impossible fee.My understanding of this is really muddled and I'm not not really sure how the fees are decided or what happens when you type in an address, an amount, and try send some bitcoins to somebody. How do you "shop" for transaction fees under this system?  I guess I'm getting very confused here over how this works.For example, if a miner gets a successful hash, what stops them from "charging" a 95% transaction fee?  What keeps those transactions from getting incorporated into the block and recognized by the network?Is there a way for you to say "I don't want to pay this fee" and "shop" for a miner that charges smaller fees by simply waiting?It also sets up an interesting DOS attack where potentially a miner with a large bank of computers could charge very high transaction fees, slowing down or even potentially stopping trades.  I guess the way to stop that would be to get a bunch of computers for yourself and hope you can squeeze in a successful hash at least for yourself to get your transactions put into the network without a fee (presuming you can be selective on the fees for your friends and own addresses).Is this something that could be put into the user interface, where you can "select" what fees you would be willing to pay? Dollars, Euros, Pounds, and other currencies are "unlimited", yet people hold them, value them, and use them for exchange.  Ditto with Linden Dollars and many other "alternative" currencies as well, and for that matter even precious metals like gold and silver.  At some point in the future, a new gold mine or perhaps an asteroid made of pure gold will be discovered which will substantially increase the supply of one of these metals.I'm simply suggesting that having an open ended currency system doesn't necessarily make it fatal and there are plenty of examples of currencies without a formal limit.  Indeed I am suggesting that every currency system is open ended with possibly the exception of Bitcoins itself.  It is Bitcoins with it being defined as a closed and absolute limit by definition which is new and different, something that I'm not entirely sure how it is going to pan out in the long run.  It may be fun to find out.I guess another exception as a "closed" currency is the Iraqi Dinar as printed by Saddam Hussein's government.  It also has an interesting history too as it was able to maintain its value and in fact appreciate when the government which established it by fiat no longer existed.  Most people expected the Dinar to collapse in a fashion similar to Confederate Dollars, but ended up becoming even more valuable than they were during Saddam Hussein's presidency.  Closed and limited currencies are by far and away the exception rather than the rule.As far as forking Bitcoins with a new genesis block an new rules, that is a strawman argument.  There might be a fork or if there are some fatal problems to Bitcoins (the final chapter on Bitcoins hasn't been written yet) there might be a move to fork the project.  In this regard, it is good to at least consider other approaches, which is also the point of this thread, to see what else Bitcoins might have been instead of what it currently is.  What decisions on the part of Bitcoins are essential and which are merely arbitrary choices that simply had to be made?  I consider the decision to gradually reduce the value of Bitcoins as an arbitrary decision which might have even excessively complicated the algorithms for Bitcoins.  We'll see how that works out, which is why this is a fun experiment.Arguing on behalf of a closed and limited number of Bitcoins overall is that it might lead to a faster adoption of the currency as it is a unique feature.  The limit is being defined as a mathematical algorithm rather than some fiat declaration, which also makes it a bit more interesting still.  It may be that an open ended currency, even with a controlled and limited growth as presuming the 50 BTC per new work unit would be allowed to continue, might reduce the number of people during a rapid growth phase who would be willing to use it.  Perhaps even people like yourself, FreeMoney.  I'm not completely convinced it would be a huge number, but I'm sure there would be some who would be more attracted to a completely closed currency system.  At that point what we are arguing about is the number who would reject an open ended version of Bitcoins. I don't see how the currency would collapse if 50 BTC keep being created "forever".  It is a matter of sinks and sources, just like you find in most MMORPGs.  Coin sinks in this case would be people who are sitting on coins and not spending them, "lost" coins due to people losing their coin wallets, and others ways that coins are essentially pulled out of circulation like members of the bitcoin community dying and people reformatting those computers or throwing those computers into a local landfill.  Over time, the flow of bitcoins would stabilize and the overall bitcoin economy would adjust to whatever scheme or system is set up for creating bitcoins.Besides, as I've been trying to point out, this is precisely the network model we are currently using at the moment, and the only distinguishing feature between one that has 50 BTC forever and one that has a finite limit in the future with diminishing returns is invoking a part of the code in the current client that has yet to be activated or really tested, and the impact of that change of halving the value of mined coins certainly hasn't worked its way into the value people place upon bitcoins.  In spite of the fact that each new workunit, at the moment, is worth 50 BTC, the value of bitcoins has been steadily increasing based upon the various markets.  The theoretical musing is about how people will react when the total number of new coins is zero.I don't understand the rest of what you are trying to say here, as the network already limits the number of new work units being created.  If you try to increase the creation rate, the network simply increases the workunit difficulty.  In trying to interpret what you are saying, the presumption is that by having a constant influx of new coins coming into the Bitcoin economy, that at some point in the future the value of a single bitcoin will collapse, presumably from more bitcoins chasing fewer goods and services.  That would be true if there was a shock to the system of a huge number of new bitcoins coming into the economy all at once, but a steady stream of new bitcoins is something that I think would be more than predictable and people would adjust to that happening.By far and away the one thing that would cause a collapse in the value of Bitcoins would be somebody hoarding a large number of Bitcoins and then dumping them onto the market all at once.  This has been described on other threads and is completely irrelevant in terms of the generation system being used. We ended up posting about essentially principle, I just ended up exaggerating it a bit more.As far as where the fees go, they belong to the miner who creates the work unit.  In other words, using the current generation method, you get 50 BTC (or whatever that will be) plus the transaction fees for processing all of the transactions that happen and get incorporated into that work unit.  In theory, over time it will be primarily transaction fees and not new coins which will be the incentive for creating new work units. Here it is suggested that there shouldn't be arbitrary minimums, what is stopping some miner to impose a maximum fee that is essentially confiscatory?  The issue cuts both ways here, and is essentially the same principle.More significantly, there ought to be a network-wide fee policy that is consistent across the network for a great many reasons, not the least of which is at least some predictability.  Arbitrary policies seem to be even more chaotic if every single miner has a completely different policy for fees.The one argument against arbitrary minimum fee that does seem to be important here is that this is significantly limiting in terms of what the minimum transaction cost can be and limits the ability of Bitcoins to be sub-divided into smaller units.  One of the claims and design goals of bitcoins is that in theory bitcoins can increase in value until supposedly the 21 million bitcoins that are to be generated in total will be sufficient to enable trade with the entire world economy.  Think about that for a little and imagine if 0.00001 BTC == $1 USD.  That isn't exactly a huge stretch of the imagination here, where charging 0.01 BTC for a transaction is the equivalent of $1000 USD for the transaction.  I would imagine such a situation would be a huge limit on the use an application of Bitcoins and significantly goes against at least the basic design principles including trying to aim toward enabling microtransactions that can't be done with PayPal and other electronic currency methods.This is also my same complaint about the current limit on transactions less than 0.01 BTC.  Yes, I understand the rationale for this limit, but I think it is going to come back and be a major logical bug to the network as a whole.It would be a sad day if it is cheaper to send money via PayPal than it is with Bitcoins.The whole idea of what the fee schedules ought to be for transactions is something which needs some serious thought, even though I'd agree that there shouldn't be necessarily a free lunch here either.  I would be supportive of some sort of mandatory fee, but it ought to be consistent across the network and not arbitrary on a per miner basis.  If the miner wants to be generous and waive the fees, that is another issue entirely... somehow I think that will be an exception rather than the rule.  I think the assumption that people using Bitcoins are greedy SOBs is a pretty good one to consider as a postulate. If there is anything that I've discovered about computers and released software, that any sort of unlikely series of events, not matter how unlikely, are bound to happen in a sort of perverse Murphy's Law sort of situation.  In other words, if it can happen, it will happen and happen in the most annoying way possible.  One sure sign of an amateur software developer, or at least somebody green to the field, is one who dismisses rare or exceptional circumstances to ever happen.I believe in coincidence and depend upon it to occur even if it is rare.  Indeed a bulk of the computer software I ever write is to deal with those very seldom exceptions with code that is rarely if ever executed.  When you are talking networked computers, the chance for exceptional situation to happen seems to increase even more substantially because there are many more variables involved.  You even get quantum effect showing up where bits get flipped and other hardware "glitches" which cause all kind of other issues.  Sometimes I'm amazed that software works at all half the time. Hardly brilliant, and misses the point.The issue is how to jump-start the economy and get the basic economic unit flowing around.  In order to do that, there has to be some means to earn the coins in at least some fashion.Yes, I know there are multiple ways of doing that including simply getting a pile of money and buying them on the exchanges, but that isn't using Bitcoins as money, that is merely using Bitcoins as a transport medium, sort of like a variation of PayPal.  Bitcoins can and to me ought to be so much more than that.If most people have zero Bitcoins, they simply won't be buying stuff with it.  On the other hand, if they have a few bitcoins (not a lot, but some) then if somebody comes up with some crazy idea that might earn them a few bitcoins, at least somebody has a few to spare that they would be willing to try out the idea.On the other hand, if Bitcoins are hoarded in the hands of just a few, then it is possible that the new idea will fall flat on its face because nobody is willing to try the idea out, and those who have the pile of money don't want it.  I'm not saying that most of the money concentrated in the hands of a few is a bad thing, I'm just saying that something must be in the hands of many people, even if it is just a very little bit.Distributing the creation of new bitcoins a little more widely is something that on the whole helps everybody, which is the point I'm trying to drive home.  It is also the source of the complaints here.  I don't think it is envy (for the most part) that these folks are missing out on the bulk of the new coins being mined, but rather the inability to even get into the game in the first place, or wondering if the software even works at all. The one problem here is that the whole premise is a fallacy.  This is attempting to earn credibility by association, which is wrong.The fact that the Electronic Frontier Foundation is willing to accept Bitcoins as a donatoin mechanism is notable so far as it is providing an additional means to donate to their cause, and that at least somebody has looked into Bitcoins long enough at the EFF that presumably they have one of their computers running a more up-to-date version of Bitcoins on one of their computers.  As a background task where nobody really has to do anything, it is a small thing that does have some implications, but nothing really significant.I remember when open source software sort of gained some significant credibility, and two significant events made that happen:Netscape deciding to "open source" their software, giving the beginnings to Mozilla/Firefox.  While Netscape Navigator ended up becoming a dinosaur, the basic core of the software lives on after a fashion and only has been sustained because of open source softwareIBM adopting Linux for its mainframe business.  Before Linux started to show up on the mainframe computers, the entire division was in decline and there were rumors that IBM was going to shut down the entire mainframe division altogether.  Instead, when they got Linux going as virtualized servers on mainframes, it not only brought life back to the division but became a significant source of revenue for the company.  For IBM, that was a huge deal.  It didn't hurt that the evil IBM suddenly became the white knight defender of open source software (aka IBM v. SCO and associated lawsuits).I don't see the EFF "endorsement" (as little as that is) to be as significant as either of those two events for open source software.  It would be interesting looking in hindsight what kind of "killer app" may show up to spur on Bitcoins.  This has been speculated in numerous other postings on the forum here, but at this point in time I don't think anybody knows what it might be.I don't think it has been discovered or invented yet, but to me Bitcoins has the feel of a technology that is going to launch into that kind of stratum of concepts eventually, as when it hits the big time it will hit it hard.  We're still at a stage with the idea right now where it is mainly early adopters and experimenters.  All that the EFF acceptance has pointed out is that perhaps the currency is moving away from that first round of acceptance to something perhaps a little mainstream.A world-wide crash of major currencies might spur on acceptance of Bitcoins in a big way, particularly if hyperinflation follows.  I hope that isn't the real killer app, however. The main issue here is in terms of how much in naked shorting has JP Morgan put themselves "out there" in terms of silver contracts.  If in theory they have "sold" more silver than physically exists in the world (which is sort of what is implied in this video but not explicitly stated), then having a whole bunch of people purchasing a substantial fraction of the world's silver supply and simply "sitting on it" where J.P. Morgan can't buy it is going to put them into a position where the contracts are going to be called and they will be unable to deliver.More substantially, when they do start to go about buying the silver that is left in the world markets (you can't get that to zero, no matter how hard you try) is going to skyrocket and put their short positions in a terrible position whey they would run out of cash in a hurry.The real key is the amount of silver that they have sold.  If it is a relatively small amount, it really is no big deal.  If it is a sizable fraction of the world supply, they could get screwed over in a hurry.  The price points really would be irrelevant or the dates.  Any extended date or any "call price" is just a matter of time before the whole scheme falls apart.  Individuals buying silver (such as is suggested in the video) would tend to sit on those coins long enough (a few months to close to a year or perhaps more, on average) that it would be enough to get past the tipping point where this bank would be in a world of hurt.That is the real problem here, that silver is a real tangible medium and not something which can be created out of nothing.  If this bank has been playing games with the silver market, they deserve to be burned.Certainly the global supply of silver is at least in the realm of something which can be manipulated like this, as has been evidenced with the Hunt Brothers from a couple of decades ago.  The difference here is that if this guy is correct, JP Morgan could go down in a big way.... likely to be saved by the Fed, which is the sad part of the whole thing.  At some point the electronic creation of cash has got to end, but Ben Bernanke is getting almost too comfortable at buying up stuff with Federal Reserve funds.  If you are an American, you should read that as an across the board tax on each American too, as the value of the dollar will drop as a result.Other than looking at the price chart for silver over the course of a year, is there any proof that any of this is true?
It doesn't even have to be everybody that switches.  All that has to happen is that a majority of the CPU power which decides what the next work unit will be will reject mined coins that don't follow the network.Note, this already happened where for awhile the pre-0.3.9 network was producing one chain and the post 0.3.10 network was producing a completely different chain.  That is one of the reasons for the upgrade notice, as those people mining coins and even trying to process transactions won't be recognized when that happens by the main line network.  At the moment, you could stick with the pre-0.3.9 clients, but work units produced by them have the potential of not being incorporated into the main chain right now.I know you get this Theymos, but I think it is an important point to note here.  Unlike some protocol situations, it doesn't have to be 100% agreement for a switch but rather a more "democratic" method.  The majority processing power runs the network and determines its fate. I am not completely convinced that the 21 million limit is necessary either, although this may be a topic for another thread entirely.  Since the coin miner has yet to be halved at all so far, this is a feature that has yet to be tested as a matter of fact, and its impact upon both difficulty and the exchange markets has yet to be seen as well.The reason I suggest that perhaps the difficulty might be impacted is that there might be some people who simply give up even trying to mine coins altogether.  To me, that actually makes the network more vulnerable to "dangerous" attacks and could cause other problems too.  This remains to be seen how big of an attack it will be.Also, I'm suggesting that the markets are adjusting to the continual influx of new coins coming "into the economy" and that the more important feature is not the absolute limit, but rather the very slow and steady growth of the Bitcoin economy.  Deflation is happening anyway as people are coming into usage of Bitcoins and applications of the currency are being found to soak up the coins faster than they can be mined.  Furthermore, there is a genuine need to be mining coins as it is the work units themselves that are processing transactions and determining how transaction fees are paid.We are not talking somebody like the Fed Chariman sitting behind his computer and creating $3 trillion USD out of nothing and buying up all kinds of securities because he feels it is a good thing to do.  With bitcoins, such a move is impossible.Correct me if I'm wrong here, but it is the person who "creates" the work unit (they get the hash correct that is recognized by the network) that collects the "fees" for the transactions processed with that work unit, in addition to the new coins mined with that work unit.  Is that correct?I suppose that is the reason to continue to "mine" coins even if the value earned from the mining activity is zero.  Under the current system, the value "earned" from mining work units is eventually going to get to zero.As a percentage of the total number of Bitcoins that are floating around, each new work unit even at 50 BTC each represents an ever decreasing proportion of the overall Bitcoin economy.  If anything, maintaining a constant flow and creation of bitcoins acts as an anti-deflationary method and ensures that "lost" bitcoins are not going to adversely impact the overall economy in terms of increasing deflationary pressure.Again, I'll believe it when I see it, and it is when that work unit #210001 is created that it will be interesting to see what happens.  I'm just suggesting that even this particular sacred cow doesn't have to be so sacred as is being suggested and its impact has yet to even scratch the network yet.  Right now, the network is acting as if such a limit doesn't exist at all or at least you wouldn't notice a difference based on current behavior. Having child pornography on your computer is by itself a reason to have you arrested with a felony, get labeled a child sex offender with a legal requirement to constantly register as such (a highly controversial issue in itself), and face a significant loss of both liberty and property if you are found with the content on your computer.  It is a huge issue and something to be concerned about as you are essentially found guilty until you prove yourself innocent with a great deal of effort and money when the issue comes up.Yes, I know that is not how the judicial system is advertised to work, but it is current reality.  Those pushing against child exploitation in various aspects are now found in high public office, and being "strong against child predators" is an easy way for a democratically elected official to get into office.  How do you run against that kind of platform?  "I want to protect the rights of mislabeled child sex offenders" isn't a good sound bite and makes you look soft on crime, where the easy thing is to let a few people go to jail who might be innocent of the charges in exchange for getting most of the "bad people" off the streets (however that is labeled).  Most juries also don't buy "I didn't know that stuff was on my hard drive".As I said, guilty until proven innocent.For a chilling example of how the judicial system can really screw you over on this issue, I'd suggest you look at this video:http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/pages/frontline/the-confessions/?utm_campaign=viewpage&utm_medium=grid&utm_source=gridRaising the issue is certainly useful, and the concerned expressed that somehow data could be put onto your computer inadvertently is something of grave concern if you are worried about such things.  There have also been more than a few people dragged into court for other peer to peer software applications, which is one of the reasons why you see even formal legislation outlawing even the raw practice of writing peer to peer software in the first place, of course forgetting that what these legislators are essentially doing is outlawing the internet as a whole.There are clueless legislators out there.  Raising issues like this is therefore something that I think is legitimate.  Also, bad PR can also result in criminalization of something like Bitcoins, which is something I think everybody here would love to avoid.  The use of pornography as a vector to shut down Bitcoins seems like something to generally avoid if possible.My hope is that Bitcoins become widespread enough by the time some of these other ways to exploit the software are tried and noticed by law enforcement that the prosecutors will go after the people who decide to put this data onto the network rather than those who are running the network.  That may not be easy to determine, but is to me a much better way to run such an investigation.  Unfortunately the easy solution would be to simply shut down Bitcoins as a whole without even seeing other applications. I wish there was more effort to actually document the protocol rather than simply "document through code" what is happening with Bitcoins.  I made an effort on the internal wiki to the Bitcoins project to get started, but it is rather pathetic at the moment:http://www.bitcoin.org/wiki/doku.php?id=technical_documentationThere was also a fiasco where one regular participant to Bitcoins was asserting "ownership" over the spec that sort of crashed the party.  I hope that is water over the dam now.Ideally, the coding ought to be based upon the specification rather than the spec being based upon the coding.  I think that is backwards and should change.  It is much easier to debate the specification and make more informed decisions about the spec when you can divorce the programming environment and reference implementation from the standards used.At the moment, the reference implementation is the specification.  Some people like it that way.  I don't. I believe it was a massive mistake, at least the way it was expressed with some of the early posts even on this forum.  I've seen some posts full of contempt for the newcomers.The Bitcoin faucet was a good early source of getting some bitcoins to at least play around with the concept, and I'm glad that at least somebody saw that need.  Unfortunately, if that is the only input that can be trusted for bitcoins, it is rather weak.Amen on that point too!  Excluding Americans from participating in the system, which is what this implies, is ignoring a huge early market for Bitcoins.  The legal issues surrounding alternative currencies in America have been discussed extensively on other threads, including potential problems with converting dollars to Bitcoins and the other way around.While there may be many who trust the current exchanges within the Bitcoin community, they are all very new ideas themselves and certainly haven't established credibility with the general public.  That is going to take time.On the whole, this is something that eventually will work out of the system as people begin to understand the concept as a whole,  It also takes coming up with other ways to both obtain and spend bitcoins. Be careful about presumptions.  I'm curious about how you jumped to that conclusion.  I was likely programming computers before you were born.I get that.  There have been some tweaks and changes to the protocol to increase anonymity for users that have been useful, and some other threads that have gone into details on how that could be improved.  I wasn't really intending to make this thread about anonymity anyway.Enlighten me, please! I've been trying to figure this system out for several months, including reading the source code itself.  I'm still not convinced that tweaking the protocol or introducing new ways for people contributing to Bitcoins is necessarily going to change the primary facets of the project, including how the raw coins themselves are produced, how transactions are processed, or how the information is preserved.The equitable distribution is an issue in terms of encouraging participation in the project.  I get that inequalities are going to exist.  Still, if it isn't "working out" for new users there will be a lag between those joining the project and those giving up to leave.  Perhaps other aspects of bitcoins are going to be attractive and they seem to be.I'm curious what you think I want to do here?  All I'm asking is to rethink Bitcoins for a little bit and to get a more open mind about how people earn bitcoins.  Some of this can be put upon the existing structure, some of it would be so fundamental that you would indeed have to create a new genesis block and restart the project all over again (I admit that isn't practical), and some of it simply wouldn't work at all.I'll tip my hand here a little bit as there is a selfish motive here for me as well.  I'm trying to pick the brains of some of those who have participated with Bitcoins from the beginning for another projects that I'm working on where I might just start something sort of like Bitcoins but not directly related to the concept and certainly isn't a competing currency in the sense that Bitcoins, Dollars, or Euros are.  I've mentioned it elsewhere and if people are interested I'll create another thread about that concept.  But I think it is still useful to talk about these issue in the context of Bitcoins itself and that there are things that could be discussed if you but open your mind just a little bit that things could be a little different too.Perhaps I'm missing something here with Bitcoins too.  I don't understand why it is so awful to consider alternatives for how the coins themselves are generated, or to defend without ad hominem attacks the concept of a hash generation of coins. I have a hard time trying to figure out where to start with this.  The whole reason there was an "emergency" upgrade from 0.3.9 to something higher was explicitly because there was a need to tweak of the protocol... precisely because it is under development.  Changing the protocol is not going to change the software, including major changes.I think it is wrong to take something like this and treat it as if somehow a divine being has descended from on high with "The Word" as if it can never be changed.   I do think Satoshi has done a great many things right and certainly what has been described as the primary protocol for Bitcoins (the generation of coins) is on the whole a pretty good idea and it has been accepted by a great many people.On the other hand, to say that the protocol can't be changed is simply wrong.  The protocol has changed and will change in the future.  Even after it hits version 1.0 and is declared pretty much operational there will continue to be tweaks to the protocol, including several talked about already in the forums.In terms of forking, all "open source software" has the "right to fork" as a potential, but generally that isn't done because there is an advantage to keeping everybody on the same page.  On the other hand, I think some of the ideas presented here are powerful enough that a fork might be successful.  Indeed it is attitudes like this which lead to forking, where people with ideas for improvement are being drummed out of the group.That people have invested real money into the protocol already is why it is important now to talk about the direction of the project, what could be and why it isn't happening rather than leaving that to a later discussion. I find the level of basic economics education for most people to be somewhere between lousy to awful, even when you have people attending formal classes in economics.  What is taught in public schools is particularly awful.A good example is asking the simple question:  What is a dollar?  Getting past the cheap reply answers (something with the picture of George Washington on the front) it usually gives a really good yardstick to determine the level of economic education that somebody has.A good but simple answer is a dollar represents my ability to buy a loaf of bread.  On the other hand, I've seen people who look at me like I just asked the question "What is God?", thinking that some divine being came down from on high to bestow dollars upon everybody in the first place also thinking that God, "the government" or "The Bavarian Illuminati" are either separately or together responsible for the value of the dollar or any other monetary unit.While government policy certainly does influence the money supply and hence add to inflation or deflation concerns, that is mainly due to the size of the government compared to the economy as a whole.  That may be considered good or bad depending on your political philosophy. The problem I see here is that for an individual block, it would have to be interpreted as a legitimate transaction or it would be tossed out by the network.  This would restrict potentially the range of packets that could be included.This said, I suppose you could put any sort of "payload" into Bitcoin work units by tying it into a micro transaction.  This is also one of the reasons why there is a fee for transactions less than 0.01 BTC at the moment, to keep this kind of thing to a minimum.If you want to see what could be done, use your favorite search engine for "Twitter file system".   This is a way to store huge files on a series of tweets that are essentially meaningless garbage for anybody following them, but still can be reorganized and consolidated to become data files.As for legal implications, Bitcoins and those running the network without actually decoding the packets would only be considered "common carriers" and I don't see how you could be accused of having kiddie porn on your computer if it was encoded on your computer as work units.  Besides, if you are into distributing kiddie porn, there are much, much easier ways to get that accomplished including Freenet and the previously mentioned Twitter File System.  There is also steganography, such as loading innocent looking images on Wikimedia Commons that cointains codes for some other files including stuff that may be illegal.Seriously, of the things to worry about with Bitcoins, this is pretty far down the list.  I would be more worried about people paying for kiddie porn with Bitcoins as a much, much larger issue and something that may in fact cause some legal issues even for uninvolved people merely running a Bitcoins client. Why not?  A bald statement like that seems to need a bit of proof to support the notion.I'm not completely dismissing the fact that it would hinder somewhat the anonymity, but you already lose a little bit of that simply by connecting to somebody else in the network.  If you are going to be paying for packets, you would be paying "peer nodes" in some fashion, which to me already could be logged or somehow monitored.  There isn't any knowledge already available that would additionally be given to "pay for" network bandwidth or disk space usage.Perhaps, and this is something a bit tougher to work with, you could associate some bitcoin address directly with an IP address.  That doesn't have to be a 100% given (somebody in anonymous mode could list the address for somebody else like a favorite charity).  You also can create new addresses just for the peer to peer block transactions too.I also fail to see how this would change the fundamental nature of Bitcoins.  I'm also trying to suggest some additional way for people to perhaps earn bitcoins.  Since the traditional method of mining coins is obviously not really working out for the casual new user, there could and perhaps should be some other methods available.I also fail to see why Bitcoins (which still isn't officially in version 1.0, let's remember this is still in the "pre-release" experimental stage right now) can't possibly change or why new ideas keep getting shot down.  To force ideas to ferment and refine the concept to something strong, or shoot down poorly formed ideas is fine and I understand that too. This is mainly a theoretical discussion rather than an actual proposal I am making in terms of changes to Bitcoins, but I would like to perhaps open up the discussion about other "metrics" that might be used for a peer-to-peer electronic coin system similar to Bitcoins, and perhaps come up with a strong defense for the current system as well from a logical viewpoint.It was this post that got me thinking originally:What kinds of alternative systems could there be and how could we reward people contributing to the project in some way that is concrete, automatic (or semi-automatic), and could be measured in some way that could be verified independently that those making the contributions are getting rewarded?Network bandwidth is obviously something that is in fact necessary for the whole concept of Bitcoins to work out, yet there currently isn't any metric that encourages people to become the central node to a whole bunch of connection as opposed to having merely one or two connections to the outside world, other than perhaps who is going to get the first jump on the next work unit if it became a contest.How could you monetize network bandwidth in this case? (for the purposes of Bitcoins)  Would "potential" capacity be more important or would simply measuring throughput be more significant?  Should nodes "pay" for previous work units to be sent their way?  If you request the current 90k work units, that represents a sizable amount of data, and it would seem like there could could be some cost to that sort of bandwidth represented in the network itself.  That would stink if you had no bitcoins, but then again it might spur on some "buy-in" if you were to set up another client.  I'm not talking a huge cost here, but paying 0.000001 BTC per work unit retrieved could be an interesting transaction (perhaps less, I'm just trying to put a starting point on this here).  It would also give a way for people who simply run a client but aren't mining to at least make a little bit of money simply running the client.Even an option to voluntarily "pay for work units" might be interesting as perhaps there are some users who would be willing to "share the wealth".Would "time served" or "time connected" be useful by itself?Coming up with a different algorithm which can't be implemented in a GPU is an interesting concept too.  That has some of its own issues, but is again something to think about.Ideally it would be nice if each participant in the project was able to get an equal slice of the coins generated.  Unfortunately, at best all I can think of is perhaps some other ways to "generate" coins based upon participation with the project.  Putting in a bug bounty or paying for participation in the forums seems like a good idea, but again the question comes to how is it being paid for.  Some of that is already happening anyway, so I don't see a need for that to be included in the client software itself.Are there any other metrics that you can think of in terms of how else contributors to Bitcoins could be rewarded and automated with network rules? This is an interesting concept by itself, noting how multiple "contribution" metrics could be used in various ways to "earn" bitcoins.  It also hints at perhaps a successor currency to Bitcoins as currently implemented if the time and need arose.In fact, this is such a good idea, it would be nice to see it spawn into its own thread for a completely separate discussion as I think there are a whole bunch of ideas that can come from this particular topic.Moving on....One thing you could add to the code is perhaps doing something with the thread priorities.  Supposedly, Bitcoins is currently at the lowest possible thread priority.  For Linux, this seems likely to be true but I have my doubts about the Windows clients, as the Windows thread priority system is really whacked out hack of the DEC VMS thread priority system (Windows NT is derived from VMS) that also put some really weird things in trying to get it to move over to the x86 architechture.  Essentially, setting a thread priority doesn't seem to really get you the thread priority that you always want.  Perhaps you could bump up the priority from minimum to low or medium for the hash generation?  It is a "settable" parameter that at least in theory could be added to the UI.I've also run into a problem where my CPU is overheating due to the hash algorithm constantly running, where I turn off the coin generation and my CPU temperature gets back down to normal.  The algorithm is chewing up a lot of juice due to the fact that it is using the math portions of the CPU.  I consider this to be a hardware fault rather than a software problem, but it has also an impact upon computer operations and is a fact of life for modern computers.  Laptops in particular are affected here, where running something like Bitcoins is chewing up battery life as well.  Perhaps a process that would do some hashing but then go into a wait mode every once in awhile could be beneficial?  It would be the equivalent of periodically turning on and off the coin generation option manually, say once a second or so or for some settable parameter?  This would also allow other low-priority tasks to get completed and not be fighting for CPU resources (again, something that is a problem with Bitcoins).  It is this where I see a "percentage of CPU usage" being a settable parameter.Just blowing a brain fart here on this, but it at least is something to consider. I'm not a huge fan of the notability rules, but they do serve a purpose in terms of culling out content that is meaningless.  If you don't put in some standards, then you will find Wikipedia articles on all 80+ billion people who have ever lived in history and an article on literally everybody's house, bedroom, or even piece of tile in your bathroom.To keep people from literally just making stuff up, Wikipedia insists upon outside "2nd opinions" that talk about a particular topic.  This isn't happening with Bitcoins at the moment and the problem is that besides a few bloggers there isn't anybody really talking about Bitcoins.If you want to help Bitcoins, spread the word to other outlets and let people know it exists.  If you can, write an article in The Economist or perhaps a journal that isn't so big of a deal but still will be seen by a whole bunch of people.  Write up something in the ACM Journal that talks about the issues involved with developing Bitcoins.  If you do this, it will not only let a larger group of people know about Bitcoins, but it will justify why Bitcoins deserves a Wikipedia entry.Don't put the cart before the horse here.  What is being done with Wikipedia is to use it as a publicity forum when in fact that isn't the purpose of Wikipedia.  If you want to publicize the project, get it publicized.  Go out and spread the word and let people know about the idea.  But please don't piss everybody off in the process too. The problem I have with mucking about with special cases as applied to transactions less than 0.01 BTC is that it sets a floor to useful transaction.  Reiterated over and over again is how the value of an individual bitcoin is something that is variable compared to other currencies and products that you can buy with it.  More significantly, if there is a crushing influx of bitcoin users, the value of the bitcoins in the network will increase to compensate.My problem is this:  the 0.01 fraction is also increasing in value over time, and there is no mechanism in place to adjust this value downward to some other smaller fraction without introducing a major upgrade to the whole network... and version conflicts if and when this value needs to be adjusted downward.  I'm not saying that this is currently a problem, but that it could be in the future.  If the value of a new automobile is less than 0.01 bitcoins, it would obviously not be a "minor transaction".Trying to be proactive here.... what kind of mechanism could be used to trigger this value to become a variable rather than a constant?  When would it be advisable to change this to 0.001 BTC as the threshold instead?  It would be nice to put this into the network at some point, even if it is just ad hoc at the moment where at some point in the future (based on block counts) it drops to a lower value.  We've already seen the value of bitcoins increase, so this isn't purely a theoretical exercise either.  As it is also an avenue for attack on the network, I also see the benefit of having this lower threshold at least existing in one extent or another, but I don't think it should remain as a constant. It still is technically possible to find out what is underneath the grey paint with the scratch-off paint/ink used to cover over the numbers/barcode.  The question would be if the cost to do so would be more (aka using an x-ray machine to take a photograph or some other similar system) would be worth the effort to find out.I presume another "home printing" option would be to use a silk screen with the ink in question to cover over the code used to transfer the coins electronically.  A simple home screen can be made for roughly $50-$100 (with print-quality screen material) and the ink itself can be purchased for relatively minimal cost.  A link for the ink can be found here:  http://www.iicink.com/si_scratchoffsolvent.html  Another link that discusses some of the technical problems for doing this can be found here:  http://printplanet.com/forums/ink-substrates-consumables-discussion/15180-scratch-off-inksThe costs involved with making these bills, even with the scratch off area, is largely dependent upon what kind of volume and how much effort you as an individual want to put into them. This is a great FAQ question.  Just a thought here....Should there be something of a FAQ that is distributed with the client and can be accessed from the help menu option?  All I'm suggesting here is that the contents of the Wiki FAQ pages should be copied into the software and displayed, or at least it should open a browser page to the FAQ pages on the wiki. On this issue, I happen to agree.  It sounds like there is a risk associated with PalPal and Credit Cards... a risk that should be accounted for in terms of fees that you charge to be able to have those options.  Most merchants usually eat a small (not really that small) cost for purchases using those payment methods and deliberately have their profit margins set to accommodate those payment methods.  Payments in Bitcoins have less risk (to the buyer), so there is less of a need for such fees.The trick is to find a fee that is reasonable that won't drive too many people away but at the same time cover your behind if somebody pulls a stunt like that.  Be honest about it to your customers that it is a few rotten customers who are causing problems and ruining it for everybody else.  Unfortunately Credit Card companies don't like businesses telling their customers that they are using a flawed financial instrument. I'm trying to figure out what the complaint is here.  Any employee who handles large amounts of cash is going to have access to that money.  It isn't that hard to play games at the cash register and I'm sure that any kind of fraud that a cashier can do toward their employer applies equally to fiat currency as it does to something like bitcoins.  I would say it is even easier with fiat bank notes... and I've known people who have been convicted of stealing money from their employer because they had access to the cash register.If you don't trust an employee with cash, don't let them have access to the bank account.  BTW, that is also one of the reasons why the position of comptroller in a company (the person who signs the checks written by the company) is considered one of the key positions and usually ranks just below CEO in terms of importances within the company.  Sometimes CEO and comptroller are the same person, but usually are different to make sure you need permission from both people before money is spent.  Employees stealing from employers is quite common place, which is why finding people for these positions is usually a long process with a whole lot of vetting to make sure they won't rob the company blind.Certainly any company worth their salt is not going to be putting a minimum wage employee on their first day in front of the cash register unless they are begging to be robbed. This is a valid point.  If you are hoarding the hashes that can result in a generated coin, they do you no good if you are using the public key intended for the network as a whole.  Hoarding them only makes those hashes useless or you add that coin to the chain where the resulting coins are automatically presumed to be "owned" by the pool.This still is a bit of a centralization effort, however, where whomever is administering the pool (and presumably holding the "private" part of the key) that can potentially cheat their users by collecting the "winning hashes" and keeping the coins for themselves, or skew the payoffs to the network members so they keep a larger amount for themselves.  It moves the whole issue to setting up a trust relationship with the pool administrator and the "fairness" in terms of how payments are being made.Even here, however, an audit trail can be made if the pool "proof of work" hashes are shared within the pool and available to all of the members of the pool... essentially an independent proof of work chain that is distributed within the network.  This should include "successful" hashes that also become generated coins.Could it be possible in this sort of situation where a collective pool chain is created where a successful coin generation is distributed to all contributors to the pool by each pool participant individually (based on the pool rules), or would this have to be done by a central administrator?  Anything that could distribute the effort and decentralize this feature would be beneficial given the nature of this project.I really like the idea, although it does need some extra work. There is one rather limited circumstance where I would like to create a second "Bitcoin" like currency that does make sense: within a MMORPG.I'd like to create a game that uses a bitcoin-like currency (actually multiple "currencies") to be used as a means for "resource creation" within the game architecture itself.  I detailed my ideas on this thread here:  http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=353.0If anything, that is the exception that proves the rule, and I would have to agree that creating multiple currencies complicates the whole process.   The only other possible exception would be to establish different network rules, where there is a substantial community that doesn't agree with the policies being implemented that have at least so far been arbitrarily set.  The "right to fork" is always present, and if the community isn't happy with the rules there is always the possibility to set up different rules for say generating coins or for transaction fees.I would hope that for now any sort of disagreements with policies and network rules could be resolved through a consensus process and a strong defense of why each of the current rules exist at the moment.  It would have to be a major schism of the community and a political act to create a separate coin network that would have a chance to compete on a substantive basis.  At the moment, I don't see that being too much of a problem and the concept of Bitcoins is so new that I don't see those kind of factions forming within the Bitcoin community that would warrant such a split.  There are philosophical differences, but not enough for a fork.
Why would somebody have to be pocketing the extra BTC?I don't know how you would assign a "fairness" metric to a pool like this, although I like the idea in principle.How about this as a metric for determining participation in such a pool:  Computers in a "sub-net" (aka "the pool") would submit "candidate" blocks that would have about 1/10th (or some other faction) of the difficulty of the main Bitcoins target hash as a sort of "proof of work" that they are at least trying to find good candidates for the newly generated block.  Those who submit candidate blocks would get some of the coins of whatever block is generated eventually by the pool.  Network bandwidth would be limited to the sub-net of the pool itself, except for awarding the good-faith efforts as a transaction and any potential new blocks actually generated.I do see some sort of "cheating" as a possibility with this scheme, where some computer that would generate a hash that meets the overall network fitness test would simply create that new block without submitting it to the "pool", but submit inferior blocks to try and collect coins from "suckers" who are submitting blocks to the pool for the greater good.  In other words, your "sub-net" is only as good as the least honest person in that pool.  There could be protocols set up to automatically kick people from the pool if they are sucking up too many coins and not contributing (aka "cheating"), but that seems to me as an overly complicated process that can only get worse over time if you open these "pools" to everybody.What I agree with is that people would rather see something going into their wallets on a semi-regular basis (even 0.01 bitcoins every few minutes or hours) rather than having one huge lump show up every other month.  They want to see cash flow and it appeals to human greed too.  I don't know of an easy way to accomplish that sort of task other than a massive redesign of Bitcoins to encourage more frequently generated coin blocks or the pool method as suggested here.  Presuming that Bitcoins grows another 100x larger in terms of its user base, it certainly could be the case where a typical user would only generate one block per year or even less frequently.  It is a problem that might get even worse over time.Mind you, I'm not necessarily saying that the current coin generation system is bad, other than the frequency of receiving generated coins is not the best feature of Bitcoins. Bitcoins as an e-mail attachment was discussed on this thread too:http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=737.0There were a number of technical solutions found to the problem, none of them too difficult and certainly it could be done in such a way that would be friendly to somebody new to Bitcoins or even done as a promotion of sorts.For myself, I prefer something that uses a peer to peer network directly rather than depending on a central 3rd party website, but that is also a solution. I lived in Brazil during the mid-1980's.... and it was as bad as the Wiemar Republic or even worse with a relative national debt (to national GDP) owed to foreign countries as bad or worse than what America is currently facing.  I keep hoping that America and/or Europe isn't going to discover runaway inflation like I experienced in Brazil or all of the screwy government programs to try and keep prices under control with the "Plano Cruzado".  The amazing thing would be to see how Brazil pulled it self out of that quagmire.... which was decidedly a different approach than what the Wiemar Republic used in a similar situation.  Of course some would say Brazil pulled it off by sacrificing the rain forests of the Amazon River basin, but that is something for another thread.As for Easter Island, since we are talking about it I would say humanity has at least been able to learn at least something from that experiment.  Using other historical analogies, England faced a very similar kind of crisis in term of running out of wood to sustain its industries, but there was one thing that ended up saving England from a similar fate (or super-charging the engine of destruction.... you can argue the difference if you like):  Coal from Wales and south-western England.  That in turn sparked the Industrial Revolution which is still working its way throughout the world.  Nuclear energy has looked like it might be the "solution" to resolve the problems of burning coal, but there are decidedly some problems with that alternative to save the next step.Here are counter examples to the two that you mention, but at the same time the social experiments were performed and a bit of a warning to mankind is also in those examples too.  With the current world economic crisis, is the result going to be something more like the end of the Wiemar Republic of the 1930's or the end of the Brazilian military dictatorship of the 1990's?  The consistent thing to learn from both lessons is that the governments which caused the crisis (speaking of governments like the American government rather than parliamentary governments... although that may also happen) usually fall apart in extremely stressful economic environments.  This is a sobering thing to think about.The problem with the solution to the Wiemar Republic problems is that the resulting government was intolerant of other viewpoints to the point of genocide and they were willing to extend that intolerance world-wide.  I hope I haven't invoked Godwin's Law just now either.  Those guys usually have a funny way of creeping into any conversation on the net eventually, don't they? The real trick is what to do when a mob mentality strikes and those in a sub-group are intolerant of others what espouse a very different viewpoint.  I was recently kicked out of discussion forum because I dared to challenge the "leadership" of the site (not really the site owner... as it was a political activism site) because they were in the midst of a massive purge of the "membership".  It should have said something that over half of the active members were booted from the site, so I clearly wasn't the only one.I agree that sub-groups with very different opinions ought to be tolerated and encouraged so far as the fact that no one single person has all of the answers to fix the problems of this world.  Really crazy and far out ideas perhaps on occasion can turn out to be the best solutions... I've seen it happen too.  In the "marketplace" of ideas, it is healthy to strive for consensus, but allow the possibility that perhaps something better could still pop up.I, too, sometimes read stuff from groups I absolutely don't agree with.  In some ways this can be considered "opposition research", but generally for me it is also simply trying to understand an opposing viewpoint as well.  And on a rare occasion I am persuaded to change my opinion on a topic and admit that I"m wrong.  I'm at least willing to keep an open mind so far as to at least allow for the possibility.The quest for Utopia is an ancient one, and there have even been organized groups of various kinds (both religious and secular) with rather large numbers of members that have been around for at least the past 1000 years.  Massachusetts is a good example where it was established explicitly by a dreamy-eyed vision of the future where people were willing to put their money where their mouth was and move several thousand miles to create another experiment in Utopia.  That the people living in that place now have almost no common beliefs with the original founders is besides the point.  I certainly don't think you will find too many Puritans attending Harvard or MIT or sitting on the city council in Boston.  Still, you can't dispute that the experiment in New England was at least a partial success and it did make a difference in terms of world history.I would love to see at least some of these group try to accomplish their goals,  even if I think they are raving lunatics and out of touch with reality.  An experiment tried and failed is better than an experiment that is never tried at all.  Social experiments tend to be even more interesting as there is rarely a "best" answer in the first place. I'm sort of the opposite.  I don't really need or depend upon the anonymity aspect of Bitcoins, but the fact that it is there is something that I don't mind and can serve a useful purpose from time to time.  There is value in Bitcoins for me even if anonymity were completely compromised, and would be fine with identity being merely difficult to trace rather than impossible.  I also know that isn't necessarily the attitude of everybody, and on the whole if there is something that can improve the identity security of users of this software, I'm completely supportive of the idea.Put me mostly in the pragmatic camp here if it can be said. I'll kick in 10 BTC for this worthy cause, although I'd like to know that it is a BTC address that is under the control of the EFF and not somebody else.The trick is to contact the EFF and have them acknowledge the project in some semi-official capacity at least so far as having an address which can receive the coins.  That effort has been happening already so far as drafting a letter to them, and it will be interesting to see their reaction in terms of donations.  600 BTC is worth enough that they can at least kick the exchanges into high gear if they wish to "spend" it right away. Looking at this thread, I wonder if perhaps a group could collaboratively work on developing something using Scratch:http://scratch.mit.edu/If you are looking for something easy to work with that can permit a group effort for editing, remixing, and doing some simple animation, this is at least a good first step.  For crying out loud, their target audience for this media environment is middle-school aged kids (roughly 10-14 year olds, although there is a very healthy adult community using this software too).  My kids have used the microphone from our Rock Band set and have created some pretty impressive videos, and converting a Scratch project to an MPEG file is relatively trivial if that is a goal too.I might just try to come up with something using Scratch myself, as that sounds like a fun project and would only take a few hours to get it accomplished.  It is certainly something that a single person could perhaps create with a relatively trivial amount of effort. I, too, am concerned about the legal implications of declaring "bitcoins" to be currency and how that will be interpreted in terms of anti-counterfeiting and "legal tender" laws.  Bitcoins is not asserting itself as a legal tender, but that is also one of its weaknesses as it can be seen as "competition" for a legal tender.At the moment, Bitcoins is mostly an experimental computer project that has some people playing with virtual currencies on a minor basis.  In this regard it is no different that MMORPGs, and to regulators is being treated like that.  Still, some of the comments made on the Zeitgeist forum are some valid issues that need to be evaluated and have some legal defenses set up to protect against what will be an eventual legal challenge to Bitcoins and their usage as a form of payment for goods or services. Just send me the equivalent in e-gold and I'll be fine.  For that matter, I've sort of wondered why e-gold doesn't have an exchange market yet?  The largest problem with gold is that the stuff is heavy as gold is nearly one of the most dense metals you can find... and one of the earlier methods to detect counterfeiting or dilution of gold bullion with "cheaper" metals and most heavier metals are generally worth more than gold.  In fact, when "panning" for gold you depend on the density of the metal in order to extract it out of the other materials.  If you have an actual use for gold for artistic or industrial uses, it may make sense to ship it but it is a lousy currency precisely due to its weight.In terms of sending a letter to the EFF, the K.I.S.S. principle should apply here.  Don't get side tracked into anything other than presenting this project in a clean and simple manner.  To note that there are several exchanges that will convert Bitcoins to other forms of money is useful perhaps as a side note, but that should also be a demonstration of its value as a currency.I would encourage the EFF to set up a node to receive donations, and in fact I would be willing to at least donate a small portion of the coins I've already generated to the EFF.  What they choose to do with them afterward is their business, but it would seem like something they should at least be aware of, and perhaps even to note that there may be some legal challenges ahead with Bitcoins that perhaps could use some of their expertise in terms of protecting both the digital frontier and to note another form of innovation that is introduced by a free and open internet. If it wasn't for efforts of organizations like the EFF, Bitcoins simply wouldn't exist as software at all.   To me, this is also an excellent example of positive good that can come from peer to peer networks. What I found refreshing about Bitcoins was having a digital currency that didn't rely upon a central authority either for issuing the money in the first place or in terms of the record keeping of the transactions themselves.  I've seen digital currency suggestions in the past, but Bitcoins resolves these issues in a very elegant fashion.  Even the developers really don't have much control over the currency itself other than to be tweaking the "rules" that govern the project... and at this point it is only minor tweaks that can happen, not major shifts in policy.  An arbitrary change that gives 1m BTC to Satochi is only going to cause a fork in the project and certainly won't be recognized by the majority of the participants on this project... to give an example.The fact that Bitcoins can't be used as a fractional reserve currency is something interesting too.  That is something which has been debated on many other threads, but it is something worthy of mention.  Yes, reserve banking can happen with Bitcoins, but that isn't the same thing and anybody "lending" bitcoins must have obtained them or have "depositors" first that have given them to the "bank".I particularly love the egalitarian method of initial coin allocation with bitcoins, where even people who show up later can be a part of the "land rush" of creating new coins but at the same time such efforts to generate new coins don't necessarily overwhelm the currency as a whole in a destabilizing fashion.  One other side benefit is that it generally keeps no single person from having a majority of the currency, or even a controlling position within the currency except through "making a better mousetrap" and convincing bitcoin users to send them those coins in the first place.  A deliberate act is needed where people give you the coins in exchange for something of value (or for them to think you are a good charitable cause). I haven't been to all of the other sites mentioned on this thread, but I will say that it astounds me the decided lack of economics education and how some people have some downright silly notions of what money really is.  Yes, we've had some discussions along that line on this forum too, but it is especially interesting to see this discussion among a group that thinks the "Star Trek" future of money might happen where nobody really needs the stuff.BTW, I think that is the one thing Gene Roddenberry got flat out wrong about the future of humanity, and something even the later Star Trek writers figured out when they introduced "gold-pressed latinum" and monetary economics into the script... or a "secondary currency" of Romulan ale.  Since he was writing fiction (or filming it as it may be), minor things like economics don't really need to be examined too closely.I would love to see how a "money-less" society could ever function realistically in term of the allocation of scarce resources, shy of a dictatorial and centralized authority that controls those resources through sheer force of arms and arbitrary whim.  That is how I allocate chocolate in my household between my kids (if they aren't revolting and stealing it from me), but that is not a workable system that preserves liberties in the long run.  I even introduced a family currency precisely because of this situation... an experiment I'll have to describe elsewhere.Getting back to the main point of this thread:  I agree that we need to "spread the word" and try to engage other communities (including "on-line" communities) to the concept of Bitcoins.  I have a notion to do just that elsewhere myself, including a couple places that I think may be much more receptive to the concept.  Caution needs to happen though to not try and change what may be core beliefs of the community, as is apparently the problem with this particular thread on thezeitgeistmovement.com.  It is also very useful not to get into fights with the moderators, as happened on this site.  The battle over the links (other than to Bitcoins itself) is a fight that doesn't necessarily have to be won to simply get the message out, even if I think the controversy is sort of silly in the first place.It is also refreshing to me in terms of seeing the reactions of people with a very different mindset about Bitcoins in terms of what things ought to be considered when presenting the concept to new groups.  If anything, I consider this thread on the Zeitgeist forum to be something very productive to read even if there is some hostility there.  Know that even if the concept is being attacked, at least the concept is being brought up and people are at least looking at the idea.  That is a good thing and by far and away a better kind of thread than one which expresses the concept and then nobody else responds. Yes, you could do this with something on Craig's List too.  Some of it would depend upon the triggering mechanism and how light-weight you would need the software stack, and to make sure you aren't tipping off somebody looking for messages of that nature that just seem a little bit odd.  A coin transfer would be harder to spot as something a little bit off and I think you might be able to create a lightweight version of Bitcoins that could be smaller than an http scanner to act as a trigger.Anyway, for those who are into terrorist activities, I'm sure you can come up with dozens of ways to accomplish that kind of mechanism.  Perhaps some day I'll set up something that will release my blueprints to the Area 51 facility that will be untraceable. It isn't a lack of skill.  Heck, I started a documentation effort with the protocol prior to this thread (already on the wiki).  That is part of what is on my nerve at the moment, as I am seeking to document this protocol for my own efforts, and I would love to work collaboratively with others who are earnest in filling in the details.I just want to know how far he is willing to go here in defending this supposed copyright.I'll use a different format and it will clearly be a different document, but I'm certainly going to be using this same information as it comes from the same source.  This effort currently is at:http://www.bitcoin.org/wiki/doku.php?id=bitcoins_draft_spec_0_0_1If you want to help me in writing this document, I'd love to have your cooperation on it.  It is a wiki, and it is also available under a Creative Commons license.  I'm just trying to decide what else to put into there and what constitutes "copying" in terms of adding factual information.  It isn't lack of skill, it is a worry that somehow this document by jgarzik is going to blow out of the water this current effort of mine on a legal basis by his insistence upon a license (or lack thereof) other than the Creative Commons license on the wiki.  Content on the wiki does not require "permission" to copy. Precisely.  I've tried to write a simpler explanation but I can't get it out, even though I understand the problem here.A more complicated answer:  Generated coins with pre .10 clients will be summarily rejected because they are trying to incorporate the transactions that caused the problem in the first place.  This is the cause of the forking going on right now, and it is a good test for the strength of the network to root out bad blocks.Simple advise:  Upgrade to the latest version of the client if possible.  Get the word out if you can and note this is important if you intend to generate new Bitcoins.  To the best of my knowledge, the older clients will work fine for simply performing transactions (sending or receiving coins) but even there it would be a good idea to upgrade if possible to "strengthen" the network overall and not let those transactions get caught up into bad chains. This is presuming that no kind of extended precision value for Bitcoins is established, although with the current behavior that is certainly the case.It should be noted that the roughly estimated time before the "final" bitcoin block will be generated even with the current software is about 120 years into the future (roughly the year 2130).  I have no doubt that the specification of Bitcoins will change drastically over the next century and there is no real certainty as to what the behavior will be, but with the current reference client/servers the eventual exhaustion of Bitcoins will happen.If Bitcoins makes it to the 100th anniversary of the first block being created, it will certainly be an interesting experience to say the least, and new blocks will still be created at that time. I agree that diffusing this situation is the best solution here, and I really don't understand the intransigence on this one issue other than to make a statement of some kind.  Yes, he has the technical "right" to insist upon copyright control here.I have worked with too many proprietary protocol documents that I have vowed to never be tied down to another one again unless the pay is excellent and explicitly required by contract that I've agreed to ahead of time.  This is a situation that simply can't stand over time.I would like to simply be in a position to ignore this "document" provided by Jgarzik completely, but any future documentation written by any other member of the community that may be challenged as potentially a derivative of his document as he is the first person to put this information down in this fashion.  In some ways, I'm tempted to simply say "damn the torpedoes" and copy the information in this document anyway.... challenging him to sue me for copyright infringement.  It would be a precedent setting case in the very least on a whole bunch of levels and I have no certain idea how a court would end up ruling on the issue although I'm pretty confident that I would get the support of the greater Bitcoin community for standing up to this kind of behavior.It doesn't have to be this way, and in a way it has become a legal threat to the community as a whole.  I don't want to have to document every piece of information I have discovered or go into a "clean room" situation for writing protocol documentation.  Simply cooperating with the community is to me a better thing to do as I don't see the benefit for insisting upon a proprietary copyright. That is an interesting application of Bitcoins that I hadn't thought of.  Sending 0.0000001 BTC to some "trigger" address to detonate some weapon or to trigger a bot/virus to send a simple (even "complex") message when the value is received.  I could think of several "covert" applications to something of that nature, and it would be difficult to trace the origin of that transmission too.Other peer-to-peer networks could work along a similar approach, but the current organization of Bitcoins assures that everybody in the entire network is aware of the transaction in a relatively short period of time (usually just an hour or less) and even temporarily split off sections of the network will eventually get the message out.I've heard about this being done in the financial industry where somebody will send out an ask/bid order for stocks or mutual funds that is far outside of normal trading boundaries as a means to transmit a message in some fashion (aka bidding $5 for Berkshire Hathaway Class "A" stock).  I'm sure other examples could be given but it is something that has already been discussed in other forums and even has fiction written about it.  Tom Clancy wrote about it in terms of a trigger event for a melt-down of Wall Street in one of his novels.It is the persistence that nodes have for transmitting transactions to each other that would be beneficial here.  If anything, this is a consequence of becoming more anonymous in terms of the transactions. Who is being the troll here?  I'm not trying to take credit for the work of others, but at the same time I am insisting that documentation should also be done as a copyleft arrangement.... particularly when the source of that documentation is from a copyleft document too, namely the source code for Bitcoins in this case.You think I'm being ridiculous here when what I'm trying to do is nail down copyright on something that I believe should be open source, and by tying it up in this fashion through a purely proprietary copyright (aka "all rights reserved") ruins good-faith efforts for the rest of us.  Had this software been released under a GPL license, it wouldn't even be a question:  a derivative documentation effort like this simply couldn't assert copyright in this fashion.I guess what I'm asking here is if jgarzik is going to sue my ass off if I try to put together some documentation that includes any of the information that he presented with his own documentation effort by asserting an "all rights reserved" and "Please do not copy my works without permission".  I don't feel that I owe him anything other than simply giving him credit, but if he insists upon this demand for permission first, I don't know how else to proceed.  I certainly don't want to insist that anybody else using the documentation I might produce must ask jgarzik for "permission" if they want to copy the stuff I wrote.... merely because it happens to include some of this information even if I derived most of it from the source code and my own investigations too.Since most of this is factual information and other than purely the formatting of the information, it may not even be copyrightable in the first place.  In which case demanding permission is a moot issue and unnecessary. While I've railed against the software in some ways, this is the behavior that Freenet uses... as a means to preserve anonymity.  By acting as if you had "received" the transaction from another node (even though you are the one generating the data in the first place), it puts plausible deniability that you were the origin of that data.  Furthermore, I fail to see how "dangerous" it would become if you are asking for another node to "confirm" the transaction.... something quite important to the health and stability of the network in the first place.  Freenet even goes an extra step by having clients randomly "inject" data received from other nodes to 3rd party nodes to make it even fuzzier who got the data in case somebody does an audit.  There is no need for Bitcoin to be that paranoid but it is useful to see what extreme step you can take if you want to preserve anonymity.There is no need to create a whole new VM/Bitcoin client, and in fact that sort of behavior actually puts a huge load on the network unless you are also copying over the whole block chain when you are creating this "new client" and keeping that block chain up to date.  Even then, that is a whole bunch of extra work that is a waste of your time.  Again, you are taking on a relatively simple problem that can be fixed within the protocol and hitting it with not just a big hammer but using a nuke instead.  You can waste your time if you want, but using that as a recommendation to others to waste their time when it isn't needed is bad form.In terms of the danger of losing transactions, this last little issue of the bad block which forced the upgrade to v. 0.3.10 has actually increased my "faith" that the network will do just fine if you send the transaction and just depend on the network getting it right.  How you might lose coins is if you send them to an address that doesn't exist through mistyping the recipient's address (in this case your own) in some fashion or some other technical fault that has nothing to do with transmitting the transaction to another node.I'm not talking about extending the protocol here at all.... as a matter of fact it is a simplification of the protocol and perhaps even the client software too.  There is no reason to have a special case if the transaction happens to go to a key that exists on that same computer, and certainly no reason for any extra data to be recorded that would indicate a self-referential transaction that appears externally as anything other than a coin transfer from one user to another.  Explicit special coding must happen for that situation to occur... in other words software development effort has been spent to make the current situation that removes anonymity.  It is a case where keeping it simple helps improve the overall algorithm. I'm just trying to point out one of the problems of a BSD-type license vs. something more substantial like the GPL or Creative Commons suite of licenses, that keep this sort of thing from happening.  I was merely trying to point out that such an effort to claim an "all rights reserved" copyright authority could turn into a tar pit legally if somebody wanted to be a real jerk.  They might not succeed in the long run and they would certainly get the community ticked off at them in a major way if they tried, but it could be a major mess.I've seen copyright tricks done with GPL source code that would boggle your mind and other legal tricks that I would have thought to be absurd even with "open source" content.I'm glad that you've decided to release this under the "same license as bitcoin itself".... which BTW doesn't require "permission" to copy or to reuse in any other manner.  I'll ignore the problems of the "advertising clause" for the moment, which has a long history of discussion within the open source/free software copyright community itself that isn't worth getting into on this thread.  Citation of the source of the information is something ethical and should be encouraged anyway.
Why?  If you sent a transaction to a bitcoin address, how is that any different than sending the transaction to somebody else?  I just don't "get it", or understand why this is anything different?  Why should sending to a bitcoin address be treated as an IP address transfer, when clearly it isn't?I'm not disputing that it is the current behavior, I'm just asking why it must be this way. If there are people helping with documentation, and they would like to have credit for that work, I don't have a problem with it.  Giving credit and citing sources seems to be reasonable.What I don't appreciate is insisting upon copyright control and in essence "taking over" this project by essentially claiming copyright authority on what is very likely going to be a foundational document for this project.  In essence, this is claiming full control over all of Bitcoins.  I'm not going to sit still for something like that.I've seen that done elsewhere, and I've even had lawsuits filed against me for supposedly work done that was "foundational" to the project I was working on at the time.Again, I don't mind the work and the contribution here, and I certainly think the assistance to help out the project is useful.  Just don't get your panties in a knot over this issue, and realize that we are all trying to work together to help each other out.  That is the point of open source software, not trying to assert ownership and screw each other over.Open source development is all about a gift culture.  It is one where your status and stature is dependent upon how much you give to the community and not how much you take from it.  There are many people who have been participating here who get that concept, where they are giving of themselves, their time, and even a fairly substantial amount of money to help this project along.  As long as we get along and put this behind ourselves, even more sharing and gifts can come to everybody involved.  We certainly don't need to be selfish here.Please don't take that which has been freely given to you and then suck the life out of it. It sounds like this is something which desperately needs to be fixed.  There is no legitimate reason for transactions sent to yourself should be treated any differently than transactions to somebody else.  If anything, all "transactions" like this simply could be sent to "the nearest node" even if merely for confirmation and the "information" sent back to the original node.This is a protocol problem and not something that should have "work arounds" that are merely kludges to something that can be fixed in the client and protocol itself. Specification may have copyrights separate from actual implementation, but in this case it is asserting copyright over something that is presumed to be community property in the first place.Rather than fighting against each other and seeing who can write competing specification documents, we really need to come together and work together on these things.  Know this that you, jgarzik, are not the only person trying to decypher and/or document the protocol.  I'm trying to go through the source code myself and make heads or tails out of it, and hopefully contribute more myself in that regard.If you are insisting on a complete claim to copyright in this case, it is going to put a fly in the ointment in terms of cooperative efforts to do much of anything with this protocol, and it is certainly going to make very murky any other potential effort to document this protocol from anybody else.  The point being, by claiming copyright at this point and posting in this forums, any future documentation efforts are going to be presumed to have read this post and therefore subject to this copyright.I'd hate to have this get to a court room, but I certainly don't want to see it get there.  Perhaps I can document that I have derived all of this information from the source code or from independent research.  Too bad it has to be "guilty" until proven innocent in that sort of situation. Out of curiosity..... who actually owns the copyright here?  This appears to be a derivative document based upon the source code of the main client software, which would seem to me that you would be required to at least maintain the same sort of license for that same derivative work.Then again, since this is a BSD-type license that doesn't really clear up these kind of derivative copyright issues.  Still, rather than claiming an "all rights reserved" view for an open source project and claiming that copyright to yourself, it could be useful to define those terms.  I appreciate the list of messages here, but "your works" is not nearly as clearly defined as might been seen here.Certainly it would be useful to at least acknowledge the hand of Satoshi Nakamoto as a co-author if you are going to be asserting copyright. If that is the case, I would argue that it should be stripped from the specification for all of the reasons suggested in the threads about deflation.  It doesn't seem logical except strictly to stop a flood attack, and with the increase in value for Bitcoins I certainly can see the potential for when this would be a rather significant fee.  At what point should this be moved to 0.001 bitcoins or something smaller?It just seems like a very arbitrary value that was put into as a "magic number" that made sense only because at the time it was put into the code that it seemed like such a small value that nobody would reasonably be wanting to logically be sending money in denominations smaller than that amount.  At least be logically consistent here when it is said that Bitcoins are "infinitely scalable" to any size of economy, and that at the same time it isn't.A flood of transactions all from the same node, perhaps, ought to be charged transactions frees, or perhaps the whole system ought to be rethought.  There are other solutions to this problem, and this seems like a temporary stop-gap solution that wasn't thought through all that well. I hope that is wrong, as it discourages micropayments and provides a roadblock to deflationary currencies.  So many have been bragging about the nine decimal point expansion to be able to accommodate a huge deflation where you could perhaps eventually buy an automobile for 0.0001 bitcoins.From what I understand, the role of transaction fees is in the consolidation of multiple blocks of coins and processing more than a relatively small packet when sending or receiving coins.  This is showing up when people are spamming with thousands of tiny payments as it is creating a whole bunch of blocks that need to be processed, but you aren't penalized when you are sending a small amount with just a couple of transactions.  It is the act of combining a large number of small transactions that adds up, and is a function of your wallet in terms of where those coins come from that are combined when a transaction happens.Mind you, something similar happens in a bank with other currencies, where sometimes a fee is assessed when you are running a huge pile of coins through a coin counter or heaven forbid ask a teller to count the coins by hand.  Back when I was a kid delivering newspapers, I did that more than a few times with roughly 20-30 pounds of coins in each session.  Normally equipment to do that is for people running vending machines or a video arcade where large numbers of coins come into use during the operation of the business.Right now most people have huge coin blocks (usually the 50 BTC that are originally generated) and sending a part of that block to somebody else.  You aren't seeing the consolidation transactions right now because few people are in need of the services that combine multiple small pieces into one larger transaction.I'm not familiar with the fine points of the process, but it is neighboring nodes that do the combining and transmit that combined "coin" to the rest of the network.  Some people have already received some coins through that process. It was mentioned in the thread about Splitting/merging wallets (https://www.bitcoin.org/smf/index.php?topic=751.0), but I think this is an important enough topic on its own right that it deserves its own thread.Bugzilla (http://www.bugzilla.org/) is the bug tracking software used for the Mozilla and the MediaWiki projects (and several other prominent projects of various kinds).   It certainly is stable and has the ability to set priorities, assign projects to individual developers (or have them claimed) and allow for communications between developers, users, and interested 3rd parties on development issues that are specific with a problem-focused approach to development.My question is if this should be implemented for Bitcoins and what other alternatives might be available instead of this system?  The development forum certainly has its use, but it is a bit of a kludge when trying to address specific issues. Just wondering out loud, but would a super node have a higher likelihood of "collecting" more transaction fees?  More connections == more nodes that might have "work" to do in terms of processing transactions.I certainly see this as a "public service" that can help to flatten the network and in general reduce latency for everybody, so I don't mind that there might be some financial benefit for doing something like this.  Clearly those with a higher bandwidth are committing some substantial resources by doing this, so it isn't without cost. The problem with using a site like "Mybitcoin.com" is that it is a 3rd party website that sort of flies in the face of the decentralized nature of this project.  There are other approaches that don't necessarily require anything other than simply accessing the network as a whole, and not depending on any single website as to if it happens to be up, has their domain name paid for (aka not expired), and doesn't even tempt that the 3rd party maintaining that site to even have the opportunity to watch your transactions in a direct fashion... or involve any sort of direct legal jurisdictional issues that might be associated with that website.Yes, that would be a quick and dirty way to get this accomplished, and certainly if somebody wanted to go that route, go ahead.  Just don't give up on this idea yet and claim that the issue is solved, as it isn't. It isn't true that the kid is not in a position to force payment.  If you refused to pay somebody for services rendered, it becomes fraud and can be prosecuted both civilly and criminally as such.  Failure to make payment or paying with an invalid financial instrument are treated exactly the same as if payment never happened.... and indeed worse with a "bad check" because it acknowledges that the debt was legitimate but that the payment was done in an illegal manner with an intent to defraud.  It is that basis that check kiting usually gets people into jail.Yes, personal integrity does play a role here, but a well structured and functioning judicial system can also play a role to stop would-be con artists from abusing a system of this nature.I don't know how many kids will take you to small claims court over five dollars (assuming that is a rough price for mowing a lawn), but I'm quite certain that the judge hearing such a case would not be too sympathetic if it got to him in regards to the home owner trying to rip off an young entrepreneur. I don't see how this is going to "give bad image to bitcoin currency".  At the moment the concept of bitcoins are completely unknown in any form.How does a kid know the certificate is valid?  How does that kid know that a check or for that matter government-issued currency is valid?  If that kid takes a check or bank note somewhere and tries to buy something with it (deposit it into a bank or whatever), and the merchant or bank refuses to honor the check or banknote.... the kid knows at that point he has been ripped off and fraud has been committed.  The same kind of test would apply to bitcoin certificates, where those attempting to defraud would get caught red-handed.  It would be the act of using the note which would be the final test, as with all financial instruments.I'm curious about how you think e-mailing somebody some bitcoins with an e-mail equivalent of a certificate like this would "drive people away from bitcoins"?  If they have a certificate and want to redeem the money, the inclination would be to download a client and join into the network.  Presumably the URL for the Bitcoins client would be on the certificate.  If they purchased government-issued money directly with such a certificate (presumably from one of the exchange websites), they are still using the bitcoins and instead are helping the exchange markets and spreading the coins out to more people.  I fail to see where a down side to the issue of e-mailing certificates would come from.  I'm talking people who would not normally be using Bitcoins, rather than people who are using them and are bailing out of the system.Mind you, I'm not dismissing the "smartphone" solution either, and I think multiple approaches can and should be tried.  I am talking freedom here, and noting that not all people will fit into a simple worldview of highly connected power computer geeks.  The concept of paper currency is one of many possible solutions, not the one solution that rules all.  I'm also pointing out that the practical issues could be dealt with and make this something that could work.  It does take opening up your mind a little bit and to imagine other possibilities.  Right now the only solution for government money is to use a central bank of some kind or to use paper currency alone.  Almost all arguments against this concept apply equally well to arguments against government-backed paper money as well.  This potential of having a paper currency equivalent for Bitcoins could offer a way to ease a transition for people to get away from government currencies to adopting Bitcoins.Existing real-world currencies have been established on far and away flimsier grounds and backing than bitcoin certificates, including several "alternative currencies" that are currently accepted by a number of merchants. I talked about something called "wallet escrow" on this thread awhile back:https://www.bitcoin.org/smf/index.php?topic=455.0I think the concept could be applied here in terms of a "throw away" wallet too, where the information would be stored and encrypted in a strong fashion.  My original intent here was to provide a safe way for backing up wallet information so if your computer crashed you could recover the information quickly and it wouldn't even necessarily require anything more than the *very strong* password to recover the information.  I'm thinking a SHA2-512 bit hash or similar kind of high difficulty password, not your run of the mill ordinary passwords here.In theory you could also "print" your "main" wallet in this fashion too, as a certificate for back-up purposes, and keep that certificate locked in a safe or a bank safety deposit box.  If your local node crashed, all you would need to restore the wallet is to get that hash key.  The hash key would be printed on this certificate in a fashion like serial numbers are used on government-issued currency.Printing out a certificate where you even print out the quantity of money in that wallet in clear distinguishable letters (40 point bold type or larger) would be basically all that would be needed to get this to work. No.  Imagine if you have a kid mowing your lawn.  In that case I think it would be much easier to hand him a bitcoin certificate for his work than trying to demand that he has bluetooth or a wireless device to receive the payment for services rendered.  The idea of a web front-end with password protection is even less secure (by a huge degree... and opening up the potential for that merchant to wipe out all of the money you now or in the near future will have) than simply handing over a cryptographically secure "wallet" or "wallets" with a predetermined and small amount of bitcoins of roughly the amount needed to conduct the transaction.Mind you, this doesn't necessarily have to be done with physical objects.  You could "e-mail" bitcoins in this manner to somebody who doesn't even have a Bitcoin node running, where they could even "redeem" the bitcoins for government-issued money straight away without even getting directly involved with Bitcoins.  As an alternative, the bitcoins could simply be in a thumb drive instead where you could transfer over the files to the merchant representing the bitcoins you wish to use for the purchase, and they could even return the "change" to you in a similar fashion.All in all, what you are suggesting here is far and away more complex than this paper currency system I'm suggesting here, and has been originally discussed at the start of this thread.  This is a very lightweight bitcoin transfer system that has electronics of any kind as an optional aspect, and can enable purchases even if network access is unavailable on a temporary basis.What keeps people honest here is that the values can be verified, and double spending is minimized through the verification process.  Somebody who is double spending is committing fraud, which has existing legal implications.  If they obtained those bitcoin certifications from a 3rd party, a legal investigation of fraud would then target that person who created those bogus bitcoin certificates in the first place.Also, don't get caught up in the technical details.  A 3-D bar code is there only to enable a higher density of information, not necessarily that it is superior to a 2-D or even 1-D (like a UPC symbol) bar code.That is handwaving off the idea.  I'm just saying that the environmental friendly aspect is not nearly as clear-cut as was previously indicated and shouldn't be a rationale for dismissing this idea.  It shouldn't even really play a part in this discussion, and to me is more of a wash in terms of potential environmental damage rather than a reason not to use this system.This is more than just a middle man, and this system doesn't require a 3rd party to be involved in the first place.  You create the "bitcoin certificate" from BTC you already have, and present that to a merchant or whomever you need to pay in terms of services or products rendered.  The purpose here is to provide a very simple and technologically lightweight system for payments using bitcoins.For you, I think this would take a very direct and physical demonstration of the concept to convince you that it could work.  It would never be something that I would be comfortable in terms of a purchase of an automobile or a house, but if I went to a local farmer's market and handed over a 5 BTC note to buy a bag of apples, that would be an almost ideal application of this "technology".As I also hinted at above, this would also be a way to expand the number of Bitcoin users in a rather substantive way where they wouldn't necessarily have to be generating coins to join into the network, or even have a need to generate the coins.  A bitcoin certificate would be a great way to advertise the project at say a convention or a conference, where you could "give away" bitcoins for people to try out the system.... sort of like how the bitcoin faucet currently works but on a larger scale. The problem with a smartphone or some other gadget is that there is overhead involved in trying to get the device to carry out the transaction.  Yes, it could be done, but what happens when the networks are shut down temporarily, or you are in a situation where access to electronics is limited.  Not everybody has 24/7 access to a network even in industrialized western nations.I would also have to be convinced on the eco-friendly aspect of this too.  You can print out quite a bit of paper for it to have the same environmental impact as the production of an iPhone.  You are also burning up a fair bit of coal for simply operating that device, or causing other sorts of environmental damage.Also, all trade of any kind is a matter of trust between the customer and the merchant.  The question is how to reduce the threshold where distrust prevents a trade from happening.  If you are in a situation where large numbers of Bitcoins (in terms of value) need to be transferred or if you really don't trust either the merchant or the customer, you would need something a bit more complex for the transfer.  That is where cashier's checks and other more secure fiscal instruments are used even in today's business world.If you have the smartphone, I would say go for it, but this idea of "paper bitcoins" and variations on the theme have a niche application where a smartphone isn't strictly needed.  Dismissing completely out of hand the idea that you could make paper bitcoins doesn't really resolve the issue as to if it is is possible or practical. I remember reading about something like this almost twenty years ago in a Byte magazine article about electronic money.  The concept at the time was in reference to "e-mailing" a debit transfer through a hash/cryptographic process which is in principle a concept similar to printing money on paper.The trick here is to set up some system that would prevent a double spending of the money.  Once that is solved, the rest is fairly mechanical and simple to accomplish.I should note here that checks can and have been used as a medium of exchange in the past too, treated literally as a "bank note" in the same fashion that other more direct "bank notes" like most fiat currencies have been accepted.  The reputation and trust of the individual who wrote the check was the deciding factor for acceptance of the check.  Early Renaissance era merchants commonly used checks instead of currency for a great many transactions, and it was common for a check to go through the hands of hundreds of people before it finally landed at the bank for redemption.  That is a bit more unusual today, where most checks usually get cashed out immediately, or a second generation at best.  A noted exception would be for autograph hunters that may value the autograph more than the value of the check.Here is a technical question on the topic:  Is there a way to "spend" bitcoins to some hash address that could be verified as "available" (not recovered or claimed) and put both the private and public keys for claiming that money onto some piece of paper or to be transmitted through some lightweight protocol medium like e-mail, FTP, or even a simple thumb drive?This is essentially setting up a "wallet" (in the Bitcoins sense) that would hold the value of the "money" being printed, where the wallet is backed up onto paper and you are in essence handing all of the information for that entire wallet over to some other person.  They would then have the option of transferring all of the money in that wallet to their own wallet, or using that "money" in some way and handing it over to a 3rd person as a separate transaction.  Once the money is transferred out of the wallet, the information about that wallet could then be discarded.Am I missing something here, of would that work?  It really would be the bitcoins equivalent to actual printed money, and for the paranoid you could easily verify that the coins really are in that wallet.  A really paranoid merchant could "destroy" the wallet and re-issue the currency in fresh newly minted bitcoin certificates to their customers if they were making change... with the trust being strictly the integrity of the merchant alone and the relationship between the customer and the merchant.Somebody being foolish (or stupid) and printing out multiple certificates with the same information would have their reputation tarnished when somebody tries to examine the contents of this wallet only to discover there is no value in there.  Some might claim that the wallet was hacked, but the presumption would be that the person was trying to double-spend bitcoins.I like this as it turns money back into a personal relationship experience.  If you don't trust a stranger (or they are somebody who you know has scammed you in the past), you still can go back to the network to verify that the value of the money is real.  But it can be a way to remove the electronic overhead for small value transactions on day to day purchases.  Carrying around such a certificate would be no different than carrying around current government-issued money in a physical wallet. The difficulty for generating new coins is adjusted to set up a situation where one new bitcoin (generated) block is created about every 10 minutes.... somewhere on the network.  That would average out to be about six per hour.As far as the collision rate, I don't know what that number really is.  For me, I would rather see more coin blocks generated, but for fewer coins in each new coin block.  The question is in terms of how much "noise" this would create if there were new blocks generated every few seconds and how much network traffic would have to cope with this increased production of coin blocks.  In other words, if the difficulty were dropped to 10% of the current difficulty, but new blocks were only worth 5 BTC, it would still be roughly the same increase in new coins being generated but those coins would be distributed to more people.The question is if this kind of change would adversely impact the network?A side effect of having so many people on the network right now generating (and using) Bitcoins is that when you do "discover" a new coin block, the value of those BTC is higher.  This has been reflected in the various exchanges already.BTW, I have yet to generate any bitcoins myself, and I've been using the software for close to a month.  Instead of worrying about how to "find" the bitcoins I'm trying to find ways to "earn" the coins instead.  Yes, I got a couple of ideas on that front too. It should be pointed out that "User:Message_From_Xenu/Bitcoin" currently has the full edit history of the previous Bitcoin article, and IMHO should be what gets "moved back" if there is some substantial improvement in the article that might pass muster if another AfD were to be offered again.Rather than fighting the tide of those supporting the deletion of this article, finding those 3rd party references would be a much better act to perform and then restore the article when an act of deletion would seem over the top.  If the community wants to continue to refine the article, that is a good place to start. I wish this really were the case, but in the case of the current global economy and especially those who have assets in U.S. Dollars or in Euros, that is not really true.For this latest recession, I'm not really certain who would have been the big losers had the governments simply had a "hands off" approach to monetary policy and let the major banks collapse due to their horrible loans and lack of judgment of credit worthiness.  Certainly many of the collaterallized mortgage obligations that brought about this current world-wide recession were based upon loans that were treated as AAA value loans when they should have recieved "junk" status instead.  There were some very wealthy people who were at the brink of losing all of their money (likely Warren Buffett and a few others) and a few prominent pension funds, but beyond some of those retirement funds it didn't really impact most ordinary people.I could go on, but the point here is that the government is picking winners and losers all of the time, and doing that through fiscal policies that are allocating money to some individuals as a matter of law and arbitrary whim that has little or nothing at all to do with fiscal capacity or any other metric other than access to those in positions of political power and who gave the most in terms of political campaign donations in the past.  If a politician is given a billion dollars because they were able to in turn give ten billion to some banker or "investor", that doesn't sound like a good kind of monetary allocation system that is healthy in the long run for a representative democracy.  Similar kinds of actions are also happening in Europe, so don't think this is strictly an American or North American issue either.There have also been numerous examples given regarding people receiving loans to build houses who were not particularly wealthy or with any sort of logic on the basis of credit worthiness but rather using values such as ethnicity and physical location of the property being the more significant factors involved.  When somebody working part-time at minimum wage was able to "afford" a half million dollar home, something was seriously out of whack.  Some sanity has returned to this particular market where it is now much harder to get a home loan (for a good reason), but it is the kind of largess that has been artificially inflating currencies like the Euro and the Dollar in huge ways and handing out "new money" that most ordinary people should object to.For myself, if there is a need to inflate the currency (and that I'm not entirely certain is ever really true), it is better done by simply putting it in the hands of ordinary people and letting them decide what to do with it.  When the TARP program was originally proposed, it was suggested that perhaps everybody with a home mortgage would get a check from the federal treasury for the amount of approximately $150,000.  In terms of the money spent, it would have been pretty much a wash in terms of its impact on the federal treasury in the USA for the initial outlay.  In terms of economic activity and income returned to the federal government, arguably that sort of program would have caused the U.S. economy to roar back to life in a huge way that the next trillion dollar outlay has only dreamed about doing as well.  It also would have "solved" the CMO crisis in a way that those "junk" loans would have been paid off.  Almost all of that is "new money".  The question that should be asked...... who got it?  I'm talking trillions of dollars in "new money", not merely billions, and it is money that is currently in the global monetary markets right now.For Bitcoins, I like the idea that at least those who are participating on the network and passing transaction information between one another are also at random intervals getting some of that "new money" from time to time.  It is more like the home owners getting that fat check from the government instead of bank executives.  You don't receive newly generated bitcoins due to political access or even based upon how much money you have... other than in a very loose manner in terms of how much CPU power you are putting into the network.  Any new monetary system does need to define where "new" currency is coming from and who is responsible for it.  This egalitarian and decentralized system of monetary allocation is something I really admire about Bitcoins and for me is one of its major strengths. I see two kinds of "deposits" into a bank:  "Investments" in the form of perhaps even a stock purchase into the bank itself, and "certificates of deposit" or some other time-based "bond" that has a defined expiration date and guaranteed rate of return.  Both could conceivably create the initial pool of money that could then be used for making loans.The traditional "on demand" bank deposits with Bitcoins seems to be something that has all of the disadvantages of a conventional bank and none of the advantages.  Mainly, you are dealing with an extra level of bureaucracy and people telling you that you can't necessarily have access to your funds and sources of embezzlement and fraud.  Normally the advantage a bank offers is the ability to carry on transactions electronically or in a "light-weight" arrangement where you don't have to cart around a briefcase full of money (or gold).  That is something which isn't even remotely a problem with Bitcoins.If most "depositors" in a bank were actually shareholders, it would also put an interesting twist into the relationship between the customer and the banker.  In theory this already happens with credit unions in America, but I've never seen it put into a formal relationship in terms of actual shares of the bank itself.  This is why "checks" are called "share drafts" by credit unions, as you are in theory giving away shares of the company when you purchase items from your account in that manner.... but that is more of a ruse than anything legitimate.  It would be interesting, however, if you could make corporate shares fungible as a sort of alternative currency in and of themselves with their own exchange rate.
I specifically used the example of Freenet, which does have problems in terms of trying to sell its use outside of the guerrilla applications like child pornography and Chinese dissidents.  This isn't saying that "the sky is blue", but pointing out a major and significant problem in most peer to peer network.  There have been numerous other articles in mainstream press articles about peer to peer networks that continually criticize the subversive nature of those network and dismiss the inherent benefits from such networks.  This has become so large of a problem that at least proposed legislation has come in some areas to simply ban the concept of peer to peer networking altogether.... and that is something formally being pushed by groups like the RIAA and MPAA.It is for this reason that I'm suggesting that Bitcoins try to at least philosophically distance itself from such subversive activities and try to stick with "legal" approaches and applications of this kind of currency and keep those kind of subversive activities more on the fringes of the group rather than a part of the mainstream of applications.  Besides, there is no way to really know what kinds of activities have been done with Bitcoins, and certainly no statistical data to show there hasn't been "any sort of porn or drug transactions using BTC".What I am saying is that shouldn't be the first kind of thing for somebody visiting this website.  If I load up Freenet and give the mouse to a boss or CEO in a presentation about the technology, I certainly would be afraid of having something come on the screen when random links are pressed that would kill the presentation and make certain that its adoption would never happen.... even if I was not fired immediately for the presentation.  It isn't simply saying "the sky is blue" but to me a very real concern. I didn't say that one particular kind of currency was any better or worse, but it is merely mis-representing the facts that the currency issued by the U.S. Treasury has always been "dollar-backed" without reference to metals and based on a "hard currency".And no, the "more the economy grows" more money isn't always needed.  A real question that should be asked..... who gets to decide where the allocation of "new money" comes from if such a move is in theory needed?Metal-backed currencies are for various reasons influenced by external events that may or may not be to the national interests of governments that are involved.  The Comstock Lode in Nevada certainly had a huge influence in the value of the U.S. Dollar for most of the late 19th Century, as did the California and some subsequent "gold rushes" in North America.  Certainly there was some local inflation that got as high as having eggs sell for $2 each and haircuts for $100... in the 1850's.  All of that money did eventually flow into the larger national economy as well over time.The problem with a currency shortage is what to do when the smallest denomination has a value so large that you can't "make change" with it.  This was a problem with money early on in at least North America, where the local money supply was so tight that people couldn't really use things like metal coins for ordinary trade like for food, clothing, or shelter.  In Quebec, the supply of money was so short in the late 1600's that the government in one province confiscated all of the playing cards, had them signed by the governor and turned into money for day to day transactions.  This is a real issue in regards to a shortage of money, and something that Bitcoins does not suffer from.As long as there is sufficient divisibility of the currency to be able to pay for ordinary items like a gumball or a single music download, it can be presumed that there is sufficient money supply to take care of basic needs in that society. A bank that fails to meet deposits upon demand is said to be "in default", not "bankrupt".  A minor technical difference that to ordinary depositors doesn't really make any difference either.  There are also the additional problems of theft and embezzlement that can put obligations as higher than assets (money owed the bank through loans).  At that point the bank really is bankrupt and out of cash no matter how much comes in from the loans.  Borrowing money from another bank isn't going to help.A huge problem with Bitcoins is that there is no "central bank" to run off to in terms of acquiring a quick loan between banks.  There may be some banks that are larger in terms of Bitcoins accounts and better run, but a central bank in the traditional sense like the Bank of England or the U.S. Federal Reserve simply can't exist for Bitcoins.  The very nature of Bitcoins precludes any potential bank of last resort, or somebody deliberately debasing the currency with a huge influx of new money created out of nothing.  Yes, Bitcoins does have a coin generation system, but that is very egalitarian in nature and random in terms of who will get that money. Originally the dollar was defined as so many grains of silver, in minted form.  Silver certificates were obtained from banks that took those silver dollars of that specific weight and value and issued the certificate.... where most people who received those certificates presumed that they would get the silver coins back at a future date if they requested them.  Yes, they were denominated in dollars, because dollars were denominated in silver.The problem came when the law passed that debased the currency and removed the silver==dollar conversion rate, and instead replaced that with Federal Reserve Notes.  Even now, if you have a silver certificate, you can go to any bank and exchange the silver certificate.... for a federal reserve note.  BTW, don't do that..... the silver certificates are worth more as collector items than as real money or by people who feel that the debasing of the currency was unconstitutional or illegal.Yes, the silver certificates issued in the 1930's looked almost identical to the Federal Reserve Notes.  That was by design as the Fed notes wouldn't have been recognized or accepted otherwise.  The difference is that a Federal Reserve Note doesn't require the bank to give you anything other than another Federal Reserve Note.  A Silver Certificate in theory could require the bank to give you a hunk of silver worth a dollar.... a dollar as defined by federal law and not the commodity metal market. This is all a mistaken notion.  Yes, the U.S. Mint coins the money and the Bureau of Printing and Engraving prints up the actual bills, but that doesn't describe where the money comes from in the first place.When a local bank wants to get some money, they place an order to the local Federal Reserve branch bank (there is one in nearly every state in the USA) based upon the funds they have "electronically" deposited with the Fed.  They also ship money back from time to time, which either goes back into circulation or gets destroyed (with the bills being too old or having other problems).That still doesn't deal with where the value of the money came from in the first place.  With fiat currencies like the U.S. Dollar, it comes quite literally out of nothing, where "The Fed" controls the money supply in a most direct manner.  The number of dollars that you or I have in a local bank is irrelevant in terms of how much money is actually on hand at that bank in a physical form, and frankly most transactions done today rarely even use physical money any more.  For ordinary consumers they use things like credit or debit cards, or make some other kind of electronic purchase (like a gift card, etc.).  Those federal agencies involved with making the physical money have absolutely nothing to do with these "virtual" money exchanges."The Fed" can and does create large amounts of money out of whole cloth that they in turn "lend" to member banks.  The amount they will lend varies proportionally by the amount of money that bank has "in reserve" with "The Fed", but it can and usually does exceed by more than 100% of the deposits in that bank.For example, there has been a whole bunch of complaints about the $1 trillion USD that went to banks in the form of TARP funds and the additional trillion or so in "economic stimulus funds" that all came from the U.S. Congress.  What hasn't been widely reported (but it has been reported on sources like 60 Minutes and other "mainstream" news outlets) is that "The Fed" has created approximately $15-$20 trillion USD and offered that money to its member banks.... over the past year and a half alone.  How do you think the U.S. government is able to afford these kind of programs?The really "cool" trick here is that "The Fed" is "loaning" out money to major banks at insanely low rates.... something like about 1% APR right now.  The banks are then buying up federal treasury bills, earning interest at 3%-4%.... pocketing the difference with basically no risk at all except for the potential that the United States of America is not going to exist due to foreign invasion or a coup d'etat.  At that point U.S. dollars would be worthless anyway, so it is a moot issue, and even that isn't 100% certain in that extreme situation.  Frankly I'd love to get in on a deal like that myself and make a few billion dollars "financing" the U.S. federal debt with play money that somebody else gave me.  None of that involved physical money, but rather just a few electronic transfers with some keyboard strokes and "The Fed" making an accounting of the whole thing in their server farm.BTW, follow the money trail and note that more than a few members of congress are in on that money train too.  Who do you think finances most of the elections for federal office?  I'm talking mainly incumbents here.Supposedly from time to time "The Fed" does take money back from all of these banks that they've lent money to, and have made attempts to "buy back" (in dollars of course) the money they've lent out.  In the meantime they've hyperinflated the currency and have caused other huge problems. What I'm trying to say is that if you want to bring a presentation of Bitcoins to something like a board of director's meeting for Wal-mart, you don't want some skeptic typing in the words "Bitcoins" and getting nothing but porn sites, drug traders, and "other enterprises" that such major corporations don't want to be associated with.  If they are in the fringe of the users of this technology, they can be ignored and it won't be an issue.  If those kind of users are the primary users of this network, that could be a huge problem.Enterprises that are early adopters for technology can also be filtered out in such situations, but not completely.  I'm also saying that there are so many other applications for micropayments that can be beneficial for Bitcoins that concentrating on just these other subversive kinds of enterprises is not going to be healthy in terms of spreading information about Bitcoins.  Concentrating on just these kinds of more anarchists type of applications might even backfire in terms of trying to get "mainstream" acceptance of the concept.For this to be used on something like Walmart.com, it would most certainly have to be "in the mainstream" for it to be accepted. Been there, done that in terms of getting tied up with the porn industry.  Some of the people involved on a full-time level in the "porn industry" certainly are folks you would not want hanging around your kids, or for that matter even being around at all.  I'm sort of lucky I'm even still alive frankly for even having been however briefly associated with this crowd.  Money is to be made, but there is a price to be paid.  Make sure you are willing to pay the price and know very well what the price is that has to be paid when getting into an enterprise like this.The guys that make you pay don't care about courts, and many are into.... let's just say other enterprises of questionable legality. That is the real trick then.  I would suggest that you consider perhaps even artists who may not necessarily be in Japan, but do work that would appeal to the manga reading community.  If you are a purist and think that such artwork simply must come from Japan or it isn't real, I would suggest that you are buying into a myth and would be willing to pay the "tax" that comes from getting stuff like this from conventional channels.I'm not familiar with the manga publishing industry, but it seems from the description here that it is similar in nature to the RIAA and ASCAP in terms of how they squish down aspiring artists and really only exist to support the established artists.The technical side of things isn't really so much of a problem (especially on this forum), but recruiting those who might contribute the artwork would seem to me as a significant challenge.  It would seem that you might be able to find some through social networks like Facebook or Twitter, but you should try and also see if you can figure out the sites that are typical in Japan too, or at least in Asia.  I would especially recommend South Korea as a potential recruiting area as they are very well wired to the internet, have some really amazing cartoonists/animators, and wouldn't mind "sticking it" to Japan on something like this too.Getting customers isn't nearly so difficult, as the manga reading community is quite a bit larger and many of them speak English as a primary langauge (at least sufficient to make this a profitable enterprise). Please explain the copyright situation better here.  Are there artists and designers who would be willing to publish their original work in a new medium (on-line) and be willing to get paid potentially with Bitcoins, or is this merely somebody who has copies of the manga and has posted scans of this stuff?The "legal" aspect is what I'm trying to get a handle on, and where the "copyright infringement" comes from.  If a site is "illegal" and "infringing copyright", it sounds like this is something that the Bitcoins aspect is irrelevant on.  If this is merely trying to provide a revenue model for artists that want to get outside of the normal publishing model, there is certainly something that Bitcoins can get involved with that can make them some serious money. I hate to say this, but I think davidonpda  is completely correct.  This is the one business that does seem to take technology seriously and is an early adopter for new ideas and concepts.Take this as a business idea if you want, but charging 0.01 BTC per image download, 0.10 BTC per movie, and 0.05 BTC per audio clip sounds like something that could catch on real well.Then again, even if you didn't want to necessarily get into porn, you could still do that in terms of building up some sort of licensed media library where folks could download images of say sunsets, bridges, and other high quality stuff (aka screensavers, etc.) and maybe a sound effects library.  There is a market for stuff like this, and charging small amounts for individual pieces could be a lot of fun. I don't know how to stop this entirely, but it was something I warned about on Freenet and some of the other peer to peer network discussions:The number of "legitimate" uses ought to completely overwhelm by a large margin the "unseemly" or even "illegal" applications that may come from the use of that network.  Freenet has, for instance, a very large amount of child pornography and other brazenly illegal content.  Perhaps it has practical uses for things like sending messages between Chinese dissident groups, but the mainstreaming of that software is painfully slow and indeed a reason I no longer participate with that network.  It certainly isn't "safe for work" and I nearly lost my job for having that on my work computer.  Not because of the peer to peer stuff but because of the content and trying to rationalize the software as something other than a means to get illegal content... illegal meaning things beyond even copyright laws.  Mind you, there are legitimate applications of the software, but when the "examples" are all subversive and attempts to offer content that is "mundane" are ridiculed within the community, it hurts rather than helps the cause.For Bitcoins to really succeed as something actually used, stuff like the Heron store needs to be marginalized at best.  I don't mind the anonymous transactions being involved here, but the emphasis ought to be put on freedom and legitimate otherwise legal transactions.  I would like to work to get Bitcoins eventually recognized by an organization like Wal-Mart.  I don't think you could stop the anarchists if you tried, so I wouldn't spend engineering development effort to kick that kind of thing off the network, but it shouldn't be a dominant feature.  I would think that even those groups who want to engage in to more subversive acts wouldn't mind their traffic being drowned out by "legitimate" transactions.As has been suggested by earlier posts, Wal-Mart isn't really an early adopter, so perhaps it would be better to go more for some companies that are more "hip" and into a network culture.  The trick is to try and identify what companies might be willing to go that route. What other P2P currencies exist (other than the "test" Bitcoins)? Just as a question to toss "out there":What sort of legal recourse would there be for somebody who engages in a contract (to simplify, presume both the "borrower" and "lender" are in the same country or even the same state) for a loan and then the borrower stops paying back?  For those transactions in a legal tender, that question is fairly obvious, but does it apply to Bitcoins or to "alternate currencies"?  How would you get garnishments to be done for Bitcoins, or would it have to be done in the legal tender "at current exchange rates" as of the date of the judgement?Seriously, I don't know the answer to this, or to the legal enforceability of a Bitcoins denominated contract.  It also seems like a legal vector that could be done "by the establishment" to discredit Bitcoins as well, if such contracts were held to be invalid.  I would presume this applies to other alternative currencies, and it would seem like there should be some sort of case history on this topic.  I just don't know where to even start looking for such a legal precedence. One of the things that should be apparent is that Bitcoins are backed by "luck".  Essentially it is an ongoing lottery system that allocates bitcoins at random (and generally small amounts compared to the total available) as an allocation system.  Some have said that bitcoins represent electricity or CPU cycles, but neither is very accurate.  Probabilistic random chance is much more accurate, but done in a controlled manner.As far as I know, Bitcoins is the first monetary system backed by such a commodity.  How "the public" will react to that concept remains to be seen.Fractional reserve banking can indeed happen with bitcoins, although it will be limited to deposits given to that banking institution.  Will that "inflate" the money supply?  Certainly, but it will be kept in check and there isn't a "central bank" to run off to if you run short.  There are perhaps other banks with which to get a "temporary" loan, but covering the deposits would certainly not be as easy it currently exists for those banks tied to a central (government derived authority) bank.  A bank run would most certainly be a very real possibility and happen much faster due to the electronic nature of the currency unit.  I don't know what a "network time" bank run would be like, but I think a really bad one could happen in minutes before it is over and the bank is insolvent even with no single depositor having more than a 1% stake in the bank. I really don't see how a 1 to 1 conversion is even sustainable between two "currencies" even if somehow they were linked.  The only way it could even be remotely stable is if they were serving two different populations, and even that would be unsustainable.Here is the issue:  Two separate currencies would be presumably competing for the same "market share" in terms of their use and application.  The slightest difference between the two currencies would then be exploited by somebody or anybody to drive one out of the marketplace and have the other currency then become the dominant currency wholly supplanting the other one.  It could go back and forth for awhile, just like the 16:1 silver to gold ratio that the U.S. government maintained for some time until it too became unsustainable.The gold analogy is also inappropriate for bitcoins as the only value that is proven with newly "minted" (aka "generated") bitcoins is a "proof of work".  It is important to note that an individual bitcoin doesn't really represent CPU bandwidth or anything else, but merely pure and blind luck.  The coin generation scheme is only a coin distribution model that keeps the distribution from a central authority rather than being kept in the control of a single individual for  political favors.  If there is a "backing" to bitcoins, that would be something called "luck".  Some people simply are luckier than others.  You can tweak that luck with more CPU processing power or coming up with a better algorithm optimized for generating the bitcoins, but it really is simply luck alone that is backing up the money.  There is no gold.I don't know how you can quantify luck in any other way, and certainly that is non-transferable other than as spelled out in the current rules of the Bitcoins network.  Attempting to reconcile any attempt to maintain a one to one conversion with another similar currency system would simply turn the nodes on that other network into nodes on the current network. For something like this to be effective, it would have to be something that has an arbitrary floating exchange rate, not something with a fixed rate.  Otherwise all you are talking about is a re-denomination of bitcoins and that is something which has already been talked about to a rather large degree.  In other words, having a "Millibitcoin" that can be exchanged at the rate of 1000 mBC per BTC.  That really isn't a network design but rather a user interface issue and no new coins would really be created.I have talked about an MMORPG situation here:https://www.bitcoin.org/smf/index.php?topic=353.0This would require alternate currencies as a part of the game play, and those currencies would be capable of being exchanged with Bitcoins at a floating rate.  The purpose of creating these "currencies" is mainly for creating a complex virtual world that is founded upon some sort of sound economic principles.  Note that this is something that is seen as a completely separate application and not something that is intended to become a part of the mainstream Bitcoins client interface.Perhaps if there were some disgruntled Bitcoins users that wanted to cause a fork of the network with different monetary policies there could be some sort of completely different currency that could be created with similar principles to Bitcoins, or some situation where there would be substantial breaks in networks "forcing" two different electronic currencies such as what I talked about here with this "Bitcoins on Mars" thread:https://www.bitcoin.org/smf/index.php?topic=506.0While this thread sort of devolved into silliness, I do anticipate that there will be people on Mars before the final new coin generation block is created.  In other words, within a hundred years it may become a legitimate issue.  Perhaps if China set up the "Great Firewall" to start blocking external (to the country) Bitcoins data blocks that this could become a country that would have an isolated network of something like Bitcoins that would have to be exchanged at some sort of exchange rate to "foreign" currencies.  It does take a stretch of the imagination to see when this would apply to the current situation. I realize that you are evangelizing for protocol buffers (and you seem to be doing a very good job of it too, I might add), but I will challenge that hand built data layouts are always bad.Still, I hope this does give some food for thought and on a practical basis any improvement in the network protocol that shaves off a few bytes is always better.  This doesn't seem to sacrifice too much in terms of the overhead either.  More significantly, you are calling attention to an area of efficiency that needs to be addressed and is very helpful to the project.  Thank you for doing that.  I'm hoping to get caught up to where you are at now on this protocol business. I've started the following document on the wiki and I would like to encourage others to help join in writing this document:http://www.bitcoin.org/wiki/doku.php?id=bitcoins_draft_spec_0_0_1Basically, I'm trying to come up with a formal specification for Bitcoins as a documentation effort to keep track of the "rules of the road" in terms of how Bitcoins clients interact with one another.  This document is intended to focus on the core functionality of the network, and in time it should contain all of the information necessary to create a complete implementation of Bitcoins from scratch in a "clean-sheet" design.I've complained about this in the past, and I'm putting my money where my mouth is.  For now, I'm simply going to try and pull the information from the source code as possible, although I would appreciate adding some of the philosophical underpinnings into this document as well.  This is not a FAQ, but a rather a technical document going into the fine details of Bitcoins. Given my person choice, I would recommend it, but you do need to consider how active the wiki community may get.  If we are going to be developing significant documentation and having that documentation be referenced from a number of 3rd party websites, I would strongly suggest MediaWiki.  If all we are going to be doing is compiling FAQs and having it be more of a supplement to the forums, the existing software works out just fine.Where I think MediaWiki would really come in handy would be in the area of page protection levels and the use of templates.  Flagged revisions could also be useful in terms of specification documents, although other approaches could be used to accomplish the same basic task.  It should also be noted that MediaWiki doesn't necessarily require anonymous user contributions by default, and such a feature can certainly be "turned off" if that is desired (such as is the current behavior for the existing wiki). No.  Especially if it becomes a suite of tests instead of simply a single test, and merely having various algorithms posted from concerned individuals that want to get involved.  The posting forum may be a "central authority", but not the tests themselves.I hate to point out the obvious, but by posting here you are implicitly endorsing the central authority of this forum too.
The advantage of focusing on the protocol rather than the implementation is that changes in a protocol specification are easier to spot, to review, and to vet.  In addition, if an "upgrade" in a specification introduces a harmful behavior, the various implementations will announce such a problem very quickly and there may be many or most implementors who refuse to go along with the changes in the implementation.By relying upon "documentation in the implementation", it provides fewer speed bumps on the road to subversion of the network and provides more vectors for a central authoritarian organization of some sort to make changes without consensus from a much larger group of concerned individuals.  That is my point.  It isn't a perfect solution, but it is a solution that can help to strengthen the de-centralization of the project and put the network into the hands of the users. But of course a good open source test suite can be added to and strengthened over time, giving the advantages of both a test suite and an open source implementation.  Frankly, I think this is a good thing to implement too, and I like the idea.  The point being that there are things which can be done to strengthen Bitcoins  Sure, a verification is only as good as its test, but tests can be useful for independent confirmation that a particular implementation may be compliant to a specification.The operable word here is "may", as most of computer science doesn't deal with a mathematically tight proof of conformance.  Most of the time computer software development doesn't have the time or the resources (read manpower) to perform such a rigorous proof.  Even the programming gold standard for bug-free development, the software for the Space Shuttle guidance computers, doesn't ever really go that far.  No sane software development company could ever devote the resources to perform that kind of test and no sane individual would ever spend that kind of effort even with an open source software application except for only the most critical kernel parts of an operating system. It is a myth that C is the most optimized programming language and one that produces the most efficient software.  If you want to get into language bashing wars, I'm all for it and C would be one of my first targets.  For myself, I prefer Object Pascal as my preferred programming language, but some of that is habit and intimate knowledge of the fine points of the compilers which use that programming language.  I have certainly issued a challenge to any developer to compare binary files for similar implementations, and also note compilation speeds on larger (> 100k lines of code) projects.  Most C compilers lose on nearly every metric.  Enough of that diversion.A custom specification that doesn't rely upon a protocol framework is almost always going to be faster, but it is also much more fragile in terms of future changes and debugging.  It doesn't have to be fragile in terms of forward compatibility, but you have to be very careful in terms of how the protocol is implemented to get that to happen.  A formal protocol framework helps you avoid those kind of problems with an existing structure, but it does add overhead to the implementation.My complaint here is using XML as the yardstick of efficiency.  It is hardly the most efficient data protocol format, but the advantages it does offer and the typical application which uses XML doesn't necessarily need the hyper-efficient data formatting either.  I'm not disputing what Google has done here either, as it gives a sort of XML-like data protocol framework with increased efficiency, including CPU speed.  It just doesn't solve all of the problems for everybody and it shouldn't be viewed as the ultimate solution for programming either.I guess I'm sort of comparing an efficient data framework to programming in a high level language like C or Python vs. Assembly language.  Assembly programming is by far and away more efficient, but it does take some skill to be able to program in that manner.  It is also something very poorly (if at all) taught by most computer programming courses of study. I happen to agree with at least the basic premise of this thread, that there still is some central authority related to the development of this concept of Bitcoins.  What Satochi did was to write up essentially a "constitution" in the form of a network protocol in a reference implementation of Bitcoins.  This is useful, but there is a need to add to this with two very important things:Protocol Documentation - The specification of the Bitcoins protocol really needs to be nailed down and defined in a formal manner, equivalent to an RFC or an ISO specification document.  BTW, this is something I'm actively working on right now so I'm not merely trying to cry about this particular issue, although I'd like to get some help along these lines or at least some pointers on what parts in the current code base would be better to look at in terms of pulling out the network protocol in a formal sense.  I'll get it down eventually, but "many hands make light work" on a project of that magnitude.Alternative Implementations - For a robust network to really take root, many different implementations of the networking protocol need to be made above and beyond the reference implementation.  Preferably, no particular implementation should have more than 50% of the network in terms of keeping the concept decentralized and to be robust in terms of keeping it from getting "hijacked" by government control or other problems of a single person or a small group thwarting the network as a whole.Mind you, the reference implementation is always going to be needed, and I don't want to dismiss Satochi's contributions to the project in any way at all.  I haven't seen nearly the resistance to getting these kind of tasks getting accomplished compared to other peer to peer networks that I've been involved with, but it is something that should be discussed.  Of these, simply documenting the protocol is IMHO even more important in the short term. I think he is over estimating how much of a significance he had, and ignoring the huge influx of people coming into the project due to some articles on prominent sites being published about Bitcoins.Still, introducing a huge number of computers into the network was beneficial in a number of ways even from one person, and and it is interesting that somebody might even try to control more than 50% of the computers on the network at any given time.  If anything, he did a huge service to the Bitcoins community as his "attack" came on-line just as many other people eager to do some real hacking came into the project too.  So in a way, he didn't really attack the network but rather gave it some real protection against those who might have done even more harm.The question is in terms of what is he going to be doing with all of the bitcoins that he "earned" from the attack? This is certainly an option.  Keeping the discussion on the forums would allow other forum users to keep track of what is happening on the wiki at a glance even if they aren't active on the wiki, but then again it is relying on off-wiki organization too.One of the problems with this particular wiki software is that it doesn't have all of the nice organizational tools that MediaWiki has, including dedicated discussion pages for each article.  It also doesn't have separate genuine namespaces in terms of article searches and content separation, so it is also a mostly ad-hoc organization that would have to be made here.I don't care what the organization might be, but we do need to get a decision down in terms of what system we are going to be using for this.  It is also something that I don't feel comfortable simply making a decision on my own authority (which is none at all), and whatever we are going to be using may involve some "outside" assistance to get it going. That is an illusion based upon statistical probability over a small sample.  This is the gambler's dilemma where they are hoping to "beat the house" when the odds are clearly stacked against them.  Yes, some people do have "lucky" days and may do better than others over a short period of time.  People can and do win state-sponsored lotteries too.  That doesn't imply, however, that just because somebody had had some "lucky days" before that today will be the same.In the case of Bitcoins, decreasing the number of hashes per second only drops the likelihood that you are going to find a successful hash that can generate a new coin block. I would like to know where a discussion area can be that can refer to the development and creation of articles for the "official" Bitcoins wiki can take place?There are several schools of thought, where perhaps the discussion of the wiki articles can take place on the wiki itself or it can have its own forum.  What I'm referring to here, however, are "meta" discussion such as editorial policies, style guides, and ontological discussions that cover how to simply organize all of the information on the various pages, and even "deletion" discussions.Considering the nature of how the current wiki software works that has been adopted by this project, it would seem like a separate forum section would be preferable for these kind of discussions.  For now a simple stickied "Wiki organization threat" might be all that is needed considering the volume of edits but that could change over time.I'm not trying to force any particular idea as the best, but I would like to know what is preferred by those who would like to participate with the wiki development, and note that I would like to be adding a whole bunch more content onto the wiki as well. As a follow-up, switching to a completely different ISP (I just created a new "throw away" e-mail account to see what was going on here) I was able to get the registration to be completed.  Still, bitcoins.org is on some kind of e-mail blackhole list or at least the ISP that hosts the e-mail server for registration is on one of those lists. Generally a compact custom format works better in terms of bandwidth and disk usage, but I do see some advantages for something like this.  I am curious about how this works for forward compatibility where a new field or some aspect is added that wasn't accounted for in an earlier specification.  It does become a big deal, and I'll admit that XML and similar kinds of data protocols tend not to break as easily compared to rigid custom protocols.Another problem with something of this nature is that you have to stay within the framework of the specification language or however else this data structure is organized, and it doesn't anticipate things like encryption and compression.While there certainly are many applications that could use a tool of this nature, I'm not entirely sure that Bitcoins is necessarily "a perfect application" of this particular tool.  Considering the nature of this project and anticipated scales of operation, overhead and abstraction can be quite costly for bandwidth even if it is just a couple of bytes and a few extra machine cycles.  That is something which matters. Stress testing the "test network" is a way to at least not annoy those who are trying to do positive things with Bitcoins.  Tests of this nature will naturally be causing more work for others who are not necessarily wanting to be involved in these kind of tests.  Those running the test network realize the very experimental nature and don't mind CPU and disk bandwidth being wasted for those efforts.From a purely ethical point of view, I think it is much better to test on the test network first, especially if it is to exploit something in the communications protocol that you think needs to be strengthened. Notability is something that, thankfully, becomes apparent over time.  I am suggesting that the word you are looking for is novelty, as the idea behind Bitcoins is certainly a very novel concept and something that easily could be patented.  I don't know if Satoshi has formally filed for a patent on Bitcoins, but it would be a good idea to at least formally express that the concept is "in the public domain" in terms of patentability or to have it patented and then have the patent given to some strong 501 (c) 3 non-profit that could keep patent trolls from claiming credit.Anyway, the novelty of Bitcoins is that it does something unique and interesting that hasn't been done before, tying together several different ideas into one concept.  Being novel is certainly something noteworthy, but the question then becomes.... has it been noted or noticed by anybody other than the small community involved in its development?  That is the question that is being raised here.Clearly having Slashdot note Bitcoins is something that brought a huge amount of attention to the project.  That implies that few people were even aware of it prior to that article publication.  If it were already notable, that wouldn't be happening.  I sincerely believe that over time, the fact that Bitcoins are noteworthy will make Bitcoins notable too.  This isn't something isolated to just Wikipedia but to other organizations too, but pushing ahead and letting people know about Bitcoins in a greater sense.  As word starts to spread, more people will notice.I guess I'm trying to turn this experience into something positive for the Bitcoins community.  Trying to figure out how to spread the word about Bitcoins is certainly going to be useful for everybody involved.  If you want to call this evangalism, so be it.  If this article going up for deletion will get people motivated to write up scholarly papers, submit something to the ACM Journal, or to get more attention in scholarly/academic circles, I can see nothing but good coming from such efforts in general. Keep it simple for now.  Stick to your guns here with Australian dollars as that is something you can personally work with and force conversion rates through bitcoins (there are now several people who are exchanging bitcoins for U.S. dollars and other currencies).  If you want to get more complicated over time, that is something separate you can work with after you have something basic going.  It may be easier to simply stay simple and let others get involved with more complex transactions.  If you do engage with foreign currencies, make sure you charge a healthy premium for the service.Since you will be dealing with real banks and real currencies, get some advise from some professionals whose job it is to deal with this stuff.  Going to a local bank and talking with a bank manager might be a good idea, or at least somebody other than just a teller.  Don't worry about giving away everything, as this is going to be speculative on your part and it will be something the bank won't get involved with right away (given the nature of bitcoins at the moment).  Hopefully what you are offering is the technical expertise and the willingness to invest your own capital into this project.... two things that can really smooth the way.  It would also be in the interest of the bank to get involved with you as it has the very real potential of increasing their business substantially.Most of the questions you are asking can be answered by that banker including the legal issues and even many of the pricing and marketing issues.  They may even recommend some ideas you haven't thought about.  Make sure that you set up an appointment ahead of time, or engage in a very brief (one minute or so) conversation hinting that it may take you awhile to explain the full concept and would like to explain the details at a later time.  Seriously, this is a money making idea and something unique enough that it will get some heads to turn if you offer it.  Talking about the global nature of Bitcoins and that there are people with U.S. Dollars and Euros willing to get in on this may really get that banker thinking about some possibilities.The largest problem you will be facing is in terms of what you are going to do with all of the bitcoins you may be receiving.  Finding somebody willing to trade you AUDs for bitcoins would be the final circle that could help you out, or simply setting up an exchange like you suggested where you could take payment (with fees put into the schedule) to ship bitcoins to somebody.Also, plan ahead for now in terms of what kind of capital you are willing to invest into this project, both in terms of computer systems for the website/interface to your project and for how much money you want to invest into the card program itself.  Only you can make that determination, but also plan for the possibility that it may take much more cash than you originally anticipated.  Make a clear business plan (even if this is just going to be a hobby) and above all at least plan to be profitable (or at least not losing money personally) in as short of a time frame as possible.  It doesn't have to cost a whole lot to get this going, and one really nice thing about this kind of business is that the capital requirements also don't have to be earned all at once. Please don't make a mistake at presuming that the client version has anything to do with the protocol version.  We are talking two completely different issues here that can (and I think should) be separated if you are talking about bitcoins.It is precisely for this reason that I have been called for a second and perhaps more full re-implementation of the protocol, as it would be healthier for Bitcoins for a whole bunch of reasons, and to concentrate on the protocol independently from any sort of central control over the CVS repository for the reference implementation of Bitcoins.It is also possible to make protocols that are forward compatible to changes that may be made in the future.  It does take anticipating what those changes might be or at least providing "hooks" to be able to allow for some future changes, such as allowing for extended precision numerical values on transactions that has been discussed earlier.  It is also important that such future changes can't destroy the fundamental principles that are being sought after for the protocol as well... so in this case it is a particularly fine line to cross if any sort of protocol change will happen.Even though real money is now being used for Bitcoins, I do think it would be useful for at least the present users to know this is very much experimental and there may be some unstoppable flaw in the current protocol that may require a "reboot" with a more secure protocol.  I've seen that happen with other peer-to-peer networks where a major upgrade forced a major segmentation between the "old" clients and the "new" clients.  Hopefully the change would only be done in such a way that could preserve the Bitcoins that have already been generated in some fashion, but that may not always be a guarantee either. It has now been more than four days for me.... this time with three different accounts that I've used to apply.  I'm going to try another mail ISP just in case the host for bitcoins has somehow been blocked by the main ISP I'm using. How long is that supposed to take?  Weeks?  Months? Calm down.  I'm on your side here and for myself I really don't see the harm in keeping the Wikipedia article.  Yes, there are jerks that run their own little domain on Wikipedia that sometimes let that power go to their head, and I've had numerous arguments about notability where I'm usually the one to assert that the article should stay instead of being deleted.I've also spent my time as a Wikimedia administrator (not Wikipedia, but a couple of its sister projects), where I've had to deal with the problems that come from the real "assholes" that are constantly trying to wreck the projects.  Sometimes after being on the offensive for so long trying to stop people from vandalism and some flagrant "junk" that when somebody comes along to put something in that is legitimate but lacks some quality and seems a bit amateurish often gets mistaken for the blatant vandalism.  Seriously, unless you've spent the time trying to fight some of these real creeps that make it a game to wreck stuff out of spite, you don't know half of the problems that administrators deal with.  It is a mostly thankless job that is critical to the proper functioning of systems like this.  It also consumes a whole bunch of time, which is why I don't do it any more (that and I was "kicked off" due to inactivity).One of the things that is impacting the Bitcoins article is a dispute between the "inclusionists" and the "deletionists".  It is hard to explain this other than to say that this is two major political factions on Wikipedia that has its roots to even before Wikipedia itself was started as a project.  The "inclusionists" (of which I'll admit I'm in that camp for the most part) feel that the efforts of volunteers is precious and that "good faith edits" ought to be preserved as much as possible, even if the quality suffers a bit.  There is much more to this philosophy, but a typical inclusionist would want to keep articles like Bitcoins in general.The other camp, the "deletionists" feel that Wikipedia ought to be constantly raising its standards and that "cruft" needs to be eliminated to discourage poor quality edits.  At the extreme end, some editors and especially administrators get real punchy with the deletion button and start to smack nearly everything in sight that doesn't meet their definition of quality.  The most extreme are those who feel that only articles already at the quality of a "featured article" (something that appears on the "front page" of Wikipedia and represents the highest quality articles on the project) should remain and all else should be deleted.  I hate to say it, but the deletionists seem to have an upper hand right now on Wikipedia.  They can be fought back, but it turns into a political contest.The problem here is that those joining into this fight for the first time are encountering some of the combatants in this war over policy, and unfortunately the two sides have been going at it for so long (and sometimes there is more than just the two sides) that collectively they dismiss the newcomers.  It is sort of like jumping into a floor fight in congress between the Democrats and the Republicans, without even knowing that political parties even exist in the first place, and seeing some legislation you care about get trashed in the process.  That is precisely what is happening on this particular deletion review, and it is unfortunate that the article got picked for that particular fight.  For myself, I don't think it would have been nominated except for the fact that it appeared on Slashdot and got the attention of the deletionists. Quoting horrible examples on Wikipedia isn't good form for defending why it should be deleted.  I think the point is being missed here in terms of what is a quality reference, and no I don't think having President Obama mentioning Bitcoins is a quality reference.  I will say, on the other hand, if some celebrity of note happened to mention Bitcoins in some substantial way and talked about how it is something to check out, that there would be some genuine investigative journalism and a pretty good writer who would likely try to check out what it is all about.  That reporter going to the Bitcoins.org website and writing up an exhaustive article, fact checking the details, and publishing that piece in a respectable newspaper or on the evening television news (published on the web for reference purposes) would count as notability.All this says is that we have a long way to go in terms of letting people know about the currency, and in terms of setting up a situation where it could be accepted for everyday transactions.For those in academia, it would be very useful to find even a minor conference and present a paper or give a talk about Bitcoins.  It is something I've done in the past (when I held official positions in a university instead of working in industry) and could be very useful for "spreading the word" about Bitcoins in a number of ways.  At the moment I'm still a "young grasshopper" and wouldn't feel comfortable to step up to that level to defend the concept... yet. I came up with at least a partial solution to get this to work earlier, and I think it could work too, but it wouldn't be trivial to implement:http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=300.msg2686#msg2686The problem right now is the network latency, and the fact that if the bitcoin block generation rate increased substantially that there would start to be some significant collisions between generated blocks and degrade the network.  My suggestion here was to have multiple chains off of chains that could help improve the scalability of the network.Regardless, if the number of users significantly ramps up to be 100x or 1000x the current user base, even these "reduced difficulty" blocks would still be pretty dang difficult to generate.I'd have to agree that generating more coin blocks but having those blocks worth less would be useful, and the notion of keeping the rate of increase in bitcoin blocks constant (instead of being halved every 4 years) isn't necessarily going to destroy the currency either.  What is needed is predictability here instead of chaos.Considering that the once every 4 years change still has yet to happen, going to a constant increase in the coin supply over time isn't necessarily going to change at least current behavior toward the coins.  It also resolves the "lost coin" issue so far as any lost coins would eventually be "recovered" so far as simply being found money through new generation and IMHO would offer some stability against deflation. Pyramid schemes are not just a scam, but illegal in many jurisdictions and can have even larger consequences.  There was one pyramid scheme that before it ran out of steam ended up collapsing the entire economy of Albania as a substantial number of people (including many government employees) got caught up into the concept and lost their shirt.  It led to a political overthrow of the government.  That is the stuff that really make financial regulators really sweat when they see a pyramid scheme.Even "legal" schemes like Amway or other "multi-level marketing companies" (to me a very poorly disguised term for a pyramid scheme) have their problems and I know personally many people who have unfortunately been shafted from their involvement in those companies.  At the very least, it rips apart communities who get involved with the concept no matter how it is dressed up to look pretty.
I don't know about Blizzard, but Jagex (the makers of Runescape) had a whole bunch of banks gang up on them and demand that they take care of gold farming.... or they would lose the ability to use credit cards for payment of their services.  Essentially the charge-backs and fraud rates (from stolen credit cards and other schemes to defraud banks) were so high that a formal investigation as to if the video game company itself was a criminal organization had started.Such a threat forced the company to take a hard line on the issue or face a very real possibility of bankruptcy.  There were several changes made to the game explicitly to get that gold farming put under control.It turns out that the potential for money laundering and some other very real criminal organizations were involved with the gold farming too that made this more than simply fraud but something that encouraged other kinds of problems that got Scotland Yard involved with as well.  There have also been a couple of players that have died over the issue (and subsequent lawsuits against the video game maker from those deaths).  Basically it is a huge legal mess that their only protection was to do much more than pay lip service against gold farming.I also know that other video game companies (MMORPG makers) have been contacted by banks about this issue and have demanded similar kinds of actions to be taken, and Blizzard is one of those who have at least made some efforts as a result of that happening too.  It certainly is a blatant falsehood that the MMORPG companies involved are making a profit off of this activity and in fact it turns out in the long run to be a substantial loss of income for them instead.Some virtual environments like Second Life and There have openly embraced "real world money", but even they have some fraud problems.  If you are going to engage in trading game gold, I would strongly recommend that you stick with games that permit the activity.  There certainly are enough games that permit it to remove the need for now to engage in that kind of activity for those games that discourage this trade or prohibit it entirely.  It is possible to be involved with a criminal investigation if you directly engage in these kind of trades for games that prohibit trades. I'm having the same problems.Yes, I checked my spam folder.  I've even created a second account in case the first one I made a mistake on with the e-mail address.  Neither are working. I have a side project that would require some sort of re-implementation of the protocol as well.  Indeed, I think having multiple implementations of the protocol can do nothing but strengthen and protect the stability of Bitcoins so there isn't a single vector of attack on the network.Mind you, I'm not against a reference implementation, and I think the current client ought to continue to be developed, but it would be healthy to actually come up with a specification document that spells out the formal data structures and perhaps describes through psuedocode in a language agnostic manner what the algorithms of Bitcoins happen to be.Something this also promotes is to allow a hard scholarly review of the protocol and perhaps find some of the flaws in its design that can hopefully be corrected while the network is still young.  Saying that the documentation is in the reference implementation is only security through obfuscation and being lazy.  It has been a flaw in other peer to peer network designs.  No, I'm not asking satoshi to write this stuff (if he doesn't want to take the time), but I think it would be useful to start a document on the wiki that goes over the protocols in a neutral manner.What I'm looking for is something akin to an ISO protocol document, and perhaps something that over time could even be submitted to that international body in a formal manner or some other standards body like the ECMA or IEEE.  At the very least, get it submitted as a formal RFC for internet protocols.  The wiki would be a good place to start. While I like many of the sources you've come up with here, many of them really don't meet the Wikipedia definition of a reliable source.  Even the ones that do are quite weak in terms of providing any real information or constructive criticism of Bitcoins, or are using 3rd party sources of information.  As was pointed out in the Wikipedia deletion discussion, many of these articles are circular references that use the Wikipedia article as the source of information that was used in the creation of the article.  If you don't understand the problems with that kind of reference, then I'm a bit helpless to go further in the discussion.I did find a couple of references that meet a rough approximation of a legitimate source of information about the project from somebody who actually looked at the software.  The Hartford Advocate article is perhaps the best of these, but that gives really just one source for the article.If any of you have written a term paper for school, I've got to ask you if your teachers would have let you get away with these kind of sources?  That is the kind of standard Wikipedia is looking for, where it would have to be something that would ultimately get you an "A" in the class for the quality of the writing and the sources you were able to find.  So far, that isn't the case and the current article is worthy of a "D" or a "C" grade at the moment.  Perhaps passing as it got the concept down right, but really doesn't work and needs a whole lot of improvement. Yes, the current difficulty/generation system being used for creating "new" bitcoins is going to be the same for those future bitcoin blocks, and the attempt to "normalize" the generation of those coins to about one every 10 minutes is at least still going to be attempted to be maintained.I could imagine a time when most people would be willing to "turn off" the bitcoin generation option simply because of the trivial nature of any new coins that are generated.  If running the generator continuously for an entire year would only earn you $1 in equivalent currency, would it be worth the effort to you?  Even if that was on a 10k server farm attempting to generate coins?  It seems to me that most people and certainly most server farms would simply give up at that point. That could be a problem.  It could also be something to make the use of Bitcoins in America illegal.  Certainly the U.S. government is very interested in "paper trails" and keeping track of where money came from and where it is going, where even cash transactions have to be reported on some level.  This move simply adds that issue all that more.It also goes to show what happens when Congress passes legislation that nobody bothers to read before they vote on it.  Depending on dividing it up to all of the "staff" to pour through and see if there is something you don't like should mean that the legislation was bad in the first place.Yes, I do believe that each congressman should read the whole legislation they vote upon, at least for those they vote "yes" upon.  Voting "no" regarding a stack that is incomprehensible does more good for everybody involved. I have some huge problems with the "one laptop per child" program, primarily because of the paternalistic attitude that its participants have and the fact that they have openly turned down funds from some sources and offers simply because of the nature of those funds.  It is starting to get off-topic here, but for me I think it is far and away much better to simply build a robust and cheap computer that anybody could buy, and if a few happen to land in Beverly Hills, Park Avenue, or Hyde Park along the way, so much the better for the rest of the world.In spite of suggestions that Moore's law is going to somehow stop, I have yet to see an end in sight for continued miniaturization of computers and more computing power for ever cheaper devices.  I certainly think that a poor farmer in India is much more able to buy a computer now than they were back when I was just a little child.  Heck, back then only very large banks and major research universities were able to afford a computer, and usually it was just one or two computers for a major organization.  I remember taking a tour inside of the "school district's computer" back when I was in Kindergarten... and that was a huge deal back then.  That computer was also state-of-the-art and something the district was very proud of.A small portable computing device capable of holding a Bitcoin wallet, displaying a current balance, and being able to connect temporarily to a network for engaging in monetary transfers could be built for under $10 USD right now.  If you want, I could even specify most of the parts and with a little help actually make such a device.  While $10 USD might be a month's wage in some parts of the world, it is still within the realm of possibility here and is certainly doable.  In the mean time, paper currencies of many kinds also exist, and we should be worrying about early adopters right now before having to stress over people that would likely be nearly the last people in the world to need Bitcoins.  Also, what does that have to do with Greece anyway? I do have a question on this issue:  If increasing the user base should also correspondingly increase the monetary supply, how to you propose that the new coins are allocated for new users?  What is the criteria for a "new user" and how does that apply to "old users"?  Should a corresponding reduction in the monetary supply happen when somebody leaves the system?  How should those coins be removed to keep inflation or deflation from happening?I can understand that the purpose of increasing the monetary supply is to stabilize the economy so prices stay mostly fixed (more or less) over time provided new participants in the system have roughly the same initial stack of currency.On a practical level, however, the distribution of the initial set of "coins" in any new currency is always going to be fraught with problems and some people will feel cheated and others given a little bit too generously.  Any allocation system for the initial set of coins has its problems.  So why do you think Bitcoins is necessarily more evil than other systems?  Other than simply handing each new participant to Bitcoins with a certain amount of coins in the beginning, I can't think of another system that at least tries to equally distribute the coins more "fairly".Giving each new user a fixed number of coins doesn't really solve many problems and in fact creates a whole bunch of new ones in its place.  I need not go into details because I hope most intelligent people can figure out the flaws of a network-based approach that presumes to give each new user some money equally... and it is something many on-line games already have to grapple with all of the time. Greece has many problems in regards to its move to the Euro, and the value of the currency is really one of political control rather than one of the value of whatever it is that Greece produces.  In the past, the Greek government was able to avoid debt or bad fiscal management policies in terms of deficit spending on government programs simply by devaluing the currency (printing/releasing more of it) and to engage in trade policies that deliberately screwed over ordinary Greek citizens by devaluing their work in an attempt to get more people to buy their products.The People's Republic of China has been doing this for decades as well, even with a strong economy to back up its currency.  They have deliberately undervalued their currency as a matter of national policy explicitly for the purpose of undercutting potential economic competitors and to pick up the currencies of other countries.I would say that the reason there is less of an extreme variation between people living in New York vs. Oklahoma is because of a stable currency that is common to the two areas rather than in spite of that.  A common currency has forced state governments from engaging in trade policies that devalues the work of their citizens and encourages those governments to actually have a balanced budget and take care of their citizens.  New York, compared to the rest of America, hasn't always been so strong in the past either and has had its ups and downs.  I certainly remember when some serious talk was being made about what it would mean if New York City declared bankruptcy.  Instead, that talk is now about California where that state government is having to deal with some significant fiscal issues.Bangalore certainly has not had stable governments in the past nor access to a larger national economy like is found in America.  Still, I would call most people in Bangalore at least better off in most respects than the "Oakies" were in the 1930's & 1940's that pushed a massive migration from Oklahoma to California.  Living in America hasn't always been with streets paved of gold and as you currently see the economy.BTW, the economy of California is larger than that of France and comparable to Germany, if you would deal with that state as an independent country.  How California gets out of their current mess is certainly interesting as a spectator sport, but it is real hell for those living there if they are paying attention to the issues.  Fiscally, they are almost as bad off as Greece and perhaps even worse.  California also doesn't even have a remote option like being able to opt out of the U.S. Dollar and then trying to get out of their debts through a devaluation of their currency.  All of California's debts will have to be paid off in U.S. Dollars. In 100 years, a new coin block generated will be worth 0.000001490116119384765625 bitcoins (give or take a few on the last digits of accuracy).  That is still within the 8 places of divisibility.  It will take quite some time before the value of a newly generated bitcoin completely drops off the face of the universe, and with some of the ideas for bitcoins that have been suggested for extended precision values, that could take even longer.  It may not be worth the processing effort to create new coin blocks, but there will be new coin blocks for quite some time in the future as long as somebody cares to make them.At least in theory, there isn't an end in sight for when the last coin block will be created, and certainly not on a practical level.  If Bitcoins is still active and in use in 100 years, I would be very much surprised. I considered that there would be perhaps completely independent networks on other planets if this situation would happen, with some sort of "exchange rate" between the two currencies and some sort of gateway (exchange) between the two that could take care of interplanetary exchanges.Here is another analogous situation:  I happen to live in a mountain valley in a city with a bit over 100k people (including the corporate HQ for a fortune 500 company and a major internationally noted research university.... to note network bandwidth involved here).  In a fit of horrible planning, it turns out that the communications into this valley were 100% dependent upon a single fiber optic cable bundle that was accidentally cut one day when some idiot on a road construction project ran a backhoe through the bundle.  Yes, it was buried about 20' underground in a very deep trench and other precautions, but sometimes even that can't be helped.  For the 2-3 days that it took to get the cable repaired again, all outside network and even telephone communications outside of the valley simply stopped.  Internal communications were just fine and I could talk to the university, other companies, and even other residential customers.... but it was as if the entire outside world ceased to exist.How does Bitcoins deal with a situation of that nature where perhaps some of the clients could talk to each other and set up a temporary sub-net (perhaps even creating bitcoins and certainly other transactions)?  When the communications is restored to the larger network, I would imagine all generated coins would be essentially ignored, but I think it would still mess up transactions from the sub-net from previously generated coins (coins created prior to the disruptions and acknowledged by the network).So what happens to transactions that include mixed "new" and "old" bitcoins in a disruption like this?  The "new" bitcoins are the ones that were generated during the isolation and then spent, but the "old" coins are those which are recognized by the network as a whole. I mentioned this in another thread, but I think it has some validity in a general discussion here:How would you move Bitcoins between the Earth and Mars?I think the short answer:  You can't.  At least with the current design of the network.Mind you, I'm not suggesting here that we need to deal with a science fiction eventuality that won't happen for years or even centuries, but I think it may have other side applications even for more mundane uses here on the Earth.  I'm suggesting this mainly as a thought experiment and perhaps a work around for something constrained under these kind of conditions.The main issue here is the several minutes it takes for round-trip communications (up to about a half-hour or perhaps a bit more with relays) between the Earth and Mars.... constrained by the speed of light.  Unless you have a non-Einsteinian physics that allows you to do communications at FTL velocities, this is something that simply has to be dealt with in that sort of situation.I could imagine for a more mundane terrestrial application to be trying to carry on a transaction where networks might be separated at some point  (a couple of "different" bitcoin networks get put into temporary "islands" before they can merge their transaction/coin generation data together) or perhaps you are trying to conduct a transaction "off network" where the transaction wouldn't get recorded on the larger network as a whole.For the sake of this discussion, consider that most of the nodes involved here are "honest" and trying in earnest to conduct real transfers of Bitcoins, so this isn't necessarily a direct attack by any particular node.  This perhaps could be an attack on the network itself or a natural/man-made disaster of some sort (nuclear war, hurricanes, tsunami, mega-volcano, meteor strike) that causes significant communications disruptions where communications between groups of nodes is broken off for an extended period of time.How would two groups of nodes "re-sync" to each other in a situation like this if some sort of communication bridge could be established but would take significant periods of time to happen?Yes, I'm being serious here too, and the issues involved have an impact on the performance and stability of this as an alternate currency. Sad thing is that there isn't an "end" to coin generation..... the new coin blocks simply become worth less and less over time.  If deflation of Bitcoins outstrips the drop in coin value, however, the new coin blocks in terms of relative worth may actually continue to increase over time even with this drop in direct value.  That is why I've been using the lottery example, as with a very large network it would become like a major lottery for whoever actually got the next block.  Perhaps eventually there will be people who aren't interested in the coin generation feature, but they still will be interested in the trades.  That will only cause the "value" of generated coins to be all that more valuable.I do wonder what the taxes on a Bitcoin block worth more than $1 million on the exchanges would be like in terms of a government demanding "their share" of either those bitcoins or the conversion of those coins into "real world" money to pay those taxes.  Considering a new Bitcoin block is currently worth 3.5 (via https://www.bitcoinexchange.com/), even now it isn't a trivial matter.Of course this is very off-topic on a thread about legal tender. If Zynga accepted Bitcoins, expect to see a HUGE increase in Bitcoin users and the exchanges getting flooded with monetary transfer requests (from both directions.... Zynga would want to cash out too).  It would be game over for those thinking they have a slight advantage on Facebook and for amature developers, but it would be a big win for Bitcoins in general.BTW, creating a Facebook game isn't all that hard, and the API is very well documented for those wanting to get into the act.  The largest problem is the marketing of whatever game you have created and to make something novel enough that others will be willing to play the thing in the first place. Programming is not nearly as difficult as it would seem on the surface, and I've taught my nine year old how to make some pretty interesting (although simple) games in under a day's worth of instruction.  I'll admit that manipulating Bitcoins directly could be a little bit more challenging.Avoid Microsoft tools unless you are getting explicitly paid by somebody to use them in a professional setting.  I could go into more and there are several that would dispute me, but it seems like Microsoft makes software development tools about 3x harder than they should be and 10x harder to learn in the first place.  A good thing for job security, but lousy for a newly budding programmer.Still, even a simple web page could begin to engage in some coin exchanges.... even a wiki could work for that if you have trouble writing HTML.  Don't give up, and even somebody new to computers could make some real contributions to Bitcoins and their use elsewhere. That is in fact a reasonable conclusion.  The whole purpose of the coin generation system is really to figure out a way to distribute the coins in the first place.  In theory, a cryptographically security trading system would be sufficient to meet the needs of Bitcoins without having to worry about the coin generation problem, but then the problem would arise in terms of who gets to allocate the coins?  That implies a central authority of some kind which is also political power when you have that authority.There could have been other systems for handing out the initial set of coins... for example each new node would "automatically" be allocated 0.1% of whatever coins were left in a "bank" or some other scheme.  Each method of handing out new coins has its own advantages and disadvantages, but in this case somebody receiving the "new" coins must do something very difficult before they get those coins.For myself, I think this is about as "fair" of a distribution system as could be reasonably set up all other things considered.  It isn't perfect and certainly there is some "gaming" that can happen, but it does keep those who are gaming the system under control and makes sure they don't have a monopoly on all new coin output as well.  All of those nodes in a huge network are also participating with the other aspects of the network and verifying transactions too, so there is some additional merit to the idea that server farms ought to get paid for the extra work they are doing.  Most other digitial coin allocation methods usually favor even more those who have massive server farms or cheap 3rd world labor.  In this case those kind of individuals are explicitly planned for and their advantage is muted to something not nearly as harmful to the entire network.I've mentioned this previously in another thread, but the issue of allocation of the initial currency is something that has precedence in other currency systems too.  When the Deutschemark was established as the currency of the Federal Republic of Germany (West Germany.... following World War II), each German citizen was given a certain amount of money (about 100 Marks plus some conversion from previous currency systems).  The exact allocation was a little more complicated, but the point is that most Germans were given roughly the same amount of money to start with and differences in wealth since then have been due to industry, thrift, and good fortune.  A similar system happened with the merger of East & West Germany, where the West German Mark absorbed the East German Mark.  Prior to the Deutschemark in 1948, many Germans were even using cigarettes from American GI's as the existing currency was pretty worthless.  The issue of how to re-start a failing economy is certainly an interesting intellectual exercise, and it is even more interesting to see how it worked in practice.In the case of Bitcoins, it is a question of how to start the economy in the first place.  Once it is going, the generation of coins is more academic and relatively trivial.... pretty much how the Bitcoin economy can remain stable. This is where the lottery analogy breaks down.... well sort of.  The "proof of work" is done through a system that is something difficult to calculate and uses a random number generator.  For something that explains the system used for generating bitcoins, this article in Wikipedia does a pretty good job:http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HashCashA difference is that Bitcoins uses the SHA-2 algorithm for the hash, but essentially the same idea.Bitcoins uses an adaptation of this same algorithm, and instead of taking a mere second or two to generate as is the case with Hashcash, it may take weeks or even months to generate a new bitcoin block.   The expected difficulty is something that can vary but is predictable and something that is set up in the networking protocol.No, the bitcoins are not split between the lottery winners, as the winner is merely the first person to get a valid key for the expected next block.  There is a problem if two people get the "winning" block simultaneously, and it is possible for one person to "win" and somebody else with an equally valid block to "lose".  I need to go through the source code to find what the tie-breaking rules are, but it is essentially the first person to get the most recognition for the new block "wins".More computing power does improve your chances at "winning" a new coin block, but that is only because you are throwing more "lottery tickets" at the "game".  The likelihood that any one particular attempt to come up with a successful new bitcoin block is equal at every attempt.  Does that make any sense? This isn't really a good analogy and it isn't the situation with bitcoins.  The chance to "find" a new coin is nearly the same for one person to the next.  Certainly the chance of you finding the next bitcoin is irrelevant to whatever "search" has happened previously.For myself, I like the powerball lottery analogy better, where you can suggest that as more people are trying to win the big money (newly minted bitcoins) there will be more balls added to the game making it harder for any one person to win.  The odds of one person to "win" a new bitcoin block is the same as the next person, with more processors and CPUs simply submitting more and more lottery tickets.  Essentially, each computer is generating a couple hundred or thousand lottery tickets per second to see if they have the winner.  The current system tries to award a winner about once every ten minutes or so, on average, and the number of "balls" (the difficulty to reach the target hash) is adjusted on a semi-regular basis.Even this isn't a perfect analogy, but it works a whole lot better and is something that ordinary people can relate to.No, that isn't the case.  Every year the value of the bitcoins awarded is halved, and the design of the network is such that over time nobody will ever be able to generate more than 21 million bitcoins, ever.  Again, think of the lottery example I'm giving here, but that the value of the powerball prize is being reduced instead.  New bitcoin blocks are being awarded more or less at the same rate to everybody in the network (aka winning the "prize") but that the winnings are going to drop over time.  If the bitcoins network lasts for over 100 years, there still will be some new Bitcoins being awarded, but those new bitcoin blocks won't be worth the current 50 bitcoins currently awarded.  Instead they will be worth a very small fraction of that amount. I think it would be very useful for those who think hoarding could ultimately be profitable for the hoarder should at least try to read this article:http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nelson_Bunker_HuntAlso, read the associated links to sources used to create this article.  Basically, this guy tried to "corner" the silver market and ended up buying up a substantial fraction of the world's silver reserves.  Ultimately, he and his brother both ended up losing billions of dollars when the market finally collapsed.I completely agree with the original poster's sentiments on this issue, and hoarding bitcoins is ultimately self-defeating for the reasons given and many more.  Particularly at this stage of the game, it is to the advantage of everybody to spend bitcoins and push them out into the market place to offer liquidity.There is also the danger of losing bitcoins through calamities happening to your computer or wallet.  Yes, that can be recovered (for the most part), but it can be a problem that at the moment only makes it worse for the hoarder than it is for the rest of the network. An encyclopedia article in the early 1900's about an airplane likely would have included more material about Robert Langley than the Wright Brothers, and the Wright Flier likely wouldn't have been recognized as notable or noteworthy for some time after its initial flight.Wikipedia works off of scholarly publications for proof of notability, and the quality of the source is of importance.  For myself, I also support the "No Original Research" philosophy as it keeps discussions serious and from drifting into glowing advertisements for a topic.Please, don't take this personally... and keep in mind that Wikipedia is reflective of popular recognition of a topic rather than the source of that recognition.  There is a reason for what it is that they are doing, and there are some valid points being brought up on the deletion request.  Also note that there is a discussion going on, so if you want to save the article try to at least satisfy the policies that have already been established.  In terms of Wikilawyering, I've done my best to save the article.  The only move I can possibly make is to try and convince the admins to prolong the discussion (aka "re-list") for another week due to a "lack of consensus" on the topic.  That is a delay tactic rather than a rational to keep.I have no doubt that there will be articles about Bitcoins in the near future that can provide the reliable independent sources that the Wikipedia admins are looking for.  If the article is deleted, it would be useful to re-create the article adding the new sources.  BTW, I don't think it will be as hard to undelete as is suggested by another comment here, but I wouldn't make a request for undeletion until after several new sources come out and at least a month or two passes.  Be patient.
Farmville as a bitcoin game.  Interesting stuff here.Games like Farmville are oriented towards recruitment, and that is something I don't know if it could transfer effectively toward bitcoins, as multipliers for having "friends" participating simply wouldn't or couldn't happen with a proof or work environment.  Yes, you could "share" your crops and other resources in some manner but having a 5x multiplier simply because you have a bunch of friends doesn't seem like it would work in terms of generating more bitcoins (or equivalents).  This is also part of what makes Farmville so much fun.You certainly could come up with some sort of mechanism that would have a "proof of work" in terms of a user interface to plant some crops and over time those crops start to grow.... when the "proof of work" is completed the crops would be ready to harvest.  Unfortunately here too it wouldn't work like Farmville where having a larger farm giving you more crops wouldn't equate to a proof of work, as it would have to be the same amount of work for each item grown.  In other words, a larger farm wouldn't give you any sort of benefit other than perhaps having the crops "grow" one by one while you are not actively playing.On the other hand, if you were to set up something like Farmville where you would be receiving bitcoins as payment like the other virtual currencies on similar games, that could have some benefit and might even be interesting to implement on Facebook.  Setting up a Facebook game that would give "special advantages" to people who spend Bitcoins to buy features in the game might simplify the whole microtransaction aspect, and you wouldn't have to deal with credit cards and other sorts of ways to earn money to support the game.  The game itself not built around bitcoins but using bitcoins to further yourself in the game instead of the other silly virtual currencies used in facebook games could be a huge advantage.  There certainly would be a lot less overhead for those who wanted to accept payments in only Bitcoins. I started a thread on discussions of integrating bitcoins into an MMORPG environment on this thread:https://www.bitcoin.org/smf/index.php?topic=353.0I know that doesn't quite answer your question, but the issue of integrating bitcoins with specific games is something useful.  Perhaps the independent API interface (with a DLL or library file of some sort) could be developed to also facilitate the development of such clients.As for specific games, the main interaction would be through some kind of virtual money to bitcoin exchange.  I would discourage such an exchange for games that don't want "real world money" involved (Runescape, World of Warcraft, etc.) but there are many games that don't mind having "real world money" attached to their virtual currency (Second Life, to give another example).If you want to set up an exchange between this particular game, Progress Quest, and bitcoins..... have fun!  I hope you succeed and get something accomplished.  If you are looking for some technical responses to how that can be accomplished, what sort of problems are you facing in terms of making that implementation? Carbon taxes are something that is not only a scam but something that will never happen.  You can debate with me on this point on another thread (preferably on the off-topic area) as to the merits or lack thereof for carbon taxes, but the political support for the idea simply isn't there in Congress, and too many people in the U.S. Congress want to get re-elected to vote for the idea before November.  It would also be nearly the first thing proposed for repeal by the subsequent congress if it ever were enacted during a lame duck session.  The votes simply aren't there for it to be passed.As for the role of bitcoins, I think it is a wrong notion to make that bitcoins represent electricity in the first place.  They don't.  What they represent is a method of distribution more akin to a lottery where people have to submit millions or even billions of "tickets" with the off chance that one of them might be a winner.  That it may consume a whole bunch of electricity to produce the bitcoins and those who squander electricity strictly for the purpose of creating bitcoins may have to pay some extra taxes for that privilege, it isn't and should never be something tied directly to the value of bitcoins in the first place.Also, bitcoins represent that effort that has already been expended in that manner, not the future effort that will happen.  The rationale of a carbon tax is to discourage the future generation of energy that would supposedly produce CO2 into the atmosphere, which would imply that it would be the generation of bitcoins that is the issue and not the use of already generated bitcoins.  The amount of energy needed (including CPU processor time and network bandwidth) for processing bitcoins is relatively trivial and in fact quite comparable to other currency transactions.To reiterate, bitcoins don't represent electricity or CPU cycles or any such nonsense, but represent a mathematical difficulty to prevent a widespread devaluation of the currency.  That is a huge difference. I don't think it would or would have to be a breaking change either.  It could be implemented right now without having to decide the exact scheme for arbitrary precision and already be in the network so when such precision is needed (if it ever is needed) that nodes would pass on the information in the blocks being agnostic toward whatever system is being used.  The issue would come if a client would want to transmit bitcoins in even smaller denominations that can be done currently, or to acknowledge receipt of those transfers.... which would encourage an upgrade in the client if that happened.  The current data structure for coin transfers should be able to accommodate a variable length data block for the bitcoins, even if that may not be the case at the moment.  It also shouldn't break existing clients if that change were implemented now.Of course it should be acknowledged that right now Bitcoins are still experimental and nobody should be putting too much value into them on the off chance that a major flaw in the architecture is found that would require restarting the network.  That, however, is a topic for another thread. None of which are considered credible sources on Wikipedia.  ronpaul.com is about as good as it gets, and that still is just an ordinary blog entry from a site participant than something that is a credible independent source.Slashdot in particular was something generated by fans of Bitcoins and was talked about extensive on this forum before it was even posted.  Not that it was something bad for Slashdot, but that isn't how Wikipedia works.  Essentially Bitcoins still hasn't become a part of the larger world culture yet.The purpose of this work for credible sources of information and insistence on reliable 3rd party accounts is in part to keep people like "UFO Researchers" and others with fringe theories from taking over Wikipedia.  Anybody can come up with some theory that may seem credible, but nobody is really taking seriously.  You need to demonstrate that others outside of your immediate community at least consider the concept to be credible and at least worth criticism.  None of this is happening with Bitcoins at the moment. Just making a presumption on this particular issue, and I don't have any sort of commentary on what would be a "triggering" event to create these kind of blocks, but here is at least a strategy to keep the network from getting completely bogged down with candidate blocks:Each potential candidate would obviously have some sort of "fitness" metric to suggest which one is more "fit" than another.  If you are generating a block and the "event" trigger occurs, that node would "broadcast" its candidate to all of its immediate neighbors.... and keep track of which "neighbor" (direct connection to another node) has already had that candidate block transmitted.  It only gets transmitted once to a neighbor (with acknowledgment).When a node starts to receive candidate blocks, it would perform this "fitness" test and either dump the current block (it has failed a fitness test) or keep the block.... continuing to contact adjacent nodes that have not yet acknowledged receiving the candidate block.  If a new candidate is found that is more fit, it wouldn't re-transmit back to the original source of that block (whatever direct connection sent that block), but it would try to share that with other nodes.  If the node receives the same block from a neighbor, it would consider that node to have also acknowledged the block until all neighbors are essentially working with the same block.While it would be chaotic at first, the network would calm down very quickly in this situation and settle upon a new block that would be ultimately accepted into the chain.I do agree that the main triggering event would be the big problem with this kind of scheme, and that would imply some sort of centralized timekeeper to create the events.  I also think that such an event driven block creation system would ultimately give out about the same number of "new" coin blocks as the current system, and it would create much more network bandwidth trying to negotiate "winner".  It would also introduce scaling problems that currently don't exist in the current network. This is mainly a notice to the Bitcoin community that the article about Bitcoins on Wikipedia is being deleted.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BitcoinFrom my own perspective, I think that the rationale for its deletion is valid, as there is little in the way of 3rd party discussions of Bitcoins and their role in alternate currencies, other than discussions on this forum.  On the other hand, if there is anybody in the Bitcoin community that is aware of a presentation about Bitcoins at a scholarly conference, some sort of published scholarly paper, or something that perhaps is even in a "mainstream" news source.... it would be appreciated to either note that link here or on that Wikipedia article.The reason for the deletion is non-notability.  In other words, nobody outside of the Bitcoin community is really paying attention to the currency or saying much about it.  There needs to be some better public relations and discussion beyond personal blogs and such.  Yes, I get that this is a chicken or egg situation where if an article like this is deleted that nobody will hear about it either, but it is an issue.On the other hand, if you are a student (or better yet a professor) and want to make a splash about an interesting topic, this could be something useful to not just the project but also to help spread the word about this project.  There is a need to do some real scholarship about Bitcoins, the people involved with getting it going, and how it is different (or the same) from other alternative currencies.  Such a paper wouldn't hurt, and could be useful for a number of reasons... not just writing Wikipedia articles. The issue is with a huge mantissa where 1000 bitcoins are mixed with 0.00000000000000000001 bitcoins in the same block, or at least with the same fiscal transfer.  Why that would be done is another matter, and is part of what I'm arguing about would generally not happen except for somebody gaming/attacking the network or for exceptional kinds of transfers.If 0.001 bitcoins ever became as valuable as a dollar, there would be in theory several million dollars worth of bitcoins in the network and some serious attention to this issue anyway.  That is sort of the argument about this being a non-issue so far as when it becomes important to have beyond the current subdivision of bitcoins, that the quantities of value in comparison to a loaf of bread or an hour's worth of work would also be huge for the number of coins being transferred with a huge mantissa.I've lived in a country (Brazil) where due to massive inflation the basic monetary unit was reset with zeros chopped off and the monetary unit renamed.  It actually happened a couple of times, although I was there for only one of those conversions.  The ordinary people using the currency were able to adapt to the change, as were most of the markets.If such a change did happen it should be a new monetary unit like a "Network Mark" or some other name to make it very clear that a change has happened. I am not suggesting that we use IEEE floating point here, but something that could be put together to ensure the accuracy required for making this work.  Yes, I'm aware of the limitation of the standard binary floating point and how it can impact precision.  It would have to be something very, very different.BTW, I don't think that building a data structure to hold this kind of data would be all that inefficient, as for most "normal" transactions there wouldn't be more than a few digits of accuracy needed in the "mantissa".  There could be some problems if those involved in trades insist upon 20-30 digits in the mantissa.... at which time that is all information which needs to be stored and would still be a problem if we needed more digits of accuracy.Variable sized data structures exist for things like UTF-8, that in theory holds potential values for a unicode character with a number in the trillions, but only occupies a single 8-bit byte for each ordinary Latin-1 characters.  It is something like this that I'm talking about for storing this information, that would only require a single bit in the current implementation that could flag between an "extended" data structure and more ordinary transactions that are currently happening.  I am quite certain that there is a bit that until now has not been used and would not have broken nor will break any current clients.  All I'm proposing is that this bit be officially marked as "reserved" at the moment for future expansion so it doesn't break the network if that day ever comes where we may have to come up with some kind of alternative data storing procedure.And yes, UTF-8 is inefficient for seldom used Chinese characters such as family names and ancient words not commonly used even within Chinese culture (i.e. Unicode points well above 65k).  That should be an exception rather than the rule, and if the pressing need is in place for very high precision data.The need for growing this will come when the value of the minimum currency unit starts to become valuable enough that a desire to have a fractional unit will come up to deal with micro transactions.... where that would also have the value of what is roughly about a cent on a U.S. Dollar currently.  We've already seen massive deflation relative to the U.S. Dollar and Euros already, and the question is if 0.00000001 bitcoins would ever be worth a dollar on the standard bitcoin exchanges?  Of course I don't know what would be more shocking if that happens.... the value of a dollar or a bitcoin? While I think that resetting the unit value may have merit in itself, that doesn't address the technical issue of the data storage issues related the number of decimal places needed for keeping track of this currency.  In theory, you need to have a large number of bits to keep track of the largest transactions.There is no reason, however, for the number of bits used for storing this number to be fixed in length and in theory could be extended to any arbitrary length.  If the time came for routine transactions to be one billionth or even one trillionth of a bitcoin, such data structures to hold that information could be developed as either a floating point number (decimalized floating point or more) or an extended number that would combine the very large with the very small.In short, I don't believe this to be a really huge technical hurdle other than there is no practical reason to be worrying about this issue at the moment.  The only thing that should be done is to put in some reserved bits in the data structure that shouldn't be used right now but could be used in the future to define these more exotic data structures if/when such a need arises. While general data protection isn't specific to bitcoins, the issue of preserving the wallet is one that is specific to bitcoins and has a one to one (or less) relationship with bitcoin network nodes.That also doesn't address the point of sales purchase issue with bitcoins. Something to consider is that the peer-to-peer network load may end up bogging down well before this becomes a problem or that some other technical flaw may come up that will have to be fixed and may even require restarting the whole network.  This also is an issue where unfortunately most computer data has to be stored in fixed dimension for bit length, which is also a part of the problem.  It doesn't have to be that way, however.I'd have to look at the overall data packet design, but I do believe there ought to be a technical solution to this issue where some sort of "flag" bit could be applied to indicate that more bits of data storage are required for a coin transfer (hence counting more decimal places to the currency).  In theory, this could end up with genuine infinitely small units to be transferred.  I'm not using the term infinity lightly here either but in a mathematical sense noting that would also require an infinitely large datablock to transmit that sort of data.  There could also be some safety protocols in the network to keep that from getting out of hand too.In short, I do think that it is something that ought to be of concern, but that there are solutions to the problem.  It is a serious concern and something that should be discussed.  I also strongly disagree with those who think that the potentially 2 quadrillion bitcoin units of the current bitcoin model is sufficient for any possible future of the system, even if it isn't a problem at the moment nor in the foreseeable future.  I've been trying to think of a "solution" to the problems that some people have been having with their wallets, and also thinking about the issue of what I would do if something happened to my computer and I lost my Bitcoin wallet.  Backing it up certainly is a good idea, but there obviously are some additional problems that come up with this "solution".Perhaps this is a solution in search of a problem as well, but I'd like to start a discussion of perhaps adding a "virtual wallet" or better recognized as a sort of digitial escrow for the wallet data that could be preserved in the network in a peer-to-peer network fashion.  What I'm proposing here is a way to store the wallet data in the network itself, where all you would need is some sort of hashkey (something very strong!) that could "reload" your wallet if something happened to your wallet data.I'm also proposing something here that would be completely voluntary, as if you are very paranoid you could still keep your wallet exactly as it currently exists.  This is an "opt-in" ability to be used within the client and network, and not all nodes would necessarily even have to be involved with passing TCP/IP packets with the virtual wallet data.  As an incentive, there might even be a minor "storage" fee associated with this "service" that we could work out, but the point is to include it into the existing network topology for Bitcoin and provide a safeguard for those who may want to preserve their wallet data.I'm also hoping this isn't a "bridge too far", but I'd also like to see what sort of technical flaws or problems might come from somebody having something like a credit card that would contain a hash key that could be used in a point of sale device to make payments with Bitcoins.  Mind you, this is something purely theoretical at the moment, but I think it would be something useful that could aid in the adoption of bitcoins.  The idea here is that somehow a merchant could have a device that would read the hashkey and load the virtual wallet in some fashion so that a customer could make a purchase with that wallet.  The problem here is that once loaded, the merchant would have access to the rest of the coins in that wallet.  Perhaps there is some other solution to the issue of a point of sales terminal that does not require a customer to have their own computer (cell phone, PDA, etc.) to issue bitcoins to a potential merchant.  Regardless, a virtual wallet could be useful to have the coins "shared" on multiple computers such as on your PC, a cell phone, or with your spouse who is using some other equipment.  Double spending of the same coin would be protected with the current procedures that keep that from happening anyway. There are a whole bunch of people being paranoid about "special interests" getting involved in regulating Bitcoins such as a bank getting "jealous" over some supposed advantages that Bitcoins has to offer.For myself, I think if courts, government regulations, and more get involved it will be because of some stupid stunt like this which will end up having people going to a judicial authority to seek redress for grievances.  More to the point, if this was a scam it would be illegal and potentially could be prosecuted as fraud, or the target of a civil liability suit.I just wonder when the day will come that a judicial order to return bitcoins will happen?  Claiming "I lost my wallet" or some other stupid excuse isn't going to work and will only result in contempt charges being added on top of the mess. While RFC1149 started out as a joke, it has become semi-serious as a basis for very long-range extensions of the internet to places like Mars and other planets in the Solar System.  When IP packets take on the order of hours for transmittal between nodes on the network, you have to implement some slightly different strategies for dealing with the packets.  This particular RFC has had a few actual implementations too including with the original topic of the paper, carrier pigeons.  Sometimes you have to simply look at a problem from a different perspective from time to time.Hmm..... that gets me thinking for a bit.... how would you "transport" Bitcoins to Mars or other places in the Solar System?  That would have to be something for another thread but something interesting to speculate on.I'd have to get back to the find gritty details here, but it seems as though with the Credit Default Swaps that caused the current fiscal mess that the world is in right now represented at one time something on the order of about 5 quadrillion dollars worth of debt that had to be unraveled.  With that much money outstanding in the form of debts of debts of debts and watching that kind of Ponzi scheme collapse, I'm surprised that more wasn't taken out when it collapsed.  Any wonder that whole countries (Greece, as an example) are being wiped out economically?  I just hope that California hangs in there before some sanity takes over again.  The trillion dollars spent by the U.S. Congress at the end of the Bush administration was just to make sure that there would still be a financial center in New York at the end of this year and to keep the whole thing from collapsing too quickly.If the entire world banking system was relying upon bitcoins, I think it would be reasonable to presume that for liquidity purposes a larger number would have to be selected.  Some of these extreme banking practices perhaps wouldn't have to be practiced and maybe there wouldn't have to be huge amounts of cash being moved around the world. There is a small transaction fee for using bitcoins.  Not everybody is getting charged that fee at the moment, but it is something that is happening even now.  Those transaction fees go to the node operators for "large" transaction that take a bit more processing for whatever reason in the network.  I don't know all of the details, but it is something built into the network.Regardless, it certainly is a much smaller transaction fee than the other payment methods, and a heck of a lot less than credit or debit cards.  With the fees that merchants pay for credit card sales, I actually go out of my way to make sure I pay cash for purchases at a small Mom & Pop store in my town explicitly so they can end up keeping more of the money I'm giving to them (pulling it out of an ATM where possible prior to the purchase).  Large box stores I really don't care about, as they already have "special" arrangements with banks for these fees anyway.  If I am without cash and using plastic anyway, I also try to explicitly request "POS debit" instead of "credit" even if the store clerk is clueless about the issue for the same reason... it makes a difference in terms of profits to the store. Block generation is at roughly every 10-15 minutes right now.  See:http://nullvoid.org/bitcoin/statistix.phpfor a current report on some statistical averages over the last several blocks that have been generated.  Still, the general point is valid.  Some blocks are being generated in under ten seconds from the previous one, but statistical averages still exist.I do see the variable time between blocks, and in particular the predictive quality about when the difficulty is going to increase as something which could be used as a manipulation target after a fashion, although I should point out that any such manipulation would by definition also require CPU processing ability that approaches at least a substantial minority of the overall CPU strength of the network as a whole which is engaged in creating bitcoins.  I give that last little exception as I hope it will become apparent that in time there will start to be people dropping out of the bitcoin creation process thinking that the whole effort is futile even if maintaining a connection on the network for the purposes of transaction processing could still be useful.  I'm curious about where that will go over time.The strength of the network is in the overwhelming number of participants where even somebody with a (temporarily) unused server room at their disposal doing nothing but making bitcoin blocks still is a minority of the overall network.  Furthermore, having a couple of "trusted" participants with server farms who are cooperatively making blocks only enhances this protection for everybody and keeps the would-be miscreants at bay.The only manipulation that I can imagine where this proposal would help is in the case of an attacker who times the connection and release of significant computing resources on the network, where for some periods of time the CPU server farm is banging out the bitcoin blocks and then leaves the network when the difficulty increases substantially.... waiting for that difficulty to drop back to what it was before it started to make the bitcoin blocks (doing other stuff in the meantime or even simply shutting down).  Such efforts over a prolonged period of time, if successful, could also be derived and even plotted statistically to show an attack was under way.  Randomizing the attacks to make it seem like "noise" would only serve to drop the value of such an attack.  Trying to sneak in under the radar to appear as a "normal" user would end up simply adding strength to the network against other would-be attackers and in the long run be ineffective in their attack.  Attackers would be fighting each other and normal users could simply be oblivious that anything is happening at all in terms of an attack. While not a perfect indicator, if you want to speculate about this being a bubble or not and to what level of trade it will end up going to after awhile, I would suggest looking at this page:http://sourceforge.net/project/stats/?group_id=244765&ugn=bitcoinWhile interest is waning from the peak spike with the Slashdot story, interest still remains strong with triple digit numbers for downloads.  Certainly that indicates a sustain increase in participation from an earlier date and that Bitcoins has come up on the radar screen.  It also went from being ranked at about 30k out of all Source Forge projects to moving up to one of the top 1000.  That is significant.I don't know how long this will be sustained, but it does indicate that a huge increase in demand has happened with Bitcoins, and that not only are coins being much harder to generate, but that many more people are trying to use them.I'd agree, however, that it remains to be seen if this can be sustained or what the final sustainable levels of interest will be after this spike. No, this isn't correct.  Finding the hash requires a whole bunch of effort, but the process of verification that the "winner" has found a matching block is by comparison a trivial exercise and doesn't take all that long.  Once they have found the block, they can spend those coins right away.What this does mean is that the coin allocation system has now become a lottery, where new winners are receiving a block of coins worth a whole lot more (due to exchange rates and scarcity) than earlier blocks which were in comparison relatively trivial in value.  My question is, how valuable will this "lottery" become in the long run (in terms of Euros or Dollars per block generated)?Essentially what is happening is that the computer is picking a random sequence of numbers (like a lottery) and if that computer happens to pick the correct sequence of bits, you "win".  The change in difficulty is something akin to playing a lottery that has you only picking six numbers vs. one with fourteen or a hundred numbers to win.  The odds are actually worse for a bitcoin block than even the worst of any normal lottery that has ever been conceived at the moment. E-gold may have had a fine imposed, but they are still in operation.  I don't know how effectively they are working at the moment, but they aren't out of business yet.
The network is built on a nearly complete lack of trust in other nodes, which is sort of the point.  Yes, it is possible that somebody like the NSA could have some top tier programmers really push for some research to destabilize Bitcoins for a political purpose (presuming those computer scientists at the NSA has nothing better to do with their time).  Certainly if there are billions of dollars equivalent of bitcoins going through the network (even on an annual basis) there would be some people motivated to try and "skim" a few more for themselves beyond transaction fees and so forth.What is the saving grace here is that this network does not rely upon "security through obscurity", but rather mathematical relationships that are apparent to those at least intelligent enough to understand the principles involved.  As the open source saying goes, "with many eyes, all bugs are shallow".  As can be demonstrated in regards to the security for the domain name system of the internet, it is possible for something widely used but discovered to have a major vulnerability to be fixed, and fixed "quickly" even if there are flaws that are later discovered after deployment.  Indeed I would suggest that now is the time to find the flaws in this system, and really poke at it hard to see if you can come up with something that would break the network.The longer that bitcoins is working, the stronger it can rationally be said to be, particularly as it moves from hundreds to thousands of users now with the latest influx of users.I would like to have some more information about the transaction fees and how they are throttled in terms of somebody processing a transaction and taking 90% of the bitcoins in the transaction as "fees".  The transaction processing is built into the network, however, and something that has been already planned.  It should also be noted that if the network is processing monthly fees of the equivalent of a billion dollars per month, that billion dollars isn't going to be concentrated in the hands of just a few people.  It would be disbursed among millions or even a billion different people so that the amount earned for a single person would still be a buck or two per month.  Perhaps a bit more or less depending on how heavily used the system will be and your network bandwidth, but it would still not be concentrated in the hands of just a few people.  Where a government might get involved is to "force" the network through just a few "gateway" servers for international commerce, earning those governments some extra money on the side.  I'm thinking the Great Firewall of China here or something equivalent, and that could potentially be implemented so far as changing the raw topologies of the internet as a whole to force it to happen.  Even that has a few work-arounds for the really paranoid, such as some of the messaging with FreeNet and some of the other paranoid peer-to-peer networks.  Messages would route around censorship and manipulation as a form of damage in the network. I'm trying to think of how to put together a "bitcoin" type combat system where there is a lack of trust between the two players (sort of presumed in a PvP battle).  Trust is with the bitcoins and "proof of work" but not between the two peers.Some of this might require tweaking some of the concepts of Bitcoin a bit, as what I'm proposing here is a "public wallet", where the amount that you have in your wallet is publicly noted and acknowledged widely by everybody.  In this case, it is the number of hitpoints for which an individual player has, and perhaps some of his attributes, skills, weapons, etc.The "public wallet" would be the public attributes of a player, such as hitpoints, "strength", combat skills of various types (melee, ranged, magic, etc.), "racial" attributes, and more.  While a "standard" character would be trivial to create, as a player earns "experience" they can modify some of these attributes in some manner (to be decided later, but it would be widely acknowledged by the "network" of clients).  Experience is "earned" by performing various tasks that would create a "proof of work" and go into that wallet.  This "public wallet" would be published and shared on multiple clients... in essence becoming a "permanent" character within the universe.  One difference between "experience coins" with these chains and normal "bitcoins" is that withdrawls normally wouldn't happen.  The point here isn't to allow exchanges of "experience" between players, but rather to acknowledge what experience has been earned by a player and for that to be public information that can't be easily altered by the player except through a long process of performing work of some kind to increase those attributes.  The "proof of work" would be performed in the normal course of game play, where a few "experience coins" would be "earned" through each action.Now the tricky part:  The actual combat!  Since each player has the full attributes of the other player that are openly acknowledged and independently verified through the network (including weapons carried and wielded), the mechanics of the system are simply played out.  In a peer-to-peer environment, two players fighting each other would make a direct connection to each other or through a "trusted" (within the network) mediator.  The mediator would only really be needed in terms of preserving anonymity and some thought could be done to work that out, but there should not be too much overhead between the two players engaged in combat (in an ideal situation).  Hits would be exchanged, and in fact the random nature of generating bitcoins could be taken advantage here where individual hits would be from generated damage-token-coins that are transmitted as "damage" coins and a proof of work that the damage has occurred.  To prevent a player from generating damage-coins before the combat is engaged, some sort of hash key or random number would be transmitted at the initiation of the combat to note that the coins were in fact generated when the encouter took place.The only problem I have with this combat system, and one that I can't resolve, is how to make it "fair" for players with inferior (or older) computer equipment.  Basically, the player with the faster computer wins (all other things being equal).  I hate to break the news on this one as well, but that is generally true in most MMORPGs too, at least where the player with the best bandwidth tends to be able to dominate on the virtual battlefield.  You could put in some sort of equalization parameter in terms of hashes per second and transmit that between the players to make one "proof of work" harder than the other, but then the problem comes to trust in terms of reporting the correct and true CPU speed.  I would consider this to be an unsolved problem at the moment and something I haven't been able to work out.  Most MMORPG designers simply ignore this problem altogether, or put a very simple band-aid solution that doesn't really address the problem even for games with paying customers. In a standard server-oriented centrally run MMORPG, all of the land is "owned" by the company who operates the game, so essentially it is that all of the land is owned by "somebody" even if it isn't necessarily a player.  The problem with a commons area is that somebody still has to "maintain" that commons in some manner.  See http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tragedy_of_the_commons for some commentary on the topic.What I'm proposing is that there is no "central" authority in terms of who is maintaining the world.  There is the development team and early adopters who would get the "prime real estate" and generally be people who are interested in seeing the game succeed as well.  If there would be come commons-like areas, it would be this initial infrastructure that would be put together by the initial development team in the early days of the development of the game.My experience with a virtual world and "owned" property is with Alpha World (now called "Active Worlds") where people built mainly buildings and roads (and almost no other interaction).  I never have been "into" games like There or 2nd Life, so my experience may be distorted.  Still, "owned" content does seem to work.  One of the problems that Alpha World encountered was a significant problem of simply paying for the servers that kept everything up and running.  I'm hoping to avoid that situation by making this primarily a P2P type game.One of the problems with previous attempts at making a P2P multi-player RPG is the web of trust, where in every case that I can find so far still has a central server of some kind at least serving up the content in some fashion, even if the player to player interactions are done in a peer-to-peer fashion.  That lightens up the server load some, but it doesn't solve the problem of having that main central server.  What I'm hoping to accomplish here is to set up a game that presumes there will be bots, hackers, gold farmers, and others who are trying to subvert the game and to minimize those efforts to become very costly for those trying to break the game but still allow game play for the vast majority of the players.  I also want to encourage experimentation with both the user interface and with content inside of the game, where a variety of means can be developed for user interaction.I just think that the "technology" and concepts found within Bitcoins enables a rich game experience unlike what has come along before. There can be liquidity problems even with a bank that uses Bitcoins.... where more money has been loaned out than can be quickly used to cover deposits.  A problem with fractional reserve banking is that the bank loans out even more money than they have deposits on record to make, and crazy stunts where larger banks "borrow" money from the central (fiat) bank and loan that money they never had in the first place with a certain percentage of mark-up.  For "loans" to purchase things like government securities, they finance the federal debt off of money created out of nowhere and keep the 3-5% interest differential as pure profit for doing essentially nothing other than existing.  Such stunts simply could never exist with bitcoins (then again, that could be a huge problem politically with people who like to do such crazy things).I would imagine that a failed Bitcoin bank would be something more like seen in "It's a Wonderful Life", where the liquidity of the bank would be questioned and there would be a "bank run" by depositors demanding their deposits back, only to find the bank without funds to return the money.  In theory, this rarely happens today as banks can borrow from "The Fed" to meet those obligations and to calm down ordinary bank panics that happen on a local or small scale.  I think it would be a larger problem for a bitcoin bank. In Windows, it should put Bitcoin.exe into "HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run" for the system registry... or as an alternative into "HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run"I don't see either happening, although it did get put into the "Startup" folder.  That is so Windows 95ish (just kidding..... Microsoft has so screwed this up that it isn't even funny).  I would recommend the registry settings for a number of reasons including the fact that most software puts the startup in that location, even though I personally find the startup folder to be more attractive and how most software on Windows should behave.I haven't done a full forensics with this new version in Windows, but the install seemed to go without a hitch for me... using the Windows install. If bitcoins are being used for transactions involving the equivalent of millions or even billions of dollars world wide, I certainly think that it would involve some very high level discussions and certainly be a topic of discussion at something like a G20 summit.  Perhaps how to kill the concept or something nefarious, but it would at least be brought up.The same thing could be said about ARPANET, where the initial standards were established with what was a bunch of grad students on their "free time".  How else do you think the IP over avian carrier protocol (RFC 1149) ever got through as an official RFC standard?The internet in general has resisted strong government interference, even from strong autocratic governments like the People's Republic of China and the Islamic Republic of Iran.  I would imagine that Bitcoins could offer a similar resistance from strong government take over if it is robustly designed. The odd thing about bots is that they could even have a place in the game itself.... as NPCs.  This would include "normal" NPCs like shop owners and quest guides (people involved with carrying out the plot line for a quest) and for things like monsters or even "puzzles".Again, thinking along the line of micropayments and incentives to build parts of the game.... players could be conceivably charged a certain number of bitcoins in order to start a quest and have features (dungeons, resource areas, etc.) opened up to those players who pay.  Lame quests would be ignored (or cheapened to be essentially free or perhaps even PAY people to play them) and really creative stuff could charge a premium price.I've also thought about "real estate" and wondering if perhaps a type of bitcoin ought to be associated with the physical virtual space where players and characters wander.  Those operating a server and wanting to interact in this virtual world would have to "own" that hunk of territory, where they would also have to "pay" (demonstrate proof of work) to build things upon that virtual land which in turn those objects (buildings, dropped items, item spawn points, etc.).  Hunks of virtual territory could also be bought and sold (with everything on that "land") to either a virtual real estate market or perhaps to a close friend in exchange for money & "other considerations".The problem with a free-for-all virtual real estate system is coping with the early adopters who have a big heart but no drive to complete their little piece.  This is something I really need to think through here a bit more, but since some real estate, once generated, can be sold for real money, I think some valuable pieces could come up from time to time from some early adopters who simply want to get out of the game and sell to a more experienced developer.  The question is what to do with "lost coins" or in this case "forgotten land", and if there could be some sort of way to reclaim abandoned real estate and to define what would be abandoned.  That is a non-trivial problem and something I haven't seen being dealt with very well in most virtual worlds.  One thing I would like to incorporate here is to make new "land" to be "expensive" to encourage maximizing the use of that land and adding minor details that encourage exploration of that hunk of virtual real estate.  Requiring a high difficulty proof of work might be the trick here, where "title" would be granted to that person who created the new territory. That still is a pretty hard limit.  I would even go so far as to say "famous last words" as the folks who came up with IPv4 had to deal with the exhaustion of the address space (about 4 billion IP addresses).  Unfortunately the current demand world-wide is about 15-20 billion at the moment, and no end in sight about how many more may eventually be needed, hence IPv6.Back elsewhen nobody thought that there could ever be any exhaustion of the IPv4 address space as the total number of computers that could ever conceivably be put onto a computer network was in the 100k range.  Gordon Moore famously made a joke about how microprocessors would become common to the point where a typical high-end hotel would have at least one microprocessor for every doorknob in the hotel.  He didn't expect to see that actually happen about 15 years later when quite literally every doorknob in the hotel he gave that address in put in microprocessors... for security purposes.I really don't know how far and wide that bitcoins will go, but limiting them to just 1 million or even a trillion may seem in the long run as something of a major shortcoming.  We'll see on this issue if enough "space" has been set aside to deal with all eventualities that could happen to bitcoins.Then again, that would be a wonderful problem to have to address, at which time there would be a major international conference involving major heads of state or at least ministerial level representatives (something like the Secretary of State from the USA) who would be debating about the future of Bitcoins and how to "resolve" that problem if it was a serious issue.  I think a "reasonable" technical solution could also be found if that was a problem and is certainly not something to worry about at the moment.  Certainly anything needed for the next couple of decades, if bitcoins even survive that long, can be accommodated with the current system. Here are some major issues that most MMORPGs have to deal with... something that I think Bitcoins has at least a partial solution in terms of protecting scarcity of items:Gold Farmers - These are folks who become "professional" game players through a variety of means and deal with the grind of a RPG to obtain "resources" that are used for gaining experience quickly or for "leveling" a player while they are "off line".  Usually their services are paid for with "real-world" money (aka US Dollars, Pounds, Euros, etc.)  There are also some legal issues that involve gold farmers, particularly in the case of fraud (stolen credit cards), human slavery (some times literally or at least sweatshop in 3rd world countries), and money laundering.  Organized criminal organizations are heavily involved with the gold farming "industry" including malware and even blowing the knee caps off you if you double cross these guys the wrong way.  Some major MMORPG companies are making extra efforts to extinguish their efforts, notably both Jagex and Blizzard.Hackers - No matter what game you have, there will be people of nearly every type that love to play the game, including skilled software developers.  After awhile, these programmers in particular get bored with the game and a few decide to reverse-engineer the game to see how it ticks as a sort of hobby.  It even becomes a game after awhile, where player-hackers then try to defeat any encryption, obfuscation, or data transmission or encoding algorithm used for the game.  The more developer effort that goes into setting up these encryption schemes, the more of a challenge that it brings to some very highly intelligent people.  I have to be honest, out of millions of players on some of the more popular games in the market, there are bound to be several who are both hacker types and are actually more intelligent than the game developers themselves.  In other words, this is a never ending battle that eventually has the hackers winning over the developers in some fashion or another in what can be a sort of blood sport.  Legal consequences only make the stakes higher and make it all that more of a game for these very intelligent types... if they can even be traced at all.First, let me state here that bitcoins may be used in the game itself, but that really isn't the point.  It is using the concept of a bitcoin and the generation process to help in the creation of different items that are found in the game.  I'll try to elaborate on this, but from at least one point of view you can think of each kind of item found in an MMORPG (or at least each class of item perhaps.... that can be debated) would have its own coin chain and would essentially be an additional kind of virtual coin just like bitcoins.  The purpose of this is for item allocation, and to maintain scarcity of those items.  There certainly will be a market for trade between these various items, and it isn't a huge stretch of the imagination to include an exchange between these "coined items" and bitcoins as well.  I would say that would be put right into the user interface itself in some fashion.In terms of the gold farmers, bitcoins takes care of them by eliminating easy generation of massive numbers of items... except for those items that are essentially free anyway.  "Experience" would require some sort of "proof of work" in some fashion, and there are some safeguards that can be instituted to minimize the problems introduced by gold farmers to make their efforts irrelevant as well.  Gold farmers setting up a server farm that does nothing but generate mountains of resources would find that over time their value is simply going down and they are shooting themselves in the foot anyway.  Perhaps somebody would be interested in that +27 vorpal holy avenger sword, but it would take an incredible amount of CPU effort to get that to happen.  Certainly some more effort needs to go into thinking how to deal with this issue, but the design of this game is presuming that gold farmers are going to exist, so you might as well plan for them.In terms of hackers, this is definitely a situation of "if you can't fight 'em, join 'em".  By making this an open source game, hackers are recruited and turned into the mainstream development efforts of the game.  If there is some sort of encryption to be made, it will be incorporated by these incredibly intelligent players and only the bullies and spoil sports (who tend to be in comparison much more dim-witted) would be left in the dust.  Definitely there would be a sort of "web of trust" that would have to be developed here too, and some other mechanisms for what gets developed, but the goal is to encourage hackers to get involved.Where bitcoins get involved here is that much of the game would also revolved around mircrotransactions for services used.  If somebody has a server that has an auction house or an exchange of some kind, payment can be made using both goods acquired in the game and bitcoins.  This is again getting back to the hacker community, as the content will be community developed and the incentive for developing content will be that the developer gets paid for players using content developed for the game.  The more elaborate and "hip" that you make the content, the more likely that people will be using it.Sort of like Second Life, but that really isn't the goal here either. I'm not entirely sure where to put this, but the whole idea of bitcoins has really got me thinking about potential applications for the concept, and I've been thinking of trying to use the concept for the foundation of a serverless MMORPG that would be using P2P networks instead.I'm posting in the trading section as I also think that it is nearly impossible to ignore "real world trade" within an MMORPG.  It is also something that potentially could also provide an early market for bitcoins or as a generation source for it as well.  Buying and selling of virtual goods has value above and beyond real world money, but it is also something that folks who use computers on a regular basis would find appealing and fits in well with the demographics of the early adopters of bitcoins.I'm also thinking it would be an excellent environment to do some experimentation with the concept of virtual currencies, where different coin generation philosophies could be experimented with in terms of seeing what might be a more optimal generation system.While what I'm proposing would be an "open source" project (at least that is my intention), it would be a chance for participates to be earning bitcoins in a variety of ways through what is right now a multi-million dollar industry.This is mainly an initial feeler if there is anybody interested in the idea, or a general query to see if there might another thread with a similar topic.  If there is interest in this idea, I would love to expand on the idea and perhaps even go over some notes and white papers on the topic (or at least try to get them written). Not quite.  Proof of delivery is the key here, so far as that the package actually was what was claimed.  The role of escrow is to protect both the buyer and seller, and if the seller simply ships a box of popcorn, the purpose of the escrow is also to protect the buyer.That is one of the reasons for a "charge back" on credit cards, where if fraud is being committed that buyer can be protected.  A credit card company acts as the escrow agent in that case.  Of course you pay dearly for that service with a credit card, and so does the merchant.  Merchants also tend to get screwed over in the relationship in many other ways too, so it would apply in this situation too.There is also shipping insurance, that would be above and beyond the escrow fee (or part of that fee) which would pay for the potential that the shipping agent failed to deliver the package.  It happens more often than you think, and often for "innocent" reasons on the part of the shipper. Due to the Slashdot posting, it has become much, much harder to create bitcoin blocks than it was even in the recent past.  A quick scan through the various forums shows that this isn't a unique problem and several people are complaining about it. The whole point of the architecture is to keep the currency supply stable, and the number of coins being generated under some kind of control.  In case you haven't noticed, Bitcoins are fiat money too.  In addition, individual units of most fiat currency can be monitored with simply tracking the serial numbers.  As an example, you might want to look at this website:http://www.wheresgeorge.com/If you have some U.S. Dollars in your wallet, you might want to enter the serial numbers to see where they have been and who has used them before you.If you thought spending paper money was an anonymous task, I hope that this website doesn't weird you out too quickly.  The only difference that this makes compared to putting an RFID chip into the money is that this particular network is completely voluntary and comes from ordinary people and not from the government.  Banks, retail stores, and other organizations certainly could track individual bills if the effort was made, and the serial numbers could be made with OCR characters, bar codes, or some other very simple technology if the government was serious about tracking the bills themselves.  Simply put, the technology is already "out there" to perform this task and there is no need to put in an RFID device into paper currency or coins for that matter.  Get ready to put on your tinfoil hat if you got one.The point here is how the initial coins are distributed and who controls the means of production.  In the case of a government currency, it is the government that controls the means of production through laws and specialized police agents that enforce and prosecute those laws.  At the same time (and the fault of normal government-backed fiat currencies) there are politicians who want to inflate the currency to get their way out of debts and to avoid collecting taxes.  That is in effect a way to tax people without it being seen in the paycheck, but is done anyway.  Over this past year, the Federal Reserve has created several trillion dollars out of nothing... and I have no idea what is going to happen when that finally works it way through the system.For bitcoins that isn't the case, but the means of production are instead enforced through mathematical relationships and the rules of the network.  Violation of those rules simply gets any coins generated outside of those rules to be ignored.  Because of the nature of how bitcoins are generated, there is no central authority that can arbitrarily inflate the currency.... other than the core developer team (at the moment).  Even that relationship can be altered so that no single person or even software implementation can change the arrangement.  What I'm suggesting here doesn't change that relationship at all, even though it might require some changes to the rules in the network to get implemented. I fail to see how this is a problem too.  I would love to see more details on this, as the value of the blocks being developed was at one time going to be dropped anyway... this is more of a matter of when rather than if.  It doesn't reduce the value of the coins for all other users, but rather distributes the coins more uniformly throughout the network when coins are generated.  It also does not decrease the value of existing bitcoins that have already been generated.If you have very difficult blocks to generate (taking weeks, months, or even years to generate depending on equipment and system architecture) you have a flood of coins coming from one person when the new coins are successfully generated.  If instead the value of the new coin blocks is lowered as the network grows (and I'm not necessarily saying that this is the only solution, but is a solution to this issue) you have the same number of coins being generated.... but by many more people holding smaller amounts individually.Now I'll admit that coming up with a mathematically sound proof trying to calculate what the relationship between these two variables might be for the current hash algorithm is a bit difficult in terms of complexity, but I think it can be shown that the relationship of BITCOINS = TIME * LUCK is at least a roughly correct statement for how coins are generated.  I do think that an algorithm for creating more coin blocks with less effort, but having those coin blocks be of lesser value can be done that would not flood the marketplace with new coins.  Even if the formal mathematical relationship for dropping the value of the new coin blocks compared to the amount of work performed isn't precisely accurate, a rough approximation could happen that could be compensated for quickly within the network when the new value is set for the lower value per coin block being generated.The coins are being generated, and the rate of inflation of this currency (for bitcoins) has already been established.  I am not asking here to change that relationship at all, but rather to suggest that the coins that are being generated can and ought to be disbursed to more people when it does happen rather than to be in the hands of just a few individuals with really good computers or access to supercomputers (or similar facilities like a university computer lab).  This is a political decision to be made here, not a technical issue.  If the goal is the keep new coins in the hands of very few and experimental researchers with access to really good computer equipment, then the political goal has been achieved with the current system.  I just think that isn't necessarily a good thing. This isn't necessarily a bad thing where the difficulty doesn't get lowered even if nobody bothers to make them anymore, but it still turns bitcoins into a lottery.  If for example the exchange rate is $1 per 0.01 bitcoins, creating a new coin block might take weeks or months to complete, but when completed it would have an effective "real world" value of $5,000.The danger here is that those generating the new coin blocks would be specialists who are putting their effort into generating new coins.  This is a philosophical and political question too, as that tends to concentrate the "wealth" into those people who are doing this specialization where mere mortals simply don't have the equipment necessary to accomplish the task.The real problem as I see it is one of liquidity in the marketplace, and something that may actually show up sooner than later.  By distributing coins out to more users, it gives them something with which to buy or sell, and at least allows somebody to offer some coins to the exchanges in smaller and more regular amounts.It is also an issue for me legally, as I will have to essentially stop generating coins or even participate with Bitcoin if this turns into a lottery of some kind, as that is illegal in my jurisdiction.  By demonstrating that while random chance does play a role but that on average most users get roughly the same amount of bitcoins through the generation process (based on skill and resources rather than luck) it avoids the gambling laws to prohibit this activity.Mind you, I'm not against somebody setting up a formal lottery (not that I can or will participate) but that to do so should be explicit and something that should be legally performed where laws permit that kind of activity.  It shouldn't be something bound so tightly to the software that it is fundamental to the operations of the network.  Again, it isn't to generate the coins but to allocate the base currency in a manner that is roughly fair and equitable. Why?  This is not going to increase inflation at all, at least any more than already exists.  It turns the coin distribution issue from something that is currently a lottery into something that is more diffuse and distributed.  The rate of increase overall for the network of the money supply is something that would still remain fixed, but more people would have access to those new coins rather than the few people with very good processors.Yes, I get it that this is explicitly designed to allocate bitcoins initially and that in the long run the focus will be on trade rather than on creation.  I just don't see the technical side of this in terms of why new coin blocks can't be generated at a faster rate, and as a policy it sort of stinks too.  If the goal is to tell new users not to bother with creation of these kind of blocks, at least explain that in the documentation and make it a point that new users should never even bother... that all of the blocks that have ever and will ever be made have been made (or close enough that the exception doesn't matter).I am not asking for the work to be decreased so hundreds of new coins will be flooding the network in an inflationary spiral, but rather asking that the value of the coins generated be decreased instead to compensate for the increase in the number of users.  Both are possible, and there is no sound technical reason other than it hasn't yet been implemented to cope with at least the current number of users. Again, this is a problem with the algorithm that needs to be fixed if it is to scale to any appreciable size.  So apparently some users are devoting a significant amount of CPU resources to generate coins, and view this as the early days of a gold rush.  That should have been anticipated based on the number of topics on this forum alone that has discussed this issue.In terms of packet collisions, that is a topic that has been dealt with exhaustively in terms of studies of ethernet packets, and I think the same principles apply.  Certainly if there is a collision and one person gets a new coin block added but a second person doesn't, there ought to be some sort of "resend" or "reattempt" algorithm to add that coin block as the proof of work clearly can be demonstrated.  Yes, there are extreme limits that get close to bandwidth limits where collision becomes typical until the network simply shuts down from collisions.Again, please correct me if I'm wrong here, but this is an issue with having a single coin chain that keeps track of all potential blocks.  Perhaps that is the wrong way to think about it, and this could be a route for some multi-tiered efforts as well.  What if there was an initial coin block that was cryptographically very difficult to make (but not impossible) worth a fairly substantial amount (say 100 or 1000 BCs) and then associated sub-blocks tied to that are worth smaller amounts (say 1 BC or even 0.01 BCs) that can be linked to each new chain that are computationally trivial in comparison.  Collisions would only happen if two people tried to add two blocks onto the same chain, thus reducing the potential for collisions.  Adding to the "main" chain would also have a reduced collision frequency due to the fact that most "new" users aren't generating those kind of blocks and due to the CPU time necessary to create them in the first place.  This is something that could even be extended to a "third" dimension for even a tertiary level of new coin block linked to the secondary blocks.The purpose is to avoid collisions, not to keep people from generating the coins or devaluing those coins which already exist.  This is also but one other alternative idea on what might be able to be done here. I personally don't need the coins, and I've found other routes to get them as well for some experimentation, but it seems like one coin block per day or week is a little excessive in the other extreme.  If it was generating a block every 5-10 minutes for a very fast computer and one or two per hour for slower computers, it wouldn't be nearly so bad.Also, if there is a technical problem with the generation of the initial coin blocks, that is a problem that needs to be fixed sooner than later.  I don't buy that as a rational or reasonable expectation if the presumption is that this is a network that should scale conceivably to millions of users when at the moment it is merely thousands.  The issue here is that the computer seems to be spinning its wheels and there is no evidence for a new user that anything is happening at all.  The documentation says that the software is generating a coin, but there is no evidence for a new user that any coin has in fact been generated at all.Yes, I get that this is focused on trading rather than coin generation.  But now it has turned into a case of haves vs. have nots, or rather old timers vs. new users.  That is not a good situation for this project to be in and it does discourage participation.  It is also a situation that is going to get worse if it is not addressed. The original question still applies here, however, and the idea that people new to the network don't have coins with which to even experiment is an issue, where in this case it is a hoarding issue of those who have come earlier.Is it possible to have a multi-tiered coin generation system, where you would have a cryptographically difficult series that would generate a whole bunch of coins at once when the series is completed (taking a few days, weeks, or even months to complete on average), but for those who are more interested in generating coins on a more gradual basis could generate say one bitcoin or even a fractional amount of a bitcoin every few minutes or hours?The complaint right now is that given the current number of users on the network (which has increased substantially since the slashdot story.... look at the download statistics on Source Forge with a huge spike in the last few days for downloads alone) that coins simply aren't being generated at all.BTW, it would be nice to see if some other alternative random number generators could be used, as the current one seems to be a time-randomized Linear Congruential Generator.  (see http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linear_congruential_generator for details)  BTW, feel free to correct me if I'm wrong on this point too.  It might be kind of interesting to experiment with alternate number generators, and it certainly would be healthy for the network if more than one kind of generator was being used.  The nice thing with the LCG as a random number generator is that it can be implemented using only integer arithmetic (often with floating point operations, however) and generally is the most efficient generator in terms of simply getting a number for most common implementations (such as is found with a typical video game) with the fewest CPU cycles.  There are some classes of numerical analysis applications where a generator of this nature may not be the best choice. This is more of a request for information, but what is the rationale for incredibly difficult proof-of-work efforts for a "large" amount of money vs. a more modest amount of effort for a smaller quantity earned?  i.e. something that a computer of modest means would be generating a bitcoin about once every hour, even if it was only one at a time.While I appreciate the philosophy to keep the network from getting overwhelmed with the generation of a whole bunch of coin blocks, in the interest of trying to recruit new users into this system it might be advisable to be generating coins more than once a day for those who have a shorter attention span.  IMHO this is something that is more new user friendly and something that encourages some liquidity of the currency as well.  People new to the concept of bitcoins might simply be interested in some modest experimentation of the idea, and at the moment it is hard to grasp its potential without having coins to use.
