bamp Did a little sleuthing today upon arriving to the office.  I had remembered something from an old book I've had for more than 12 years.  A book I used to help write some encryption classes in Java before Java offered them.  I remembered that the author presented a payment system leveraging a protocol hashing and encryption.  This wasn't my interest at the time, but somehow it stuck with me.  Well I found the book again and did some reading (I've put this off too long)."A really clever thing about this protocol is that the encryption key for each message depends on the previous message.  Each message doubles as an authenticator for all previous messages.  This means that someone can't replay an old message; the receiver could never decrypt it.  I am impressed with this idea and expect that it will see wider use once it becomes widely known." [1]I don't have the first edition of this book, so I don't know exactly when this was penned, but not after 1995.[1] - Schneier, Bruce (1996). Applied Cryptography Second Edition : protocols, algorithms, and source code in C. John Wiley & Sons, Inc. p. 590 I agree with this and have thought about it for a few years.  WU is foolish to not be offering this service.  As far as fincen is concerned btc is only a problem once moved into cash, and that is what WU does.... they're a regulated money exchange.I'll send them more resumes.  I want to think they'll get it soon. This will sound like your dad, but anyway...I want you to think of this another way.  You should separate out the issues.  A basic need in life for where most of us live is a healthy reliable car [1].  If your car is on the way out or causing stress in some manner you need to acquire a new (to you) one.Never go into debt to buy a car for more then 6,000 USD.  If you can't afford a 6k car then get a loan to acquire one worth about 6k.  Having something with basic reliability, clean, and well running is important to freeing up your life to pursue other ventures without needless wasting resources.I would sell 6k worth of btc to acquire a car today if you can't pay cash for it.  This is coming from a guy that has sold btc in the past to acquire things that if I hadn't the present value of btc lost for those items is amazing.  A 300k motorcycle (purchased for 4k usd worth btc at the time), the 60k necklace for my wife (500 usd worth of btc at the time), etc.I don't regret any of this.I would NOT take out a conventional loan for a 6k car if I could acquire it with selling btc today, only because you're doubling down on your finical risk.Move your life forward a little, and if this crashes you are in a better spot then before.  I don't believe it will crash soon (maybe not ever), but I do know that regrets come from both sides of this game.  If you can modestly and prudently move your life forward by liquidating a few btc then do it.I think a good rule is to pull 20% of your btc profits annually for things like other investments, or a little better standard of living.Try not to make it an all or nothing game.[1] - note I didn't say flashy/expensive high end fools toy What's the status on this?  I've also taken big delays from swift transfers to the US.  Is there another thread addressing this?  How are the bank wire transfers working on bitstamp? this --> http://realcurrencies.wordpress.com/2013/06/21/is-the-national-security-agency-behind-bitcoin/brings you to this --> http://groups.csail.mit.edu/mac/classes/6.805/articles/money/nsamint/nsamint.htmPeople think my tinfoil hat is on too tight, but I've always suspected something bigger behind bitcoin.Where are you presenting? bumping for the twincities! It will just force the economies around the system to change.  Not everyone will be able to maintain a real block chain.  We need to work on trust issues with relying on 3rd parties to verify transactions for us....this doesn't slow the machine down, just causes change. Tech hurtles are too big when cigs and drugs do just fine. Twin Cities, Minnesota, USALooking for interest or ideas for the Twin Cities area.  I understand that there was a meet up back in April.  If someone could post some meeting minutes from that (or general experience) that would be great.  Here is the site for that meet up --> http://www.meetup.com/Everything-Bitcoin/events/110608472/I'd like to organize another meet up.  I have access to large meeting rooms in downtown Minneapolis, or could be responsible for organizing something in a Twin Cities bar.Please post if you're interested.Thanks! BTC having, "no recourse," creates an entirely new sort of transfer of value system.  It has different abilities (some that make it more powerful), then our traditional models of value transfer.  People want to mold it into what they know which is what they're comfortable with.In the instance you gave, I assume that the party sending the btc had already received value from the party receiving the btc.  If the btc are lost it is a problem with the seller of value not the seller of btc.  The agreement is good, why do you care to get your btc back.This sort of feature could occur in 3rd party escrow services, and maybe once high bred multi sig can be levered (will still need 3rd party), but I don't believe it would ever be part of the main protocol.Good luck! Great statement.We've known that all major isp's have been fully tapped for at least 8 years.  The bigger questions are about the nature in which they've matured in processing this massive amount of data.  <-- that helps you to under stand the need for the two huge multi billion dollar dc's being built today by the nsa.Here are the questions that define the future:Can they MITM 1024b tls?What is the depth of their access to Windows systems? <-- previous leaks talk about built in keys for nsaThe contributions to the core linux kernel from the nsa, do they weaken the random number generator with their provided cryptography updates?The foundations of everything we do on computing systems come into question.I sense a mass departure from online (cloud) backup solutions.The cloud in general will suffer for a good length of time.There will be a mass arrival of methods to conceal any activity you have on the dirty internets. <-- business to jump into now.good luck fuckers! Do you have any information on how prism works, or are you going pure gumshoe? Don't get mad so quickly.  It is true that culturally today the majority of people in power don't step out of line, or encourage it.  It is also true that the next generation is more American (especially in their waist line), but those people have yet to reach to any prominence of power yet in the system.Let's try to talk this out with out calling each other names, or getting mad. This is exactly correct.  Japanese culturally don't like to step out of line.I've often thought of bitcoin as being started by some government entity.  the romanticism of a lone programer implementing and seeding this technology feels a little too good to be true, but alas these are my feelings.whom ever owns the initial bitcoins will own the throne of the finicial world if bitcoin takes off... who is Santoshi? Patience my friend. The monetary revolution you have in your mind isn't going to happen as fast as you think.Quoting Bill Gross:"'Good as Money,' proclaimed the ad for Twenty Grand Vodka infused with Cognac. Being a beer drinker, and never having cashed in a Budweiser to pay for a fill-up at the local gas station, I said to myself “Man, that must be really good stuff!” Even in a financial meltdown I thought, you could use it in place of cash, diamonds, gold or Bitcoins! And if the Mongol hordes descend upon us during a future revolution, who wouldn’t prefer a few belts of Twenty Grand on the way out, instead of some shiny rocks and a slingshot?""Well, not being inebriated at that moment I immediately shifted focus to a more serious topic. What IS money? A medium of exchange and a store of value is a rather succinct definition, but we generally think of it as cash or perhaps checks that reflect some balance of “ready” cash at a friendly bank. Yet as technology and financial innovation have progressed over the past few decades, and as central banks have tenuously validated the liquidity and price of various forms of credit, it seems that the definition of money has been extended;"Mr. Gross is starting to grasp the foundations of bitcoin and it's relation to existing asset value structures.  I believe he is eluding to this in the second paragraph."What IS money? A medium of exchange and a store of value is a rather succinct definition"The beauty of the above quote is that it simply embodies bitcoin.medium of exchange - world wide p2p block chain distribution store of value - transaction value (includes coin generation for now) aka... proof of workI like this quote best, "who wouldn’t prefer a few belts of Twenty Grand [expensive vodka] on the way out, instead of some shiny rocks and a slingshot?" You can never pay them, it was mentioned here before, but as a good philosophy in general is to never pay blackmail or extortion... they'll always come back for more.  You need to upgrade your stuff.  Get an Akamai front end, a WAF tuned into typical ddos methods, and maybe some simple routines in your code to better verify normal users and not bad accounts.... but this all takes money.Be glad the day you've been ddos'ed, it means you've arrived.  You just need to get your shit together now.  Be better, faster and stronger.Good luck! if you new the answer to this you could retire Not so.  If they desire to be transparent they'll produce the legally executed articles of incorporation.  They could legally assign ownership to an individual that provides a key, but why wouldn't they produce the signed agreement?They need to let us know how transparent they want to be! calm down you fools.  THE BITCOIN FOUNDATION, INC. is registered in DC and should have filed papers stating this before advertising it.  We need someone to pull down the official legal filing, and make sure the i's are dotted.If they're registering as a private organization and protecting their original bylaws by being private <-- tear it up on this forum... I'll get some backupIf they desire transparency, then they'll produce pdf's of the contract that was executed for the articles of incorporation.  We need the originals not the digital ones... the ones with signatures.I do contracts all the time.... there's always a last minute edit (initialed by all parties), and full john hancocks for a body of work that usually is never perfect in word format (you need the scanned pdf).
This is correct.  Let's say the US says operating a mining rig, taking part in block exchange, and buying selling btc is illegal, then they've just birthed massive amount of credibility to the world wide system.  They could also fix the price of btc in a buy back in the form of a safe harbor reimbursement, and then make it illegal, but then the US ends up as a massive stake holder in btc... which opens up another can of worms (some other time).<tinfoli hat firmly in place>If you were to ask me truthfully what I think is behind bitcoin.  cia.  I think they know the fiat system is on its way out.  they know that it is a matter of time before someone else figures out that proof of work computing is a far more efficient system at storing transactions on a multi billion node system.  they leak it out to the world after they've mined almost 40% of the total btc to ever be minted.... and then they welcome the arrival of the new banking world system holding 40% of the assets... game on until we figure out another more efficient method for value transactions.</tinfoli hat firmly in place>No matter what we're in an exponential curve of technology development.  We're kind of at the infancy of the great swing upwards.  It doesn't surprise me that networked systems on a common protocol could turn the archaic baking system on it's head. I'm testing the system more then trying to take a risk.If there is a lot of uncoordinated institutional money tied into the run up, then many could freak and bail which could pull that 2 billion market cap down to 200MM. <-- at that price $50 is expensive.Price is what you pay, value is what you get.  The value I'm getting now is testing the systems, and understanding the risk with the exchanges... people pay to know these things. It's a step in the correct direction.  There is value in that.People... give some btc to this party.  This could very well help force a court battle that would allow people to better understand officially how the us gov is going to deal with btc.  There is value in understanding this as well. I got a buy order in for a few btc @ $50.  System says order was taken.mtgox price is @ 81 usd.getting 502 bad gateway now.I hope my order gets filled. .50003 for you There are known trojan's in the wild now infecting chrome on MS.  Cert signature errors are a very common sign. My assertion (assumption) embodied a lot of unlikely (but not out of the realm of belief/dreams of this community).  When we reach 21mm btc they will own about 30% <-- that's where 30% comes from.  Today they own 70%Don't put words in my mouth or twist my statements.The future assumptions also envisioned mass adoption (market caps over 1 trillion).  If that sort of adoption occurs then the scales of economic distortions shift even more radically.  I'm not talking about some socialist scheme to level the playing field, I'm talking about a small group that can control virtually everything about btc, and we don't know who they are or what they want. Show me 1 (just one) modern, free economy in which .001% [1] of the people own 70% [2] of the wealth.  Just one.  Otherwise you're not thinking this through.[1] assume cabal is 10 people and this number should reflect the percentage of those people against the number of people using btc today, so I may not have this number right, and someone can correct me[2] 10MM btc in circualtion today 7MM is 70% of that There's no proof that they'll be used for goods and services.When one person (small cabal of people) owns 30% of the worlds wealth, it is more powerful to yield that wealth in modifying society for your whims then it is to use it on goods and services.If you look at the major finical players (soros, buffett, gross, etc (they combined control less then 1% of the economy)) they operate on another level.  They are found influencing government to enhance they're financial power (look at soros's hand in the eu).  They don't make stock bets, they make phone calls to presidents and talk policy.  They don't spend their wealth on goods and services (that won't grow their power/influence) they use their wealth to modify political structures which change society in making themselves largess.When you own 30% you are THE political structure.My simple fear is that I spend all of this time helping build btc out (on the bet my btc will be worth more), and it ends up being that the holders of the 30% are some quasi napoleonic dictators who think the world is best when they sit on top of it.... dictating it.People would say, "why the f weren't you concerned about this lopsided wealth holding on something you were betting on, it was so obvious." This goes way back to one of my root fears of bitcoin.  That a very large amount of them are held by a very small group of people in a stationary state.  This is not sour grapes in that I feel that I don't have enough and deserve more (I only deserve what I've worked for).** START ASSUMPTION **Assume: A very small group of people own almost 30% of all coins ever to be minted (almost 70% now)Assume: Bitcoin becomes very large (1 btc == 50k usd, puts total market value of btc at 1 trillion usd (change this number to whatever dreams you may have for btc in the future of human kind))This is being beholden to an unknown entity that could wage massive war, change society (for better or worse) implement controls to limit peoples ability to access btc (destroy it after they run the show) aka access they value of peoples work output.This would probably be the largest concentration of wealth in the history of human kind.  At least when the king has all the money we know how to keep him happy.  When an anonymous group of people holds this, our futures are unknown.I don't like the unknown.  I don't like that I don't know the intentions of the holders of the 7MM btc's are.Can anyone name for me a small group of people that controls the world economy?  Do we like those names (if any)?  Do we want to repeat that?  Is there anything we can do about it... probably not.** END ASSUMPTION ** From url --> "Listing has ended."  Payment options don't include btc.  What happened?  Did your auction get yanked? I was in your shoes well over a year ago.  Spend some time here, and truly understand the roots of this.  An attack is possible, but improbable.  Everything in life has risks... even bitcoin, but don't take my word for it.  Come to your own conclusion.  There are no quick ways to put your mind at ease, just your own knowledge can do that. Is there 3rd party proof of their existence/performance (in the wild), or is it anther scam (no shortage of those)? Source please.  I haven't been lurking here for a long time. your proposal involves forking the blockchain for your cause.  There may be other causes more valuable to society over time (which will constantly change).  One thing we all agree has value is a device that can store our productive output in a unit to be transferred to others for their productive output. According to [1] we're on top of the world with combined cpu.Can anyone site another network of combined cpu for a cause over 208,000 TeraFLOPS?Keep on crunching![1] - short unofficial list of sourceshttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grid_computinghttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_distributed_computing_projects By all means you are an entrepreneur.  God Speed! I wouldn't mix wallet holders and external networked based systemsexternal networked - btc systems taking part in the external block change or mining (basement heaters)NO PRIVATE KEYS YOU FOOLS - these machines are playing fast on the dirty internet.  Assume that the feds or some other smart enterprising organization or individual could own these at most any given timeblock-chain participation - serious btc geeks should consider priding themselves on the network capacity they can donate to the cause.  This is the perfect space for VPS solutions.  Here I like Linux based simple machines.  Bandwidth and disk are cheap.  You need minimal processor to host network connections to the internet for simple block-chain exchange.  I have two full time block chain nodes that average 64 connections at any time.  I feel that btc adoption will be better when new client updates to the chain can happen faster.  No keys on these systems you fools!run the bitcoind process as a user with no access to the rest of the system.  on NX based systems create a user named, "bitcoind," and have it run the process.  Make sure that this user can't login to the system and has throttled back permissions on everything.  <-- that keeps a bitcoind overflow attack limited to the areas the, "bitcoind," user has access to (unless there is a local exploit... for another time).mining - there is absolutely no reason to have a key on a system taking part in group mining (ask me about personal mining another time).  The payout from the group should be directed to an address whose key is held in the following class of btc infrastructure.   wallet holder (private key storage) - systems holding private keys for btc addresseesthese systems can't communicate to the dirty internet.  Alter the config to connect to your trusted systems taking part in the block-chain exchange (see first class of the btc infrastructure above).wallet holder - consider vmware based Linux solution with full disk encryption.  Only boot it up once in a while to repopulate the block-chain and verify balances (as needed).  Back it up regularly (if you loose them you loose your keys, (unless you're backing those up on solid state media in a bank lock box), and loosing your keys means loosing those btc forever!)by having kernel based full disk encryption you are automatically protecting the data at rest.  It is only exposed at run time so consider running these vmware images on a trusted machine (not the one you use to lurk in the dirty parts of the internet) I read the white paper, I haven't read this entire thread.My initial problem with the paper was the following:1 - I don't know of any active botnets working over the gpu.  If they did I suspect that pc users would note the high amounts of heat and active cooling fans and request a fix from however supports their hardware   a - almost all of the mining is don by gpu now (soon to be fpgas), in other words you would need about 50 standards botnet pc's using their cpu to equal one miner with a gpu   b - for a perspective of the current cpu power in bitcoin the current fastest networked government owned super computer produces about 4.7 pflops where as the bitcoin community is beyond 53.5 pflops (factor of 10 larger in processing).  to achieve 50% of this with cpu based botnets one would need to acquire 100's of thousands of systems2 - There is no economical analysis of other values botnets can have.  ie. it may very well be more profitable to operate a botnet to brute force a bank for account access3 - There is no analysis of the declining rate of bitcoin production.  This is not a never ending game of producing bitcoins.  To date about 40% of bitcoins have been released.  If we were flooded with mass amounts of botnet gpu's it would help to secure the block chain, and also automatically enable competition/incentive for other botnet owners to move into the space (again securing the block chain further), it would cause normal users to exit the market (non-botnet operators), and create a renaissance of new mining innovation Awesome.  If I see it at B&N in mpls I'll buy 10 copies.You should print a special edition version with the entire block chain to the date of printing (very small type) as a free speech printed press version establishing the authority of the btc chain via printed free speech as promised by the constitution.I would buy 100 copies of that.  The edition should have as it's preamble the right to free press.
Amen... Amen I say to you.  The survival of bitcoin lies mostly in the public perception.  Bitcoin being a method in which one can freely express their speech (one could print out the block chain to date ie. this could be considered printed free speech) [1] has some staying power.  What better way to promote free speech but to allow a method in which people can freely exchange value without the observance of law.[2]Bitcoin being perceived as a commodity, or currency could be easily regulated down a hell hole of "terrorist funding"[1]  there may be a business in officially printing out (on paper) the block chain at a given date to provide an academic means to verify btc ownership[2]  someone mandating to you where the fruits of your labour need to be allocated MultiSig Deployment has been delayed! and OP_EVAL is DEAD Couldn't this --> https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Active_Bounties fix the problem?  If enough people desire the feature maybe their willing to pay for it?  We need to use this or something more dynamic (http://www.kickstarter.com/) to provide a forum to enable the presentation of value ideas to the btc community, and the allowance of good ideas to be provided real incentive to implement their idea.There is also a few btc community members who would be happy to leverage some of their btc holdings to provide greater longterm prospects of btc value. Not a simple answer.  Your cash is safe because the FDIC (Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation --> www.fdic.gov) insures your usd in a FDIC bank (which all of them are).  We don't have, and possibly don't want btc being insured by the FDIC.With security you get less liquidity.  For every btc taking part in some networked system in which it can be transferred on a moments notice, is going to be under risk from threat agents.  When you move btc away from networked systems and into a storage situation there is substantially less, but different risk, and at the same time a liquidity problem rises up.I wouldn't trust anyone with holding an amount of btc on my behalf that I couldn't walk away from with little regret.Here is a little tip - You must take a risk based approach to how you hold your btc (this is from an older post of mine):1 - Quick access spend thrift account (no more than 200 usd exposure) - Windows XP/7 with standard bitcoin software.  Password protect your login and make sure your running some decent anti-virus2 - Medium access large account (no more than 5,000 usd of exposure) - VMware image of Ubuntu JeOS with OS based full disk encryption.  Has no services running (if it's running apache you fail) and a stable release of bitcoind.  Connect this only to known trusted nodes when needing to move coins3 - Hard access mother account (all those secret coins generated the first year) - Every possible disk that ever held a private key is suspect.  Almost all of those should have been wiped with random data 5 times.  <-- before doing that, account key pairs should be replicated to 3 types of medium (dvdrw, flash drive, usb ext. hd) and each of these medium would be placed at separate bank security deposit boxes I agree completely.  We need more attention given to promoting btc as a commodity to be traded rather then currency.  btc to me are the same as old baseball cards that I buy/trade for usd.When you start using the term currency you start falling into deep dirty areas of federal government regulation and compliance.  Places that should be avoided for now. Its only regulated that that most who partake are FDIC insured institutions (banks).  IANAL, but I don't see why two parties can't enter into a private contract in which the holder of some asset agrees to give the assets to another for a fee and a promise to redeem that initial asset at some later contract defined period.  Governments are more interested in your role in MOVING assets (money) around and less interested in if you pay out fees for holding it... but IANAL.btw... how does your idea involve paying out interest on btc holding? from op's paragraph 4 again if one was partaking in the distribution of the block chain that contained transactions that could be tied to an infringing web site you may be in violation of the posted theoretical[1] law[1] - theoretical - it hasn't been passed yet and god only knows what it really contains.  Remember kids.... you must pass the law before you can see what is in it. I would still say that the big money would have tight commodity contracts involving the protection of btc based on storage (laser dvd in deposit box)... think it out!  There is a business there! Can you post paragraph 4/5 from the bill?I suppose this means that the bitcoin community (in the US, like me, who provides a phat pipe for block chain distribution here in the US) would need to come up with a method to "freeze" accounts if requested by the US govt.  You should have the ability to this by a geographical area (this would be hard).A method to accomplish this would involve trusting some sort of central authority to mandate the non-acceptance of blocks containing transactions that have as their source or destination an account number provided from the authority.If the govt. decides to enforce this law under the way I interpret (major paragraphs missing) it, (they may not even enforce it, there are plenty of stupid laws not enforced.  It allows the bureaucrats opportunity when they want to shake another entity down) I believe that the bitcoin community would schism in some manner with a block chain underground accessed with deep web tools, and one that every happy family could use with a central authority controlling accounts and most likely the rate in which btc are generated (this sort of control would come later).  That all assumes that I had actually read more of the law, and the US govt. decides to embrace bitcoin rather then extinguish it.... but ianal. Tomorrow I have a meeting with a us sec licensed hedge fund manger.  I'm not going to mention btc to him, but what sort of questions could I ask that could help people out?  If you have a us sec question please let me know.  The purpose of the meeting is related to legal aspects of sec contracts; promises of insured securities and services provide around they're securitization. see above for question at hand. you're right, I did mean that.  Thanks for pointing it out. God bless the admins! yes kids... make sure you pay the master [.5].  any btc you have at the end of the year in which its cost bases is lower then the current value, you owe uncle sam gains on that value.  us govt won't take btc for tax payment, so you'll have to have usd to pay that tax.  <-- don't hate on me for that, I'm just posting the lawthe idea I'd like to address here is the following:for btc to be represented through a securities contract would in fact btc need to be classified as:1 - commodity (how does one "register" a commodity?)or2 - currency (this is my weak area, so I don't have much to say except... there may be greater pitfalls in this pursuit)if not, could one simply create a btc backed securities contract by holding btc in some secure manner [1] for another party in exchange for usd?  In other words, Bob gives Sue 100 usd to hold 100 usd worth of btc at time of contract execution based on some agreed upon index [2], and a small fee.  When the contract ends (maybe at a set date, or redeemable to the holder) Sue gives Bob the original btc purchased at contract execution, for another small fee.  One is simply trading your secure storage methods [1] for something a person doesn't necessarily want to touch in exchange for a fee.So... are 1 and 2 necessary and if not, what legal areas should one ponder about?[.5] we do extract service value from the countries we live in, and these countries need to be paid to continue offering their services.  the efficiency and methods used in which these countries offer services, and receive payment should be debated in another thread... please[1] secure manner - this is value provided in the contract.  this party would specialize in data storage and protection.  this organization would know how to protect  the private keys of the contract accounts in a way that was still accessible (maybe 2 days), but sure as shit can't be copied while in storage (think redundant media in insured bank safety deposit boxes (all in the contract of course))[2] tradehill, mtgox etc.  the point is that it is an agreed upon source(s) for establishing value Not so sure.  one could measure the value based on computing power (read: energy consumption).  to say it is worthless misunderstand basic market principles occurring right now.  I've traded btc to buy a motorcycle and have mined many btc.  to say it has no value seems foreign to my life experience. then the question becomes 1) how do we help making btc a registered commodity?  2) or how do we help make btc a legal tender?semi-official rulings on questions of this nature can be done with letters to the us sec.I once took part of on a signed letter campaign involving the sco/microsoft/ibm/linux litigation in which a swore that my business used open-source software and would be effected by the courts ruling.if we could organize a little and create a community official letter to the sec about 1) a legal tender 2) or a registered commoditybut my post implies the a & b are what is needed, witch I'm not sold on... yet.  Is there some good reading you could pass on? I'm not so sure.  we can make securities on the trading price of gold.  as long as btc is not currency, and instead a commodity (think pork barrels) then maybe one could pull together a security on btc. on the train into work every day I've been reading about us sec law.  I currently have a basic understanding of the rules regarding creating and marketing a security.  my question is how could one sell a security on a market backed by btc.  if one owned $100 usd of btc given a market index they would be able to redeem their security for which ever currency they'd like to trade with (or btc).  something to the effect of a btc paper based mutual fund indexed on usd.something like the above raises many interesting legal questions? Mods are gods --> https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?board=74.0 this thread is now in meta hellon the train into work every day I've been reading about us sec law.  I currently have a basic understanding of the rules regarding creating and marketing a security.  my question is how could one sell a security on a market backed by btc.  if one owned $100 usd of btc given a market index they would be able to redeem their security for which ever currency they'd like to trade with (or btc).  something to the effect of a btc paper based mutual fund indexed on usd.something like the above raises many interesting legal questions.  I think I well formatted sub-forum focusing on these issues would be helpful [pull us out of meta hell]
nah dude. there are a lot of nice word number combo algorithms for producing password dictionary rainbow tables.  the task of looking for addresses containing english/russian/etc words would be fairly easy to catch.  anyone know of some solid code to dump the block chain into well formatted xml or csv? <-- if this can be had the task of finding interesting looking public keys easy. Anyone interested in a sub-forum to this site that has a focus of the legal analysis to laws in various countries?  I'd like to have a place to focus and document issues relating to the US SEC and how it relates to individual and institution transactions of btc.I believe we have a long road in front of us, and having a place to focus the exchange of regulation understanding will make more clear the future.Anyone else think this could be helpful?My $00.02 I don't for one minute deny that one could partake in other activities to increase the anonymity factor of btc transactions.  What I'm trying to illustrate is that the model of anonymity of btc is different than cash.  People who intricately understand what kind of information is stored in the block chain will understand all of this.  Many people don't understand all of this very well (get use to it) including 99.999% of law enforcement at this time. I gave this analogy a few months ago.  Bitcoin is NOT anonymous.  Bitcoin simply has different anonymity traits versus cash in your pocket.You take 100 usd bill from a ATMYou go and buy something illegal from a house using that 100 usdLater that day the Law kicks in the door of the house in which you acquired your illegal objectThey find 1000 usd in 100 usd bills and in some super advanced government DB are able to link one of the 100usd bills serial number to the ATM transaction you made earlier in the day.Law knocks at your door looking to understandYou tell them that you purchased ice cream for your daughter from a street vendor earlier in the day (got lots of change in 20s).  "I have no idea what that guy did with my bejamin after I gave it to him mr officer"You buy 100 btc from a, "fully compliant with the law," trading site in which your name and address is registered, and available to the SECYou go and buy something illegal from a house (website) using that 100 btcLater that day the Law kicks in the door of the house (website [1]) in which you acquired your illegal objectThey find 1000 btc on a laptop after a forensic review of the computers contents (they can do this).  Looking at the block chain they find that 100 btc came from the trading site to your wallet and then to the illegal item sellers computerLaw kicks in your door, because it is NOT possible that you didn't buy the illegal item unless you can forensically prove that you got hacked, and even then the hacker would have been taking directly from your wallet to the illegal item seller, rather to some, "holding," accountI'm in no means discouraging the use of bitcoin, but I do believe it is important for people to understand the traits associated with it.  There are other traits about btc that make it revolutionary to the idea of individual liberty, but casually buying illegal items with it isn't one of them.[1] in the case of silk road it would be a a seller who had been moving a lot of product (via tor) and his neighbors notice a lot of cars coming and going.  During thanksgiving the neighbors new son-in-law (DEA guy) is told about all the, "traffic from that house."  Point here is that no matter how anonymous a seller is in some perfect anonymous market, they still can draw attention from their buying activities. Reading this forced me to login again. I started mining on my macbook pro in March of 2010.  Back then a decent laptop would render 50 btc every few days.I've worked this board from a few different accounts.I spent some of my coins the last few days.  I've decided to buy a motorcycle with the USD that I've converted btc into.  Don't worry, I pulled enough out to pay uncle sam at the end of the year for these gains.  Remember we live in a civil society and it requires our respect to function well.  Render unto Caesar the things which are Caesar’s.I think the money to be made in bitcoin involves developing out the infrastructure for the protocol and user interfaces.  Remember, it was the Levi Strauss's (google it and educate yourself) of the gold rush era that turned out to be lasting profit machines.  Data mining operations that can provide value to governments on the movement of btc in the block chain will profit very well, very soon.Uneducated people with 25k of btc that is stolen, from the same laptop that they surf 4chan with, get exactly what they're asking for.  Take a risk based approach to your btc holdings.  If you're a large fish with a large btc holding then you need to wipe the drive of every disk that saw your accounts private key, but keep a diversity of private key backups on stable hard mediums.  Learn to use the rescan feature of the current bitcoin software, understand what it is doing.  You can always send btc to a well protected account, but when you need to move btc out of a large account make sure you do it from a trusted platform (learn to unix).I'll cast my eyes again to these markets and bulletin boards in a year from now.  Until then I'm going to focus myself to activities on other pressing matters in my life.  I felt like I needed to say goodbye.  Goodbye then.Take care.mcd I'm in the same spot.  Mtgox is down for login right now. The block chain is an open record in which someone can prove a transfer.  I'm not too worried. yea... I sent 200 btc to mtgox about 3 hours ago... I'm getting concerned. I transferred 200 btc to mtgox a few hours ago.  Hasn't shown up in account yet.  This concerns me. ... with moderation?Maybe you need an official moderation document describing what and what not is allowed on the forum?  Maybe the dedicated people you have here would be willing to help?Maybe you need to add a few more dedicated long term people to the moderation pool?Maybe you could write to us a little? You must diversify your trading methods.  Bitcoin is still in it's infancy and some aspects of it are still very technical.  Geek out and learn2irc on bitcoin-otc. The better question is, has the bitcoin forum outgrown the capabilities of smf (http://www.simplemachines.org/)?Offhand I don't have any good recommendations, but I know there things out there.  Is there a for pay service that hosts message boards with solid moderation and identity management (with reputation).Maybe we should be creating some threads addressing how moderation could/should occur and see if there is some sort of community consensus. Just stop responding to them.  Think of this as growing pains, it sucks now, but we're going to be stronger/faster.I would be very interested in a more serious, invite only message board/system.  It seems that much of irc has also become polluted. 100% agreeI just got done buying a bunch of them.  Market down 30% == BUY, BUY, BUY When people write trojans, viruses, etc. they largely do it for profit (the good ones anyway).  They deveop their program to go after the the largest market possible.  Most of the people partaking in bitcoin are running it on Windows XP/7 or Mac.  Many are running the core systems (mining operations, information infrastructure) on linux and BSD.The threat agents will develop the first round of bitcoin specif software focusing on a Windows XP system utilizing a pre-existing attack vector (un-patched SMB or IE zero day vulns).You must take a risk based aproach to how you hold your btc:1 - Thrift account (no more than 200usd exposure) - Windows XP with standard bitcoin software.  Password protect your login and make sure your running some decent anti-virus2 - Easy access large account (no more than 10,000usd of exposure) - VMware image of Ubuntu JeOS with OS based full disk encyption.  Has no services running (if it's running apache you fail) and a stable release of bitcoind.  Connect this only to known trusted nodes when needing to spend coins.3 - Hard access mother account (all those secret coins generated the first year) - Every possible disk that ever held a private key is suspect.  Almost all of those should have been wiped with random data 5 times.  <-- before doing that account key pairs should be replicated to 3 tpyes of medium (dvdrw, flash drive, usb ext. hd) and each of these medium would be placed at separate bank security deposit boxes.my 00.02 btc He already replied.  We're waiting for a response. If you read the second tweet he states he has knowledge of a specif bug. +1 I've spent a fair amount of time looking at aspects of the code that had relevancy to my needs.  I've written custom patches to achieve functionality I needed.I have NOT looked seriously at all lines of the code.I'm in the comp sec field and a review of this code by a reputable company would cost around $60k USD --> @mtgox high (11 usd) --> 5455 btc.  Maybe someone could put together a bounty :-p 
This is my favorite one:Given a large enough computation of pi there is any possible data structure (even illegal content). In the US you must also have intent when transmitting the data.  The court must show that actions you took had the intent to distribute (transmit) something that is illegal.I've worked on the forensic legal side of this stuff in the past.Quite simply any collection of 1's and 0's can be made into something illegal given the correct, "algorithm."  So given the right additional data the bitcoin logo could be a harbinger of illegal content!The important question to ask is, did the person, knowingly and willing, transmit digital content of an illegal nature.So far the only person here that is doing theoretical illegal activity is the OP.  Did the admins get his ip addr?Dear diary, today OP was a massive.... are they missing a mining pool, or have more people gone independent? I think you're all missing the point.  There hasn't been this lopsided holding of equity since kings.  2% holding 50% of the wealth is far more desirable than 0.00000002% holding 25%.  I know you can all do the math.This situation is a despot megalomaniacs wet dream.  Never in the history of human kind has one person controlled 25% of the economy.I think we all WANT to believe that Satoshi is some humble quite person who only wants his bitcoins to go to helping poor kids down on their luck, but maybe, just maybe Satoshi gets corrupted (power corrupts), the point being is that there is tremendous amounts of risk piled into this one person.I do think early adopters should be rewarded and this isn't some sort of jealousy thing.Think of it this way.  If you want to believe that one day btc could represent the financial foundation of the world economy, then be VERY afraid of the person who controls 25% of it. I'm not too worried of someone hurting the market by dumping all of their holdings (the market would shift (I'd buy a shit ton of btc at a low price) and we would recover).  I actually think this may be the best possible thing for the future of btc.  If the original holders used their btc to invest heavily in the community (dump their holdings in 24 months) then this would solve the problem.Until then, a market that has 20% of it's value in a underworld-crypto unknown, will pay a heavy price to insure (READ PREDICTABILITY), which could negatively effect an adoption of btc for anything of large value. yes, but the current structure has served me well.  I work hard, pay my taxes, and expanding my family.The current system provides much maturity and predictability.  The current system doesn't provide a reasonable possibility of some unknown entity with no transparency holding 20% of the market.btc has documented prof of almost 20% of the early generated btc being held by a hidden entity (Satoshi or whatever it is)This mandates this currency to an amount of unpredictability that many people will not buy into.  People may ask for a schism of the block over this. The problem (or possible risk) is that this can't be proven.  If I'm going to invest in this currency I need to know there is some security (read predictability) with 20% of the total value.  Let's say that the original group is composed of two dorky guys out of Seattle, and if some major govt. gets to them (which they will if this is ultimately successful) what could happen with 20% of the total btc economy?  There are many other scenarios to think of with one secret entity having 20% of the economy.Think of it.  If btc becomes something large there is a anonymous, hidden, secret group that controls 20% of it.  That does not play out well with large organizations trying to gauge risk <-- which will be one of the biggest foundations to grow btc. Is anyone else concerned about Satoshi (or whomever was in the original group) having control of almost 20% of the btc economy?  This isn't the perfect place to post this question, but it was something that got me thinking.  The original group is estimated to have about 20% of the current currency in circulation.  For me this raises many questions about what could happen with so much power in such a anonymous (read NOT transparent) group. you guys are all nuts (most of you)if you can show that you we're fraudulently deprived of something of value of $5,000 (862 btc at mtgox current) dollars or more across state lines this is a federal felony.  As long as you can show that the object stolen has the above mentioned market value it is a felony.  The cops will not care about the details.  All they need to know is that the item stolen was of enough significant value that it is worth their time.10 btc == a report with no results (don't bother calling the cops)1000 btc == someone could go to jail for a good amount of time Someone have a reference for this claim?With 250k of usd dollars trading hands daily (if you choose to believe the info out of mtgox), there is much incentive to game the system, and I actually know there are efforts underfoot compromise the blockchain.I for one would strongly welcome attacks.  Let's get this over with as soon as possible if the protocol implementation and math behind it are not long lasting.Maybe a bounty in real USD needs to be posted to do exactly that. yes... perfect!  You've figured out the key!can we kill this thread yet? A reason the CIA could be goodThey will present to the politicians what bitcoin could or could not do.Mybe US embraces it as a method to go back to the "gold standard" without actually mining gold (or admitting that fort knox is empty (or is it?))Maybe with the right leadership the usd gets tied to something that will not inflate and that all world economies can play in fairly (dump the imf, and keep chn yen honest)Maybe the US enters the market early on (do we know who is behind these group mining efforts... I expect China is in there somewhere) and finds themselves with a superior holding of btc, and then by helping make sure that the block chain is preserved (anyone with large btc holding would seek a accurate record of their holdings) they can help preserve a future, efficient, world economy (something that's honest and plays no favorites)If the math behind bitcoin is superior and long lasting, then this is force to be reckoned withIf the math is soft, then it's better then that the cia abuses it and commissions the shutting of it down so we can all get over this addiction (don't lie to yourself about this) sooner rather than laterFor me it all comes down to the mathbottom line is that if any of the above (not including shutdown) happens then a btc will be worth more then is tolerably imaginableGavin... don't touch any of their hookers and blow :-p I would put 0.123456 btc into that transaction, but I won't be in a computing environment at that time to do it.  I hope someone does. I predict it at 2011-05-12 08:07am DST (America/Chicago) or same day 13:07 UTC you got a url? check'emmtgox High @ 4.99 very well written :-) https://mtgox.com/trade/history188,933.8317218 btc moved on this block --> http://blockexplorer.com/block/00000000000038683fd5dcce64ff5b9e104544337d9b8567ef7f46be707eaaeewhat's driving this? Here is his interview on the tsa --> http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3VA4EyT4ezEand remember kids... this man wrote the bible on cryptography (the core of btc) --> http://www.schneier.com/book-applied.htmlApplied CryptographyJohn Wiley & Sons, 1996ISBN 0-471-11709-9 I support this 100%Understanding the legalities (and tax obligations) involved with btc is paramount to making this currency something legitimate.  If we at least understand the possible legal obstacles, we then know how to position ourselves better in a legal chess game.Any professional thinking done on behalf of btc gets my support.  Content based in serious consideration (this board is loaded with idiots) on btc and its future that is provided here makes us all stronger.god speed
Being an old miner (March 2010), and having a happy amount of btc I can say that this has become a new obsession in my life.From a simple return on investment aspect I don't have anything performing like this.  Which means it gets my attention.  Being part of something new, and something with so much potential is exciting (helps that the cost of entry was so low for me). I thought reaching out to Bruce would be a good idea --> http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=3603.0I think he's the type to embrace, and provide thoughtful insight on bitcoin.  He did write Applied Cryptography (crypto bible)  --> http://www.schneier.com/book-applied.htmlI used his above book for creating a series of public key cryptography java objects back in the university days (before java offered a crypto class).Bruce strikes me as the type to question the status quo.  Search for Bruce Schneier and tsa on youtube. GE paid no taxes because they were epitome of crony capitalism.  One of the many things we would like to be done with. What would be awkward would be when cash guy refuses to hand over the cash after verifying the transaction.I can see people being violent in private transaction involving large amounts of money.  No different then drugs I suppose. Here is how I imagined trading in person.Two people meet in public location.  Both have laptops with cell connections.Cash guy shows he has cashBTC guy transfers BTC to cash guys accountCash guy gives cash, after verifying transactionSimple?  No more serious then picking up a bike from craigslist, other than needing internet to make and verify transaction. any reason it has been inactive.  very straight forward and low fees. no new betting since April 7th.  I'm a green bay fan and laid some big btc against the packers to hedge my emotional bet for the super bowl... emotion won, btc lost. Give me a tip jar and I'll put something in it.Check out http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=7373.0 and give some feedback.  Are you graduating this year?  If so maybe when you have your juris doctorate you could look me up, and maybe we could round up some btc for a solid legal briefing.  Maybe FTC laws and monetary policy is an aspect of law that you have an interest in now.  One thing for sure is that if this goes someplace you have a big leg up in a marketability standpoint to the financial law firms of nyc.Good job! I am certainly not implying that I want to lie to the feds.  Quite the opposite.  I think it is important for every geek on this site to be aware of tax liabilities when they buy and sell btc. Most of my earning have come from mining on two machines way back when the mtgox price was.... .20 cents a btc (early 2010).  I generated quite a few coins.  This to me is a taxable event because I now have something of value that far exceeds the costs of electricity and hardware.  I don't believe one has to "cash out" to be exposed to tax liability.Buying and selling stocks (out side of ira) require payment of gains at the end of the year regardless of selling (sometimes shares are sold simply to pay tax on gains). I think Im going to have my corp accountant write a brief on tax obligations with trading and having btc increase in value.  I may publish the report here on the forum under a cc license.... or maybe there is an accountant on this site who can speak authoritatively on the subject.My understanding is that I would need to report the gains at the end of the year.Thoughts?Another thing I'm considering is hiring a local attorney who is knowledgeable with FTC laws to write up a brief on the legality of doing btc trading against USD.  I figure being on the correct side of the law when you liquidate could go a long why in protecting your earnings. One share of BRK:A == $121,709 has this post degenerated into something poor looking?Gavin do it! and be as transparent as possible with us while doing it. 200k of btc is still (at mtgox low price at the time of 2.33 usd) still is a possible 466k of usd. Here --> http://blockexplorer.com/block/0000000000004fab39c441bbd50cdbaeeec7b43d564f1c97d487fcd94bacd2c6570830.34 of btc was traded today in the above mentioned block.  That represents 1.2MM usd (based on mtgox low trade price for the time).  In one block 1.2MM dollars was transferred.  This is getting serious. see subject. CIA is filled with analysts.  Crypto, math, infosys, they've got some of the best of the best.Some of the people who listen to the talk will write internal memo's using some sort of US centric threat metric.  These memo's will be circulated, socialized and further analysis (data gathering) may be ordered up (depending on possible risk/opportunity idea holds).Finally an official memo will be circulated to upper level govt. staffers in house and senate.  Maybe, and I mean maybe, Obama will get a 20 sec briefing on it in the next year.my 00.02 btcGavin, you have to do this. bottom line is that if the mathematics behind bitcoin are solid, then this will be around for a long time.if govt shuts the most popular version of it down, a new one will spring again (different servers in a different country).another bottom line is that we can't stop drugs or killings from occurring when people use btc for the exchange method.  if at the time of the transaction btc is the easiest way as a medium to transfer a promise, then they will be used, just as usd are used today to fuel the drug mafia wars of Mexico.can we kill this thread now? I agree.  I think you're very good, but do it again better emphasizing the word, "bitcoin," and you've nailed it. people use usd all the time for drugs and on a more limited extent killings.crimes will always be committed in return for value (a promise), and whatever delivers that value most efficiently will be used.  Today they use usd.because people commit crimes that involve a transaction of value doesn't mean that the medium used for the transaction is at fault.from a large govt perspective they will need insight (to a certain extent) into the persons behind large transactions, or they will kill the medium.  btc should be prepared to some extent for this.
nice transparent backgrounds.  This is public domain, correct?We need a good vector image of a btc symbol. Who is Satoshi Nakamoto?Idea here.I'm going to host a btc beer gathering at [put your favorite beer establishment here (date/time address)]I'll be dressed [description here], and hanging out by the [location]If you ask me if I know who Satoshi Nakamoto is, I'll know you're a friend.  Buy me a drink and I'll pay you back in btc. bumpDidn't Liberty Reserve get shut down? I don't see a problem ether.  What is going on is still an interesting question. http://blockexplorer.com/on this date someone has moved 51,999 btc in the last 19 blocks.wth? I gave 50.10 BTC to the faucet yesterday.  In the long run it is unsustainable, but it helps us grow in the meantime.Take Care! I don't have a ps3, but I'll opine on it anyway.I'm guessing that the best way to mine with a ps3 is booting some sort of optimized ubuntu distribution --> http://psubuntu.com/Then installing bitcoind with ps3 optimized compiling.  The gpu should be good for something?!Sony would never let people create a ps3 branded miner. Fees were paid to help guarantee the transaction. Obviously smart for the transaction amount.  Someone needs to dig deeper into this and tell the story.  I believe it's a mining operation consolidating accounts? maybe? Check out --> http://blockexplorer.com/In the last 300 blocks the largest transaction was 10934.41 btc. Come up with some time period to stop taking donations (7 days sounds great).  When you stop have the op edit the heading so people know to stop sending you money.  Convert to fiat.  Send to organization that most of us would find agreeable, but communicate it ahead of time.Thanks for taking on this responsibility. 10 BTC sent. Do you think this place an unlikely candidate for get.  I don't.The bad thing is that we missed 101010!?!Here's to 120000 get! then obviously you would short this market?  RIGHT?  Your money where your mouth is? I will run with my pledge alone if need be.  Is there anyone else wiling to sweeten the pot? I resubmit my pledge of 100 BTC.The value this has to me is furthering the scientific (applied mathematics) foundation of this concept.  Strengthening that will go along way in increasing the value of the bitcoins I posses (this is largely a selfish matter, but one I believe we have in common).I understand the cost in USD to do an solid security assessment of the code base (I do this for a living), but my approach to appealing to Mr. Schneier is rooted in that he has to write interesting content all of the time to stay relevant. I believe this is right up his alley.By offering bitcoins we give Mr. Schneier something to play with during the course of his his analysis, and it has the added benefit of the community taking part in a transaction of value.Having allies in places Mr. Schneier frequents can only increase the value my bitcoins have. @moa How did you come up with that? VISA is a private company that offers as a service the protection of fraudulent transactions.  I believe that if bitcoin grows people will offer similar services. Very fair.  My pledge is withdrawn.Everyone take care. An open letter is more powerful.  Word will get to him that this offer stands.  I would think bitcoin would appeal to him on may levels.  He seems to convey libertarian traits in his writings, and his knowledge of cryptography would fit naturally as well.EDIT:  Also... what do we have to loose if people get their bitcoins back if he doesn't respond? I'll send Gavin an note about it now.
