I was mainly just lurking after Satoshi left the forum. I've decided to get active in Bitcoin once again and take a small loan to get the usage of Bitcoin back into my head. Regarding the first part of your lost, yes it does has value because some people do find value in these accounts. My bad. Meant to post that on this account. Oh well. yeah. Contact me on this account if you're interested. Vouch copy available for a Senior+ member!EDIT: Price decreased to 0.25$ each, now it's a very good deal for who want to try the game without preorder it.EDIT: 10 codes sold!Report to moderator  ▬▬   ENGLISH  TO  ITALIAN   ▬▬▀▀█▀   Translation Service   ▀█▀▀"EDIT"Your post wasn't edited, nice try. First request:Optional connect to IP dialog.Explanation:BitCoin connects to the network(of peers) by getting one of a number of IP's from IRC at present, once connected to a single peer other connections can be made, so if only 1 IP on the list are available then you can connect to the network & make connections to other IP's(this is my assumption, please correct me if I am wrong).This is somewhat similar to how Tor works, when you first start it up it attempts to connect to a public list of IP's(public bridge nodes). This list being public is accessible to organisations that want to prevent the use of Tor(for example the Chinese or Iranian government). And so as a consequence these IP's are blocked, and you cannot connect from these countries.However there is the option to connect to the ip of a bridge (if you know one, a friend in a free country running Tor in bridge mode perhaps) and so this circumvents regime blocking attempts and is very robust.Adding this feature will allow Bitcoin to function despite regime efforts to prevent it. I am running Windows 32 (But have AMD64 dual core machine), but could, if required have a version of Linux using virtualisation(I must install this).The most simple way at present is to have different language binaries(e.g. bitcoin_en.exe, bitcoin_zh.exe etc.). Please post when you want this translated, this would mean there could be a dual language release for the next version (Why not a tri-language release, you do speak Japanese no?). I assume you are using Rails or PHP Cake, as that seems to be the URL layout.Am testing your application, I will let you know of any issues.You might call it BitMarket Future proof. All my concerns answered. What files in the source version control are the labels for the interface(So that I can translate)?Please point me to any page you would like to have translated to Chinese for the project.Perhaps having a Chinese howto and explanation would be usefull(manual/helpfile?)  Also what would you like for a gift?Moved the translation discussion into a new thread.sirius-m Removing or extending the 21M limit would be a disaster, it's the finite supply of this digital cash that makes it useful as money.Allowing for the currency to be further divided would solve that issue. No one loses the value of any of their currency held(devaluation or debasing), while at the same time being able to break off smaller pieces of a ฿ to trade.Besides, the whole point is that there is no (central)control over the supply, this would allow it to be extinguished by governments or abused by a central authority (like today's central banks & governments)I am wondering Satoshi, what would be the technical difficulty of implementing  ฿ as 0.000(or more zeroes) instead of 0.00?This is not a request since there is no need for it yet, but may wish to acommadate a larger user base in the future. That is pretty divisible(enough for the moment), which means that ฿ serves all the functions of money- "Money is a matter of functions four, a medium, a measure, a standard, a store." That is, money functions as a medium of exchange, a unit of account, a standard of deferred payment, and a store of value."-wikipediaI must thank Satoshi for his work (although the groundwork was done during the 80's, algorythms etc. this is the first useful implementation and it's effects are profound). I live in PRChina, combining Freenet, Tor, I2P there is the framework for free,anonymous discussion and transfer of information(something that is prevented here, sometimes with serious penalties). Add to this BitCoin and we now have an underground market free from the tyrany and scrutinising eye of the state. This will allow an alternative, free China to develope under the nose of the state machinery.My understanding is that Bitcoin cannot be suppressed without suppressing the internet as a whole, is this correct?I would like to give Satoshi a donation, but sadly R&B(ReminBi, literally "The Peoples Money") is not a world traded currency and sending a payment in a foreign currency is expensive & complicated. If I could give a gift, to a value of R&B500(about $70US)? Or if wished open a currency exchange for ฿/R&B?One thing I will do is have some computer science students translate the application to Chinese, after Spring Festival.NewLiberty- The lazy way would be for me to peg my exchange rate to yours and let you do the calculations. Otherwise I would need to know the total amount of ฿ in circulation and the amount of goods that can be purchased with it(this is a Austrian economist view of measuring the value I think?), just what is the amount in circulation?What do you mean "keep playing the game"?Also, what do you sell more, ฿ or $US?  This will be what makes bitcoin successful, being able to exchange it for goods & services(not just an exchange service).Virtual currency (nothing like bitcoin) can become successfull in being accepted for real goods & services, it just takes a little time. Qcoin was popular here in China but is being put down by the Chinese central bank.See here http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tencent_QQ#Q_coin and here http://online.wsj.com/public/article/SB117519670114653518-FR_svDHxRtxkvNmGwwpouq_hl2g_20080329.htmlWell I'm in China, for things like getting documents translated to Chinese and maybe some goods (starting with cheaper items) I can post. I also have access to plenty of poor students who I might be able to convince to contribute their time (for programming, website design, logo design etc.) for bitcoins. I myself am an English teacher so I haven't much to offer as a remote service. How divisible are bitcoins? Can I divide a bitcoin? as in could I spend 0.5 or 0.01 of a bitcoin?I ask this question as practically the production of new bitcoins is finite & will become too expensive in terms of time & power in the future and if the system becomes more popular there will be more goods than BC's.What about dwindling supply?The current supply will eventually begin to dwindle as people lose their wallet's(removing coins from the system) & governments attempt to drain coins out (either by scamming or creating coins themselves and simply hoarding them)of the system. This is inevitable (government action against BC) as no government worldwide will allow the existence of such an anonymous currency system out of their control or supervision.What about the need for banks?Actually I don't think there would be a need for banks to get interest on savings, simply holding onto BC's they will increase in value as more users come into the system. So technically you'll get interest just for keeping them under your bed.How are BC's valued(this is more of a question for NewLibertyStandard)?As I see it(thusfar) the value of bitcoins(as in their exchange rate or the goods they can buy) is not in how much energy/time it takes to create them (this simply ensures a limited supply) but that they are accepted for goods & services. The more goods & services that can be bought with BC the less coins it will require per good.For example there are 2 Million BC in existence, and only one person accepts BC, & is willing to sell a single t-shirt. Then the BC value of that shirt is 2Million BC, if it we're 2 t-shirts then each shirt would cost 1Million and so forth.Of coarse this may never happen exactly like this, a person would look at the electricity cost of making 2Million BC's(in lets say US$) and the cost of buying the t-shirt(again in US$). If it costs $100 of electricity to make 2Million BC's then of coarse the customer will just use US$ and pay $10 for the t-shirt. 
