better use that money to register a course like design, photography is better. you can make money from that then get back crypto trading Proof of AuthenticationJoined Signature Campaign I think you have had the answer now. The market has just recovered a bit and you should buy coins now to get high money. However, you also should research carefully because it is difficult to find good coins now except BTC, ETH, WPR I think you totally can get daily income with trading now because this is the bull market. You can buy when the price has dropped abit and sell immediately when it rises about 5% I think you should buy BTC now. Because as Mr. Lee said:BTC is limited and you should hold enough 1 BTC before buy other coins. It is good for your porfolio this game belongs the faster investors. No one are willing wait to 2000$/BTC. They will buy back at 5000$ for sure. So, you should be hurry to buy BTC now. The market has just recovered. Hm, I dont know, the market has reduced without any reasons. it is very hard to know when the market recovered. However, bitcoin is still the biggest crypto in the world and you cant lose your money I completely agree with you. People who are not good at technical analyst, long term investment is a good choice for them. you just need to research carefully about the team and the product. If they are really good, you can hold them and wait  Learning basic knowledge about crypto. After that, you must continue learning technical analyst. When you finish, you can start trading with some cheap coins although the market has fallen down too much and it is very difficult to find out a good ICO now, you cant do anything else now. So, you dont have any chances to get profit. Let's research carefully and invest in ICO I dont think you cant trade without capital. However, by joining in bounty campaign or airdrop project, you can get free token and can use them to trade in the market I think it is right. many investors have to leave the market because they cant be patient enough. Besides, they also cant stand anymore. I think we must wait until the end of this year to know clearly about the future of crypto it is hard to find out good signature campaign now. You can access in some rating projects websites to research. they can show you good informations.  few months ago, investing in ICO is one of the best ways to earn money. However, at this moment, it is hard to find out a good project. You need more knowledge and must be more patient when investing them. Because, their tokens price just raise when their profuct are finished. I dont know. I think I just hold and wait. I have bought my coins at high price and I cant sell them now. Anyway, I still believe in the crypto future because they also have own value which can be used in the economy I think so. at the beginning of ICO, many people believe them so much and invest with all things they have. But after losing sometimes, they have more experience and maybe, they are smarter I think you should consider carefully. the market has fallen down too much and i dont know why. Maybe the trust of people has dissapeared and it is hard for the recover.  I totally agree with you. Only people who are lack of knowledge and skills are afraid of the falling down of market. Just hold your coins and wait for the recover, I thought I dont think that selling btc now is a good decision. you have buy them with high price and you lose your money soon. My suggestion for you are holding and be patient.  there is no doubt that about your opinion. ETH is one of the most important coins in the world which have a big roles in the crypto development. Looking at the market you will realize most of coins are built from ERC20 technology. 
In my experience, the purpose of product and the quality of the team are two best things you must consider before investing in any project. Dont focus on the multimedia or the fund too much, it just make you waste your time No, I dont think so. although ETH has a big development recently but Bitcoin is still the best coin in the world. And one thing you should remember, dont focus on the price too much. Because each coin has own purpose.  Ok. You can leave the market now and come back when it raises again. However, I believe this is the good time to buy. You cant have BTC or ETH with low price like this moment in the future. believe me, this is just a simple truth. All governments and corporation must accept crypto currency because of its advantage. blockchain is becoming popular more and more. So, do not scare when investing in crypto I dont know exactly because the market changes every second. But, with a good coin likes ETH, you can spend big amount of your fund to it. In 1 year, it will reach high level honestly, I dont believe that you can be richer with $1. But, you can learn many things with it. Let's spend them for some potential cheap coins, you can trade and learn knowledge.  I dont know. Normally, when the market falls down, it is a good time to buy with low price. But in this situation, the price has dropped too much and this makes me scare. I need more information in the market to give the choice yes, there is no doubt that your ideas. The crypto currency is different dotcom bubble. It is useful for the people to international transaction. you should buy and hold coin now  wow! that's amazing! I am very interested with your point of view. I always ask my self about the situtation now and I have the answer from you. So, if your idea is right, what can we do now? When does the market recover?  I totally agree with you that crypto currency is better than banking system in transaction. But I also have the same question with you about loan. How can crypto can be used in loan? Maybe there will be a ICO project will do that Day trading is always one of the best way to earn money. However, to succeed in trading, you must prepare knowledge and experience carefully before. If you are too greedy, you lose. Otherwise, if you are too afraid, you also lose Maybe if the market still dump, ETH price can go to the 400$ level. However, you should not look at the price in the moment. You must research in the long term. Do not too be affraid of the price in one time.  For me, both of ETH and BTC are good for long term. They are the gold and silver of the crypto world and you should not be nervous when holding them No. the market is fluctuated now. it is too dangerous to invest now if you are a newbie and you are lack of knowledge and information, you should not join into the crypto world now I am interested in TRON now. By using new own technology instead of ERC20, it has a good future to development. So, I will buy it and hold it from now Bitcointalk name: WARlrusRank: MemberCurrent post count: 75 many airdrop come make price can't go up. 600 fall down to 200. so sad Japan will be replace China in crypto world soon. So if Japan trader invest to ICO more will be awesome simple idea but really good. bitcoin + cash = bitcoin green   but with this make me feel bitcoin cash is just follow bitcoin not a revolution 10k ETH is not a high target. KickICo is almost reach to 100k hardcap. I believe bitjob can do this
even they take the risk to invest but 100% is too much. they will dump all their bonus to market ya we will forget this project but the name ICO is so funny for people.  maybe dev is dragonball fan If you think price can go up easily u should invest all money in it. We need some big news and update before monano to da moon again people still remember what happen after Ashley Madison data breach. many husband try to cheat their wife but when their cc public. that's terrible centra is similar project like monaco and it will be complete ICO soon. And this project is have future to over monaco soon. you can try to find some local trader in your country and ask them sell bitcoin to you.  lol you should wake up. I can't see the future eth over bitcoin in 2018 even I'm big fan of ETH For me now invest to altcoin maybe risk than invest to some ICO. We have many good ICO and have promise future such as centra, kickico, monero, meridian... nice nice nice. very nice.  I try to find some good e sport bet platform like this before but no site good for me. This is look very interesting Monaco visa card ICO? Similar with my Centra.  both of them are great ICO but 20x profit is hard ( I dont known but I think we can not reach that.)  no they just close exchange to make some verify. When they have accept from gov they will open again/. That is the thing C Lee confirm some exchange from China will close at the end of this month. I believe this will make price fall down but when they have accept from gov and open again. Everything will combeback and to da moon if you want anonymous your indentify you should use bitcoin for your payment. It's safe and fast too. (With low fee than paypal) We all known that but we can control new trader emotion. Except China ban bitcoin all we must accept all fud from China and live with that agree. 100$ is just an easy target. With active dev and many update. But if China ban bitcoin they will also ban litecoin. That will make ltc can reach that price in this years because we have many support from China 400-500 is a nice target. I think 1000 will be reach on 2018. not this year yup gov just want control. no reason for they ban an effective way to make money like this do you have any demo for game dev first - China block ICO second - btc-e comebackthird - people panic sell The question is how bat can carve 10%
thank for create group.   I think ICO not dead. just scam ICO dead. Gov will control ICO. and people must verify to list an ICO But I still wonder about stratis. 50/50 for both stratis and verge is good? but people will never use any blockchain from bank and gov because we dont trust them! nice project. but I though your blockchain base on ETH. how be it can faster what is difference between monaco and centra ? ya just buy some altcoin like stratis, xvg, neo. or can use loan system on poloniex NEO need more support from many project like ETH. So maybe it's can comeback. now this is the time for the NEO marketing team do their job      Some people still say me should buy deeponion now  doge will have some update soon.  Nice channel.  keep working   I miss many airdrop. don't known can get byteball free by verify bitcoin before Be the first panic. U still win by buy back when people stop panic But I think BCH still better than Bitcoin. Bitcoin have some problem on fee and transaction If u don't support this project. just go away and join the topic u like.  Greate update. I believe stratis will over ETH by the end of 2018.  Haha. It's I am right I think LBRY is the first decentralized video hosting. And they have product for us try. No need invest or something like that. Just try and get their coin. Heh, thankfully not! Apologies for the recent downtime - I had under-estimated demand yet again, and was running out of coins quicker than I could put them in!The site is now back up and running :-) It is indeed quite expensive to accept payment in this way, however it has been a while since the margins were re-calculated, I'll do some re-thinking of prices shortly :-)
Apologies (again) for (yet more) downtime! I've recently moved the servers location, so the service should be a lot faster, and (hopefully) more reliable!Unfortunately the coins I added when first switching the server back on sold out very quickly - but it's now back up with a larger balance - enjoy! Apologies for downtime - the server is now back up and running, and should hopefully be a bit more stable after these upgrades :-) Unfortunately the operator charges remain the same for higher amounts, but I have added an option as requested for a £10 spend, which currently gives you 1BTC I have 3 Steam games (gifts) to sell:Half-Life 2Half-Life 2: Episode 1PortalAvailable for 1BTC each, or any reasonable offers. Private message me to arrange a sale, on receipt of the coins and a valid Steam username I will send the gift, which should arrive instantly. TextCoin has now been updated to include the option to buy 0.4BTC for £5, as a lot of people have been buying in bulk - it's now even cheaper to do so!I'm still investigating international options, hopefully we should see the service expanding into Europe over the next couple of weeks, but unfortunately I'm struggling to find a US gateway provider!Please continue to send your feedback, it makes the hard work worthwhile! Glad to see that this service is really taking off! I've had a large number of emails from people wanting to help in a variety of ways, and I believe I've finished replying to them all now!The service is now running a lot more stably than when first launched, and all BitCoin transfers appear to be happening instantly, as the service was designed to do.As I've mentioned, I'm looking into further international gateways to launch the service, sadly there isn't an easy way of me rolling this out to multiple countries at once, each country will have to have it's own exchange rate, variable fees etc, which adds a whole new layer of complexity to the site. That said - I'm hoping to have a US launch within the next couple of weeks, and would love to hear suggestions of where else you want this service to runIn the meantime - please consider sending a small donation to 1LiBGgTYzkgHqgAmbfCzXKbAu4fwsh7hQS. As a previous poster has mentioned, the margins I'm making on these transactions are extremely small, and the overhead costs of site maintenance etc are not!But most importantly - please keep on using the service, and please keep sending me any feedback. I've topped the service up with more coins, however the downtime today was due to the server bitcoind instance shutting down for some bizarre reason. I'll try and monitor the problem, as it seems to be recurring every couple of hours, but as I've mentioned I'm away on holiday at the moment!I will be looking in to starting this service internationally, however since it will have to be done on a per-country basis it will be quite hard, hence the costs may be higher. Any requests for countries? Back again! Site is now back up, sorry about that! Hopefully it'll last a bit longer before running out of coins this time! Due to unprecedented demand - the server has run out of coins! I'll try to add some more soon, but I'm currently away on holiday so can't do much about it! Thanks for the feedback!The service is entirely unreversible - even if you don't pay your mobile bill your provider will make good on any outstanding charges, and if you have no credit to pay then it'll be refused. Because of this - the payment can be instant. I'm considering offering a merchant API for other people to implement a similar idea - anyone interested?Glad you like the service - please spread the word and help it grow! This is something I did look into - sadly the current gateway I'm using doesn't support land line numbers, but I'm looking into alternatives that will give the option of SMS or phone call (mobile/land line) Basically - once you've selected how many coins you want to buy, you are redirected to a page telling you to text a confirmation code to a number - the page will look similar to this: http://textcoin.co.uk/misc/gateway.pngOnce you send this message, your mobile will be debited the amount shown (whether this be off a pre-paid Pay as you Go contract, or by placing it on to your monthly bill), and the website will re-directed you back to TextCoin. Once your payment is confirmed (takes about 30 seconds), then your coins are instantly sent to the address you provided.Simple really! As you can see from the site now, all coins have been transferred back to their original owners. The full explanation for this is on the site if you want to have a look.There are no current plans to bring the site back, but if there is demand, I will look into it! :-) Ever wanted a quick and easy way of purchasing BitCoins using nothing more than your phone? Now you can!TextCoin.co.uk offers a simple and fast gateway that uses premium-rate SMS messages in order to purchase BitCoins from your phone. The transactions are usually complete within about 30 seconds, and the coins are instantly transferred to you - no hassle!Unfortunately the service is only available on the UK mobile phone network at the moment, however hopefully this should be expanding very soon.Give it a go - you'll be amazed at how quick and simple it is! Site is now back up and appears to be stable. The back-end Bitcoind server appeared to have fallen over, and had hung, meaning the automatic restarting didn't happen. I'll keep an eye on it as much as possible for the next few days, but it should be fine.No bets or coins have been lost. Apologies for anyone inconvenienced by the downtime. Nice to see you're so ready to jump to conclusions :-)The reason why I wanted to sell the site in the first place is I have very little time to work on it, and then wobber asked to run the site for half the profits. On the proviso that I only provided periodical support when necessary, I agreed to this. Since that agreement took place, there has been very little effort put in on his behalf to create workable betting forms, to the point where I have had to step in on multiple occasions to rectify his mistakes. Obviously, this grows rather wearing...On top of this - I'm currently extremely busy with other projects, employment & education, and hence do not check messages on here very often. In fact, I have been out of the country for the last week and a bit.Now the issue with the site has been brought to my attention (no-one had actually emailed to say the site was down...) I will try to rectify it, however I currently believe the server it is hosted on is having network issues, which are out of my control.I apologise to members of the site who believed I had "run away" with their money - this is not the case at all. I simply have been un-contactable and hence unaware of the issue.If (for whatever reason) the site cannot be brought back (extremely unlikely), I shall of course refund every member the amount they had in their account at the time of the site going down. This information is secure, as are your Bitcoins.Please feel free to contact me at info@bitbet.org if you have any further questions. Interesting proposal :-) Check your inbox... I was hoping for something over 200BTC, but obviously it's all relative!Sorry - that should have been the 5th of FebruaryYes, if the total package doesn't reach my 'reserve price', then I'll happily sell the domain separately It requires a server running bitcoind constantlyAll bet 'forms' have to be added manually, this can be as few or as little as you wish. Everything regarding bets is added manually, as shown by the screenshotsNote: I was obviously expecting to sell the site for more than the 130 bitcoins bid - that doesn't give me much profit once the domain is considered. I'm therefore going to extend the auction until the 5th of March at 6pm GMT, and reserve the right to refuse sale. Apologies if anyone considers this unfair, but the amount of time and effort I've put into development I think justifies this!
