Update | 15th August 2016Thank you all who have participated in the crowdsale, currently working on a spreadsheet on how to manage the funds, just for transparency i will be utilizing a fund manager for two days, using approx $300 USD of the funds.Working on implementing a PHPBB forum on the main website to communicate.In the coming weeks i will be hiring a writer for creating and working on a a solid roadmap & technical whitepaper, every good project needs a solid base. In between my main job im coding what i can for oracle, proving to be slightly more difficult than expected with the voting system, but i will get there.Locking this thread due to accusations, FUD & death threats. Will unlock for main updates.And just for the record, i am not san2ok, he is a valued investor and not part of the oracle team. Im not fussed with negativity, you wont stop that on these forums, ill just keep head down and continue on project and deliver when i can, replying and fighting off FUD is proven to be an waste of time. Please note that i do have full time job, so i can not be expected to be online 24/7. Ico is finished. Im not too sure im happy with all this negativity, im trying to do good for the community, and i get hate and riddiculed and accused l, its not exactly the best environment for developing a new platform. Thanks all for participating, bounties will be given out over the next week, and an update will be posted shortly, looking at setting up our own forum to get away from all these strange users posts and accusations You make a very valid point, and i will address these non-issues in the upcoming video conference, and explain how i will combat the differentiation between videos and targeted attempts. The conference will be capped and uploaded to youtube for those unable to view it due to different time zones.At this stage it will only be iOS & Android.. but if i get enough support i can add windows phone to the timeline. appreciate your assistance and support! i will contact you via pm over the next days. well here we are in the final 7 hours  total of 49.23 btc raised so far. That is incorrect, the tiers started late. Feel free to check back tomorrow to make sure the crowdsale has finished. Just for your peice of mind. There were multiple tiers, this is the final tier. 15hours remain for the final tier crowdfund.. So no not too lateTo participate : http://oraclesector.com bittrex showing a little love     hence the upcoming update.. not vert good at secrets am i   appreciate the support.. not long to go now  official developer and team update will come with crowdsale end. Just a bit of a quick ann i threw together, let me know what you guys thinkDAPPSTER is a Lisk-based currency. DAPPSTER is a blockchain application platform and crypto-currency, which offers an all round solution for Node.js and JavaScript developers to deploy their own blockchain applications. DAPPSTER Apps are written using existing web technologies: NodeJS and JavaScript. DAPPSTER will use Forgers in the same way as how Lisk is using.Developer Leader Jan WestWho is Jan West?Linkedin: Jan WestJan West is the developer leader of DAPPSTER and is fluent in C, C++, Java and Node.js. He used to work on accounting software before starting to work on DAPPSTER. He is proponent of Linux and opensource software. In his freetime he play Counter-Strike with my friends and hack together DIY electronics.Developer DmochemiczWho is Dmochemicz?Dmochemicz is one of the main developers of DAPPSTER. He will be responsible to make sure that everything is running smoothly and will be part of our development/test team. Dmochemicz is also the person that is responsible of creating all marketing materials that can be used for events in the future.* Block Time: 10 seconds* Round Time: ~17 minutes* Confirmations for Final Transaction: 6-10* Supply: 100 million * DPoS* Ticker: DAPPSTER The total coin supply is 100 milllion. FacebookDLISK White paperDLISK White paper - WebsiteSource CodeOnline WalletIssue ListBlock explorerFaucet 1Faucet 2 just a few ideas.. i like things simple   wow im impressed by that technical whitepaper. This kind of professionalism will get us noticed   that was just a quick design.. will work on a complete redisgn in the next few daysif you wish to offer your thanksplease support the Oracle Project: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1570693.0 This has nothing to do with me, and if you think im a scammer then do so, does not affect me   pretty sure they both were looked after and developed for months and made people ALOT of money both hitting above 5m market caps, with no funding.. what can $RISE do with 1.6mill behind them?they both x100 coins... Alty is a decent team leader.  37btc total raised so far, not long to go. check the above quoted post or the OP for the countdown timer. Quoting for transparency   Dapp coding going well, ready for a beta release. Big update in the coming days!
appreciate your input and support guys   ill just keep my head down coding and bring the best possible platform i can, and silence the non believers   Everythings a clone of bitcoin  doesent mean they dont have multi million dollar market caps  The fact is with this solid development and professional team, its hard for the proce not to soar over the next few monhs Anonymous Dev - CheckIm far from anonymous - check the OP, my name, personal details & experience is clearly shown New BCT account - CheckAccount created in 2010, one of the first few hundred on this forum, one of the original bitcoin supporters.SCAM.. SCAM.. SCAM..Ok.. you are entitled to your own opinion.You cant just go from thread to thread yelling scam and expect to be respected.    you know what thats all up to the chain, if enough runners upvote you then yes   thats the beauty of it- if your making a positive gesture towards the world or making people happy, id say its an upvote. fud somewhere else, our project has been proven legitimate - ends in 16 hours = https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1570693.0 buying a few of these for future pumps   buying some of these, looking legit these fudsters really want cheap coin eh    Thank you. Good to get some publicity!Just for transparency, we will be purchasing a premium listing on Bittrex with part of the funds  9th August UpdateFinal Crowdsale Tier is ActiveCrowdsale Participation: http://oraclesector.com/Final Tier: Day 6-9 [ACTIVE] [Raised 6.72 ฿] The third tier investors will gain coins @0.000020 ฿ per coin.37.2BTC raised so far. Thank you!Thanks for the kind words! Thank you appreciate that, will put in OP shortly. quick attempt. not sure if you have learning difficulties or your just a bad fudder   we have gone up over 20% on no news at all, holding strong with a max today of 1571satyou really should have brought when you had the chance    bittrex showing a little love   looking legit, full support here. PM'd  7th August UpdateFinal Crowdsale Tier is ActiveCrowdsale Participation: http://oraclesector.com/Final Tier: Day 6-9 [ACTIVE] [Raised 1.72 ฿] The third tier investors will gain coins @0.000020 ฿ per coin.31.2BTC raised so far. just whalespeople with this kind of money dont simply buy up $40,000 worth of rise at random, there is a plan. Im positive there will be a large price increase. 7th August UpdateFinal Crowdsale Tier is ActiveCrowdsale Participation: http://oraclesector.com/Final Tier: Day 6-9 [ACTIVE] [Raised 0.72 ฿] The third tier investors will gain coins @0.000020 ฿ per coin.30.2BTC raised so far. Your quite right, this kind of feedback is excellent, as its only in BETA stages, and i can add and modify as i go. I have something similar in store for anti-cheating, involving blacklisting, and possibly only accepting submissions recorded directly from the Oracle App, and incorporating checkpointing on lodgings.i think this is truly an innovative idea, regular mining is just a waste of power and devices, this way will see you in pocket, and shaping our future. Its all positives. Appreciate the support.Apple accepts blockchain apps on a conditional basis, if its a direct wallet to send currency, then usually no. If its a Dapp with blockchain lodging, then yes, i have already spoken with support, and it will be getting lodged into TestFlight for review.For android there will be no issue, as the APK will be freely available.Added, thank you.Possibly, please PM me with samples of your work.
Developer Updatejust thought id update you all with some progress of the current main Dapp. Will be lodging into Apple TestFlight Beta over the next few days, should be quick and painless as i know the guidelines for publishing apps and i'm using my work account. Please note this is not the final product.I will require a few testers shortly, if you have an Apple TestFlight account and an iOS device (iPhone 4 and above), please PM me.Android devices will follow.Quoting for transparency, currently 24.2BTC raised. Excellent, appreciate your efforts   Tier 1 has ended with 22.33 ฿ - tier 2 has started.Quoting for transparency, currently 22.33BTC raised. 25 minutes to go.Quoting for transparency, currently 22.33BTC raised. Hi there, could you please PM me your details and ill look into it manually for you.I do see a log for the matching email with your username, and seeing it only just obtaining 3 confirmations just now, only after 3 confirmations will you receive the confirmation email. I have combated this by revealing my full details/name in the ANN. 8+ years commercial development experience with tech stack of C# .Net; Asp.Net MVC; HTML; CSS; and Javascript (& Jquery), i have a passion for web technologies & hold the ability to prioritize a varied workload very well.- Knowledge of Xamarin; PhoneGap / Cordova- JavaScript MVVM frameworks (Kendo UI, Angular; Native script)- Experience in web services & RESTful APIs- Proven native application development in both iOS & Android- Experience in end to end development from design through to app store releaseCurrently only myself, but with funds collected i will be looking to hire a new experienced ( on a similar level) developer to assist with the graphical UI and future Dapp's on the roadmap (unreleased).Pay It Foward! - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xxrpO9vPeY0Just a video that offers inspiration on the concept. Appreciate that, thank you for supporting the Oracle Project.Quoting for transparency, currently 18.33BTC raised. My opinion, i don't think a $55k market cap would be hard to top with the future ongoing development. As it stands we only have a $5k USD market cap.But at the same time its your own finances, perhaps look at previous ICO's with around the same market cap and make your decisions from there.one word i will say, im dedicated. I will be kickstarting the Dapp by doing a few rounds of my own pay if forward acts. Hi there,There are 7,000,000 ORC available. If the crowdsale sells out there will be 105BTC raised in total, and start with a $55,000 USD marketcap.There is none to be hold by myself.The coin supply will be determined on crowdsale end, depending on how much BTC has been raised.As any unsold coins will be burnt.We are currently sitting @ 10.33BTC raised with just over 19hours remaining.Ive just included this information in the OP. yes currently activePlease refer to this post i fully support this project, i think RISE will go far.and for a breath of fresh air check out the Oracle project: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1570693.0 How Does A Homeless Man Spend $100?https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AUBTAdI7zuY 45,961,451 viewsmost videos are under 1 year old - averages to 130k views per day.Three German students surprise a homeless guyhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X0gA2mxbjSY22,113,398 viewsWith thousands more like that.Helping those in need are actually some of the highest rated search results over 2013-2016The average is about 5$/1000 AD Views, times this by many videos being uploaded.I think those calculations speak for themselves.All this is positive buy pressure in the order books of ORC.This is not the only revenue model, there are and will be other investment opportunities incorporated. Also more development, more Dapps, professional advertisement campaigns, the works, this is only just the beginning. Thankyou.To all members there is now a countdown timer located in the OP, and in the above post. i do appreciate all the translations, it means alot and i will see to it that you members are remunerated for your efforts. Thank you, appreciate your work.On a side note - 3 hours in and we have raised 2.18 ฿ already with 43 hours on the clock till Tier #1 finishes and Tier #2 starts.Will work on getting an official countdown timer over the next few hours after i have finished the delegate section im coding. Crowdsale Participation: http://oraclesector.com/There will be 3 tiers over the complete 9 day period.Tier 1: Day 1-2 [Active] [Raised 10.33 ฿]The first tier investors will gain coins @0.000015 ฿ per coin.Tier 2: Day 3-5 [Pending] [Raised - ฿] The second tier investors will gain coins @0.000018 ฿ per coin.Tier 3: Day 6-9 [Pending] [Raised - ฿] The third tier investors will gain coins @0.000020 ฿ per coin. There are ways to combat this, with the voting system in place, there will be a vast number of voters, in which I'm positive we could distinguish between genuine and fake. There is alot of man hours and alot of going into this, with modifications along the way. I will be working on a blacklisting technique, in which constant false uploaders will be blacklisted, with reputation levels to prevent multiple new accounts. Similar to the way ebay runs its reputation system. On the 11th of August the first build of the wallet will be available for the public, along side the Android & iOS app. (run through TestFlight.)Will responding to various PM's over the next day or two regarding language translation bounties. cleared that up in the OP, apologies for the rough PRE-ANN, this will all be revamped shortly. Thanks for the support, I'm fairly deep into coding this platform myself, the extra developer will be hired for future assistance and to roll out new features at a faster rate.I believe in power in numbers, together we can all make a change.
The ProjectGreetings blockchain enthusiasts, i am developing a self-regulating chain, with my main objective is to progressively restore faith in humanity whilst simultaniously generating positive income for in the form of an investment platform, with my own custom Proof Of Aid system in which i will be implementing into oracle. I plan to create a blitz of attention all targeted at helping people in need, this generating the butterfly effect, or what we like the call 'the oracle effect', shaping our future.How does Proof Of Aid work? With a simple pay it forward act.1. Perform an act of kindness with video evidence using the Oracle Dapp. (feeding the homeless, helping the elderly, protecting the environment) Pay it forward!2. The instance will be reviewed by oracle noderunners, which will in turn upvote if it was infact an act of kindness, after it is deemed valid via Proof of Vote, It's permanently lodged in the chain.3. Receive your stake, similar to mining. Except with a positive effect on the future of humanity.We will be releasing the iOS and Android oracle Proof of Aid Dapp.Simple concept, one large step for humanity.Whats in it for Oracle noderunners? (voters)Oracle noderunners will also receive a stake, making the Proof of Vote system profitable.Who decides how many coins each act of kindness receives?The blockchain decided based on how many acts of kindness are currently in the system, rather similar to mining, less participants = more stake.What if i upload false evidence or order to cheat the system?You will be downvoted, and not accepted into the chain, therefor not receiving a stake.Investment PlatformAs you all know, act of kindness videos go viral and receive mind-numbing amounts of attention, so i have come up with the idea that all videos are to be uploaded to YouTube under one Oracle account, generating views, generating income, income then used buy coins on the exchange, thus turning Oracle into a successful investment platform.Donations[/b][/size]If you do not wish to participate but wish to donate towards the cause please use the following address.1HJhsfkBf9UNPU6GdGi46FqJefrMv8tGBkWho am i?Brett Hitchcock, coder turned bitcoin enthusiast turned entrepreneur. I have a strive for excellence & success, Im an original bitcoin supporter and investor (account from 2010) one of the first few hundred on this forum. Over the years i have come to realize we are slowly loosing our simple way of helping each other out, assisting, after all i believe that is why we are on this planet, to help each other, no matter black, white, young, old, we are all human beings. Compassion needs to be regained. If PokemonGO can send millions of users out in public all for the sake of a simple game, i believe the Oracle Dapp can strive to push us as simple humans into the public to help others in need, gain media attention, and claim success.8+ years commercial development experience with tech stack of C# .Net; Asp.Net MVC; HTML; CSS; and Javascript (& Jquery), i have a passion for web technologies & hold the ability to prioritize a varied workload.- Knowledge of Xamarin; PhoneGap / Cordova- JavaScript MVVM frameworks (Kendo UI, Angular; Native script)- Experience in web services & RESTful APIs- Proven native application development in both iOS & Android- Experience in end to end development from design through to app store releaseCurrently only myself, but with funds collected i will be looking to hire a new experienced developer to assist with the graphical UI and future Dapp's on the roadmap (unreleased).Note: this is an experimental project, it could be many months before completion, so therefor all crowdfund funds are treated as donations and not as a token of value. There is no guarantee the project will be completed.This is my part-time venture, and i will work on it as i have time. holding these strong, it will pay off, such a low marketcap holding strong, id say the bottom is here.news monday should give a nice boost! Yes seems legit, im sure the developer had 1.6million dollars to throw at his own ico only to dump itfudders these days.. at least work on your approach. plans? have you read the roadmap? theres a bunch of innovation in there set to take place in the next few months. Looks like you have posted 30 times in a thread FUDDING, for what reason? if you didn't invest why would you intentionally want to drag it down?I know why, because you are trying to invest, you want cheaper coins.I see this as a positive, i'm happy that you want RISE.This is the absolute bottom, only up from here. nice professional update, just what we need. keep at it, the price will reflect the professionalism   Rice is loosing ground? what you talking bout sushi for?buying up all these cheap coins.Devs just got new macbook pros, workstations and servers, and moving into a new building next week, all looking up.Just wait till some real development starts happening, and polo notices  ill support you to the end rise, i see potential and dedication. keep up the good work. jump onto $RISE before the pump id say, if you guys want genuine profit with stability. quote from slack when asked whats nextjdr0dn3y [5:15 PM]  working on onboarding devs, waiting for incorporation paperwork and non-profit status filings to process. Getting some additional infrastructure setup, finding some places to go present to start spreading the RiseVision name. I have some meetings over the next two weeks that should prove interesting, but I cant disclose anything significant about them until after.interesting   you will not see 1200 sats again  over 6 years i have made 3 investments, bitcoin, dark/dash and now RISE.i also haven't worked a day in 5 years, yet i live like a king.I keep quiet, as you can see registered this account in 2010, haven't felt the need to post until recently, purely to support RISE.  We need a desperate thread for the peasants who keep begging for their twitter bounty, just stop, its been addressed, and its coming.why fill the thread with spam because you desperately need $3 in bitcoin.Price looking up, team looking up, ready to $RISE what is this? why the new thread? Great news, looking forward to using iOS wallet. looks like things are really moving along here   any more info? roadmap? future? looks very basic There were 100m in the initial distribution, there is an ongoing amount to be forged over many years, whats so hard to understand about this?Bitcoin acts the same way, every coin acts the same way.Once we all get our votes in, they will lower the rewards for RISE. Looks half interesting... any kind of roadmap available? hmm interesting concept   may get in on this. is the source available? after voting you would assume it would be lowered, and with that the price will rise.
