I still do not get what this has that got to do with dogedice.me confiscating 38 BTC from me 3 years later. Was justice not already served when you posted my information and took the ability for me to get a job or any sort of real-life prospect? You have additionally tried to serve justice by finding these so called "victims" and reimbursing them. The most ironic part is that the only person you've reimbursed is not even someone who had played the games, it was someone who invested in the creation of them. Where is the 37.4 BTC now Quickseller, and why is it there? Answer me that honestly. It's the least that you can do after legitimately ruining my life over gambling-induced greed when I was literally a child. I have not gotten a single cent from dogedice from this scenario and he can say that himself, and I did not use any confiscated funds to play anything. The funds in dogedice that is in question in this case were deposited from my wallet and I can easily prove that. Majority of what you're saying is completely fictional with no source or proof and backed by nothing but a concocted memory that you claim to remember like yesterday.Why are you creating misinformation here? What is your motive?  This doesn't make any sense...BitDice confiscated my 38 BTC and has not given me any form of agreement to get my funds back. BitDice said that they would reimburse my "victims" from investor based games I ran 2-3 years before my funds were confiscated, then they would decide what to do. They returned 0.4BTC to someone who wasn't actually playing the games but rather invested in the creation of them (that one failed). After that no one has been successfully able to claim anything back.I did NOT receive any funds back from bitdice at any point in time since the funds were seized. That is a blatant lie. BitDice still holds my 38BTC and I am still waiting for it to come back.I don't know who you are or what you are trying to achieve, but get your facts straight. JD has absolutely nothing to do with the fact that BitDice has taken my funds and has not returned them.  It is now 2021, bitcoin is worth $50,000 USD and I have not received a single cent from BitDice and Alex still with-holds my balance of approximately $2,000,000 USD. I am in a massive amount of debt, I am depressed, I am unable to get a job due to the information posted about me online, and the only thing I truly believed that would change my life (cryptocurrency) is now changing everyone elses life while I sit here in debt, while watching a casino owner hold what would have been the foundation of my life for an entirely bullshit reason.I just want my btc back. The hope that I will get back what is rightfully mine is, as of this post, the only thing keeping me getting through life. I have nothing else. Why are you so upset about it if I do? I have every right to post as I wish, again, as I said earlier. I am not breaking any rules and I consider what I am doing to be giving investors fair warning as they will incur a loss in the very likely result of  settlement. My purpose isn't to get the owners attention it is to make sure no one is unaware of potential losses which could be incurred later on. This is a more than fine justification to post. If it really hurts your feelings, stop reading and posting. Quite simple. "Stole funds" is a black and white fact. > I had a 38BTC Balance in the bitdice website> it was confiscated and given to investors unlawfully (a modified TOS which was only applied once I had a large balance) > my history over 2 years prior was used as justification to convince the community I wasn't entitled to the funds (though this is considered unrelated and will not hold in the court of law)> two years on I am financially able to legally retrieve this amount> it will most likely come from investors pockets> I am creating the discussion for investors to raise concerns of reconsider their positions to minimise losses once settlement is completeDo not say things like "that has been proved multiple times" without referencing. The only thing that you have that you consider proof is others opinions. I will continue to reply as much as someone replies to me. This is not trolling, this is called "responding"For the record, Joel_Jantsen, how old are you? I can't honestly presume anywhere above 18. I'd suggest keeping yourself out of these kind of discussions from now on as it's clear you have no idea what is actually going on here and what it means for investors in the bitdice token/bankroll. The owner of this thread stole funds from a users account, and the balance will most likely be paid out of investor pockets. This is more than an appropriate place for any investors to be made aware of and/or raise their concerns about potential losses on their investment unrelated to the casinos performanceAs I said to a previous user, I am not breaking any rules and my posts are on-topic. You are not a moderator nor an authorative figure of the forum. Please do not act as such. Originally, the funds were to be dispersed to those who were involved in my investor-based gambling games. This was then modified to being donated to the bitdice bankroll, after no one tried to claim anything back (since majority of them were aware it was gambling to begin with, or were not looking to pursue). It's been 2 years [1], and it is now clear that Alex has pocketed the funds for investors and has no intentions of dispersing funds back to the players of my games. This, as far as I am concerned, is vital evidence to prove that what has occurred was not an "act of a good Samaritan" as he originally made it out to be [2], but rather a casino owner modifying & taking advantage of their TOS. In other words, theft.[1] Post made in March 2017: [2] Thread Title: Dzeros has been found, funds seized, preparing to reimburse victims.Alex is not a figure of authority in any jurisdiction, he is a casino owner. By law, he has no right to make judgement as to whether the funds are "legitimate or not" unless he has substantial proof that they aren't. He proposed to reimburse the funds to the players of my games (which makes no sense as all players knew what they were getting into, since it was advertised as gambling), and did not. He proposed to take legal action, and did not. The amount of lies in this thread alone is enough to show that he is untrustworthy, a power abuser, and a liar. No one can contest these obvious facts, the evidence is in only one of his posts. Alex pulled an account I created 4 months in advance, and had not been used since, to claim that to claim that I broke the terms of service. He did not ban me in the 4 months that I continued to play with smaller amounts, but chose when I had a 38BTC balance to do so. As well as this, there was no such statement in the TOS prior to the confiscation, archives of the TOS prior to the confiscation proves this. Additionally, casinos are permitted to take any financial damages caused by the breaking of the TOS, if you believe that a judge will deem an account created and last used 4 months prior to the confiscation justifies 38BTC being confiscated, you are grossly incorrect.Regarding your question inquiring why I waited so long, I previously did not have the capital, legal knowledge or resources to pursue, now I do. There is definitely no time limit to lodge any valid legal case. I have also been waiting for Alex to lodge a legal case against me for over 2 years, I waited & nothing happened. I think after this amount of time it is safe to assume these statements made by Alex were no more than fresh air.Since the case is against the casino and the 38BTC was donated to the investor bankroll by Alex on behalf of investors, in the event of settlement the balance will be paid from such. Now that the bankroll is now crowdfunded & tokenised, this will most likely end in a dump of Bitdice tokens to pay the balance. There is absolutely nothing wrong with me giving caution to bankroll/token investors that in the event that settlement occurs, they will be the ones to pay, not Alex. All of the arguments I have presented will hold just fine in court, and I will receive the balance back. A users uneducated opinion on this public forum (who clearly does not know the situation in full/understand the law) does not change this fact. Since this is a public forum, I am allowed to respond to any post I wish to. You are not a moderator, and I am not breaking any rules by posting what I am posting. Therefor your requests for me to stop posting are nothing more than insignificant.Thank you Direct admission from Dogedice.me himself: Putting aside my past, and focusing on bitdice, it does not matter who I am or what I did 2+ years before the fact they robbed one of their users of 38BTC, and updated their TOS at the time of the event to add to their insufficient justification of doing so. This just won't fly in court. I know it, Alex knows it, and anyone who looks at the black and white facts knows it. The reason I have posted here, is this could be a hit for the Bitdice token & the casino as a whole once the settlement is complete. Since Alex pocketed the 38 BTC on behalf of BitDice investors, this means investors will take the 38BTC loss, not Alex. This is something that should be considered for anyone holding the token or funding the bankroll...for the safety of their investment.  You mean this evidence?The above supposes that Alex reached out to the Australian Federal Police, because I allegedly of breaking the following sections of his terms of service on his cryptocurrency casino based in Curacao (this sentence in itself is enough to make your sentence in bold laughable):My response to #6. is that the account in which was used was not accessed for over 4 months of the funds being confiscated & alex was aware of the same ownership of the accounts when the account was created. This is provable by the registration date and last login date which alex will be forced to provide. Alex will also need to prove I accessed this account anytime near the period in which I had the 38BTC. Good luck with that my friend.Oh, and then 19. is basically saying it is broken because I allegedly broke #6. Now here is the cherry on the cake...Prior to my case in 2017, these entries in the terms of service saying that "we can take all of your money if you have multiple accounts" never existed prior to my scenario. And the even better part is I have the archives of the previous TOS, prior to my situation, thanks to a helpful bitcointalk member who shall remain nameless until the case is over.If you really think Alex is still trying to take me into a legal suit for my actions as a minor after these 2 years, actions in which he had absolutely no involvement in, he's living in a fantasy land. Who is he representing? The 3 "victims" which briefly came forward, one of which has "Today I was going to do something, but I have not finished doing nothing from yesterday" in his signature? Good luck getting him in court. Or how about the russian, which he claimed was me making an alt and did not even get access to this funds anyway. Or the other, yulx, who has been the only one refunded to date as far as I am aware. Bear in mind this guy actually invested in the creation of said hyips, and he refunded him, lol!And as I said earlier, if I have to pay the consequences for my actions as a child to get back my 38BTC, then bring it on. Sionara bitdice & token.   You are not defined as the community, and you concluded that. I was not sleeping, I was gathering coins back, now I have enough to pursue this legally. Legal actions for theft, no matter what the digital asset, is easier than you think. Completely wrong. Personally, I would have a lot more satisfaction seeing the token & casino fall after the settlement is complete.  The administrator of this website "BitDice.me" is soon being prosecuted for theft of 38BTC+The case will be pursued against the casino & its owner in the coming months, unless an agreement is made between the owner and the user he stole the funds from approximately 2 years ago. The administrator of this website "BitDice.me" is soon being prosecuted for theft of 38BTC+The case will be pursued against the casino & its owner in the coming months, unless an agreement is made between the owner and the user he stole the funds from approximately 2 years ago. I have been waiting for OP to do this for a long time now. And I still invite him to do so as it will end in me getting my coins back anyway. Scammers Profile Link:  https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?action=profile;u=238641 - Alex - Owner of BitDice Casino Reference Link:  https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1046791.0Amount Scammed:  Approximately 38BTC Proof of Payment:  What happened: > In the periods of 2014-2015 at the age of 15-16 Years Old, I ran Investor-Based Games which were advertised in the Gambling section of this forum. > As a consequence of this, at the age of 17 years old (a minor) my information was publicly released to the bitcoin community, for what I believe to this day, was NOT a crime, since I advertised these games in the appropriate gambling sections and put the necessary statement of risk in the Terms of Service, which everyone should read before using a service that promises to "double your money" or offer obviously-ridiculous returns.Though in saying this, I do not say this to justify my actions during this period of time, and do not agree that it is an honest income. Just like I do not agree that operating a casino is honest income, as it preys on the weak-minded and labels it as entertainment. Moving on...> Shortly following, I illicitly gained access to the dogedice.me bitcointalk account for about 30 minutes before putting the login information in the signature of the account, which resulted in the retrieval by BitDice casino approximately 1-2 hours later. No financial damage was caused to BitDice casino. > I had gone on a hiatus from crypto communities & focused on my final years of schooling and while studying crypto trading from 2016 onward. > On March 09, 2017 (almost 2 years onwards), I had approximately 38BTC in the BitDice Casino in an account which I had played on for over a year without issues. This amount was confiscated and justified by the aforementioned events being:1. Investor-based games that had absolutely no relation to Alex from BitDice casino, 2-3 years prior. 2. The temporary breach of the dogedice.me BitcoinTalk Account in 2016 which caused absolutely no damage what so ever to the BitDice casino financially or in any other way shape or form. In the thread linked to the date above, Alex had asked the community whether to release the funds to me or reimburse them to my "victims" from 2014-2015 (again, 3 years prior to confiscation) before realising that half of my victims, were only me pushing volume through my games anyway. This fact gave him the realisation that I was going to get something back either way, whether it be the full amount or just over half of it. This lead to his final decision to keep the entire amount.I had fought and fought on this thread for days, defending actions again from years prior that had nothing to do with dogedice and if did had no where near an impact on him or his casino. I gave up...and took another break from crypto, as my past as a mischievous child obviously wanted to continue to haunt me. > In May of 2017, I signed up to BTCPop.co with the handle "Cryptorealm" which I used to take loans for trading in an attempt to recover from the theft of my small trading fortune. The community here was well aware since the beginning of my past, my identity was public and known. I had nothing to hide.> During September of 2018, I explained my entire past to the community in one of my BTCPop loans. Detailing almost the entire chain of events so that I could put the discussion to rest in my future loans.> Today, on the 2nd of June 2019, I am calling Alex from BitDice Casino to provide the necessary information to pursue him legally.Additional Notes: Since I was robbed by Alex at BitDice casino, I have not fallen from my crypto-horse. In fact, my journey and abilities have only become stronger, in much better (and more ethical) ways than before. I have:- Gained control & ownership of 2 legitimate community cryptocurrency projects (refuse to disclose for obvious reasons UNTIL this case is over)- Taken over 40BTC in BTCPop trading loans over a period of 2 years and paid over 3.5 BTC worth of interest and fees. - Formed a close network of fellow entrepreneurs, traders and project owners, who support me and my work.The above has allowed me to continue live a crypto-based life, quit my job, all of my education & studies, and live with the money I make from trading, which to this day I am extremely grateful for. While I have remained stagnant with $10-$30k capital every month, my prospects have only grown. I have not gone up anywhere close to 38BTC, and had many close calls down, while paying for offline expenses, building projects and doing what I love, trading crypto. But now, I am at a point where I can't stand to continue on this journey knowing that Alex from Bitdice is keeping me from unleashing the potential that I have dreamed of unlocking for over a year know. I know my capabilities, my skills, my experience and myself. All I am asking, is for the ability to take back what is mine. I am requesting that Alex from Bitdice gives me the necessary information to allow me to proceed legally. I have waited and lately HOPED for his make-believe legal action threats to come true. Now, I am ready to make the first move.I have already received legal advice from many third-parties. I have completed a lot of research since I was robbed and I know almost certainly that I will win hands-down when the evidence is produced in court. If it takes consequence of my childhood mischief, then so be it. That is life.Thank you for reading. I am still waiting for this legal case.Meanwhile my 38BTC is still in the hands of BitDice casino after 2 years, and has not be reimbursed to anyone who played my High Yield Investment Program (HYIP) Games. Which I would like to make extremely clear, occurred 2-3 years BEFORE the funds were confiscated by BitDice casino.I will be making a thread shortly, in an attempt to recover the funds that have been stolen from me, with the reasoning that I ran games that offered ridiculous returns, in the gambling section of this forum, which I and some players profited from.  It has been over a month and not a single claim has been made for reimbursement from programs I operated almost 3 years ago: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1827898.msg18847698#msg18847698 I am going to be taking legal action against BitDice Casino for the unfair confiscation of 37.6BTC in the coming weeks/months, unless alex would like to come to an agreement in the next 7 days.Thank you. It has been over a month and not a single claim has been made. I am going to be taking legal action against BitDice Casino for the unfair confiscation of 37.6BTC in the coming weeks/months, unless alex would like to come to an agreement in the next 7 days.Thank you.
If dogedice approved your request so be it. I'm in no position to accept or deny your claim purely because if I accept it, it will be treated as if you're one of my altsGood luck to you if you want to join alex in his pointless court case  This is not me, and I deny the claim purely because it's obvious scam attempt.Quickseller don't you think I could buy accounts and make it look a little more convincing than a newbie throwaway account? Or use a better excuse than "I used a xapo wallet"?Anyway, no, this is not me, and on my part I'm declaring the claim as an attempt to get free btc. Alex is more than welcome to look into it if he wishes. It's not hard to find the Btcbackers public address, in assuming he's just fine some digging and licked the highest deposit from that program. I still haven't been able to get the addresses, I've been stuck on mobile for almost a week though as soon as I have Pc access I'll post what I have nope, not an accomplice, just an investor in the development of the games i've been busy offline and haven't had much computer access, though i will be getting this to you soonsorry for the delay. He was not an investor in any of my programs but rather an investor in the operation of them(Eg a new game was being developed he would invest and that would go towards coding/development in return for a share in the overall profit)So even if he provided a signed message I don't think it would have made much of a difference Sorry, I wasn't reading, just like you haven't read this whole thread due to being a sig spammer  There's no rush, take your time Good for you buddy, thanks for your pointless post.I will have this info posted in 24-48 hours and you can do as heavy as analysis as you wishI give permission for alex to release 1BTC to if you are able to completely analyse the chain in order to distinguish my addresses from investor addresses, that way you can know if it's "me and my alts" posting for compensation or a real investor. Do you agree with that? Didn't you just say that you wished you were a scammer?Pretty sad thinking in my opinion. Sounds about right coming from a sig spammer though You wish you were a scammer? Maybe someone should keep an eye on you How much you getting paid per post bud? Even worse, you're a sig spammer, lmaoLearn how to read before you post.  what ever you say buddy. Not hard to post 4 letters and accuse someone of being a liar, come back when you have something constructive to contribute, but I doubt so since you're obviously a cheap shit spamming for your sig campaign Are you being serious? I already told you several times if I wanted to do this I would have already done so. I haven't ripped off or deceived any users since my last encounter with alex, I've been honest and legitimate and built good reputation on other forums, I'm not interested in trying to rip alex off (for my own money, lol?)Besides, when he comes with his legal action I am very sure that the funds will be given back to me with the evidence I have anyway. So I don't mind waiting. Thank you. Out of curiosity, did he provide ALL emails or just the ones from our very last deal?As for Lay-Z i do not see any signed messages despite that I have requested them via PM or at least an address from NextPonzi to distinguish whether or not he actually was apart of the program or not. And what about those who no longer have access to said addresses and/or set different payout addresss other than the ones used for deposit (ie someone who deposited from an exchange)?Anyway you all do and say as you wish, if anyone makes a claim and it is verified I'll send it to alex. I highly doubt any claims with the exception of NextPonzi/PonziFast simply because everyone knew these were games and expected loss in the first place aaaaaand what exactly is your point? I still don't believe that I have to pay, I stated all risks in my games and that's all there is to it. Alex, yourself, and the community obviously do not understand that (probably because you never read the TOS and saw how clear the risks were stated) so you have all forced me to go ahead and repay so that is what I am doing.Those 38BTC should be in my hands whether I am repaying or not, as that 38BTC has nothing to do with the sites I operated 2 years ago. Alex on the other hand thinks so, and he is using this as an excuse to keep the 38BTC, so to that I say I am going to repay my victims with the 38BTC as if its not in my hands, I would rather it in theirs, not in alex's.No, I went from, I'm not paying anyone because that's what was in the terms of service in each program to, i will repay the parts where i owe, where users deserve to be refunded such as in the nextponzi game where I realise it wasn't as clear as it should of been. I'd rather the funds in their pockets than in alex's, end of story. whatever you say boss. that's true and that was done. The main focus is actually the NextPonzi and FastPonzi scams as I very much agree that the players in those games were mislead. I strongly believe that the other games especially the ones operated in 2014 will not have many claims due to the fact that you are right, in most games like those numbers were inflated in order to make it look like they were big hits, which is why the figures quickseller constantly reminds us all of make me cringe, since they're very inaccurate.Think of it this way, I am making an effort to repay the sums that I can, which I very well know accumulate to less than 25BTC, I am hoping that after everyone has been paid alex will pay me the winnings in which I won on his site, fair and square. By trying to scam him by making false claims will only cause more argument and drama, and I'm not interested in that.  expect what you want, alt accounts cant sign messages from investment addresses, can they. I am offering refunds, I will verify who ever was actually invested, and Alex can decide "whether they deserve a refund or not"Whether you think I am in a position of authority or not is a joke, alex is holding my 38BTC from funds I earned from legitimate sources, I am offering to make repayments on the games that are being viewed as scams. If Alex doesn't process legitimate claims then i've done the best I can.
I have made a compensation thread here open for 1 month to those who have participated in my investor based games and lost funds. Compensation is available here:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1827898.0You must provide enough information to get compensation. Alex will process all claims since he is in control of the funds. I will verify all claims before anything is sent. please do not post unless you have a claim or a valid comment to add. I would like to keep this thread as clean as possible in order to make processing claims easy and fast. If you want to discuss, discuss here: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1819622Greetings,Since Alex/Dogedice.me refuses to escrow the 38BTC he confiscated from me or return them to me to operate this repayment thread myself, He will be in charge of making repayments for the claims made in this thread.This thread will EXPIRE after 1 month for amounts UNDER 0.05BTC. I am hoping that the remaining funds after as many compensation claims that have been made within 3 months can be released to me though obviously this is Alex's choice. Any amounts over 0.05BTC will still be refunded if they are claimed after the 1 month period even if the funds are released back to me. This thread is strictly for the repayment of the HYIP games operated by the alias 'dzeros' and any accomplices with such programs. I want to first very clearly outline that the websites that are included in this thread seized operation in 2013-2015, and the terms of service very clearly stated that all "investments" were RISKS and that you may not get your money back. Though, due to circumstances that I am pressured against, while I still stand by the terms of service that should of been read, I am offering 38BTC worth of compensation for these websites IF that much BTC is claimed.Some programs will have higher return %'s than others, due to partners who took higher/lower %'s of profit, and some sites being purely operated by myself. I have the right NOT to disclose partners that are not already known unless there is any legal forces that demand to know these partners.I want to also be very clear that all of the profit made from these websites or reasoning behind their seizure was gambling. I admit, I had a very problematic gambling problem in this era and these sites very heavily funded my addiction. Obviously, I have somewhat overcome this (playing with only my own funds and what I can afford to lose) and I know that paying for my previous problems eventually has to be done. Below are the Investor Based Games that are eligible for compensation in timeline format, as well as the compensation rates available for anyone who invested in that program. I also want to highlight that since the last program (2015) bitcoin price has surged 300-400% and this HAS NOT been taken into consideration in regard to the compensation rate.Program/Compensation Eligibility List: Bit-Investors.com - Operators: DZeros - Year Operated: 2014 - Compensation Rate: 100%This site was created from a HTML themeforest theme (NativeChurch) which was heavily modified and recreated into an investment platform. I was the only operator of this site, it was completely manual and non-automated, and earned returns via Primedice. Once I busted the site closed, obviously I take full responsibility for this website and therefor offer 100% compensation rate.BTCBackers - Operators: DZeros - Year Operated: 2014 - Compensation Rate: 100%This HYIP was bought to you thanks to Quickseller, who sold me the account 'niothor' which enabled me to operate this site. The site was another HTML based script created from a themeforest theme. It did not do well, I do not expect many people to claim compensation for this site as it did not go past 1BTC~ holdings from what I can recallBTCGains - Operators: DZeros - Year Operated: 2014 - Compensation Rate: 100% Another HTML based script, another edited themeforest template. 100% compensation offered as there were no partners and this was purely my site.Bitcoin-Stocks.com - Operators: DZeros/Michaeladair - Year Operated: 2014 Compensation rate: 72.5% This site was originally created with the Bit-investors.com script, though heavily modified in order to be automated by Michaeladair. He received around 20-25% of the overall profit from this website for his work.NextPonzi - Operators: DZeros/WilliamJ - Year Operated: 2015 Compensation Rate: 100%This site was openly admitted to being a ponzi game, though on V2, no payouts were sent and everything that was collected was essentially transferred and gambled. In the TOS it did state that this could happen at anytime, though I do not agree with the TOS in this individual circumstance as it was not very clear. WilliamJ has already paid ~3BTC of the 13BTC taken, and I offer 100% compensation to the other 10BTCPonziFast v2 - Operators: DZeros/WilliamJ - Year Operated: 2015 - Compensation Rate: 50%PonziFast was created for a quick buck. Exactly the same script as nextponzi, the earnings were divided between myself and williamj 50% each way. In this case, I am only offering 50% compensation and WilliamJ is responsible for the other half.Bit-Dividends.com - Operators: DZeros/WilliamJ - Year Operated: 2015 - Compensation Rate: 50%Bit-Dividends was a HYIP with very high interest returns and an automated platform using blockchain API. The site earnings were divided 50% between myself and williamj... I want to note that we were actually exploited and this caused the closure of our program, though this is not an excuse, while I did not profit from this program I still offer 50% compensation as I can not prove that we were hacked nor can be bothered trying to prove it. This was my last project with williamj.BitcoinPonzi.io/AutoPonzi.com - Operators: DZeros/WilliamJ - Year Operated: 2015 - Compensation Rate: 0%The reason why both of these sites offer 0% is because at the time they were deemed closed, the balances were 0BTC (as they were actually paying as promised during the time they were online). They were taken offline and the games ended with 0BTC balances at around the same time NextPonzi closed.Crypterest.com/CryptoSplit.com/InvestCryptos.comI am unable to provide any compensation (yet) for these programs for the following reasons:- I am unable to contact the partner in which I worked on these sites with- The servers in which had bitcoind that ran the API were not mine, they were my partners, which I had limited access to- I only promoted and provided support for these websites in exchange for payment. I was not fully in control of the websites, the funds, and where the funds went.How to acquire compensation1. Fill in the following form for EACH INDIVIDUAL CLAIM:Code:Amount lost: Program/Website: Bitcoin Address used for deposit/transaction: Bitcoin Address where payment was supposed to go: TXID of your transaction:Signed message from either Repayment address/Deposit address: 2. I will verify this claim based on the information I have.>> If "Verified" I will post the amount owed to you based on the compensation rate and call @dogedice.me who will release the agreed funds to you>> If "Denied" you have either given me insufficient information to prove you were actually invested or you are blatantly trying to social engineer free BTC out of this situation. Either way, unless you provide more informtaion/proof I can't help you.I will be online and respond within 48 hours to each claim (I will do my best to do this anyway). Delay in payments is not under my control, Alex/Dogedice.me is a busy person, don't expect him to attend to your  claim within minutes.I am doing the best I can to cooperate the community demands despite being constantly vilified and attacked for actions I fulfilled while I was a minor 2-3 years ago.  What part of your thick skull is not understanding that the 38BTC alex is holding right now has nothing to do with the investor based games that were in operation two years ago? Can you both do us all a favour and leave this thread? You're doing nothing but contributing un-constructive crap. LmfaoLearn how to read kid. Take a hike. I'm offering to pay my shares to anyone who claims it. There were no damages to alex, if there were I already offered to pay them. I already told you both I really don't care if you take legal action outside of what the games were 2 years ago matter of the fact is this is nothing more than alex trying to get this funds back for himself via loophole in the law.Anyway, I've done what I can and my offer stands. I'm not cooperating with alex, he can threaten or go ahead and sue me, like I said, I talked to my legal counsel today and they told me this is nothing to be worried about as long as I cooperate with the terms I offered, which is what I am doing. If alex chooses not to cooperate well that will just make him look like a fool in court, if he decides to pursue his desire to put me "behind bars" lol how many times do I have to tell you to get most and let me handle my own business? I already told both you and alex to sue me and do what ever you want to do, I'll be prepared and honestly do not care. I've already seeked legal advice and I'm ready for what ever crap you want to accuse me ofAnd no Quickseller you are very wrong, you want me to cover the expenses including what the "profit" my accomplices made? I'm not forking out anything more than I took and I can tell you confidently this amount is below 20BTC.I am not labelling any accomplices nor outlining any blockchain evidence until the 38BTC is in dooglus's hands, in which then I will publicly label and organise repayments Alex can go ahead and start a class action against me, at the me of the day he will achieve a far worse result than what in offering right now. Kerimk2 was originally Williamj's alt which we both used as well as all of the "Ponzi" accounts (next, auto, bitcoin)Cryptosplit/crypterest/investcryptos etc were shared with another accompliceSpodermen/TheGambler are original accounts mainly posting in gambling sections and trolling Dmugetsu ran a hyip monitor that was legit though favoured sites in our operation The rest are either scrap accounts or not involved in any of the games I didn't charge back, I was actually limited due to being underage and those chargebacks were by PayPal, not y me, I was very much out of control of that situation.The charge backs accumulated to around $500-$600USDAs for those sites I can give ballpark figures for each and every one of those sites as well as my accomplices, and how much they received, IF the funds are given to dooglus and we sort it out that way. I do not plan on working anything out until the funds are out of Alex's pocket as it is obvious he is by fit to conduct refunds, as he has no idea what e is talking about.It's not easy ballparking figures as some times the amounts were faked, other times it was insiders putting money in to make the amounts look larger, there are many factors to be taken into considerationThe sites that can be verified since they were transparent are:Bitcoin-stocksBit-investorsNextPonziPonzifasrBit-dividends BtcbackersBtcgainsBitcoinponzi.ioAutoponzi.ioSince their operations were done from only one or two addresses The other sites however are very hard to ballpark but I assure were only 3-6BTC each as many people were paid and the way it worked was once it started paying more than deposits were coming in the site would close. Not to mention 50%+ from those sites were given to an accomplice I do not wish to name, as he developed the sites and I promoted them (this can be verified by alex) Read here: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1819622.0Read options in poll.I have asked the funds to be escrowed with dooglus that way I can repay anyone who claims they were scammed in the various HYIP schemes that were operating in the period of 2015. My offer: Funds go into escrow for 1 month and those who successfully prove with signed messages they were apart of the schemes will receive 70% back from their investment. Remainder will go back to me as I won the funds from BitDice fair and square.Why 70%? 70% as the terms of service clearly stated the risks of participating in the programs. Alex's offer: keep the funds for himself and his site (theft) and start a class action lawsuit against me (Which will not succeed though he can go ahead and try) Please read the full situation in the thread link above before posting WtfHow about you put the funds in escrow with dooglus and we repay as we go. I have all the addresses involved in NextPonzi and unless this guy legitimately go scammed and can prove so with a signed message, then he shouldn't get anythingStop being a fucking idiot alex you are giving away free money to people who as little as claim to be investors in projects i operated.Let me and dooglus handle it and stop trying to be king of the castle. You can "class action law suit" on your own mate, Let me pay back who I owe. Still correlates with my reasoning being needed an account to make my post, funds being for that accountAnyway, I don't defend my actions 2 years ago, if you want to sue me for it again I invite you to do so, though again, this is not worth 38BTC and I still want those funds escrowed with dooglus while you do whatever you want to do. I want the funds escrowed with dooglus while he does what ever crap he is doing to prove that he is really taking legal action and not just using this as an excuse to hold the funds for a prolonged period. He has nothing to sue me for, and if he does he won't get far, which is why I believe it's nothing more than a lie in order to keep the funds for himself. Semi-Extort...wait, sorry, extort you for my own BTC? All I offered was that we come to an agreement or you'll be outed for your previous scam, which he have very solid proof that you worked with. Anyway, since you're so open with the report and the fact you worked with the Moolah.io scam, another user will be posting a scam accusation against you for the Moolah.io scam you worked with, which ended in many users out of pocket, very soon. did you see the post I linked? alex has already disagreed to escrow, and plans on keeping the funds (for himself) while he "prepares for legal action" Alex has already disagreed (because he wants the coins for himself)See the image posted here when I suggested the idea: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1824474.0 If QS's claims were true I would have been in jail 2 years ago when my dox was posted. QS's claims as he states himself are no more than guesstimating and still does not factor in that what I operated were investor games that stated the risks very clearly both where they were promoted and in their respective terms of service. As for the community, you mean alex and Quickseller sock puppets? There are many reputable parties who agree or somewhat agree alex does not deserve the keep those funds as I won them fairly from him and bis investors, I don't see why putting it in escrow is such a big ask, if his intentions weren't to steal and cheat to get the funds back into his pocket. Because how am I supposed to take a Costa Rican company that has many legal loopholes to court? As alex himself stated, you can't. Or else I would. He has already said he will see me in court and to that I said go for your life, but just because he's taking me to court doesn't mean he can hold that 38BTC that I won fair and square from him and his investors, and keep it in his casino bank. All I ask if the funds to be held in escrow (dooglus) while he prepares himself to prosecute me for "crimes" I committed while I was a minor, in which I've already offered countless times fk compensate for if the funds are released. Then take me to court for those accusations, I have more than enough proof to defend myself from those accusations which mind you,  caused no damage what so ever to alex or his casino, and give me the 38BTC that has absolutely no relation to those accusations. This is getting more and more ridiculous every time I see new people post.All opinions here are getting more and more bias'd every time I read. "100BTC" stolen? The only person who has ever laid that accusation upon me was Quickseller and now it seems half of the accounts in this thread are accusing me (without evidence) of the same thing. What a joke.It's obvious this thread is nothing more than sock puppets now. I'll see alex in court, though all I ask is that the 38BTC be put into escrow while he takes me to court over actions that never had anything to do with him in the first place.The reason why he won't put it into escrow is because he wants it for himself and his investors, that is the definition of a thief in this situation.
It's not about what you think I do or do not deserve. The 38BTC is mine, earned from legitimate ventures, and in no relation to the accusations laid upon me 2 years ago. If we were living in 2015, I would accept Alex's decision, but we are in 2017 and he is confiscating funds from me over something that happened 2 years ago. Let me correct youHe has already stolen the 38BTC I am innocent. All of my sites stated the risks, there was no deception therefor there was no scam. If you don't like that, to bad for you, but that's how it was. Alex also has no right to take 38BTC from me over events from. 2 years ago All of my sites stated the risks in the TOS, there was no deception, some people won and some people lost.Alex on the other hand has downright stolen 38BTC from me A split? You mean you and Alex's alts vs real opinionsThe majority was in my favour, and even still, alex has chosen to steal my coins Again twisting words you liarI did not try to hack bitdice and steal investors money. when I got access to your BCT account I caused no financial or reputation damage even though I was very much able to. You think you are innocent, like I said, I will see you in court. You have no right to take 38BTC from me over me taking control of your bitcointalk account for 20 minutes 2 years ago. What an absolute joke.I told you, escrow the 38BTC while you prepare your legal garbage so that it's not in either of our hands. You do not deserve the 38BTC and nor do your investors, I won it fair and square from you and never stole a cent from you and your investors. The proof is there in the thread. Alex is a thief, my account is locked with 38BTC and he refuses to release it OR hold it in escrow while he sues me over events that happened over 2 years ago. See you in court buddy. You're wasting your time and your money, trust me.The fact you won't escrow the 38BTC while you are preparing your legal garbage is yet another indicator that you have stolen the BTCScammer. ALEX IS A THIEF & BITDICE IS A SCAM - 38BTC was stolen from meDo not play at bitdice casino. Alex will confiscate your funds and not allow you to withdraw. I did not break a single rule while playing, and yet, he refuses to release the funds.See more here: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1824474.0 Follow up: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1819622.160Update: the suggestion of putting the 38BTC in trusted escrow while alex "prepares for legal action" was quickly denied. It's obvious that alex has stolen the 38BTC and is using this legal bullshit to keep the 38BTC in his hands for longer. I am now banned from chatting on his site and performing any other actions...but surprisingly, still allowed to deposit and gamble (hmm wonder why)Proof:What happened::  Alex (BitDice Casino Owner) has confiscated 38BTC (Around $45k USD at the time) from me over events that occurred in Early 2015 (over 2 years ago) and refuses to release them.Scammers Profile Link:  https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?action=profile;u=238641Reference Link:  https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1819622Amount Scammed:  38BTC (~$45k USD at the time)Payment Method:  BitcoinProof of Payment:  N/APM/Chat Logs:  https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1819622Additional Notes:  Alex is a thief, I am suggesting the funds be put in an escrow (preferrably dooglus) while he carries on with his legal bullshit.Issue: Alex has locked 38BTC in my BitDice account, over events that occurred in 2015. Despite these events barely effecting alex or his casino, and despite playing on his casino since its version 4 launch, Alex has decided to lock my account at its near-peak balance of 38BTC."My Side" of the story: Note that we are living in 2017, and my balance is being locked over events in 2015, which have nothing to do with AlexAlex's "Resolution"(?):Or in other words, We will not tell you what we are suing for, and we will hold the funds in our bankroll for as long as we possibly can without anymore reasoning that Terms of Service rules that were broken over 3 months ago, despite the issues were resolved at the time the rules were broken.My Reply: Nothing more than an excuse to hold the funds and keep them in your possession. What are you going to sue me for? The access of your bitcointalk account in which you recovered and face no defamation/financial repercussions or Running HYIP games that stated all of the risks in which you had absolutely nothing to do with? Either way, ridiculous, and you are wasting your time. Again, nothing more than an excuse so you have 40BTC extra in your pocket. A THIEF is what you are.How about you give them to a trusted party such as Dooglus to hold onto them while you waste your time? I believe you are making this statement in order to hold the 40BTC since someone just won 100BTC from you last night. You are losing money and now you are confiscating big winners such as myself.Put the BTC into an escrow, preferrably Dooglus, and then I will believe you. I am ready for whatever crap you lay upon me, and have more than sufficient evidence to counter anything you have on me, as well as the fact while I did do some wrong in my young ages which I have offered to compensate for, you still will not allow me to do so. So, I guess that's your own problem.Do not interfere with the case between myself and yulxy, I will pay him, if he admits what I asked him to admit. All he needs to do is tell the truth and post his address and then I will pay him.I will be making a scam accusation in the meantime, as you have stolen my BTC that has nothing to do with my actions in 2015. You are a thief & crook alex. Call me what you want, though at least I did not deceive my users.  Alright keep on masking yourself, I have the emails I know what went down if you want to keep on denying that you invested in my making these games then so be it.Alex has no right to interfere with this situation as it has nothing to do with him. I'll deal with this situation myself, and right now you're being dishonest.After you post a statement stating that you invested in me and developing ponzi games then I will gladly pay you out of pocket BEFORE alex releases my funds. If not, then you're just as much of a liar as alex is and I'm not going to bother listening to your garage.Your resolution is simple:1. Stop fucking lying and admit that you invested in the development of my HYIPs2. Once the above is done I will pay you 0.4BTC (post your address)I have already checked all the emails, I have them all here, its pretty baffling that you think that I don't actually have the emails and that you want to continue vilifying me.Not to mention, previously before your investment I had paid off many investments before that last one to you. I was very true to my word with you and the time I stopped replying was the time Quickseller posted my doc, so you can thank him for me going AWOL and not replying. I never had intention on scamming you (if I did i would never have paid your first, second and third investment totalling to over 3BTC in your pocket)What you are is a lying and ungrateful piece of shit. Now I've told you how you can get your money back, by stopping the lying and making me look worse than what I already look thanks to Quickseller. Again, post the truth, and your address, then I will pay you the instant I see your post. It seems the last investment you made with me was in fact in a trading venture though you had previously invested in hyip venturesIf you agree with that statement then we are on the same page. Do you agree?And again, I've already agreed to repay you 0.4BTC after the funds are released, why is that such a problem for you? I still have all of the emails which I am happy to expose that you were well aware you were investing into the development of ponzi based games Do you want me to expose them? I mean I have agreed to pay you, but now you're making out as if I deceived you, which is nothing more than insulting since I have not even argued that I owe you money and that I am agreeing to pay you.Until you admit what you invested in, I'm not paying you a cent. If you deny it once more and make up some sort of garbage, I will expose the emails and the community will see how much of a liar you are being. I'm getting pretty sick and tired of you thinking you are the boss around here.Was Alex involved in the transaction between myself and yulx? No he was not. Are any of the funds in the bitdice account from yulx? No. As I've stated several times all of the funds from my games were gambled away on both BD/JD 2 years ago and there is blockchain proof of this that both dooglus and even alex himself can verify.Why does alex need to mediate my business? He was never involved in it in the first place until he involved himself. I will sort my own business out. I pay my debts to those who have no involvement in my games. Yulx invested in the success and development of these games, I lost contact with him and was never able to repay him. Now he is here and I will pay him as soon as I have the funds to do so, which are right there in that bitdice account. He has not contacted me in over a year and I am not up to date on his new contact information though now that he has shown himself I am more than willing to repay what I owe. Already contacted this user and more than happy to repay him 0.4BTC if the funds are releasedAny other claims against me I am happy to sort out if they are raised with full proof as yulx has presentedBear in mind, yulx invested in the creation and operation of my investor based games, not actually in the games, I would like to point that out  2 years ago....And that's not even his excuse for locking my account.  https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1819622.0Do not play at bitdice, alex will lock your funds if he feels you deserve to be locked even if you have won fair and square.I won some BTC totalling my balance to 38BTC and alex has frozen all of my coins and refuses to unlock them. I have not broken any rules stated in the terms of service during the period in which I made my deposit and gambled.I will update my post if alex unfreezes my account but until then I would not recommend gambling on his site Despite obvious majority agreeing this situation is ridiculous and that the withdrawal should be processed, alex has still not unfrozen my account and I am still unable to login. Why would bitdice investors have any say in this? I won the BTC fair and square from them. Awarding this to them is absolutely ridiculous. That first sentence made absolutely no sense. I have nothing to hide
When I say I haven't been involved in any shady activity and that the funds are legitimate, I mean that. I was not involved in what you just posted, if you want to go ahead and waste your time trying to frame me for it (like you have in many scams that have past since my dox) then go right ahead. I am telling you now, that I was not involved.The fact that when you search my name it comes up with scams I've never even heard of before, purely because you've laid accusations that have nothing behind them but your opinion.Edit - after doing some reading this is an altcoin scam, when have I ever been involved in an altcoin development/ICO scam? This is ridiculous. Honestly. All you're trying to do is pin more bullsbit on me to make me look like the bad guy, as you can't accept that while my investor based games were unethical, they are not as serious as you originally made them out to be. So now you're resorting to accusing me of more serious accusations, like the one you posted above  What baffles me about your argument Quickseller is this... you know that I gambled away all of the earnings I earned from those websites 2 years ago, and yet for some reason, 2 years later, you think that the funds in that bitdice account are not legitimate?You think that after two years I've decided to deposit and play? Seriously, get a grip.I would agree if this was a few days after the sites, even at which I still believe i deserve the withdrawal, but two years later? Come on, you're living in the past. Again, stealing or scamming is making a deal and not fulfilling your side of the deal. With all of my websites there was no guarantee, the deal was if you played the game you may win or you may lose. Some people won, some people partially got their money back, some people did not get anything back. There are winners and losers as the same with any game, so no, I am not a thief at all, the websites did exactly what they said they would. I agree with CD, the fact that you can't understand a couple of simple sentences just goes to show you shouldn't even bother sharing your worthless and uninformed opinion here. Lol, how do you want me to prove it buddy? I'm pretty sure Quickseller can prove this as he saved copies of it to distinguish my sites (I used nearly the same TOS on every site)If my statement wasn't true I'm sure he'd be all over it and would've already called me out. What he is saying is that the games I operated very clearly stated that if you invest you may get paid or you may not, as it is very risky using these services. Anyone who used my games knew that some people would win an some people would lose which is why the games were promoted in the gambling/investor based games section Alex's TOS on the other hand blatantly says "I can steal your coins at any time, for no reason" as he himself highlighted earlier. Which is ridiculous. Bullied? Laughable comment. I'm not being bullied here buddy, I've had money stolen from me and had false accusations laid upon me, I am here defending myself and providing clarification for people (like yourself) who do not fully understand how hyip's work, how my games worked, and the situation in general.Costa Rica don't even have a working legal system and you want the funds to be sent to them? What a joke, may as well send the coins to a burn address.And also, why would you do this in the first place? Those coins are not connected to any of my games that were in operation 2 years ago, they are legitimate, so if anything the coins would be forwarded to me without any problem. Alex has no reason to send them to the police....what's he going to say, "he tried to extort me 2 years ago"?Anyway, like I said, I invite alex to involve authorities, I have more than sufficient evidence to prove any claims in my favour. The bottom line here is if the withdrawal isn't processed, alex has stolen the coins, and I will be more than happy to let the wider Bitcoin community aware that if tbey use his casino you are subject to your coins being stolen from you at any time. Your views and the way you speak is very similar to Quickseller so I am going to respond to you just as I do to Quickseller.HACK - incorrect term, correct term = phishEXTORT - was not successful, as well as this no damage was caused, as well as this it does not warrant alex to steal 38BTF from meEXTORT - "" same as aboveAs far as I know deleting PMs isn't illegal, if  I were to distribute them that's a different story.If you don't think I should get a free pass, I'm inviting you or alex to sue me. You have my information and it won't be to hard to do, but the fact is you know I have sufficient evidence against all claims, which are all extremely minor and not worth sueing in the first place, and again, took place over 2 years ago. The rule that alex is talking about was broken 3 months ago and I did not realise it was a rule (since on many sites you are allowed to play with multiple accounts, such as Just-Dice and the old BitDice v3)I even talked to alex and apologised for accidentally breaking the rule and he said it was fine and just not to use those accounts again, since which  I have not touched them since that day.It is now March 2017, 3 months after that incident which was sorted out.That rule enforcement 3 months after the fact is nothing more than an excuse to take my 38BTC. Simply share my story, which there is definitely nothing wrong in doing so.I admit and never have denied my actions 2 years ago toward alex was not a way to deal with the situation you put me in Quickseller, but at the same time, if I caused any damage I would have and still am willing to pay for that damage, but the matter of the fact is that I didn't cause any damage to alex and his casino, therefore there is nothing for me to pay for...sure you may assume my intentions and not believe what my intentions originally were, though that is like trying to read minds, or convicting someone because of what you think they would have done, when in reality they did not do anything.As for my own investor based games I ran two years ago, I will sort that situation out for myself. This will be my permanent main account, I will sort matters from here, whether it be now or later, either way it has nothing to do with Quickseller or you alex. I do not need to be advised or guided by you both to handle situations that have none of your concern.Again, alex, when are you going to give us a date when you will make your decision? I think there is enough community opinion from reputable members (minding the newbie members and te trolls) to make it obvious that the funds should be released Legal action is merely apart of "further action"Sure I will seek legal advice to confirm that his claims are true, but besides this, legal action is not my only resort if my funds are not returned or a fair agreement is not come to. I did not attempt to access the sites servers where their funds are stored, I did not try to steal funds from him either. This is merely an assumption laid on me due to "my background" at the time (2 years ago)As for yesterday, or in the past 2 years for that fact, I have never once broken a single rule on bitdice besides this bs multi account rule which I though I sorted with alex at the time and actually chatted to him about. I did not break a single rule while playing on the site yesterday. Alex locked my funds purely because of the events that occurred 2 years ago.  i didn't know confiscating funds or pressing the "unblock" button took several working days. Several reputable members have left their comments, is that not enough for you?Why don't you set a date so we know when you will make your decision, because what it seems like you are doing, is waiting for the thread to die out and leave the funds locked. Again alex tell me what your decision is, if nothing is decided within 48 hours I'll consider it decided that you aren't giving the funds back and I'll proceed to further action. You can continue to say I tried to rob you but that is not the fact. Again, you were never financially effected, you do not deserve 38BTC due to your account being compromised for 20 minutes. Not to mention this event happening 2 years ago. Make your decision instead of posing delays.  1) Hacking? Phishing* A lot minor crime. I did not force my way into alex's account, he clicked a link which gave me access to it. A lot different to hacking. Again, no financial damage or deformation to his casino took place, the evidence and reasoning behind why I did so is also strong.2) Admitted to being apart of a group that steals money? What the heck are you talking about. The group was created by someone else who wanted Quicksellers identity. I joined that group to find his identity as he posted my dox, as far as I am concerned watching on to try to find the person who posted my information on the web, is not a crime3) Already have evidence to back up from tax evasion4) No intent to steal, I already stated what the intention was. As well as this, it wasn't successful5) Reasons for this are in the thread, consequence would not be as great as what alex would face, I'd accept charges for it Again, I have evidence to back all my claims and to counter a,b,c. Not only was it two years ago, they're completely separate cases, in which have nothing to do with the theft of the $45k alex has at this point. 1. Exactly, a new excuse for why he's taken the funds comes up every page of this thread. 2. No, they weren't, and I invite alex to notify the authorities and lodge an investigation of the funds in bitdice currently if he really wants to waste the authorities time and resources. And by confiscating the funds you are also committing a felony crime, worth $45000Two wrongs don't make a right alex. I didn't gain access to your account yesterday, it was two years ago, and again, it was 20 minutes access to your account. I never touched anything regarding your casino or finances Let me reply to each and every one of those points, give me some time. I'll go real in depth for you. For my own references, I want also want to know the law in Costa Rica that apparently allows you to steal when you feel like it alex. Don't give me the "how ironic coming from you" because again, I never stole, people invested in sites where they knew the the risks, some people won and some people lost, that's how it goes. You on the other hand are thinking of every little excuse to steal from me, petty revenge. Please, englighten us when you will be making this decision.  I still have BTC in my back pocket, if I don't get a withdrawsl within 48 hours I already plan on seeking legal advice. Obviously I'm not going to let $45k that I rightfully earned be stolen. Alex and anyone else can presentl any information or evidence for the "scams" in court, I already have all the proof I need to defend my actions, if I didn't, then I would not be sitting here defending myself right now.I warned chance of loss in every tos on every site. I knew very well that by giving a guarantee or not stating risks at least somehwhere on the site would land me in trouble. Of course I have all sites backed up as well as copies of every tos for each site. Again, anyone who participated in the programs agreed to the terms of service which clearly stated the risks.I can't login to my account, therefor it's considered closed. I have not legally broken any rules at the time I played and won my funds. The last time I accessed a duplicate account was 3 months ago and I made the chat aware it was me, I was not aware multiple accounts were not allowed. Again, this was over 3 months ago, I've been using blackjack since v4 was released. Why didn't you close my account there and then 3 months ago? I even made the chat aware that it was blackjacks alt, I didn't hide it. Again, this was 3 months ago and now all of a sudden this is your reason for seizing my funds?If this is your final decision, tell me now, and I will continue taking what I think is necessary action to getting my coins back.Youre joking. This is ridiculous, a complete low blow.. I stated on chat that I wasn't aware of the rule and that you did not have to credit the other account. Go ahead and check that account, if I did win any wager bonus I DID NOT withdraw it. On top of this, I DID NOT  refer my self making these accountsAgain this was over 3 months ago, why is this coming up now? This is just  another excuse to try and confiscate the funds for yourself.Again, tell me your decision, so I can take necessary action. I am not letting you take $45k USD that I earned for a rule I broke 3 months ago and was unaware of breaking, as well as this, openly told you about it as I did not know about the rule. Go and check the chat logs.His reasoning is a rule I broke and openly admitted to (as I did not realise of was a rule at the time) 3 months ago is now his reason for confiscating my funds. I told him not to credit the other account in the wager comp, I also told him in chat if it was ok and If I recall he said it was fine or else he would of banned me there and then.This is a huge low blow, worst excuse to confiscate funds. This whole situation is becoming one big joke.Tell us when you plan on making this decision.  Again. Another person who doesn't know how to read. Read the whole thread and get back to me. Cloud mining? Why do people keep saying its cloud mining? None of the sites I ran had anything to do with cloud mining. Cloud mining scams are a lot different to the games I operated. Go read and come back, your post is invalid, like half of the users posting at this point
Another assumption.You can't think of what could have been done or else the answers to that question as endless. If I wanted to do damage I could have, there were sensitive PMs in there though like I said they were not my intentions.You can predict what could have been done but that makes no sense, what was actually done? Nothing. Thanks for the fantastic contribution to this thread, I'm sure alex and his casino will last very long with your valued advice.In all seriousness, mind your own business, this is even dumber than Patatas thread. I bet you read one sentence and therefor made your pointless post. Alex, you are sitting here predicting what I would have or could of done, but not what I have done. And that is nothing. I did not do anything on your account, besides delete some PMs. I know what my intentions were and if you don't believe them then that is to bad. The fact is though that again, you did not have any financial loss or any damage to your casino. You can not hold 40BTC ($45,000USD) because I accessed your account for 20 minutes and caused no damage to you, your casino or your finances, that is ridiculous.You also can not take my BTC, for actions I committed 2 years ago. Whether you think the investor based games were scams or not, you have no right to hold $45000USD 2 years after these sites are gone, on top of that, you had no involvement in. You can not take my BTC for the account situation either, as the accounts have not been logged into for over 3 months and you knew that those accounts were mine at the time I created them, it is only now that you are using that as an excuse to take the 40BTC in my account.Even quickseller has somewhat opinionated to process the withdrawal. Even dooglus has opioniated to process the withdrawal. The only people who are disagreeing are people who have not read the thread properly or newbie accounts which are completely trash comments anyway, and the people who have said that you are doing the wrong thing by freezing the funds are the people who have somewhat of an influence in this situation. The user who posted my dox, the user who owns another casino here...the rest of the comments here are no more than spectators who are expressing their freedom of speech. They have no part in this situation, only you, I, and anyone else involved in the events 2 years ago do.You and I both know that you did not suffer any financial loss and you freezing/deleting my account with 40~BTC in it is no more than petty revenge because I accessed your account. $45000 is not revenge, it's theft, you are not doing this for the sites I ran because you were more than happy when I was losing BTC from those sites to your site, but once I started winning, is when you got upset. And now that you realized it was me playing with funds that have nothing to do with my actions 2 years ago, you block my account when it was at its close-to-peak balance and when I won 15~BTC from you and your investors. perfect example of another one of the bs accounts who don't know how to read. take a walk pal. Was anything sucesssful? No. If it was I'd be happy to repay it. I told you the reason why I needed the BTC already, i am getting very sick of repeating myself Who are you anyway? Why are you posting from a newbie account, can't you post from your main account? Newbie comments I'm automatically defaulting as alts of alex or Quickseller, because all newbies who have posted here somehow know so much about this situation and have so much interest in making sure I don't get the BTC. The only people who have that similar interest is both alex and QuicksellerAgain, if any financial damage was caused by my actions then so be it, I will compensate for it, though the fact is no damage was done, and freezing 40BTC for something that happened 2 years ago is again, ridiculous, and again, theft without a valid reason or anything equivalent in damages to be frozen for. A. I was not apart of a crime ring I was apart of a group who seeked to find Quicksellers identity, just as he found mine, that link was nothing more than a tool to achieve that. Call it a crime all you want, that still has nothing to do with you stealing my 40BTC 2 years laterB. Yes, it does. I lost all of my "dirty money" at Just-Dice, shortly after losing the other half on your site under dzeros. Once my dox was released I took a break and built reputation on other forums. The money you have locked has no relation at all to the funds from the investor based games I operated.To be specific I deposited 5BTC from one of the sites into bitdice and turned it to 100+BTC over a few days under DzerosLater I lost majority of this BTC though still had some left over from the winnings I deposited 1000 clams (around 5btc at the time) to just dice in which I turned to 18-19k clams I later lost 10k of those clams on dzeros and 8k on another account "BTH" and that put me back to 0, shortly after Quickseller tried to extort me for 100btc under a fake email threatening to release my soz, when I didn't fulfill his request he released my dox. @dooglus can confirm the amounts I lost on JD.You think that two years later and the money I have rightfully earned originate from sites I operated over 2 years ago? Get a grip.C. Now you're just lying. You even said you may donate it back to investors of BD until you were attacked for it since it was such a stupid and unfair decision to make.D. Punish  me for what? You were not involved in any of the investor based games, you were merely effected for 20 minutes when I took control of your bitcointalk account, though you think that is worth 40BTC? How about you ask the investors in these games to come forward, I bet they won't because they all know that the terms of service stated it was a risk, the sites were promoted in the gambling section for god sake, how much obvious does it need to be that it is a game and not a real legitimate service?First you said you held the 40BTC for extorting 2 years ago...then you realised that's to petty of an excuse to take my 40BTC so now you are involving actions that never involved you and minorly effexred lther people (as well as twisting my words and making up claims) in order to keep the BTC. If you want, I can make a list of the excuses you continue to be pulling out in order for you to keep the BTC and out of my control. You can keep on doing so but at the end of the day, if it isn't back in my control the matter of the fact is you are stealing my rightfully earned Bitcoin for events that happened over 2 years ago that never financially effected you or your casino. That's the bottom line here Are you mentally challenged or just do not know how to read? This btc that is in the bitdice account has no relation to the Hyip's I ran over 2 years agoIt is earned from legitimate ventures. Like I said my doc has been there for 2 years now and if I had done anything wrong or "stolen" anything close to what Quickseller states I'd be well behind bars. Though that is not the case, and this is nothing more than vilification and a situation blown way out of proportion.Just stop posting Patatas, you look like an idiot as it's obvious you have no idea how to read, sorry to be insulting, though it's true. Actually no, There's a difference between enforcing tos throughout a services life and picking and choosing when to enforce it like you have. You've used the TOS to steal 40BTC from me 3 months after the rule was violated AND I was not even breaking any rule while playing with that BTC, so no, it's not hypocritical at all.Impersonate users? Who did I impersonate?Extort, steal account, either way this has nothing to do with my 40BTC 2 years later. It had nothing to do with that at all. Like I said, this is your own personal vendetta because you're so upset that you lost your account for 20 minutes.Like I said hunt me down and do what you want. I haven't done half the things you think I did. Just because I did it to you when I was boxed in a corner and when my Dox was posted by Quickseller doesn't mean this is what I do on a regular basis. I did not join any criminals, I joined a group who had a vendetta against Quickseller, and watched to see if I could get his DOX JUST as he released mine.So you're saying it's ok to steal 40BTC? Good look on your casino buddy. I have bitcoin left, I am more than happy. To spend it publicising your opinion in thinking stealing 40BTC from events that happened 2 years ago (that did not financially affect you or your casino) is ok. I'm not threatening you, though I am searing you that what you are doing or planning on doing is not a good look on you, especially when these funds are legitimately earned and have nothing to do with my actions 2 years ago.  The difference is that my terms of service were enforced immediately at the time of operation and throughout, never modified or enforced at my pleasing or when a user hurt my feelingsAlex on the other hand is deciding to enforce this rule 3+ months after the accounts were created and have not been used since then, on top of that, when my balance is nearly 40Btc.If he really wanted to enforce this rule then he should of done so at the time the accounts were created, not 3 months later when there is 40BTC in my account and after I have won a considerable amount from him and his investors. That is ridiculous, and absurd, and mind you, theft. And FYI the money collected from my investor based games has nothing to do with you or Quickseller, that is my own situation I will sort out myself, and I do not need either of you to intervene with it. When I repay you can go ahead and verify all of the blockchain evidence I post, but that should not even be a factor in whether or not you steal the legitimately earned funds currently frozen in my bitdice account. That is ridiculousI say it time and time again, the TOS is what you agree to when using a service, if you agree to what's in the TOS, even if it says "you may lose money" and "information is not always accurate" then so be it, that is what you agreed to.I have not accessed those accounts in months. How come you are confiscating my funds now and not 3 months ago when I made those accounts? The IPs matched, how come you never had a problem back then? I'll tell you why, because now you know I'm Dzeros and because there is close to 40Btc sitting there. I bet if the balance was 1BTC this whole situation would never have been arised nor would you care about those accounts.Don't tell me you are confiscating my BTC for accounts that are 3 months old (and never made for malicious purposes) because that is nothing more than an excuse to confiscate the 40BTCAgain, believe what you want alex, I know what my intentions are, I couldn't care less whether to believe it or not. If the funds are confiscated then it is theft, simple as that. The fact you are working with Quickseller just goes to show how immature you are. Think about the long term and the consequences for you and your casino, even Quickseller has agreed that processing the withdrawal is the right thing to do, and I do plan on repaying the users despite how stupid and naive they are.And for the record Quickseller, the amount in that ponzi with Williamj was 13BTC, and again, the TOS stated loss was very probable. A. Sit there and call them scams all you wish, the matter of the fact is I made huge efforts to make sure the ToS protected me from any accusations like you have placed on me. All terms of services state the risk of loss, that representation of information on site can be modified and are not always accurate, and so forth. Basically after you read through, in summary, it says you may lose and if you do, there is nothing you can do about it. I made VERY sure of this when I created these games, I promoted them in the gambling/games section, yet you still call them scams and fraud? I did not run a cloud mining scheme guaranteeing profit, I created investor based games with the theme of trading as most HYIPs do, and I posted all risks in the ToS, again, as all HYIPs do.B. As you said accumulating such an amount (especially after the huge spike in price, at the time of scams prices ranged from 300-500USD...price is now 1.2k) is not easy, and of course, I have a lot of debt outside of here I have been settling. Refunding people who failed to read the Terms of Service are lower priority than the people who I keep in contact with and promise returns in my legitimate ventures. As for your "solution", I would not trust you with a sent of my money. You tried to extort me 100BTC and I have proof of that to when you originally found my dox, and now you think I am going to trust you with 38BTC? You can't even successfully escrow a transaction with your alt accounts and yet you think you are the right person to manage the repayments... and even funnier, you want a fee for doing blockchain searching? Get a grip. I don't know what has happened to you this past few years but you get even more deluded every time I see a new post.  C. You have over inflated this amount so much and base it off of winnings from Just-Dice and BitDice. The "100BTC" claim you made in my original investigation thread is very out of proportion, and I still have no idea where you got that figure from. There is no proof behind it, you keep pulling that figure from who knows where.D. I don't believe any financial damage was caused. Though, if you think so, then deduct the "0.5BTC" that I attempted to extort from the balance, if that helps you sleep at night.E. No one was financially effected from those links, they are never created intended on stealing and if they were I did not take part in it. Like I said, the group that originally made the link was out for you quickseller, and that's how I got a hold of it. Anyone who had the link could use it, all user/pw's were posted to /pass.txt on the same URL that was passed. F. Go ahead and make a court order, stealing 38BTC I rightfully won is a crime in itself, and I can assure all of those funds are from legitimate sources. So if alex wants to go ahead and dig his own grave in court, by all means. I have more than sufficient proof for all of my actions in the past ESPECIALLY the investor based games. Every single site I have archived, every single blockchain movement and address ever used I have the private key, I can prove every single action and prove my statements regarding the Terms of Service as well as all of my other actions and financial movements. It's been 2 years and my information has been public quickseller, don't you think someone would have pursued me by now if they have really committed a crime?G. If that was stated to me in the first place, I would have never touched BitDice. I mean it was never a problem for alex when I was 8BTC down on his website, but now I am 15BTC up and all of a sudden he's realised I am dzeros (after making no efforts to hide this fact) and wants to freeze my funds and confiscate them to bitdice investors. Coincidental is it not?H. With the ETF decision coming up this is terrible timing for freezing anyones bitcoin or crypto currency assets for that matter. So yes, there is a harm. Asking community questions? Sure go ahead, anyone with half a brain and who can read can realize that you have a vendetta against me Quickseller, the only thing you've achieved from your original investigations thread was your buddies saying good job. Besides that, all I've received are death threat phone calls, text messages, and attempts of deformation which I will hold you responsible for as soon as some bright spark releases your personal information. I hope you realize that your actions will come back to get you as well, you are not mr innocent here, you are far from it. Not to mention the constant deformation attempts on this forum, don't even get me started. (and all archived, by the way)I.  Again, "Stealing" is the wrong word to use. Even deceiving would be wrong, because again, I stated very clearly loss is probable, anyone who lost money to me were aware that this was possible before they used any of the investor based games I created. I want to again ask that both sides of the story are read. Many of the posts here are baseless comments based on inaccurate information or misunderstanding of what's been said. Please thoroughly read before posting, that makes all the difference. $45,000 is not a small amount. I'm offering to make an agreement with alex, I think we all know that the way this situation is not the right course of action, and this can have many repucussuons to him and his site. I am not making any threats, though obviously I'm not going to dismiss this matter if the decision is unfair or wrongly decided (such as confiscation or donation to himself or his investors, as that is theft whether alex thinks so or not) Sit there and say as you wish. Players in my sites up to ten folded their coins, others left with nothing, that's how it works. There is a whole industry surrounded by HYIPs go and look into it yourself, that is where my focus on promoting these programs were, not to those who are naive and stupid.And this is a crime? Stating: "By "Investing" you are taking a risk, you may be paid or you may lose"Stating the risks is a crime? Being honest and truthful about what the sites really are rather than giving false guarantees like most cloud mining scams?Say what you want, Patatas, if I were to be put on a stand in the court of law I am very confident there would not be anytbing to be convicted of, if there was, my information is public and I'd be there already. Sit there and say I do not deserve a thing, the reason why you are saying this is because you are most likely one of those users who do not know how to read a terms of service before using a service. 1. There's a difference between hacking and phishing. While both actions are wrong I admit, I again want to reitterate I never had any intention to damage alex nor his investors finances or casino reputation. 2. That sentence makes no sense and is in no correlation with this thread 3/4. You think deleting PMs and "threatening" is worth $45000?You sound just like Alex, I'm not laying any accusations though if it is I want to state that your justification for freezing $45000 are a little ridiculous and very improportionate, I'm sorry, because you never faced any reputation problems nor face any financial damage to yourself or your casino, and again, my intentions were never there to do either of these things or else I easily could have. I have already proposed where some of the Bitcoin will be going, and offered compensation to any damage to Alex for any damage done despite it being pretty clear none was done (despite emotional damage from what it seems?)I don't even know why I am bothering replying to your ridiculous post. Karma for what? For running investor based games that literally said in very clear text that "you may not get your money back?" I'm pretty sure scam/fraud are forms of deception, I never deceived anyone in any of my scams, as I made the risks of loss very, very clear. Even if you were to take this to law enforcement in any country (which I have invited many to do so in the past 2 years) I wouldn't expect an outcome that would please you. Are the schemes unethical? Sure, some people don't read the tos and therefor they're naive and stupid, though how can I help that? Call me a scammer and thief all you want, but at the end of the day I believe that this isn't the truth as in investor based games, there are winners and there are losers, and it is very clear that this is the case before, during, and after the program has operatedAs I've stated, I am willing to compensate those who participated, purely for the sake of setting things "right". Though I never guaranteed anything and I stared all risks in every single program, so loss should have been expected if you participated in the program. As I said, there are winners and there are losers in these games. Yes, I was. After my funds were made aware they were locked, alex said he will and I quote "let the community decide what they want to with me".Once the thread was posted I reserved the first reply and I prepared a response  in order to make it very clear of both sides of the story and the important details that are commonly looked over during cases involving me. For what reason? Nothing was taken from the gamblers (nor investors) of bitdice so why would this even be considered?I'm sure most can agree this is a ridiculous solutions, even to alex. Like I said I'm happy to come to an agreement with alex to compensate for any damage I caused, though as far as I am aware, I caused none. Nor was I able to fulfill the intentions I originally had, in theory, what I had done meant nothing to alex and it's more about the fact that I was able to gain access to his BCT account more than anything, in my eyes. Don't speak to soon. We will see what alex says to his response. The reason behind this is because I accessed his BitcoinTalk account, that is his reasoning behind freezing the funds. I do not believe that the HYIPs have anything to do with his decision but rather a mere another addition to his justification as to why he's frozen the funds. I have told you time and time again, do I really need to answer you again?I have 38BTC locked and in alex's hands, with a public dox against my name, do you really think I am going to sit here and lie and dig my hole deeper? Believe as you wish, I am telling you the exact reasoning behind my actions. It is up to you whether you believe it or not. Any idiot knows funds are in server wallets/cold storage, and not in site accounts (besides gamblers of course).
A. Yes, I gained access to his bitcointalk account. No, I did not try to hack BitDice nor did I ever have a intention to financially disrupt Alex's casino nor the investors funds.B. No, I never had any financial damage intention in mind, if I did this situation would be a lot different than what it is.C. Scams? No. Investor based games? Yes. I stated all risks in these sites VERY CLEARLY in the ToS. I made them for the players since the industry is large. Those who were naive and did not read the ToS is their own fault. I don't control if people read the terms of service or not.D. Cloud mining scams? No. Investor based games? Yes. Very, Very big difference. Cloud mining sites guarantee returns, Investor based games state all risk of loss to the people who decide to "play the game" or "invest"E. I have been in this community for a very long time, yes, though majority of my involvement is via HYIPs & gambling, and always has been this way F. Yes, I have won and lost 100's (maybe even thousands) of BTC, though not only has it been to operate the HYIP, though from the earnings on these HYIPs, as well as combined with my own money. If you read the ToS of all of these games you will see the risks and you will realize that all players know the risks.1. Yes, that is right, I'm not denying that at all.2. Cloud mining sites? What the hell is that crap? These games were your classic "doubler" games. Double your money in 100 hours, inspired by CryptoDouble and many other sites. As well as that they were "trading" sites. AGAIN, ALL RISKS WERE STATED IN THE TERMS OF SERVICE, THERE WERE NEVER ANY GUARANTEES OF RETURN.3. As stated in the chat, the link was created by a group who had it in for quickseller. Since he posted my information publicly, obviously I had a common interest to find out who Quickseller was, since he posted my dox publicly and inflated the amounts apparently "stolen" by HYIPs.4. I tried to use the account to post the message, I wanted the 0.5BTC to buy an account to post my message since at the time all my accounts were banned/not allowed to post, and there was no way for me to leave a thread that would gain attention. That 0.5BTC was the only way to get a reputable account to post the thread, or alternatively, use your bitcointalk account. I was unable to do neither since how fast your account was recovered. NO FINANCIAL/REPUTATION DAMAGE OCCURRED while I used your account, none what so ever.5. I tried to access your bitdice account, I did not once attempt to go through any of your servers or look for any of your coins. What would be the point? majority is in cold storage....It's like trying to knock down a brick wall with bear hands? Pointless.  If I had financial intentions I would have gone to a lot more effort than what I did, but like I said, I had done enough damage, why would I dig myself an even bigger hole than I was already in?The points you are raising are nothing more than attacks and trying to reason for you to keep the funds. notice that they are all about you, and your casino, in which I have never done any financial nor reputation damage.  If you knew anything about programming or web developing in general you would know this is the single dumbest security flaw a casino could have. This is a very, very stupid statement. I'm sorry to be rude, though that's the truth. there's no "super powers" when it comes to handling thousands of bitcoins of investor money, especially if someone can easily access that account.   Anyone with half a brain will know that casino funds are located minorly server/majorly in a cold wallet. Do you really think I am stupid enough to think that Alex keeps his investor funds in his dice account? Seriously.Again, I went back to BD with no hiding, nothing more than a different username. I've played on the site since our "confrontation", never used a VPN, never hid who I was, nor did I deny who I was when he confronted me. I have nothing to hide nor have I ever had anything to hide. The fact that now, on the balance I have which is locked, I am suddenly recognized (or alex is suddenly curious who i was in BD3?) as dzeros and now it is all of a sudden a problem after over a year of gameplay, very active in the chat and participate in many of alex's contests and competitions.  No, I bought this account years ago, and I can provide proof of this.I am more than happy to provide blockchain evidence of my "schemes" that I ran and the amounts that were taken. I want to be very clear that I had all intentions of repaying, as obviously my information being posted publicly is not something I want permanently, or at least without being rectified that I have straightened out the situation, despite that I did in fact state the risks in every one of the schemes that were made.Quickseller or alex, if you are interested in discussing privately, I'm more than happy to come to an agreement. Edit March 10 9:32am Server Time: I can no longer login to my account via desktop, though strangely I still can via mobile. My credentials show as "non existent". I'm assuming alex has disabled login or deleted my account.Posting as alias's: blackjack/dzerosI am not denying that I am dzeros, I have been playing on bitdice since it's reopening with the assumption that alex knew this in the first place. I have wagered over 350BTC with the site since it's new opening of Version 4, with no issues cashing out or depositing, until now with my peak balance being 38BTC~. Though, I accept alex's decision and I am calling the community to read this post carefully and make a fair decision. I am not hear to cause trouble, I am here to straighten out issues that I have caused in the past due to my own greed. Below is my shortened explanation of the situation.Around 2-4 years ago in the periods of 2013-2015 myself (and an anonymous accomplice) made a series of investor-based games in which had ran in the structure of HYIP sites. For all of you who do not know what HYIPs are:"A high-yield investment program (HYIP) is a type of Ponzi scheme, an investment scheme that promises unsustainably high return on investment by paying previous investors with the money invested by new investors. Most of these schemes work from anonymous offshore bases which make them hard to track down."I want to make it very clear that all of these sites stated in the terms of services that returns were never guaranteed and that loss was highly probable though some people (majority) do not read the ToS despite being indicated clearly on these services to read the ToS before proceeding.The money made from these websites were mostly gambled, @dzeros was an account I used on BitDice that made 80+ BTC from these site winnings. As well as this @dzeros made around 20k clams on Just-Dice during this 2015 period, again from a 1k clam deposit made from these websites. Both occasions, the BTC was lost back to these websites.After being accused by @Quickseller of apparently "committing a crime" and information being posted publicly after being tricked into sending my information by another bitcointalk user for a bank deal, an investigation was started on this handle + a number of other handles I have used.2 years later after earning money purely from gambling and offering services on other forums (proof of this is available if needed) I have earned a fair fortune which is now confiscated by @alex. Alex's account was in fact phished by myself, NO FINANCES NOR USER INFORMATION WAS ACCESSED. I was using the account to post an explanation since all of my posting privileges were disabled at the time by @theymos. The account was recovered and I was unable to post.I am willing to compensate all those who were involved in my schemes with part of the funds, based on blockchain evidence I have compiled against the accusations posed against me. I do not believe that @alex nor @bitdice should have the funds in their bankroll since they have never faced any financial loss (besides my winnings on their site) but rather given back to those who were naive enough to not read the terms of service stated in the schemes I ran in those years.The decision is up to the community. I do not believe that donating back to the bitdice bankroll is a fair conclusion, I do believe that partially refunding those who were involved in these schemes is fair, even though the risks were very clearly stated in all sites (I made sure of this).Again, proof is available to back all of my statements if wanted. I also want to reiterate that the funds are legitimate gambling/service earnings and I am more than happy to provide evidence of this from any of my clients from other forums. this is a very good example of trust abuse....plagiarism means you can not trust people when it comes to deals?I'm not condoning plagarism in any way but a neutral trust rating would of been more than enough. By the looks of things girlbtc runs a gambling game, now that reputation is tarnished because he used your work.Maybe someone should negative DT you for condoning signature campaign spam, but creating a signature campaign design? That would be just as absurd as this scam thread. In a 2 month period the best thing I can think of is altcoin trading, to boost your coins. There is no reason for a site to not show proof of their controlled BTC....If the vast majority request it, if the site is legit there should be no hesitation Replaced is a strong wordAccompanied is a better phrase conrgats!! I am buying Amazon.com giftcards (NOT AWS) for the rate that you offer.PM me. I am more than willing to use an escrow and will go first to trusted members. Found a weird bug....public profile and level system on my account show two different states? I was betting beforehand. The jackpot doesn't show in the biggest bets nor anywhere on the site hence I couldn't find the bet ID. just won the 0.5BTC jackpotUsername: blackjackalex can you share the Bet ID? I can't find it. Sorry but there's a lot of security issues buying resold VPS's...you have some sort of control and therefor I don't trust that.I'm looking for a VPS provider not a reseller. Looking for a cheap Bitcoin VPS that would run well with Bitcoind...that means a good amount of storage and enougj processing power to run quite a few daemonsWhat's the best and cheap service? Digital ocean would be perfect but don't accept BTC regard to dice things look fine.Small bug: "Convert BitDice Tokens" the "x" to close the window doesn't work. You actually have to click out of the window to get it to close.Small bug: Most footer and page links do not lead anywhere except for the page the user is currently on. though I have a feeling this was intentional for the beta phase.Small bug: Twitter icon is not linked to anything, simply an imageSmall bug: "Buy Bitcoin" is not linked (if it is supposed to be)Small bug: the dialogs on top do not close once you click out of them. Say you click your username, that dialog (including profile, sign out options) does not close unless you click it againDeposit bug: "Ethereum" will not generate a deposit address (stuck on "Fetching Address")All I could find in the beta. No major bugs from what I could find. Overall the new experience is great. Still the same super-fast dice experience and site performance the same if not better. (username: blackjack) I want to link my Bitcointalk name with BTCJam's. Verification code: 6f685d57-7b74-4776-a832-89661b7f7993 0.25BTC fixed price. has 2 default trust ratings from the same user.1k+ postshero in within 4 more activity periodsPM me if you're interested Looking to buy 1.5BTC with Cash Deposit in USA or instant online transfer with Bank of america.Please PM me if you can do this with your skype detailsTrusted members only, will go first for very trusted members...or escrow.
no only Canadian cardssorry Looking for trusted members who will buy my amazon gc's, denominations vary. I want a 70% FIXED RATE. Nothing less, nothing more.I, of course, want BTC.Tell me how much you are willing to buy. I will go first, but only to trusted members. I'll be carefully reviewing profiles.thanksnote: these are CAD codes. 50 and 100 denominations available thanks for the successful deal, i'll be sure to contact you if i need anymore. I received 0.1BTC which is double what i put in, as promised https://blockchain.info/tx/0311979e997c1c11bf8c8a51cd0851bd9ffe26a73e40ecdb47f6cb5ec6d74d71great that this is working for over a full round. sending you a PM as long as you can organize escrow, we can split the escrow fee. We will see what happens, it will be interesting to see what happens this year. it seems that everyones payments was made early.  early payouts admin ? Great report, thank you chalk the growth rate is steady which gives me a sense of security, i'm glad this site is being managed so well. Admin you should make a "Top Investor" or "Top Investors" table with the highest investors in your program. That would be a cool addition. Paid, only a few days from deposit back. Great site. Paid again, no issueshttps://blockchain.info/tx/bd011462908b6c642350b16c20386274673b55758665f0afdec9dd57d352ff0band yesterdays payment, I forgot to post.https://blockchain.info/tx/6a93ec5d610a2ffb489d3aea066d987d04111b01aa71c03d13d87d621ae2c167 Yes, coinbase is definitely considered an exchange. I realized I got paid early yesterday, and haven't posted my payment proof, I'll just post it alongside my other payment only an hour or so away  Great to see some financial report from the admin, good signs. paid for today as well, thanks chalk. received my bonus and first payout. thanks I am in: https://blockchain.info/tx/a6e64db18e1c7d199a0ea241f884a731f9afd3cce320e70e76a886d4e58f1d21bonus .002 btc, right? thanks, hope you follow through 0.092btchttps://blockchain.info/tx/dc69d9d377ab35f45ff5d49f269ecdfd216cb8418445fc6596a8c7a30cfeb691nearly at full roi! Paid again, 0.092BTChttps://blockchain.info/tx/0152534196cc8683c5f59f5566ceba8014c5ee064b207fdf5bb40200b2cade5bnot long until my next one is due
what ever you say boss...and bitcoin is secretly ran by aliens    Again, I registered 5 years ago on this forum, you think I am alt of the OP? That does not make any sense. 0.092BTC received again, I'm now 0.184BTC/0.65BTC  Hash: https://blockchain.info/tx/0152534196cc8683c5f59f5566ceba8014c5ee064b207fdf5bb40200b2cade5b and I have also registered 5 years ago, but somehow I am also apart of the OP's scheme  on time and no delay, that's how i want this to keep going. Got my first pay outDeposit (0.6495BTC): https://blockchain.info/tx/1fa4a6be45890189b33987f9e5e9a379b9218890037172709804ea473dc6bac1Payout 1/7 (0.092BTC): https://blockchain.info/tx/f240b405a6255672d8485ffcffaa2b6e64c404f555d97391e939745835fe52a5Keep it up admin nice to see you admin. i am probably the largest investor right now, hopefully this site keeps long life. SOLD No, it's a regular established Digitalpoint account.No it doesn't have anything for sale on the marketplace atm. It's for sale, therefore it doesn't have nothing active on the marketplace. Exactly. Thanks a lot target. SOLD SOLD Established DigitalPoint account for sale - still looking to sell He offered $60, but he didn't answer after that.I'm selling only this account. I've PM'd you I want to sell my established Digitalpoint account.Account details:9 years old account~1600 posts50 likesNo feedback at allI don't know how to value my account but I see that a lot accounts were sold for ~ 30$ with only 3-4 likes and ~ 300 posts so PM me your offer if you're interested.I accept BTC only Hmm, it seems I am missing something important - disconnecting transactions which are no longer part of the accepted block chain. I'm going to have to work on this a bit - the naive approach of simply blasting away all TXNs, then reconnecting things is far too slow, and hits the transaction memory limit. I've written a patch to help automatically validate cached blocks after validation fixes such as the one that was pushed out today. You can find it athttp://fushizen.net/~bd/blockverify.patchorhttp://github.com/bdonlan/bitcoin/commit/b205251959448ca99123f2bc95b088bf06d4ef3bUpon first run with this patch, all blocks will be verified, and any invalid blocks, as well as blocks orphaned by removal of such blocks, will be removed from the block index. A version stamp(BLOCK_VERIFY_TOKEN in db.cpp) will be then written to the db; this will cause the next run to skip the verification pass. Any future validation fixes can then simply bump BLOCK_VERIFY_TOKEN to force a revalidation of the block chain.Note that I may be missing some important steps when deleting the old blocks - in particular, no attempt is made to update the wallet, or to prune stored uncommitted transactions. Review would be helpful. I think it'd probably be a good idea still to come out with another version that rejects connections from older versions - otherwise the network might remain rather fragmented for a while. :/ It's probably possible; it would just mean that someone's computer clock is VERY far off base. The biggest problem with this approach is you can't audit it after the fact. Consider the case of restarting your client after it's been off for a week. It immediately connects to Mallory's client and asks it for the last week's block chain. Mallory responds with a chain of super-easy blocks, each exactly 10 minutes apart. Now mallory can control your view of the network and transaction history. Oops. And even if you connect to a 'good' node later, you have no way of sorting out which block chain is real, unless you take the higher difficulty - but this raises the problem where an attacker could spend a long time generating a single block, more difficult than some particular historical block, followed by a bunch of easy blocks. It'll take a while to generate, but then Mallory can rewrite history for the entire network.
Take a look at the SIGHASH_ANYONECANPAY value for the SIGHASH enum. As far as I can tell, nothing generates hashes using anything other than SIGHASH_ALL yet. That said, I'd want satoshi to weigh in on the intended use of this; the only secure way of using this AFAICS is to integrate such a transaction into a block of your own creation. No, it would have covered the airplane once it had been written up in two or three major newspapers (no, social link sites don't count, there needs to be a significant article written on the topic). Alternately, significant research papers from multiple, independent parties on the airplane specifically (not, say, Icarus's wings, or philosophical treatises on wouldn't it be nice to fly) would do well too. Etc. The thing is, if they allow an exception to the policy once, then people will ask for exceptions _all the time_. The rule is really quite simple: "significant coverage in reliable sources that are independent of the subject". Independent means the papers on bitcoin are out, as is the forum - after all, anything can have lots of non-independent sources. And a single slashdot article is clearly not 'significant coverage' (or reliable coverage .You can reference them, but they don't count for notability, as they either don't discuss bitcoin itself (and instead discuss the general concept), or they are not independent (ie, they're written by Satoshi). Actually, you can lose coins this way. Consider - you have 2 BC (as a single coin) and spend 1. Now you have 1 BC as a single coin with a new private key. If you restore the old wallet.dat, your new private key is gone. Once the client realizes the 2BC coin was spent, that coin is deleted, and you're left with 0BC.It would probably be easier to add a extension field to GPG to list bitcoin addresses. Note, however, that the destination address (actually, the signature acceptance script) is visible to everyone, so it would be a very public transfer.That said, however, there is support for partial signatures. That is, you can create a transaction from yourself, with a signature that excludes the destination fields. Now you just encrypt that, email it to the recipient, they add on said destination fields, and there you go. This, however, has the issue that other nodes can _also_ modify said destination fields, and the first one to get in the block wins. I'm not sure if there's some clever fix satoshi had in mind for that... Nodes send an inv message to all peers when they get a new block; if a node gets an inv message for an unknown block, it will always request it (initially from the node that announced it, but I believe it moves on to others if that one fails to respond). So all it takes is one connection to a 'good' node and you'll get the real block chain. Additionally, when a connection is established, each node queries the other for its 'best' block, and asks for it if it's unknown.Again, if there's a single good connection, you should be able to get the real block chain, eventually. Since the block production difficulty is automatically calibrated so that blocks come approximately 10 minutes apart from each other, it's unlikely that latency will ever get that high. In any case, though, all it takes is one or two blocks found in quick succession on one chain to throw things out of balance enough for the network to converge on one chain. This also won't affect normal transactions very much - they'll still go through, and generated coins are unusable until 120 blocks go by (by which point a winner should have emerged). The only risk is that someone might spend the same coin once on each of the two chains, to a different recipient - this could result in some confusion, but if you wait for 10-20 blocks to go by before accepting the transaction as 'confirmed', the risk of a fork should be acceptably low. Don't worry, your machine doesn't need to be online to get confirmations, as long as you managed to announce the block once before you were unplugged :) Adding comments to transactions is difficult. You could possibly do it by adding some non-executing code to the TxOut signature verification script - but anyone on the network would be able to read it. You can't encrypt it so only the recipient can read it, because you don't have their key - only a hash of it. This seems like something that could use a higher level overlay protocol on top of the core bitcoin protocol... *waves from across the rack*I couldn't wait, so I set up a node on my own linode as well. You can connect at fushizen.net. Currently my custom client isn't doing much more than maintaining a connection - figuring out how to decode and verify the block chain's probably going to be a weekend project (or two). You still need to generate blocks (and do all the hashing etc) for transaction processing - the proof-of-work is what prevents an attacker from producing a very convincing block chain with transactions cleverly rearranged to undo his payment. I'm working on an alternate bitcoin client and I'd like to try it on the test network. Is there a list of bootstrap hosts for the test network somewhere, so I don't need to implement an IRC client at this point? In XP, display properties -> settings -> advanced. It basically makes all display elements a bit larger. Also happens here - Windows XP, 32-bit color depth, 1680x1050 LCD screen in 120DPI mode. Perhaps the use of an unusual DPI is breaking it? 870 blocks already? How long will that take to bootstrap once it gets going?  It should be sufficient to just change things to invert the hash in the prevBlock pointer or something... Then the genesis block doesn't need to change. Nope! At least, not easily - block and transaction identities are based on this hash, among other things, so this would break the chain. You'd need to do a phased rollout - first, add parsing support to all clients, then obsolete older clients, then roll out a new version which generates a new version of the block serialization format using the new hashing method. Changing the genesis block would be a VERY good idea - better yet, change the protocol version as well. This will help avoid the possibility of the two networks merging (peers do exchange address lists...) It's true that it's not a big deal, but what concerns me is that someone went out of their way to implement an unproven hashing method, without thinking it through to realize that it actually decreases security. Things like this reduce one's confidence in the system as a whole - after all, if such a mistake exists, what other problems may be lurking?What we really need is a documented protocol, so it can be audited by third parties. I'm working on reverse-engineering it from the source, but it's slow going - the intent of much of the scripting system is poorly documented. Incidentally, a similar problem exists with Hash160, only worse - an attacker can break _either_ RIPEMD160 or SHA256, and win. At least with Hash() the attacker _must_ break SHA256. Hi,The Hash() function in util.h forms the backbone of most of bitcoin's crypto:Code:template<typename T1>inline uint256 Hash(const T1 pbegin, const T1 pend){    uint256 hash1;    SHA256((unsigned char*)&pbegin[0], (pend - pbegin) * sizeof(pbegin[0]), (unsigned char*)&hash1);    uint256 hash2;    SHA256((unsigned char*)&hash1, sizeof(hash1), (unsigned char*)&hash2);    return hash2;}As you can see, this tries to be more secure by hashing twice. However, this actually reduces security. To break pure SHA256, an attacker needs to find a d' such that SHA256(d') == SHA256(d), for a known d. This is also sufficient to break Hash(). However the attacker can also attack the outer layer of the hash, finding a d' such that SHA256(SHA256(d')) == SHA256(SHA256(d)), even though SHA256(d') != SHA256(d). As you can see, the double hashing here makes it _easier_ to break the hash!A better solution would be something like:Code:template<typename T1>inline vector<unsigned char> HashV(const T1 pbegin, const T1 pend){    uint256 sharesult;    uint160 riperesult;    SHA256((unsigned char*)&pbegin[0], (pend - pbegin) * sizeof(pbegin[0]), (unsigned char *)&sharesult);    RIPEMD160((unsigned char*)&pbegin[0], (pend - pbegin) * sizeof(pbegin[0]), (unsigned char *)&riperesult);    vector<unsigned char> ret;    ret.insert(ret.end(), (unsigned char *)(&sharesult), (unsigned char *)(&sharesult + 1));    ret.insert(ret.end(), (unsigned char *)(&riperesult), (unsigned char *)(&riperesult + 1));    return ret;}The key is to concatenate the hashes, not merge them. This means the attacker has to break both hashes - even in the worst case, this cannot be less secure than a single hash.Unfortunately, changing hashes would break the chain... Why not just upload the file itself to rapidshare?
