If you think it's dead, stop posting and disappear.We'll see you down the road. Why would trade hill crash the market and make itself lose money? lol How can a figure like 9% be derived when they bank money for future use?  How can that number be believed with the kind of mishandling of funds they continue to get away with after disasters such as the 89 San Francisco Earthquake, the OKC Bombing, 911, Katrina, Haiti?Red Cross can bank as much money out of donations as they want.  They can divert the money to any cause they want.  When someone donates money to a cause, they want it spent on that cause, not tossed in the bank so executive salaries and incentives can be guaranteed for years to come.I'll never give money to Red Cross again. There are plenty of charities to give money too, even during major disasters.  I don't need the government's official endorsements and telling me who to give to and who to be careful about, and the media advertising for Red Cross.  I can do the research myself.  I don't give money to ignorantly feel better because I have an official tax right off for "doing good."  I actually want to help people.For people just wanting to give money to do good in general, don't just give it to the Red Cross.  Find a local charity. I have a suggestion: Donate to some other organization.  Red Cross is just about the worst place to donate money.  If you actually desire to have a tiny little fraction of the money you donate being used to help people, then be my guest.  But if you would like to do something besides paying a despicable amount of overhead, which a large portion of is just making executives richer, you'd do better picking just about ANY other charity at random.Find some local place near you where people need help.  Talk to them about how to use bitcoin if that is all your really care about.I can't believe people even still talk about giving money to the red cross after the last 10 years of their crap.  Just google it and you'll see plenty of pages about how awful that org is.  You'll even find it all through the official propaganda news media. This is appears to be another faith based position you've acquired.If you push some people's buttons, you might find people who are unconvinced that there is any conclusive or rational evidence to claim there was an all powerful creator of the universe or a deity who expects worship from its creation.If you push enough people's buttons, you might even find a person who thinks your "there is no un-anything" statement is sane.Actually when I say the word "you" in the last 2 sentences, I mean "people in general". But when it comes to you specifically I have faith that you have already decided what you think about every person who can possibly fall under the category atheist and that you have lots of silly empty statements like "unconvinced is a cop out" that you find clever in discussions against atheists and that regardless of their emptiness, still give you strength in your faith based positions.And I'd just like to add, you sound a bit psychotic to me, mostly due to your path of extrapolation. At least you're making it clear that your belief is founded on fear.But you are wrong to generalize all atheists into people who exhibit some great bravery by denying god.  All it takes to be an atheist is to be unconvinced that a god exists.  Nothing special there except that there is so much pressure from society to be convinced for silly reasons. Well, you might as well toss some more wikipedia stats in there and come up with how many bitcoins the distribution of wealth will leave people with;1% of the world population own 40% of the global assets.The richest 2% of the world population own more than 51% of the global assetsThe richest 10% own 85% of the global assets.50% of the world population own less than 1% of the global assets.The whole global assets volume is about 125 trillion US$.1.125 Dollar-Billionaires own 4,4 trillion US$. They own 4 times more than the 50% poor people of the world.Over 80% of the world population lives on less than 10 US$/day.;Over 50% of the world population lives on less than 2 US$/day;Over 20% of the world population lives on less than 1.25 US-Dollar/day And it can be changed to divide further.http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=2150.0 Congress shall make no law that allows government access to private communication originating from or intended for non-convicted  US citizens.Congress shall make no law that hinders the trade or sale of private currency or precious metals whether or not exchange is based in US tender.Congress shall make no law that allows taxations on sale or trade of private currency.Would it be a terrible idea to stop all taxation on sale and trade of precious metal?  Is there a way to word that so that it only applies to like silver/gold/platinum/rhodium type of value investments, and not just showing up at a jewelry shop and buying a ring? lol did you try like bitcoinjoey? first major bitcoin fraudulent scandal that hits the press outside of being a joke 1) We need to know what graphics card and operating system you are using.2) If you're using windows, guiminer is probably easier:http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=3878.03) If you haven't, Create a login on slush's poolhttp://mining.bitcoin.cz/accounts/register/4) If you haven't, register a new worker on slush's poolhttp://mining.bitcoin.cz/accounts/profile/worker-edit/The main login and worker login are not the same.5) Use the worker login in the guiminer interface.6) Check here for tweaks to your graphics cardhttps://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Mining_Hardware_ComparisonJust type it into the Extra Flags field like this:-w128That should do it.  I'd try to be a little more clear but I'm about to pass out.If you need more help PM me or something and I'll try to help tomorrow. Anyone care to contribute to a list of major events, milestones and challenges that bitcoin faces as the public and governments become more aware, as more users start to use bitcoins, as the value continues to increase, and so on?Such as the day bitcoin reaches a value of $10, $25, 50, $100 USD, and possibly $1000 USD.The day the first government officially reacts and takes some kind of action.The day a major media outlet officially shows recognition.I was thinking of just keeping up with any milestone events here that I think of, and trying to come up with names for them If anyone cares about this at all, I'll add them to the original post. But then it would have been clear that he was insincere and as far as I can tell, he is serious with the options he gave. This topic defines the bar for maximum failure. SpiderOak <--It's like dropbox except that it's encrypted locally before transmission to their servers so the company only sees ciphertext.I'd skip all the steps about truecrypt and just use spideroak.  If you want to use the email backup method, then 1) schedule jobs to make backups, 2) use whatever encryption capable archiving tool you like, such as bzip2+openssl or in windows 7zip/WinZip etc 3) use a command line emailer mail/sendmail/sendEmail/etc in linux or something like blat in windows, to automatically mail it to your gmail account. https://spideroak.com/pricingJust use spideroak.  It does client side encryption, so all the data is encrypted locally before being transmitted to their servers.  Unlike dropbox, who has FULL ACCESS to your data and FULL ACCESS to disclose all your data directly to the government.Also, you get the same free 2GB, but the prices are lower:SpiderOak 2GB FreeDropBox 2GB FreeSpiderOak  100GB $10.00/moDropbox 50GB $9.99/moDropbox 100GB $19.99/moSpideroak 100GB $100/yrI like when a company doesn't have to do that 1 cent down marketing $9.99 crap.  I respect them more.The Spideroak client also lets you have more control over what you sync and some other stuff.  Check it out. It looks like someone else is doing your thinking for you and injecting this opinion into your head.  Your are summing everyone who supports Ron Paul as people who aren't thinking about anything and just worshiping him or something.  I don't understand where you have come up with this.  You are on the wrong track, see, you're talking about how people feel about presidential candidates like Obama was that were plastered all over the TV.  People who supported Ron Paul did so because the things he was doing and saying were what they actually wanted and when Ron Paul says something it's not like a salesman trying to screw you over to get into office.  He has history of how he has acted in government.  There's no sheep quality inherit to agreeing with him and supporting him unless you are truly doing it without thinking and I don't know *ANYONE* that falls into that category who supports Ron Paul but I do know dozens of people who supported McCaine and Obama who fit that category.  If you analyze his work (you know, thinking for yourself instead of defaulting to "he is going to break his promises even though he hasn't thus far" lol), you'll see he's a useful politician to back.Yeah that is a an important point but wouldn't it be nice to have someone who was already on the side of the individual citizen though instead of there for big business interests? What promises has he broken so far?  You do realize how long he has been making promises, how long he has been acting upon those promises, and how long he has been in government right?Anyhow,I don't see why Ron Paul would have any reason to mention a start up currency unless he just some how learned all about it and got really excited about it.  I doubt he'd make himself that easy of a target on TV though.  Basically *every thing* he says is rock solid, which is why the media has to just sound retarded to try and make him look bad.   Sure I disagree with him about religious stuff, but most people are actually religious, while I am not.If on the other hand he got a really strong understanding of bitcoins and understood the beauty behind it, he might have some terrific insight into what kind of impact a prolific bitcoin market could have on the economy. Ah ok, I didn't realize that is how it works.  I thought the difficulty didn't drop.
but will it still be profitable all the way up to that mark?  Or will the miners drop out much sooner than that? I thought he meant that the ATI Streaming SDK v 2.1 didn't take on his Windows 7 box.  I had the same problem with 2.1 and 2.2, which is why I'm running 2.3. I'm getting about 295M with a 6970.  Anyone doing better with a 6970? Me too.  I have an ATI HD 6970 in a Windows 7 box.  Even at standard clock speeds, if I bring up a youtube video, the screen freezes and I can no longer toggle keyboard lights. iTunes still plays, but I haven't tested network services or anything yet.  Maybe there is some chance I could RDP into it, but I doubt it.It's really annoying having to remember what not to do, but oh well.  I'm just waiting for the crashing to finally cause a problem with my 4 x SSD RAID 0.I'm also finding that SDK v2.1 just isn't happening for me.  I removed all ATI related apps, used Driver Sweeper to clean up the remnants, and then went with the 12.10a hotfix + ATI Stream SDK v2.1.  When I run poclbm.exe, it gives the same error message it gives when the Stream SDK isn't installed at all.I also tried this on a laptop with an ATI HD 5730 in it.  Same thing with poclbm not recognizing the Stream SDK v2.1.  Am I missing some step to get it working?  v2.3 works just fine for me, it's just that I'm assuming in light of people saying to run 2.1, that I would get more performance out of it.  I'm getting 290mhash/s right now by overclocking it to 920mhz.  Any higher seems to just crash it. I was a little too busy to tweak with it right now, so I haven't messed with the the memory clock or voltage much yet. It's not really worth it if you're using actual CPUs instead of GPUs. The authorities use youtube for propaganda and stifle truth there, so I really doubt they will be shutting it down anytime soon. How could something like this possibly protect anything?Shouldn't there just be a kill switch on sensitive systems?  i.e. a way to disconnect systems being attacked.I'm a network manager.  We have redundancy and security for a reason.  We don't turn the whole freaking company communications off just because we're getting DOSed or hacked.How could this be considered anything but another step towards a police state?  The govt needs to stop gaining new ways to silence the public. So all of the real criminals utilizing the internet, the ones who are already encrypting or coding messages in a way that they will not be cracked, will continue to do so just fine, business as usual.  But for everyone else who has no idea how to do such a thing, they lose freedom, privacy, and security.The general citizens of a country aren't the ones who cause problems with the country, yet the privacy of general citizens continues to decrease.As the privacy of citizens decreases, the corruption of government increases.The officials of a country are the ones who cause problems with the country, yet their privacy continues to increase.As the privacy of officials increases, the corruption of government increases. ( I understand the impact of big business, but big business gets away with things because of the corruption of officials. )Government shouldn't be an empire building privilege.  It should be a sacrifice.  The thing being sacrificed should at least be the privacy that allows government officials to continue ruining the country.  We don't need surveillance on the common citizen.  We need surveillance on the actual people causing problem.  Every government email, phone call, penny spent, closed doors meeting, internet traffic, all should be totally exposed and available.  If the exposure of some system or approach endangers the freedom of the citizenry, then a plan to move off that system needs to be developed.  Citizens shouldn't fear their government, and they shouldn't be in the dark constantly about what the corruption of their government is carrying out.A plaque needs to hang in every government building, in every room that says something along the lines of:So what is it that breaks this approach to government?  Is it the fact that other governments are corrupt too and will just take advantage of it?  Are we afraid of other governments stealing weapon technology and using it against us?If the cost of  protecting weapon technology is to operate a government that will inevitably lead to police state, is it really worth it?People need to stop supporting this crap. just sent my 50 kiba for escrow never heard of thatThe way I heard that joke was, in heaven the british great you, the french cook, the italians provide the entertainment, and the germans keep things running smoothly.  And in hell, the french greet you, the british cook, the germans provide the entertainment, and the italians keep things running smoothly.  I had never heard it with the addition of the swiss. I don't have any reason to mock you, but I do wonder why you find nationality such an important factor. How about you Kiba?I'd do it but I only have 10 posts here. 50 It sounds like you are still running the x86 Bitcoin.exe executable from from like C:\Program Files (x86)\Bitcoin.Try C:\Program Files\Bitcoin .  If C: was even your target drive. So now they're saying to wait for 0.3.6 and that important changes haven't been committed to SVN yet. hitting nearly 2700 khash/s on my Core i7 720QM now.  It might actually reach that high if I didn't have so much stuff running. running the new 64bit buildmy Core i7 720QM Win7 work laptop, while running all kinds of work tools, is getting about 2500 khash/smy Core i7 965 with Win7 at home gets about 5100 khash/s (oops I lied, I haven't ran this one at home yet.  Running the previous version, will update tonight) Intel Core i7 96512 GB DDR3Nvidia GTX480Windows 7 64bitFuntoo Linux 64bit If you're using Windows 7:Control Panel(If your Control Panel is in noob Category mode, go to System and Security)Action CenterChange Action Center settingsProblem reporting SettingsNever Check for solutions (not recommended)otherwise, go google it with your OS + "disable error reporting"
