It's better to understand when/if altcoins have any validity than to ask for a few coins that will pump someday. You should ask these questions, at least, before speculating. This is not a complete list but a good start.Why blockchain?Why not use Bitcoin?How do the coins/tokens accrue value?Does the project have good developers working on it? The purpose of cryptocurrency is to be money. KYC doesn't really have anything to do with that. I think DEX's are the future but they currently have problems with liquidity and user experience. Some people can't afford to play the game so they sit on the sidelines and complain. And yet here I am having pre-ordered SC1's and am still happily mining with them. That's based on paying full price of $10,000 rather than the pre-sale price of $3,000. It probably doesn't make sense to tell people how to invest their money unless you already know what their portfolio looks like. I already own real estate. I would hope that anyone buying mining equipment like I am already has a diversified portfolio of more traditional investments. People have different levels of risk-return tradeoff that they are comfortable with. I am comfortable with the risk because I can afford to be. Not everyone is in the same situation. They should make up their own minds. I find it easiest to buy gift cards with Bitcoin but every now and then I try to offer Bitcoin directly to people. Unfortunately, normal people are still clueless. I think it'll be another 5-10 years before you can actually spend Bitcoin directly on a daily basis. My GRIN investment strategy is to attempt to keep at least $X worth of GRIN and rebuy every 3 months if it drops below that value. If it goes above $X then I won't do anything, just HODL. Didn't Obelisk give all DCR1 buyers a credit for the amount of coins that they would have mined if Obelisk would have shipped on time, without factoring in the cost of power, essentially giving DCR1 buyers free electricity? The only thing that happened with the DCR1 is that profitability fell from other miners flooding the market. I'm not really sure how that is Obelisks fault because that would have happened regardless of Obelisk shipping on time or not. DCR1 buyers actually got a better deal from the delay because of the aforementioned free electricity.Obelisk has faults. They don't communicate enough when there are delays and they are terrible at estimating times. They claim they have fixed their process. We will have to wait and see. But they are also very good to their customers compared to other companies. I was one of the few people that bought a $3,000 voucher for the GRN1 and they are giving me a miner that is currently priced at $10,000. I'm pretty happy with Obelisk at the moment. BTC-E has been in operation since 2011 and bit121 has been open for about two months. Is that a supposed to be a big surprise? I think you should do as you said you would do last time and stop posting on this thread. I think BTC-e looks like crap. So, your opinion isn't in very high regard with me. You've already admitted that you've never done business with them. Therefore you have no idea if it's a scam or not.If it's a scam then why are you complaining about the fees?EDIT: I just got an email from bit121 so either you're lying or confused. I suggest you check your facts. One would think that you need to actually trade bitcoins to say that you "tried" an exchange. So, in other words, no you haven't tried it. Just bought 20 keys, 12 refined metal, 8 scorched keys and buying more stuff later. Thanks for the great trades. Smooth transaction. Really nice guy! I resign. This is a thankless job. If I've violated some policy let me know. As far as I know, I was following the moderation policy of allowing users to set local rules and then allowing moderators to enforce those rules at their discretion. I think this thread is locked and the other thread will have zero tolerance for off-topic discussion. There are two arguments for the non-aggression principle:1. Violating the NAP has bad consequences.2. Violating the NAP is immoral.Since I'm not a consequentialist, I don't find the consequentialist argument convincing one way or the other.As for the argument from morality, all moral claims are opinions. They are preferences, nothing more. You can't say my opinion is wrong any more than I can say yours is wrong. That's because opinions aren't the kinds of things that can be right or wrong. That being said, I reject any opinion that violating the NAP is moral, outside of immediate life threatening situations when your actions don't threaten the life of another person and you also compensate the victim. If you are literally about to starve to death, steal some bread but be prepared to work it off. I doubt you'll have to steal though because I'll be glad to give you some of my bread. However, if you are dying because of liver failure, don't take my liver.If you reject my opinion like I reject the opinions of those that wish to violate the NAP, we have irreconcilable differences. We can either try to coexist peacefully or we can go to war. There's nothing more to it than that.NOTE: Any posts that are not a direct reply to this argument and attempt a direct refutation of it will be deleted. He knows I'm not Atlas. He was implying that I'm behaving like him.You are all getting off-topic and you won't like me when you get off-topic.
Read War and Peace, On the Nature of Physical Laws and Fifty Shades of Gray to obtain your answer. Exactly? No. If you get Stefan Molyneux here to make his argument or if you'd like to do it in his stead, I'm more than willing to debate. I never finished it. I started reading it, couldn't make much sense of it and gave up. Nobody else has been able to give me a good summary of the argument.I also notice that nobody has attacked my argument head on so I'm guessing they can't? I've read Machinery of Freedom a couple of times. It's worth it for the quotes alone. I don't think UPB is worth reading. Does it matter? Am I suddenly going to stop being taxed if I say no? It changes the moral nature of it. It's open for consideration at that point. There are two arguments for the non-aggression principle:1. Violating the NAP has bad consequences.2. Violating the NAP is immoral.Since I'm not a consequentialist, I don't find the consequentialist argument convincing one way or the other.As for the argument from morality, all moral claims are opinions. They are preferences, nothing more. You can't say my opinion is wrong any more than I can say yours is wrong. That's because opinions aren't the kinds of things that can be right or wrong. That being said, I reject any opinion that violating the NAP is moral, outside of immediate life threatening situations when your actions don't threaten the life of another person and you also compensate the victim. If you are literally about to starve to death, steal some bread but be prepared to work it off. I doubt you'll have to steal though because I'll be glad to give you some of my bread. However, if you are dying because of liver failure, don't take my liver.If you reject my opinion like I reject the opinions of those that wish to violate the NAP, we have irreconcilable differences. We can either try to coexist peacefully or we can go to war. There's nothing more to it than that. There are two arguments:1. Violating the NAP has bad consequences.2. Violating the NAP is immoral.Since I'm not a consequentialist, I don't find the consequentialist argument convincing one way or the other.As for the argument from morality, all moral claims are opinions. They are preferences, nothing more. You can't say my opinion is wrong any more than I can say yours is wrong. That's because opinions aren't the kinds of things that can be right or wrong. That being said, I reject any opinion that violating the NAP is moral, outside of immediate life threatening situations when your actions don't threaten the life of another person and you also compensate the victim. If you are literally about to starve to death, steal some bread but be prepared to work it off. I doubt you'll have to steal though because I'll be glad to give you some of my bread. However, if you are dying because of liver failure, don't take my liver.If you reject my opinion like I reject the opinions of those that wish to violate the NAP, we have irreconcilable differences. We can either try to coexist peacefully or we can go to war. There's nothing more to it than that. If all those guns were hidden, would you be any safer? I was responding to the OP. If we propose your scenario, it would just be self-defense and I agree with you. It won't but neither did owning people, denying women the right to vote or the Jewish holocaust. Perhaps, just perhaps, "the world will end" isn't a preferable criteria for value judgments? Well, no takers so far. I'm thinking there isn't much demand for this after all. That's fine. I've also reconsidered my argument for BTC being a commodity without this service in existence. Since Bitcoin is a proof-of-work system, if you desire to show proof-of-work, BTC will directly satisfy that need whether or not there is a CAPTCHA replacement service. Thanks for reading. Even if everyone will die unless I cause one person to die, I would not do it. As a veteran of the American Civil War, I am outraged by this! Thanks for the feedback.I agree with you that the price for getting into a website has to be more than the price it takes for a spammer to get a CAPTCHA solved otherwise we're just making things easier for them. One way to deal with that would be to allow feedback from websites. If after a certain number of days you aren't reported as a spammer, you get a refund of your tokens and can use them again. Whereas spammers would be forced to buy more tokens. That would allow the price to remain high enough to cripple spammers but not inconvenience valid users as much. Also, it would put spammers' resources into Bitcoin mining, strengthening the network even more, instead of putting it towards having low paid workers solve A/V CAPTCHA's. We could also have reputations tied to tokens as well. As you spend tokens and aren't reported as a spammer, you aren't charged as much for new tokens. If you suddenly start spamming, the price goes back up to normal. Bitcoin is a revolutionary digital cryptocurrency. It has all the properties of a good currency. It is scarce, divisible, portable and durable. However, a common criticism is that it is not a commodity as it does not satisfy any direct desires. However, because Bitcoin is a proof-of-work system, it is possible to turn BTC into a commodity by using it as replacement for visual and audio CAPTCHA's.Read More and Donate @ IndieGoGoI'm not sure how many people are interested this. The goal is flexible so whatever is raised will be put towards at least obtaining a domain and working on development. I'm a certified PHP developer (proof), so I will be able to handle the development by myself if funding the project doesn't pan out but I'd like to be able to hire some other developers to make things less stressful and speed things up. Steam revoked the games too. Please send BTC back or I'll have no choice to report you as a scammer.1AQSjEjzAPRRRCsiZA8Qr5ynwXurgwFYMT Both minecraft keys I bought have been revoked. Bought 3 Steam games. Smooth transaction. Thanks a lot. Sent the 3 BTC. Thanks for the great transaction. Check your PM's please.
I'm downloading blocks now, give me a few minutes. I need 2 but I'll go ahead and buy the 1 you got for now. Alright, do you just have one for sale or more than one? I'm interested in the Minecraft code. It's a gift code that can be used on Minecraft.net, correct? If I invite my leech of a brother-in-law to stay in my basement for 2 weeks knowing full well that he'll want to stay there for 9 months, I have the right to evict him, even if he'll die because of it. You can remove anything from your own body, even if it's another person. The market supplies for our demands of juice, jump ropes and jet engines. What makes you think that the market won't supply for our demands of justice? Serious analysis please, not "ZOMG roving gangs". That's just FUD. I have to? No, I don't. A leaky roof is a poor analogy because there are no moral or ethical implications. As chrisco correctly points out, saying we should stop doing something immoral, even without suggesting an alternative, does make sense. I don't need to tell a rapist how he's going to get laid. I do know that he should stop raping though. You can only threaten to do what you have the right to do. You don't have the right to kill me. Therefore, you can't threaten to kill me. You have the right to tell my dirty secrets. Therefore, you have the right to threaten to tell my dirty secrets. Then either the neighbor believes one of two things:1. He can use aggression whenever he wants but nobody can use aggression against him.2. Anybody can use aggression on anyone at anytime.If he believes (1) then he's just trying to set a double standard for himself and his wishes have no merit. If he believes (2) then he can't consistently object to anything I do to him, including responding proportionally when using violence. If you are wearing a watch and I take it from you, am I the aggressor or are you? Well, if you took the watch from me yesterday and I'm just getting my property back, then you're the aggressor. If it was always your watch then I'm the aggressor. See, you can't talk about the non-aggression principle in a vacuum. The other side of the coin is property rights, which tells us who exactly the aggressor is. We are currently down due to lack of funding issues. Anyone that needs to make a withdrawal please send me a PM and we'll work something out. It's bad enough that you're obnoxious and insulting but you're wrong on top of it. If you get a permit from whatever state you are in, you can pollute other people's private property and they can't sue you.Here's one example:Source: http://www.jsonline.com/business/119034489.htmlAt least educate yourself if you're going to insult the intelligence of other people. I don't believe you but I'll accept it as true for the sake of argument. Even assuming that's true, it doesn't matter. No business is required to give you service. You don't get to point a gun at someone and say "let me be a customer", no matter how desperately you need that good or service and no matter how arbitrary the reason for being denied service. I think it sucks that some businesses are operated by racists but that doesn't give you the right to use violence. The use of violence is justified in immediate self-defense only. This guy doesn't understand libertarianism philosophy. In so far as your pollution damages other people's property, you are infringing on their rights. Point out the pollution, point out the polluters, and let the property owners sue. End of story. This no need to deny anything and I won't. If the majority of credible climatologists say there is climate change, fine, I believe it. That changes nothing about my political views. Best? No, that would be China according to the sources your article uses. What's your point? You didn't actually define anything. Define "rich".Define "poor". There are thousands of small missions rather than one large mission. I fail to see the why that difference matters.
You mean like the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and the hundreds of other private charities? As far as "replace the need for government assistance" that makes it sound like everyone will be in Utopia and have everything they want. The current system doesn't do that either. I'm glad you admit the article isn't entirely interesting but I did read it and the followup. It boils down to the claim that without customers, there would be no jobs. Which is true. But wait, without the sun, there would be no jobs either. Therefore the sun actually creates the jobs. All hail Apollo, the sun god! Alright, let's see the argument.These companies that employ thousands of people aren't creating jobs? Those jobs would exist without those companies? I think not. Nice try. Are those the only two options you see? There's no such thing as voluntary charity? So, instead of doing something yourself, you want to force other people to help using the threat of violence (government)? God is dead. The new mythology revolves around the state. Our current system is a joke. Let me know when we stop arresting people for things like marijuana and then we can talk about how great the system is. So if I take your money and piss it all away then that's proof that you would have done the same? I don't think so. That's like saying that if a woman is raped or she falls in love and has consensual sex, there's no difference in how pregnant she'll get. Then why not let me just spend my own money? I could at least make sure I only did business with companies I trust AND it would be voluntary. You're saying we should force people by gunpoint to pay for stuff that they would have paid for anyways? Brilliant! It seems like the cost of all those armed thugs is just a waste then. No, not on that basis. On the basis that the current system is immoral. A private system isn't. That would be like Consumer Reports taking bribes to give good reviews for products. It could happen but it won't because as soon as they are caught, their reputation would be destroyed and they would be out of business because nobody would trust them. Nobody would do business with a court where verdicts can be bought.Of course, our current system has no problems at all *cough*O.J. Simpson*cough*... It's clear that you haven't studied much American history. If you had, you would have heard of Frederick Douglass. He was a slave that was allowed to earn wages by working at a shipyard. Each week, he was forced to give all of his wages to his master. In his autobiography, Frederick Douglass compared his master to a pirate who had a "right" to his wages only because his master had the power to compel him to hand it over. That sounds like taxation to me. Oh wait, as you say, the difference is that we don't have to work at all. We could just live in homeless shelters or in cardboard boxes. That's a real meaningful and important difference!"Don't like taxes? Jump in the ocean and drown, or be a bum." Slavery is reward for working? sales tax = ~8%state income tax = ~8%federal income tax = ~25%social security & medicaid tax = ~8%property tax, gas tax, estate tax, fees, licenses, inflation, inheritance tax, gift tax, etc = ~8%I guess in your world, 57% is a "small portion". In my world, that's more than half.That's brilliant. Punish the people that do. If you tax something, you get less of it. That's the idea behind those moralizing "sin" taxes. I guess being productive is a sin. Pay $70,000+ in taxes in one year and then you can have an opinion on taxation too. If you don't advocate it, only tolerate it, then you'll have no objections when I don't do it. Just like I have no objections when people don't do heroin.Well, it's been said that the best defense is a good offense. Of course, it's still offense. You really need to learn the difference between advocating and tolerating. I tolerate people using heroin. I don't advocate it. There's a big difference. If you don't acknowledge that difference, you're not actually addressing my point of view but just some straw man. I don't advocate letting people die. I'm not encouraging it. I'm not recommending it. I'm simply saying that it's immoral to use violence outside of self-defense. You advocate taking money from people and if they refuse, kidnapping them and imprisoning them, and if they resist, killing them. I am against that. That's the line. Argue that. The Bitcoin network is regulation without force. We all voluntarily agreed to the rules. We could each make our own version of Bitcoin but we don't, not because we're afraid of having physical force used on us but because we don't want to be isolated using our version that few to no other people use. Regulation can and does work using only market forces.
Just because something is immoral doesn't mean it's moral to use violence to prevent it. It's immoral to cheat on your partner but is it something we should be using violence to stop? No! Similarly, it's immoral to let people suffer when we have the ability to stop it. However, it's also immoral for me to use violence to force you to give aid when you don't want to. That's the key issue that is missed by the statists. You folks rant about how immoral it is to allow people to suffer when we can help them. Most of us anarchists agree that it is immoral. That's why I give to charity when I can. Where we disagree is what is a valid response to refusal to render aid. We say peace. You say violence. Speak for yourself. So is changing the subject. Escape from thieves. I didn't change the subject. Taxation is theft. No, theft isn't common sense at all. If you want something, pay for it. Don't demand other people pay for it. That's just common sense. Watch the original context and make up your own mind. I provided a link. I've netted a million dollars from the sale of intellectual property, have you? I doubt it. I'm still against intellectual property rights even though I have every incentive to be pro-IP. Why? Because intellectual property rights are immoral. I have no right to kick down doors, arrest people, force them to pay fines at gunpoint, all just because they used their computers to communicate information in a way that disrupts my revenue stream. If the entire world pirates my software, that's the greatest thing that could ever happen to me. I'll get job offers, ad revenue, speaking engagements, paid support requests, consultant offers, donations, etc, etc, etc. Being popular is almost never a curse. It's when people don't want to obtain your work no matter how low the price is, that's when you should worry. I'm speaking from experience. I love my 2010 Lexus RX350 but not enough to suggest that we lock people in cages or threaten them just so I can keep driving it. I doubt he'll admit that he spoke hastily. He does that sort of thing frequently. He also doesn't understand libertarianism if he thinks most libertarians advocate shooting/killing people just because they are stealing. Self-defense should be proportional to the threat. You can't shoot a guy that's stealing your car but you can tase him, spray him with mace, etc. "Without the government there are no labor unions, because they would be smashed by Pinkerton agencies or people hired, or even sometimes the government." -Jon StewartSource: http://www.thedailyshow.com/full-episodes/thu-october-27-2011-andrew-napolitano @ the 25 minute mark  Isn't that like saying that you'll destroy the market for movies by getting rid of The Pirate Bay? http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Homestead_principle Nobody said anything about being a hunter-gather but you. Divide the area of arable land by the number of people on the Earth and the average 3 person family could have 15 acres of farmland. That's assuming that everyone would be a farmer, which is idiotic. There are other ways to make a living without working at McDonald's or being a farmer. If everyone had their own personal 2000 square foot house we could fit everyone inside of Texas. There's plenty of land. Do you really think that in the absence of statist governments there's no other way to obtain food and shelter except to get a job working for a large company? How do you think humans have survived for most of their existence, being Walmart greeters? No taxes. Pay for what you use. Privatize everything.What you mean to say is that you feel less guilty stealing 9% of someone's money if they have a lot of it. So, I pay 9% of $300,000+ a year and you pay 9% of whatever McDonald's is paying these days? Corruption of what? Exploitation of what? There's no government to corrupt. There's no loopholes to exploit. He wrote "economic freedom". You're talking about crony capitalism. There is a huge difference.
How many of these people were actually abusing or aiding in the abuse of children? Few, if any, I bet. No, the book and the quote were both published in her 50's. I'm not an objectivist but I don't think that's accurate."There is nothing wrong in helping other people, if and when they are worthy of the help and you can afford to help them." -Ayn Rand Minimum wage doesn't do anything but force people to be unemployed that can't provide labor worth around $7 dollars an hour. If you can provide labor worth $5 an hour but employers have to give you an extra $2 which represents a loss, they aren't going to hire you. Then on welfare you go where other people are forced to support you entirely instead of allowing charity to provide only that extra little bit you are missing. There are so many reasons why the current system hurts the needy, not allowing them to easily start a business without jumping through all kinds of legal hoops, allowing the people with the most resources to make laws (unions support the minimum wage yet they don't come anywhere close to needing it, hmm I wonder why), etc. I'm not going to sit here and give you an entire economics lesson. All I want you to take away from this is that we aren't that different. We both want people to be free, want them to succeed, want them to be happy, we just differ on how to go about it. So when you call people sociopaths just because they *gasp* think differently, it doesn't really help at all. Nowhere in that link is there any mention of people starving to death. Try again. If someone else does something immoral, that's on them. If I point a gun at someone and force them to share their food, that's on me. I'm not going to do anything immoral. I can't force everyone else to be moral, nor is it my place to do so. It's not a matter of "supporting a system". For someone railing against simplicity, that's a very narrow way to look at it. I don't support starving people. I support being responsible for my own actions and not doing anything immoral, which includes stealing.Is it really not enough? Are there people starving to death in the USA because there is nobody willing to give food to them? Also, you have to consider that the current state of charity doesn't represent charity under libertarianism. When people consider charity now, they might be dissuaded because they know there is already welfare, food stamps, etc. The fact of the matter is, people want to help the needy, if we didn't, there wouldn't be any such laws in the first place. I'm not against supporting the needy, only the current implementation of it.I consider generalizing things like this to be a pointless exercise. Let's stick to the issues instead of speculating on the psychology of others. I agree that it would be immoral for you to gorge yourself with food while watching others starve. It would also be immoral for me to point a gun at your head and force you to stop eating and start giving food to others.I've already stated that I'm all for charity and would engage in it myself. Somewhere on these forums is a thread (Here: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=23338.0) that I started about me giving $25 in cash and $75 (at the time) in BTC to a guy begging on a street corner. There's nothing in the principles of libertarianism that makes it incompatible with charity. What it is incompatible with is forcing others to empty their pockets to the needy at gunpoint. If you can acknowledge that distinction then we will be getting somewhere. "It is not from the benevolence of the butcher, the brewer, or the baker that we expect our dinner, but from their regard to their own interest. We address ourselves, not to their humanity but to their self-love, and never talk to them of our own necessities but of their advantages. Nobody but a beggar chooses to depend chiefly upon the benevolence of his fellow-citizens." -Adam SmithNobody owes you a living. If you don't want to work then you can be a beggar and depend on charity. I'll buy you a sandwich. I regularly give to the poor out of empathy. Though, if the only job you can get is a low-wage job, maybe it's your own fault? Perhaps you should have learned something valuable?If you own something, you can sell it. If you can't sell it, you don't truly own it. Why do you think you can tell other people what they can and can't do with their own bodies? Apparently, your definition of a "sociopath" is someone that wants all human interactions to be voluntary and believes that violence is only justified in defense of person or property.I guess we have very different definitions. Perhaps, though that doesn't negate what I said. I think part of the reason why people focus on Atlas is because it's easier than arguing against libertarians that are a lot more knowledgeable and patient. I'd rather drive a Chevy Nova. A fact is a state of a affairs. There's no such thing as a "false fact" but there is such a thing as a "false belief". Opinions are subjective. There's nothing subjective about believing that the statue of liberty is 3 inches tall. How so? Opinions aren't the kinds of things that can be right or wrong. It seems most of the statists on these forums are some form or mixture of "public mandate", "love it or leave it", "entitled", and "the deluded". Wondering why most statists are delusional is like wondering my most religious people are ignorant or scared of dying, because the rest of us stopped being religious. Here's my definition of civil discourse:1. Never address the person, only the argument e.g. (you're an idiot, you need to educate yourself).2. Never state the conclusion e.g. (your argument is false, your beliefs are stupid).Nobody is perfect so there will always be mistakes made but we should all strive towards this if we really are here to exchange ideas rather than troll each other. You're talking about government contractors, not a free market army. Blackwater is yet another example of our government being incompetent at regulating private businesses.Good then. Bind yourself to it. I'll pass.That's probably because you don't understand what a free market is. A government regulated market is exactly not that. Nobody said anything about casual volunteers. We're talking about private military forces.
Murder isn't allowed under libertarianism anymore than it is now. Someone is selling ~790 BTC at $3 each. If someone buys them and resells them at $4 each they could make a tidy profit. Deal. Send the gift to sales@bitcoin2cash.com along with your Bitcoin address and I'll send the BTC afterwards. I just paid for a F.3.A.R steam key. I'll let you all know how it turns out. I want to buy F.3.A.R, RAGE and Dead Island. Name your prices in BTC and lowest ones win!  So, any evidence that disproves your point is just a "college project"? That's convenient. There will always be movies. I never said otherwise. I'm sure you've figured out how people like Hawker and FirstAscent operate by now. They don't put forth complete ideas. They demand that you explain an entire system for them and then they will fire off a few objections from the top of their head that are either trivial to fix or live with. When you overcome all of their objections or point out how minor they are they'll just say something like "it's not that simple, educate yourself" or "you need to explain why society should change for you". They clearly aren't here to think but rather they are here to justify and rationalize their preexisting beliefs. You have a different definition of capitalism than I do. Talk about the issues instead of talking about talking about the issues. In the time it took you to write all of that, you could have made a relevant point. "I'm almost speechless. Through your eloquent and well-thought-out post, I've completely changed my mind. The part where you said it was a 'huge fucking difference' sent chills up my spine. I've never really thought about it that way but having it so carefully and thoroughly explained to me, I have no choice but to agree with you. Have you ever considered writing an essay or perhaps even a book? I think that a book, if matched in the detail and intellectual weight of your post, could really open people's eyes. You've answered all of my questions and have left me with nothing but regret that I didn't see things your way sooner."The above message was just a test. If there had been any actual thought-provoking content in your post, the text you just read would have been spoken in true sincerity instead of being followed by guffaws, belly-laughs and one-handed-wanking gestures. That's the point. That's not their goal yet that's what they are achieving. Look at cows and buffaloes. They are practically the same animals. Yet, cows haven't been hunted to near extinction. Why? Why don't farmers go out into their fields and shoot all their cows dead today? Because if they do that, they won't have them tomorrow. Cows are privately owned. There's no rush to "kill as many as you can while you can" like was the case with buffaloes. Another example is with forests. If you sell forests to the highest bidder, they don't clear cut the land and never replant. Why? Because they'll be out of business within a few years. They want to make their resources last so they will replant new crops. Once you get rid of the commons, there's no more tragedy. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tRmZ9zH-mYM This is why we use OpenID. Even if someone manages to steal our database, it's worthless to them. There are no passwords in it. We also support two-factor authentication. Do you realize that when people hoard BTC, eventually the market figures it out and everyone else's BTC becomes a little more valuable? That's kind of like a massive decentralized loan. I look forward to the free advertising. You were all about society but now you're talking about your personal gain. That's not likely to happen. At the very least, even if there is no money to be made in keeping whales alive, there will be organizations like the Sierra Club that will homestead large chunks of the ocean and protect whales that live there. I'll donate $100 right now if there was such a system in place. I'm sure many people would too and a few rich people would donate much more. There are several ways you can do it, radio fences, buoys, floating lines.It's somewhat the same issue with leeching chemicals into the soil. You can do whatever you want until you affect someone else's property.Radio tags.Only property rights need to be enforced.This is why it's so hard to take you seriously. You keep making childish straw man arguments.
No, shit. That was his point. If whales did live in "navigable bodies of water" (last time I checked, the ocean was navigable and a body of water but don't let reality get in your way) that were privately owned, it would have the same consequences as someone shooting any other animal that you owned and kept on your private property.It's already been explained to you in as simple of an analogy as can be. Let me try one more time to reach you. If you want to stop the tragedy of the commons, get rid of the commons. If you don't get it then there's no hope for you. Fail.From your own link: It's quite pathetic when you question the intelligence of someone and you don't even know what a waterway is...Source: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WaterwayAre you trying to tell me that whales don't live in the ocean now? You're the one that's confused, not Elwar. I'm not surprised since you seem to make a habit of it. No, he didn't. You're being intellectually dishonest by claiming that, unless you really think it, in which case, wow... In other words, you've got nothing. I don't know why I even bother talking to either of you. I think I'll stop wasting my time since you've both clearly got nothing of substance to offer. So there's a difference because society says there is, brilliant argument. Cat and dogs are different too. Are you saying that a dog in my backyard does not suffice as an example of how to address property rights with regard to cats? Then stop making straw man arguments as if we don't know the difference between whales and dogs... So you're saying that other people grant me ownership of my thumbs as well as my thumb drives? How exactly is that an argument that they are different? That sounds like you're saying they are the same. If you don't like it, don't use Bitcoin. Congratulations on recognizing that whales, dogs and a pair of pliers are indeed different objects. What does that have to do with ownership? Do you really think those kind of "whales are not pliers, herp derp" arguments get you anywhere? Those are the differences between thumbs and thumb drives, which we've already established are different. That's not a difference in ownership.Yet again, that has nothing to do with ownership.It's kind of hard to take either of you seriously when you can't even put forth a cogent argument. Let me ask one more time...What does one kind of ownership grant me or imply that another does not? I'm not asking about the current laws either before you fall back on that schtick. Yes, a thumb isn't a thumb drive. I'm glad we've gotten that cleared up. Is there any other difference? What does one kind of ownership grant me or imply that another does not? There hasn't been a US President outside of the Republican or Democratic parties since the 1800's. You can vote for Mickey Mouse if you want but it won't matter. Could you be less vague? Why? Yes, it's so easy to vote for the party that gives us the Patriot Act and then vote for the other party.... that extends it... Cool system. The fact remains that it's easier to bribe a handful of politicians than it is to oppress millions of people at gunpoint. It's easier to pay to subvert the current courts and armies than it is to build your own.   Right, the keyword is "better". I'm not saying victory is guaranteed. If people refuse to stand up and fight against oppression they will obviously lose. However, nobody can sanely argue against the obvious fact that it's easier to bribe a handful of politicians than it is to oppress millions of people at gunpoint. Why is this even being debated?
What's that supposed to mean? Can you please put forth a complete thought? And? What's your point? It's not impossible, just a lot harder. When power is concentrated in the hands of a select few people, it's a lot easier to bribe them all. No, you can't change the parameters of the question. I specifically said that, "If I can demonstrate that forced slavery saves lives compared to any other solution, are you happy to allow forced enslavement?" See the part in bold? I'm stipulating that the damage done doesn't exceed the damage avoided. Does that change your answer? Are you then ready to endorse forced enslavement? Still waiting for your answer. I'm not OK with it but I'm sick of you and FirstAscent never making any arguments, only demanding everyone do your homework for you. If people hoard money, eventually the market figures it out. It's not necessary to strong-arm people into circulating it. The status quo is not the default position. You have to provide an argument just like everyone else. The sooner you figure that out, the sooner we can actually make progress in these arguments. You mean like how there's only one pizza delivery company? One email company? One search engine company? One almost-anything-company? Water is just fast-moving land. Piracy isn't something that should be responded to with violence. Whether it's good or bad is irrelevant. That makes no sense. Lobbying politicians isn't something that can happen in a libertarian society because there would be no state. How can anyone be better in a nonexistent activity? Derp. If I can demonstrate that forced slavery saves lives compared to any other solution, are you happy to allow forced enslavement? I think he's just pandering. It doesn't matter how much you are willing to pay if nobody can afford to maintain trucks and trained labor in the interim. One problem with that is that if you do that then it might be the case that nobody will pay until their house is on fire and there won't be any money to maintain the service. It's kind of like the problem with health insurance. If you allow people with pre-existing conditions to join then nobody will join until they are sick. Capability for emotional intelligence is what matters, not what you're made or how you come to be made. A tumor will never be a person. Computers currently can't either. However, that may change and it would be a mistake to deny them rights simply because they are metal and silicon. I don't get it. If you want to troll then you'd better grow some gills. 
LOL and I didn't even vote like usual... There would still be governments under libertarianism. The difference is that they would be forced to compete with each other rather than allowed to stagnate. By forcing governments to compete, it is exactly "we the people" that get to decide what shape the government takes. If they are then that's only an argument to treat teratomas better, not fetuses worse. Here are two claims that should be uncontroversial. A one-day-old baby has rights. A tumor does not have rights. Now, all you need to do is figure out why that is the case. It depends. Are we talking about voluntary socialism or coercive socialism? It is true that we will never have 100% agreement on anything. The only question is, when is it acceptable to use violence to force your will on the rest of the people that disagree? For libertarians, it is simple. Violence is only acceptable in self-defense of person or property. For everyone else, they would extend it to allow the use of violence for other things beyond merely self-defense. So the reason is because people won't allow it? Why not? Then I am against that. You have the right to evict, not kill. http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/creationist I own my body. I own my house. My body has to be nourished by food. My house does not. They are alike in the ways they are alike and differ in the ways they differ, but that's trivially true. My point is, all analogies have their limits but that doesn't make them worthless. Yes it does. If I want to remove someone from my house then the first resort must be to remove them without harming them. Only as a last resort can I kill them. Is there a way to remove the fetus without first killing it? If so, that must be tried first and all other methods left as a last resort. If not, only then are other methods justified as a first resort. No, you don't have to make sure they are looked after if you give them up, much like you are giving up the fetus. Yes. You can remove another person from your body whether or not it will result in their death. So are you saying that slavery was actually moral back then just because it was acceptable to a majority of people? You are responsible for your children until you give them up. You aren't giving them up if nobody knows about it. No, the mother has to give up the baby publicly i.e. it can't be done in a way where nobody knows about it. No.
Those birthrights can be amended with enough votes. I agree. You have the right not to be shot. You have the right not to be ran over. You have the right not to have your property destroyed. You don't have the right to live inside someone else's body.I agree. That changes nothing though. I can sue you for damages. If I have brittle bones and your bumping into me causes me a six week hospital stay then the damages would be steep. If I'm just mildly annoyed I might be able to get a few cents, which wouldn't even make it worth my time. Justice is about making the victim whole again, making it, as close to possible, as if the incident never happened.First of all, I'm not arguing about immorality, I'm arguing about rights. There are plenty of things that are immoral yet we still have the right to do. Also, you misunderstood me. I'm saying that killing the fetus in the process of removing it is only justifiable if that's the only way to remove it. Otherwise, it should be removed intact and anyone that can save it should be allowed to do so. You can't touch me at all.No, it doesn't matter what happens after it's out of the womb. It only matters how it's evicted. If there is a way to remove it intact then that must be done. If there is no other way, then so be it. Whether or not it dies after being removed is irrelevant. I agree. Yet, according to libertarianism, I am still within my rights to withhold sustenance from a dying person. That's an argument I can get behind. You shouldn't be allowed to damage the fetus, only evict it. Just like I can evict someone from my house, but not by chopping them into pieces first. However, the fact that death is certain doesn't change anything.Are you asking me why you can't stab people? It doesn't matter if you kill the guy or not, you can't stab people. No, it's not. No one is preventing anyone from keeping the baby alive, they just lack the technological means to do so. That won't always be the case either. It's also not something done in secret. It's not dropping the baby out in the woods where nobody that wants to do something knows about it. That's not even close. If you want to make an analogy, it would be like me kicking a person out of my house even though they will freeze to death outside. I said remove from her womb, not kill. She has the right to control her own body, even if the life of someone else depends on what she does with her body. The only exception is when what she does with her body violates someone else's rights. The fact he's against abortion is what bothers me. The fact he claims to be a libertarian yet doesn't understand that a woman removing a baby from her womb is her right also bothers me. Libertarianism is the most just system. Abortion. I'm still voting for him though since it's unlikely he can change the current abortion laws. Fair enough. Let me explain the details and perhaps you can make something of it. FirstAscent claims that enforcing property rights aren't enough to prevent pollution because certain types of pollution are a combined result of many people, not a single person e.g. dumping trash on your property. What I'm trying to explain is that even if they are only one of many contributors, they all share equal culpability and can be individually forced to stop their activities much as if they were the only person causing the pollution. What do you make of this? How am I supposed to know? Am I the doctor? For whatever reason, he wanted his office relocated to where the noise then became a problem. The analogy is only supposed to illustrate that I can do one thing by myself and not harm someone but in doing the same thing along with multiple others, I cause real damage. The analogy works perfectly well to show that. There's nothing flawed about it insofar as I meant it to be applicable. Red herring.My point stands, you're still being damaged and you still have a legitimate complaint against me. If you can show that I'm contributing to the damage of your property then you have a complaint. You can sue me and force me to stop damaging your property, with force if necessary, just as you could if I were throwing rocks at your house. The apartment buildings would come with fire service because the guy that owns the building doesn't want his property to burn down. In the case of condominiums it would be the same result but for different reason. Nobody would want to own a condominium without fire protection therefore anyone that buys it will have to agree to pay for it so the rest of the units could be sold.You wouldn't pay a flat fee. You'd pay a monthly or yearly fee. Learn the difference between secession and emigration. You're the one acting self-satisfied and smug. Make your point and stop wasting my time.
Finally, you get to the point. You're the one talking about carbon dioxide. I was talking about pollution in general. There are examples were my pollution doesn't affect me but does affect you. As just one example, if I own a coal burning plant and soot and ashs get dumped everywhere, including my property, I don't care. I'm sure you can think of other examples but that's ultimately irrelevant. Let's say me and 9 other people are doing something that's causing damage to all of us, you're still being damaged and you still have a legitimate complaint against us. Whether or not we take damage is irrelevant. If you think it's relevant then please explain how. Be quick about it too. Let's not have another half-dozen posts of meandering "I'll give you a hint" smugness. Stop wasting my time. I'm not a mind reader. In the future, unless you make your own arguments, I will simply disregard you. You must think I'm an idiot if you think I can't see that you're just being intellectually lazy. No, I did not. I said that if all your recommendations were going to be arguments from consequences that they wouldn't do any good since I'm not a utilitarian.As for your question, can you be a little bit less vague? I have an excellent memory. You've only recommended one book by E.O. Wilson which I had already listened to on audible.com before you suggested it and you linked me to a bunch of quotes on a blog, which I did read. Your post is exactly the kind of smug bullshit that makes the politics section such a miserable place. It's fine if you think I'm wrong, disagree with me, whatever, but to do so in such a matter-of-fact, smug and arrogant way is why I don't enjoy talking to you or AyeYo. Why can't we have a spirit of openness and coming together with these debates? Why does every post you make have to stroke your own ego and score "points" as if anything we say on these forums actually matters? It would be nice if, even if our differences our irreconcilable, we could understand each other and agree to disagree. Instead I get only this air of superiority. Right, you can sell or donate yourself into slavery but you can't be enslaved against your will. Irrelevant. If you can explain to me how it fails to capture the essence of one person doing something that's benign yet when joined by others causes real damage then do so. No, it's not. If you want silence, you just have to be there demanding silence. In the scenario, the doctor moved in first and then the guy next door started making noise but the doctor didn't care until he moved his office. If he would have complained immediately and shown the noise to be detrimental, he could have had his quiet. It's not a race towards noise any more than it's a race to quiet. That's not forcing people. Forcing is me using aggression or the threat thereof. As long as you make arguments from ambiguity we will get nowhere. That's all I wanted. That's why I didn't link you to the start of the video. That's how it's relevant to the first post. What you've said has nothing to do with that video. You should watch it again. Give me one example of something I would force people to do that doesn't boil down to self-defense of my person or property. Probably because he doesn't understand the difference between governments and states. That's just your straw man argument. It's no wonder you disagree with us when you don't even comprehend our position. Though, maybe you do but you're just trolling... Yet a further demonstration of your ignorance. Self-defense is not aggression therefore it can't be a violation of the non-aggression principle. No. Instead of blurting out non sequiturs, perhaps you could put forth a complete argument? You're only demonstrating that you don't understand libertarianism. You don't need 100% agreement on a single issue much less all of the issues for it to be implemented. You mean like concentrating power in the hands of a few people and hoping the bad guys won't make a grab for it and abuse it? This thread isn't about how the law currently is.
You mean like your fantasy objections to libertarianism? You really only need to watch a couple of minutes but if you don't want to learn anything, fine. That's a possibility but the how and why of it are ultimately irrelevant. It's simply a thought experiment meant to illustrate how one person can do something alone and not cause harm. Let's say that the water evaporates at the same rate water is being added. But, if many people contribute then real damage is being caused. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Id6glPCLm0E#t=29m15s Let's say that you're tied up in a large tank with water up to your neck. Me and 9 other people start adding 1 cup of water at a time. Eventually the water goes up over your mouth and nose and you die. Am I liable for 1/10th of a murder? No, I'm liable for the whole thing even though I only contributed to it and there's no way to prove it was me that poured in the final cup of water that killed you.The rest of your post is pointless garbage so there's nothing else to address. Notice how every time you put forth an argument like you just did above it gets demolished, is that why you're so hesitant? Is that why you like to play it aloof? I think it is. I'm not disagreeing with you, just adding. If you want to get that technical, even if you pull the trigger, it's the bullet that killed him. That's why we talk about proximate causes vs. ultimate causes. The proximate cause was the bullet or the hitman, the ultimate cause would still be you in either case. Then read the signs on the door. Don't see the VISA logo? Guess what that means. They probably don't take VISA. What about it? Why? You don't get extra rights just because you bring some friends to the party. How so? I'd also like to ask some additional questions. If there is a line drawn where there is "too strict regulation", by what guiding principle is that line drawn? Also, where does that principle come from? First of all, a known terrorist can be assumed to be an ongoing threat. If he's already wanted for murder, he doesn't get to own a nuclear bomb. Whether the cave below your property is a man made cave or one made by an underground river is irrelevant. You'll need to do some kind of checking, either way.Then all you need to do is show that what I'm doing is violating your rights.You don't have to damage it. In fact, pollution is usually a result of people that don't have a long term interest in the property.There must be some witnesses. Something that can provide evidence to their claims or do you think these people are doing it secretly, in the middle of the night without ever leaving any kind trace?And? Why don't you present a complete argument with some kind of thesis, some backing claims and perhaps draw some sort of logical conclusion? This piecemeal business smacks of intellectual laziness. They probably had no idea about it. If they did, they probably had fewer resources to throw at a single issue than would a large corporation that's going to make a lot of money from it. Also, as a politician, it's easier to justify regulation as "making sure the public is safe" but harder to justify deregulation because that requires playing not to people's insecurities but their sense of justice. Grab an encyclopedia or do a Google search then. The number of credible sources is limited unless you have access to some non-free sources. Simply saying "it's Wikipedia" isn't going to cut it. It's more reliable than you are, clearly, since you're wrong. Yet billionaire Osama couldn't get one? First it's hard. Then it's easy. Make up your minds. The market will sort that out. I can give you some suggestions but I can't predict how people will voluntary decide to tackle the problem, especially with all the different technologies available. You know they can find oil and minerals without digging, right? Mapping tunnels would be easy. Perhaps there would be some private agency to register those kinds of structures. Call before you dig.Usage rights are not total. You were using it to breathe, therefore I can't make it unbreathable. If you spit in the ocean, the ocean doesn't become yours.That's yet another issue for the market to sort out.There would need to be some kind of evidence, otherwise, anyone could say they had been fishing there when they hadn't really. Some sort of witnesses, etc. There will still be courts to settle things that aren't perfectly obvious.Why? Source: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liberal_democracy Which is a form of liberal democracy. The two aren't mutually exclusive.
I can point you to people that have already answered these questions. Did you actually think that you were the first person to come up with these questions? Did you really think you could pull something out of your ass that decades of thinkers never considered? I'll give you a summary of how homesteading works. You've never been to the center of the Earth, you don't own it. You don't have anything built in the sky, you don't own it. You only own the land insofar as you're using it. I can dig under you as long as I don't cave you in.As for moving air particles, water molecules, etc. That's where things get a little more subtle. I'm sure FirstAscent will love that since he's always raving about how complex reality is. Let him try this out for size. You homestead usage rights based on who was there first. If nobody else is using the river, you can damn it up. If someone else has been fishing there and suddenly you cut off river, that's interfering on with his rights. Is it cut and dry like a property line? No, it's complicated, like I said. I'm sure that doesn't matter though. Only statists get to play that card when it suits them. Right? It makes me want to puke when I see you talking about how you'd like to run other people's businesses and control their lives. Who has more time, money and incentive to lobby politicians, the fascist corporations or Joe Q. Everyman? There are little to no guarantees in life, regardless of what ideology you follow. He is perhaps a more elegant summary:Libertarians: You can only use violence to defend yourself or your property from physical aggression or the threat thereof. If you don't follow that maxim, you run the risk of using aggression on people that were never going to threaten you. It's better to let a few criminals go free and never imprison an innocent person.Statists: You can use violence to defend yourself of your property from the mere likelihood that physical aggression or the threat thereof will exist eventually. If you don't follow that maxim, you run the risk of allowing people to commit aggression before they can be stopped. It's better to imprison a few innocent people and never let a criminal go free.I can appreciate the statists view. It's rational if you accept that justice is of secondary importance. I don't. I would rather risk my life with freedom. We're all going to die anyways. We could at least do so with honor knowing we did the right thing during our brief time alive. But you are. Why do I have to do all the work while you go "ZOMG NUKES"? Let me poke holes in your arguments for a change. At the very least you can see how it feels to make a logical argument. I think you could use the practice. When I moved into my neighborhood I had to join the local homeowner's association. I voluntarily agreed not to have a different color door or mailbox. I'm pretty sure people will also agree to not post goatse billboards on their property. Likewise there will be freak communities where that sort of thing is welcome. People have no problem associating with those they want to. There will still be rules but they will be set by the property owner and in the case of businesses by their target markets. Smoking will be allowed in bars and bowling alleys but not tofu and grass smoothie restaurants. Let me know when you want to back up your claim. Until then, stop wasting my time. Here are my suggestions from most favorite to least favorite:1. For each dollar you pay in taxes, you get to say what it's spent on.2. Pay people an hourly wage to learn Austrian economics and read libertarian literature.3. Build a giant theme park with hookers and black jack, on second thought, forget the park! I said argument, not idea. You made a claim, back it up. The difference between me and AyeYo is that when I was finally shown to be wrong, I admitted it and became a libertarian. I major in Computer Science, with a minor in Mathematics. I also have credits from Oxford University in philosophy.I'll let you come up with your own argument for why owning land and other kinds of property should be considered different kinds of ownership and how that's relevant. You seem keen to play the skeptic but once you make a claim, you should back it up. If you're looking for something to read start with Ludwig von Mises, Murray Rothbard, Walter Block and Stephan Kinsella, in that order. Yes, it's not voluntary only in the sense that you will be forced not to murder, rape or rob people. Boo-fucking-hoo. Even murderers don't want to be murdered. Even thiefs don't want to be robbed. We almost all agree on the rules. Not everyone follows them though.The key difference is that it will be voluntary. I think we all agree not to murder, rape and rob each other. At some point, we don't need to agree on everything. There can exist competing jurisdictions. If you own property, you set the rules on that property. If you go on someone else's property, you follow their rules. If you don't like it, leave their property. However, don't be confused like AyeYo and think that you can set whatever rules you want for other people and force them to leave their own property if they don't like it. Libertarians aren't against government as long as there is consent to be governed. AyeYo clearly has no idea what he's talking about. Typical. Never admit when you're wrong. The true sign of someone that's out of their depth. "North Korea (officially the Democratic People's Republic of Korea or DPRK) has declared that it has nuclear weapons and is believed by many to have nuclear weapons."You can be loud-mouthed or ignorant of the facts, but being both is a terrible combination.
You really need to educate yourself.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/North_Korea_and_weapons_of_mass_destructionIf you don't even know that North Korea has nuclear weapons, you really don't need to be calling people "dumb shit" or even engaging in intelligent debates at all.I'm laughing at the all caps though. You mad, bro? I wonder if you realize that places like North Korea aren't part of that? Yet somehow a billionaire couldn't get one.They aren't regulated everywhere. Yet somehow a billionaire couldn't get one.Your theory doesn't hold water, sorry. So you're saying that even if they are readily available nobody would sell them to maniacs? I guess it's not an issue then. I shot down your terrible argument too. I guess you didn't notice that. Why do I care if his argument gets destroyed while I'm destroying yours? Collateral damage. That's a terrible example. Why didn't he have a nuclear bomb if he wasn't under the protection of the glorious United States? You claim without laws he would have had nuclear bombs yet he was in Afghanistan and plenty of other places where it could have happened. Yet it didn't, hmm...I guess that pretty much sinks that theory.ZING! Right, because nobody can ever pool their money. It's always one person.*facepalm* The conversion of a city from statism to anarchism rather than the formation of a city under anarchism are completely different things.We agree that we don't need laws telling people to wear parachutes when they jump out of planes, just like we don't need laws to tell people not to live near other people that want to own nuclear bombs privately. It's a non-issue. Yet again you avoid the issue. Nobody will own nuclear bombs because nobody will want to live in areas where that's allowed. Nobody will do business with people that don't abide by respectable courts. This are bullshit fantasy issues inflated way beyond any possibly likelihood of occurring. You've got nothing. No it's not. You have no idea what you're talking about. I'm against involuntary actions. Saying you don't care if I use aggression on you makes it voluntary. Therefore I'm free to use aggression on you. Don't like it? Then perhaps you should rethink rejecting the NAP. A hypocrite is someone that says "I reject the NAP, don't force it on me". No, the people in Tuscon wouldn't move there in the first place if that were a possibility. The only way large cities will form is if the land is already set aside and has rules in place for it. The large land owners and developers will make sure that is the case. It's like the previous issue of "what if the guy that owns the road in front of my house wants a million dollars to use it". That would never happen because people wouldn't be inclined to live there in the first place. Your friends will either be just as dishonest as you or they'll quit being your friends after you screw them over. Also, how are you going to keep making money when nobody trusts you and will do business with you? You won't. Why are you repeating yourself? I've already answered this. Nobody will live in a city where some guy's dad has a nuclear bomb that can be stolen like keys to the car. Would you? Exactly. The key thing these people are missing is that if you refuse to abide by a respectable court, nobody will do business with you. Wrong. It would be a double standard to say "I can use aggression but don't force me not to". If you say I can use aggression on you then why wouldn't I? That's what you're doing by saying you reject the NAP.What are you talking about? The regulations would most likely disallow the private owning of nuclear weapons. It would be reserved for large private security firms with measures in place to prevent that from happening. I've explained it once before. It's pretty simple. Every landowner in an entire geographical area forms an organization. They all sign a contract that delegates all regulation of nuclear weapons on their respective private properties to said organization. Anyone making, or transporting nuclear weapons in those areas is subject to those voluntary regulations. In other words, the same laws that exist now will exist under libertarianism, the only difference is that people will voluntarily agree to them. Cool story, bro. Got anything else aside from rambling fantasies?Everyone gets the same justice as me. Justice. If you don't accept the non-aggression principle then I'm free to use aggression on you. If you are found guilty of stealing my property and refuse to turn it over, you will be forced to do so. It's a shame you don't even understand the system you're criticizing. You'll never convince any libertarians that they are wrong until you can at least make a cogent argument. I'm a college student and the only person trolling here is you. You suck at it too.
Like making lots of money? You also advocate violence.  Like I said, you advocate violence but you wish to blame others for "making you do it". Oh, I thought you were talking about the way things should be, not the way things are.LOLGenius insight. You really know different ways of getting nuclear bomb or my property out of my possession other than with violence? Do tell. Why not? Allow me to quote you.Which is clearly a lie. Nowhere in the post that you quoted do I say that. All I say is that, "I'm here, if you want to argue then do it". You might have interpreted it differently and in which case, I can correct your misunderstanding but don't just make up lies and claim I said something I did not. If and when I can make a post in the politics section, I will. I suggest you just wait until then before furthering this pointless derail.You're not even following the argument. I'm calling you on the fact that you do advocate killing people just as much as a mugger does. You're either lying or confused. I offered you a deal in post #882 and I let you run your mouth until post #945 when I finally revealed that I had registered hours earlier when were first discussing it. As I mentioned once but I guess I'll say it again, I can't start a thread or make a post in the politics section anyways so this whole "dare" amounts to absolutely nothing.So, in other words, you advocate it but you just don't think it will come to that. Much like a mugger doesn't think he'll have to shoot anyone. I take it that's your roundabout way of asserting that owning land and owning other kinds of property is different? Fine, what's your argument for that? Money. Mouth.So what happens when I have a nuclear bomb on my property and I don't just hand it over? What happens when I don't pay my taxes? You're going to send me a nasty letter? Fine, I'll ball it up and toss it in my trashcan. I doubt it will end there though. Ultimately, all laws are threats of imprisonment or death. If you don't understand that then you have no business saying what should and shouldn't be a law. Absurd isn't it? I agree. Just as absurd as saying, "by staying on your own property, you're agreeing to be taxed". Why would we care about that? That pretty much sums it up. For example, statism has lead to slavery, genocide, war, two nuclear bombs dropped on Japanese cities, etc. The whole "come up with something better" argument is nonsense. Both systems have their imperfections. The flaws of statism are written in blood. At least libertarianism has the ideal of justice built into it from the start. Cool. So I can do whatever I want. Thanks.By continuing to post in this thread, you agree with me. Only because you stick your fingers in your ears and go "LA-LA-LA".Justice is better. Even if the entire universe explodes unless we violate someone's rights, justice is better. You have your answer. You may not like it but stop pretending that you haven't been given an answer. If you continue to deny that, it will be transparent. By staying where you are, you agree that I can do whatever I want. The cheapest programmable devices are microcontrollers. They can interface with computers using serial communications. They cost only a couple of dollars. If you want something along those lines but a little bit easier, check out the Arduino. Let me spell it out for you.J-U-S-T-I-C-EIt's worth more than anything. We shouldn't have to.
I consider living in a world where justice exists, to be a benefit. I guess some people would kill their own mother to save their skin. I can't change your mind if that's your point of view. I certainly won't have anything to do with it though. Most people are already capable of smoking only were permitted. Go to a major park like Cedar Point or Universal Studios and they have specific smoking sections. Where are you going that this is even an issue? Sidewalks? Well that's public property, no wonder. It's a non-issue on private property. If you are smoking in a non-smoking restaurant, they ask you to leave. It's a non-issue. So then you admit that dumping toxic waste doesn't fall under your criticism? Great, that's one down.Like what? Do you have any examples that aren't so unlikely and far removed from reality that they can only referred to as "A, B or C"? AKA genital herpes? Who isn't aware that dumping toxic waste on the ground can cause it to leach into the soil and eventually the ground water? Are these the same people that don't know smoking cigarettes puts you at a higher risk for lung cancer? I wonder if you know that already happens with government regulations? In either case, the results would be the same, that company would be sued into oblivion. The difference is, for causing deaths, the people responsible would have to pay dearly, perhaps even with their own lives. Of course, why didn't the water get tested regularly? That's right, because everyone thought they were safe because the government was on the job. Remove that fantasy from people's minds and they'll think twice about what they put in their bodies. They'll get the water tested regularly since it clearly isn't guaranteed to be safe no matter who's running the show. Explain the non-aggression principle, homesteading and legitimate title transfer in one sentence. Anything can be summed up in one sentence if you make a huge number of assumptions."All things are made of atoms, which are little particles that move around in perpetual motion, attracting each other when they are a little distance apart, but repelling upon being squeezed into one another."There's atomic theory in one sentence. Yet, does that tell you everything you need to know about it? Hardly. How do they interact? Do they have precise position and velocity? What are atoms made of? How many are there different kinds are there? What are their properties? How do they interact chemically? There's a million questions that still need to be asked. Trying to pretend you have captured everything in a single sentence doesn't fly. It's a summary, a preview. It captures an important central idea but it's by no means been boiled down to a single sentence. What a libertarian does and what is just can be two different things. It's not justice to rob a cabin for food when starving. That's why you have to pay for damages.Rightfully? No. Just like you can't rightfully rob a cabin even if you are starving. We'll all still do it though and pay the consequences later. It's important not to confuse what's just with what's done.Under libertarianism I have the right to defend myself against thieves. If I declare that I won't pay taxes and then blue uniformed thugs kick my door down and try to kidnap me, I'm justified in defending myself with violence. Of course, it's suicide to do so but there's nothing hypocritical about it. So let me get this straight. If I'm forced to do something at gunpoint and resist, I'm the one using violence to get my way? First of all, these aren't the only forums I post on. I have no idea why you would think that. Secondly, I've really been enjoying watching you two run your mouths, thinking that your little line in the sand means something, which is why I haven't bothered to tell you I registered on honda-tech hours ago. Unfortunately, I can't actually post or start any threads yet so it's kind of pointless to keep bringing it up. Though, I'm glad that you at least recognize how safe I am here since there aren't any worthy opponents. You said you were going to "fight me tooth and nail". I guess you meant that figuratively then? How else are you going to fight me? Strongly worded forum posts? I think I'll survive. Oh, in that case, my apologies. I thought you were going to be enforcing your beliefs on me. So you're saying I'm free to own nuclear bombs and not pay my taxes? See you on the battlefield. Ultimately, I define my rights based on empathy. I don't ask others to do what I would not have myself do. I consider myself equal in rights to everyone else. I start with "I wouldn't want to be assaulted or killed", "I wouldn't want my property stolen", etc and then these all distill to "I don't want people to touch my property without permission". Since I consider my person to be owned by myself, it therefore falls under property. That gives us the NAP. Then, that leaves the question of how property can be obtained in the first place and what constitutes theft. That's where homesteading and legitimate title transfer come into play. As you can see, all these disparate considerations ultimately boil down to the two tenets of libertarianism. It's accomplished by taking specific considerations, seeing what they have in common and generalizing them. Just because something can be said in a few words doesn't mean it's simple. Let's not focus on word count while ignoring content. How do you determine the method required for a particular case? The deeper we dig, the more it seems like you just fly by the seat of your pants. Let me repeat my question, you say you are concerned about consequences but how do you judge them? How do you determine if the consequences are too great to allow something? Can you describe it for me? I don't need a simple process. That's your strawman. I need some kind of process. You say that you are concerned about consequences but how do you quantify that? Is it some utility calculation? I don't care if it's complex or subtle but it better be consistent. You seem to confuse those things. So you can't explain your process other than "thinking hard about it". I'm really supposed to endorse that? There's a difference between picking some arbitrary rules and sticking with them vs. having no rules at all. I'm sure you know that. What kind of balance? What guides you? Whatever tickles your fancy? Popular opinion? The alignment of the stars?
I've already acknowledged this. I made a very apt analogy. Is a libertarian starving and lost in the woods going to simply wait to die instead of violating property rights by breaking into the cabin full of food? No, but at no point does justice get thrown out the window. Even if how we feel we would behave would become ambiguous under various circumstances, justice does not. You still broke into a cabin. You still stole food that you didn't own. You committed a crime and your punishment is the same as ever. You have to pay for the damages and the stolen food. You don't get a free pass on justice just because it's an emergency. Likewise, would a libertarian watch a guy juggle knives on an inflatable raft instead of stopping him? No, that's about as likely as a libertarian starving to death outside a cabin full of food. Libertarianism is not a suicide pact. However, in both cases, justice still has to have its due. You must eventually settle up with the law. The only confusion here is that some people think what's rational to do under certain circumstances and what justice requires us to do are always identical. A mugger takes your $100, buys you a $5 Happy Meal and you're supposed to be grateful. You're right about that and that's the whole point. Rules aren't supposed to be ambiguous and vague. However, understanding why consequences don't trump rights is a different story and that's what I was referring to in my post. Remember when I said this? Yea, I was the one who explained that to you and you agreed with it. So, clearly, that's not what I reject. I reject the idea that, all things considered, consequences trump rights. Of course, I understand your viewpoint. I simply reject it. You can't demonstrate that rights take precedence over consequences. It's obvious that I'm in the minority. Most people think that society has some kind of higher status than individual rights. That's no surprise to me. The fact that the average person would laugh at my point of view demonstrates about as much as people laughing at slaves being freed in the antebellum south. You seem to take popularity very seriously but it's not that important. I'll go ahead and grant you that my views seem very bizarre to the average person and save you some trouble. As a philosopher, that's nothing new to me. Trying to articulate classical problems of philosophy to "aww, shucks" commonsense kind of people usually results in making philosophers seem like idiots that worry over trivialities. You definitely require a sophisticated understanding before you can appreciate subtle and difficult problems. Congratulations, you've proven that the common man is common. The fact that AyeYo has been there five years tells me just about all I need to know about that place. The fact that you seem so keen to change venues seems a little bizarre. Are you incapable of arguing without help? Why does it matter where we debate? Are you incapable of putting my ideas to the test by yourself? I'll let you spin this however you want but the fact remains, I'm here, argue if you want but do so respectfully or you'll be disregarded by me and won't be taken seriously. It's your choice. Actually, now that I look at that forum it seems the rules are kind of a joke. I see AyeYo being his typical self calling people idiots, etc. I didn't start this thread and completely disagree with the first post, why would I do that? This is taken from the site guidelines and politics forum guidelines. Saying that I say absurd things is right out the window. Also, AyeYo will pretty much have to stop posting.The way I look at it is like this, attack the ideas, not the person that holds them, the argument, not the man. That includes just saying "that idea is idiotic". It needs to be some kind of criticism which leads people to that conclusion, not simply stating the conclusion outright as if it were a fact. I'll make you a deal. If you stop the insults here, I'll join the forums there. I'll lay down some ground rules and if you agree to them, I'll join the forums. I'll take your hesitancy to agree to some basic rules as an indication that you know your arguments can't stand on their own merits. That's a riot coming from you. You really have no sense of irony.We could just follow the same rules they follow. Why do we need to join a different forum just for you to stop engaging in personal attacks? I'm glad you at least realize that what you and FirstAscent are doing is anything but. Your "just tellin' it like it is" defense is about as convincing as someone proclaiming "but he really is fat!" Even if it's true, it's childish and has no business as part of a serious discussion. You'll never convince me that you're right with ridicule. It only tells me that you're getting frustrated because you can't cope with the actual arguments so you have to lash out. I'm even less convinced than ever. This is the level of debate your side brings. It's no wonder that you have trouble understanding mature arguments. You're the one that wants to extrapolate from an emergency situation into the rest of society as a whole. That shows a complete obliviousness to context. This is analogous to wandering in the woods starving and breaking into a cabin and taking food to survive. Do you not have to pay for the food because it was an emergency? Of course not. You are still forced to pay for it. Just like you are forced to pay for attacking someone on a lifeboat. It's neither justice to break into a cabin nor restrain someone that's not attacking you. It may be a necessary evil but it's not something you can get away with without paying for it.Let me ask you this, let's say that you and another person are in the ocean drowning and a plank that can only support a single person floats by but is seized by the other person first. My question now is, do we throw justice out of the window or is it a fight to the death over the plank? If you do kill the person shouldn't you be forced to stand trial for murder? If you say so. Review it yourself. I'm pretty sure I know what my stance is. It hasn't changed. The third option is if someone that isn't on the boat owns it. In that case you have no right to regulate what happens on it. In any case, you've been offered a response and all you can say is that it's "disgusting". That's quite a knockdown argument. If he gets on the boat after you do, then it's not his boat and you can kick him off if you want or make him follow whatever rules you set forth. If he's on the boat by himself then it's his boat and by getting on there you can't tell him what to do. Who owns the boat? That's the key issue.Uh huh, and slavery existed therefore while it was ongoing then slavery won. Until it lost. The point is, things change. The problem with cost/benefit is there's no mention of justice. If you can save billions by killing millions, you'll do it. If one guy dying can give his organs to save 10 different people, on the chopping block he goes.
It's a good thing that morality is a popularity contest.There's nothing absurd about not allowing "risky behavior" to be basis for acting with violence. What you are so keen to leave out is how I pointed out that if we start following that logic that we might arrest all teenage males because they are at a greater risk for committing crimes. That's just as absurd to me. The difference between us is not that both of our views can lead to things the other considers absurd but rather that when I am faced with what you claim is absurd, I don't abandon my principles. You do. Which leaves your world looking very arbitrary and ad hoc. Juggling knives isn't ok but other risky behavior is, where you draw the line is just based on some subjective gut feeling. I don't need to insult you either because I know your argument is weak without being forced to ridicule it. Are you describing libertarianism or the current state here in the USA?As opposed to non-arbitrary morality? Like what? From God?As opposed to paying tax to the public police force? At least when private security companies allow Oklahoma City style bombings to happen they'll go out of business instead of just going about business as usual.How likely is that though? If I owned a street I'd make sure things like that weren't allowed. Don't like it? Build your own street.It's amazing you can say this without a hint of irony. Do you think O.J. Simpson would have been acquitted without piles of cash? You're describing the statu quo. At least with competing courts we can refuse to do business with corrupt ones.That's actually not true. If you own a house and an airport builds next to you, that wouldn't be allowed under libertarianism. Also, it's very likely that few people would buy property without some sort of contract with the surrounding areas.That's a bad thing?Right because everyone under the state's protection is perfectly safe at all times in all places. Murder? What's that? That never happens anymore thanks to the magic powers of the state. What seems sensible to you seems absurd to me. My rights come from my head. Rights are theoretical fictions. They don't exist as concrete things. They don't come from some divine mandate.I'm all for private security. Where do your rights come from? Let me guess, society? So if society declares you don't have the right to speak freely that's just too bad? If you don't agree that you should keep your hands to yourself, how can I convince you otherwise? I'd rather deal with people that already agree with that and then argue from there to libertarianism. At least you acknowledge that all rights are simply based on opinion. That's a start.I have cleared my ignore list because I'm moderating this section now and I have to be able to see everything to do my job. I'll just have to mentally ignore the insults instead. Don't expect to get a rise out of me though. That was the point. Now you know how I feel. I can make up random rights too.The right to free cable TV.The right to have people with red hair executed.The right to have Nirvana playing in every elevator.The right to have X-ray vision.This is fun. Laws should exist solely to protect rights. I don't think "keep your hands off others and their property unless you have their permission" is such an unsound idea. I love how your entire persona is based around trolling a single person. You know you're only inflating his ego right? ...SPOTTED AN OBVIOUS TROLL AND STOPPED READING IMMEDIATELY. I don't change my own brake fluid nor do I know anything about brakes yet I find quality workmanship just like everyone else, using the wisdom of crowds. If you don't read reviews or do research before you do business with someone, you deserve half of what you get. I just told you. Why do you want me to repeat myself? If I want to buy something from a second party that they rightfully own, third parties have no right to interfere. No regulations are legitimate. Only self-defense is legitimate. This is getting tedious. There is no hard and fast rule of what counts as a weapon. That's the point.I've already addressed this. I guess you weren't paying attention. (See: this post) I'll go over it again though. It depends on what you mean by threat. If you simply mean that it's dangerous then no. If you mean that it's mere existence shows intent to cause you harm then you have the right to defend yourself. However, that's complete nonsense. The mere existence of a gun doesn't show intent to cause you harm. Pointing it at you does. Since you don't need to aim a nuclear bomb (for the most part) then it takes something else to show intent, some overt gesture.That's the key word. O rly?http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Molotov_cocktail If you want to do that then start your own exchange. Encourage people not to do business with exchanges that don't follow your ideology. But, don't think you can tell other people how to run their business.
I haven't edited anything. I simply quoted you. Instead of resorting to insults and false accusations, why don't you just address the arguments? I can drive a tanker truck full of gasoline around but I can't have explosives? Do you not understand what a tanker full of gasoline can do? Your argument is incoherent. Libertarianism isn't based on "might makes right". I don't think you understand what that phrase implies. The phrase "might makes right" implies that if you want to do something and I'm not strong enough to stop you, it automatically makes it right. Contrast that with Libertarianism. Even if I'm not strong enough to stop you from robbing me, that doesn't make it right.There's not enough information there to answer that. What are the circumstances? A single sentence doesn't give me the same information that being in the actual situation would. What's his body language like? Is he smiling? Does he look angry? Does he have friends? Am I walking or in a car? Ultimately, it depends on how scared I am and how reasonable the threat seems. You haven't given me enough information to determine how I would feel. In some cases, shooting someone pointing just a toy gun at you is reasonable, though unfortunate. In other cases, it's not reasonable at all. If it's a 3-year-old siting in his front lawn grinning at you and saying "Bang! Bang!" then no. Whatever you do, you'll have to justify by explaining how and why you felt scared and threatened. Are you saying that a tanker truck full of gasoline driving next to you isn't just as destructive as a bomb? That's a rhetorical question. We both know that it is. That blows your argument out of the water. No, it's not. Even if the gun is unloaded and they are pointing it at you, if you don't know it's unloaded you can still defend yourself with violence. You don't have to ask if it's loaded. The key issue is the threat, not the risk of danger. We drive around bombs all day. My car could explode at any time and kill you if you are next to it. Is that a threat? No. You're moving goalposts. You asked for alternatives to "might makes right". Of course there are alternatives. That much is obvious. I just can't say that any alternative is factually true. Asking me whose opinion we should follow is like asking me which football team you should root for. My team, of course. Any answer would simply be an opinion. I'd like to sidestep this argument and just point out that, if I accept, for the sake of argument, that owning a nuclear bomb is analogous to pointing a gun at someone, how exactly is that a blow against libertarianism? The irony here is that we are all arguing inside the framework of libertarianism where it's assumed that, without there being an immediate threat, you have no right to act against me. You aren't arguing against that assumption. You are simply disagreeing with my claim that there isn't an immediate threat. This is really just an argument that a bunch of libertarians would have.  No, I'm not. I'm saying those exhaust all the possibilities for settling the dispute. Obviously, I don't think whoever is right is decided over violence.Utter nonsense. No, of course not. Anyone that says otherwise is torturing the language. I've already given a list of reasons to own a nuke other than to use outside of self-defense. argumentum ad nauseam Of course they are. You complain that you could be killed by a nuclear bomb yet guns can kill you just the same. Like I said, you're not being logically consistent. I'm done arguing with you about this though. I've made my point. Let me know if you have anything new to add. So says Superman. Then why allow me to have a gun? Charles Whitman didn't phone up anyone either. You're not being logically consistent. If that were the case I'd agree with you but just because I buy something doesn't mean I'm going to use it. Maybe I bought it because I collect weapons? Maybe I'm going to sell it? Maybe I'm storing it for someone else? Maybe I'm going to attach it to a rocket and fire it into the sun?  Answer to what? There was no question in the post you quoted. Did you even read it? You apparently wish to claim that merely possessing a nuclear bomb is an overt threat while possessing a gun is not. Yet, for every argument you give regarding nuclear bombs, the same applies to guns. If I shoot someone with a shotgun and you are in close proximity, you could be killed as well. Yet, simply possessing a gun isn't an overt threat. If I am putting you in immediate danger then you have the right to stop me. Simply possessing a nuclear bomb does not do so. Yes, if I were going to use it and you were in close enough proximity, you would have the right to stop me, regardless if you were the intended target or not. However, until I show some intent to use it, you have no right to do anything. I could just as easily get drunk and use a gun on you. You're not giving a convincing argument for why nuclear bombs shouldn't be privately owned but guns should. The fallacy is in equating my pointing a gun at you with a nuclear bomb being on my property. A gun pointing at you indicates intent to use it on you, that's why you are within your rights to defend yourself. A nuclear bomb on my property doesn't indicate my intent to use it on you. So owning a gun doesn't endanger your life but owning a nuclear bomb does? Are you immune to bullets or something?
Then you must want to ban guns, knives and heavy objects too? So you don't care that people will die, you just care if it's a lot of people? That goes against what you said earlier about having a right to live. Unless you are Superman, I'm pretty sure bullets kill you just as much as explosions do. I wasn't referring to suicide. I was referring to the fact that people go on shooting rampages all the time. I figured that much was obvious but for some reason it wasn't... You have the right to not be threatened or attack. How exactly is someone merely possessing a bomb a threat to you? The same logic applies to guns, knives, heavy objects. Shall we just cover the planet in foam padding for you? No, wait. You could choke on the padding. I guess nothing is safe. Not if he signs a contract saying that he agrees not to posses any such devices. There are so many reasons why nuclear weapons wouldn't be available to any suicidal nut but you're too busy looking for problems, not solutions.You can only defend yourself against a threat or an attack. A knife is my drawer isn't a threat. A gun in my safe isn't a threat. A bomb in my shed isn't a threat, unless of course, it could accidentally detonate at any time. You have to wait until there is an actual threat before you can defend yourself. So you admit it then.That's simply not true. The problem is that you don't understand libertarianism. All that it implies is that all human interactions should be voluntary. There's nothing stopping a million land owners in a contiguous geographical region from voluntarily saying "no nukes allowed on our land without special permission". It's actually very likely that would happen because who wants to live in an area where live nuclear weapons are going to be around. There's nothing stopping any and all regulations as long as they are voluntary. Let's say you're dying from organ failure and there's only one donor but performing the transplant would kill her therefore she refuses. I say that you have no right to take those organs from you and I require you to die. Is that bogus or do you admit that in some cases you should die? Each individual has their own concept of rights and none of them is the "one true concept". Where they conflict, we can debate it or we can fight over it. I guess you aren't aware that consequentialism isn't a "form of logic". It's an ethical framework. I adhere to deontology. Where you would say, "X has bad consequences therefore we shouldn't do X", I would say, "X violates someone's rights therefore we shouldn't do X". You focus on consequences. I focus on rights. It's quite telling that you you leave out the most important part of that quote. Here's the full quote:I reject consequentialism and all such types of arguments. To paraphrase one of my favorite songs, "If consequences dictate my course of action then it doesn't matter what's right. It's only wrong if I get caught." There's nothing logically necessary about "not doing X has bad consequences therefore we should do X". I can give you dozens of examples. Here's one, the universe will be destroyed unless we torture a child until she dies. Damn the consequences, torture is wrong. Arguments like this only reinforce my libertarian views. If someone could make a decent argument that actually made sense and gave me pause for thought, I'd be a lot more skeptical. The fact that every argument put forth against libertarianism is so ham-fisted just makes me think I'm right more and more. It's not "inconvenient" which is the narrow scope that argument applies to. It's an argument for why we shouldn't make laws that are near impossible to comply with. You're making appeals to authority based on a misunderstanding of a Wikipedia entry. That's not going to work, sorry. According to your logic, if there is some situation where we need to kill a million people to save 6.7 billion people then it would be illogical not to kill them. Now that is absurd. You're wrong. Try it. That doesn't apply here. This isn't a matter of making a law that requires too much effort to follow. No, prepared statements will most certainly stop someone from injecting "1 OR 1=1". Like I said, prepared statements are the way to go if you actually care about security. If you want to get hacked then keep suggesting the use of magic_quotes_gpc. "Timid men prefer the calm of despotism to the tempestuous sea of liberty." -Thomas JeffersonI'll be ignoring you now. Good luck convincing people to change their minds when you can't even show them basic respect. I'm sure you'll go far with that kind of attitude. Are you serious? I can spot a slippery slope fallacy when I see one. There's nothing complex about that. Don't mistake me pointing out that one thing doesn't necessarily lead to another for your constant arguments for special pleading. "The world is complex so let's just throw principles out the window." Even if the world ends up as a nuclear wasteland, I would choose that over violating a single person's rights. Let justice be done though the heavens may fall. One ideology does fit all. That's kind of the point. I didn't just read a single book either. I've read dozens. I'm not starry-eyed. I'm a sober realist. I understand that authority needs to be decentralized. Want to see someone like you describe? Take a look around at the people that think they can concentrate authority into the hands of a few people and not have it eventually wind up being abused. Take a look around at the people that think that "might makes right" and somehow people can give others rights which they do not have themselves. Engage in cheap-shot insults if you want. I really think it's funny how I admit I wasn't always a libertarian and you throw that back in my face as if its a bad thing to change ones mind. But don't fool yourself into thinking I'm anything but a stark realist that understands no system is ideal. At least libertarianism is justice. One last thing, keep insulting me personally and you will find yourself being ignored again. First, it depends on which database you're using. Second, even if the initial injection doesn't do anything, what happens when the incorrectly escaped data is used in subsequent queries? The point is, magic_quotes_gpc is ignorant of what database you're using so you it's simply false to say flat out that "SQL injections ARE stopped by magic_quotes_gpc". You need to qualify that statement rather than proposing it as a panacea.It's fine if you want to say that magic_quotes_gpc, maybe, sometimes, prevents SQL injection. But that's not what you said earlier, hence my correction. No, they aren't. That directive has no idea what kind of database you are querying and different databases require different characters to be escaped. For example, with MySQL it doesn't escape \x00, \x1a, \r, or \n. You should at least be using mysql_real_escape_string(), db2_escape_string(), pg_escape_string(), etc. That way you are escaping relevant characters that could affect your database queries. Even when using those functions, it's still possible that you could be using a different character set than the escaping function is using. The only real solution is to use prepared statements. Relying on magic_quotes_gpc is a terrible idea. It encourages bad programming practices and shields programmers from learning about those mistakes as soon as possible. The sooner PHP developers purge the memory of magic_quotes_gpc from their minds, the better. Beginners have to learn about all kinds of pitfalls, even if it's the hard way, and this should be one of them. So you admit that having intellectual property and public roads are separate issues from not living in a post-apocalyptic wasteland? Maybe we should focus on those things then instead of "what if you could buy nukes like you can guns"?
So, your argument is that we need intellectual property laws and public roads or else we'll be living in a post-apocalyptic wasteland? That's a bit of a reach isn't it? I don't let argumentum ad consequentiams dissuade me from sticking to my principles. Most can't govern themselves but they can all govern others? No, if few can govern themselves then even fewer can govern others. You just said that there was no way of knowing he was mentally ill or not. If we knew he was mentally ill then no, he shouldn't be able to buy nukes. It's my position that any adult should be allowed to own nukes as long as they aren't on someone's property that prohibits them, which would likely be the case. Who would want to live in a city or drive on roads where that was just an acceptable everyday thing?Like? No. I would like it if nobody had nukes. This isn't about my preferences. This is about what people's rights are.  There's no way all of those people will be able to buy nukes. Like I said, they wouldn't be something you can just buy at Wal-Mart. He would have been in his right, yes. However, to have access to a nuke, you wouldn't just be able to walk into Wal-Mart and buy one. Are you saying that we shouldn't let anyone have guns because a few people like this guy will use them to murder? So you're saying the current system sucks? I agree.Anyone being threatened by the nuke. A mugger points a gun at you, stop him. A killer points a nuke at a city, the entire city stops him. You act like you'll just be able to go to Wal-Mart and pick up a nuke. That's highly unlikely. It will be sold to different groups and they will need to have permission to have nukes if they occupy anyone else's land and they will need to have permission to transport them if they use anyone else's roads. If someone kills people and is likely to be a continual threat, nobody will want to have him around. He'll be effectively banned for everyone else's private property. If you were a mall owner, road owner, etc. Would you have people like him on your property? No, of course not. If he is likely to use a nuclear bomb to murder, he won't be allowed to have one. If he is likely to use a gun to murder, he won't be allowed to have one.You don't have to wait for the mugger's bullet to rip through your flesh before you can defend yourself. The reason why we tolerate the possibility of cell phone rates being indiscriminately raised is the very fact we can switch providers easily. Who in their right mind would buy a house with only a 2 year contract that says nothing about the future increases of road rates? Who in their right mind would build a house with the only service being a road that can have it's price skyrocket at will? Exploitation is a myth. When you buy a house, part of the process will be evaluating the access rights that come with the house. If can't get from your house to your workplace without paying a million dollars each trip, you wouldn't buy it. Knowing this, builders wouldn't build houses in those situations, they would either own the nearby roads and give you access rights as part of buying the house to entice you, (much like my subdivision has a pool for the entire neighborhood) or the home builder would have contract to with the road builders. Road builders want people to use the roads so they can make money. They won't make money if they can't get anyone to build houses or open businesses nearby. Home builders want people to buy their homes so they can make money. They won't make money if they can't get anyone to buy their houses.As for how you pay for road usage, I cannot say. I can only tell you that if it's too inconvenient, someone else will find a better solution and make more money, eventually driving the others out of business. Market forces and competition act to tirelessly weed out incompetence and inefficiency.  Are you saying it's impossible? I'll refute that argument if you wish to make it. Not really. I'm not saying it's cheap. I'm not saying it's easy. I'm not saying it's likely. I'm saying we should do it. Show me how we get to non-slavery from slavery then weigh the pros and cons of it. Oddly enough, let's not mention justice at all. Tragedy of the commons? Get rid of the commons. Make everything privately owned. Problem solved. Which businesses will make more money, those that make doing business with them hell or those that figure out a way to make everything as simple as possible? Competition will make sure we don't have that kind of hell. Look at the current system. Do you actually know every law and every regulation? No, that's why we have lawyers. It's hard to see how the current system is any better than the unlikely worst case scenario you propose. Who is in charge of deciding if a mugger is using his knife to rob your or is using it to whittle a piece of wood? It's not about weapon. It's about the damage dealt. If you trespass on my property, I can't kill you just for that. If you pick my pocket, I can't kill you just for that. If you don't understand libertarian views then how can you be so opposed to them? Self-defense is defense from an immediate threat of physical violence in proportion to the threat and directly targeted at the person or persons making the threat.                                                                                                                                                                                                     in proportion                                                                                        in proportion                                                                               in proportion                                                                    in proportion http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pWdd6_ZxX8c I just hope they don't all amount to consequentialist arguments i.e. the environment will be spoiled unless we stomp all over property rights. I'll go ahead and grant you that it will be spoiled, for the sake of argument, (even though in all actuality, I doubt it) but it matters not.
Self-defense is defense from an immediate threat of physical violence in proportion to the threat and directly targeted at the person or persons making the threat. If someone says, "Wait until I get a gun, so I can kill you." then that's an argument for not allowing them to have a gun. If someone says, "Wait until I get a gun, so I can defend myself from attackers." then you have no right to stop them. Likewise, you have no right to stop someone from owning nukes if they haven't made any threats. These "Shankill Butchers" obviously wouldn't get to own nukes. The only thing wrong with them was that they weren't given the same treatment after they were caught. Those quotations represent a very different kind of thinking from my own. I'm simply not overly concerned with the perpetuation of our species. It's a nice idea but not too important. I want people currently living to have full and happy lives, happy by their own measure and no one else's. I love humans, not humanity. That's not something that can be argued over because it's deeply emotional. It's based on my experiences and my disposition. If that's what you hope to change, I highly doubt you'll have any success.  I'm sure you can come up with more reading than I have time to read so put your best foot forward. I'll let you know when I've read this and you can quiz me on it if you like. Yes. Did you know that I wasn't born a libertarian? In fact, I voted for Obama because I wanted him to give me "free healthcare". I was all for socialized medicine. This whole libertarianism thing is actually kind of new to me. I could be swayed to your position. What's doubtful, however, is that you could sway me to your position. But if you've got some articles or books you'd like to recommend, I'd be happy to read them and I'll give them the same harsh criticism that I gave the libertarian authors, which I ultimately failed to counter and so I begrudgingly joined their ranks. I can't be defeated because this isn't a fight. I can only be swayed to your position. Calling me names and speaking in riddles isn't going to work. You should try something else. Yes, because it all about defeating me personally. Who cares if any ideas get challenged or examined. It's all about me knowing that I've been vanquished and that you get the last word. That's so important.*face palm*Please stop obsessing over me. I really don't matter in the grand scheme of things. BLAH BLAH BLAH INSULT INSULT BLAH BLAHThat's all I read. Get back to me when you can control your temper. The same way a thread about intellectual property became a thread about the environment. The statists run out of straws very quickly. How about you exercise your manners?That's not how most economists use the term "scarce".Who said anything about proportionally? That's your straw man, not mine. It depends on how elastic the demand is. However, it's very much the case that as price increases even the most inelastic demands will find substitutes.Only if demand is fixed, which it never is. As the price goes up, the demand goes down. Focusing solely on the fact that the price is higher neglects the fact that there is a lower demand. Do the math. If a million people want to buy something at ten dollars profit per unit but only one person wants to buy the same thing at one million dollars profit per unit, you make more profit but setting your price at ten dollars. Price is not the only variable. It's also quantity demanded at that price. This is basic economics.Let me know when you have a point to make. You don't own land on the moon. It's the old myth that nature is whatever man doesn't do. It's as old as Aristotle. Spiders weave webs. Terminates build mounds. Humans use tools. It's all natural. ...what does Babies"R"Us sell? What makes you think you can just say "wrong" without any kind of argument to back it up?Let's just call them suppliers instead of reinventing the wheel. The short answer is, marginal revenue approaches marginal cost and the demand at that price point drives the supply. I think it would be easier if you would just make your point instead of playing Socrates.That's your job. Please explain why it's irrelevant since you claim it's so.You've got it backwards actually (See: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Supply_and_demand).Without scarcity, this model of supply and demand is irrelevant. Like I said, you have it exactly backwards. What was your point again? As natural resources become more scarce, what's available for purchase right now will decrease.Yes it does. Notice where I said "demand drops". Here's a good example. It used to be the case that teenagers would spend their weekends driving around aimlessly. When gas prices rose, many of those teenagers stopped doing it. If that doesn't address human behavior, I don't know what does. Define "too far". Is it just your personal opinion or what?When supply drops but demand doesn't, price goes up and then demand drops. No, just your simplistic formulation of it.If it was the last lake on Earth would I drain it? At some point, the environment has value and people won't destroy that because it can make them wealthy. Will we have every last lake on Earth saved? No. I'm being ironic. I don't see what's wrong with that. You should take my comments as meaning the exact opposite of what I say. For example, when I joked that "none of us are interested in our own survival" and therefore "at no point would most of us voluntarily decide that we should be careful how much we change things", it should be taken to mean the opposite. We are interested in our own survival and therefore we will voluntarily regulate our behavior. I'm sure you knew that though. No, I do. We'll be dead within weeks. You should give me all your stuff since you won't be needing it.
First you say...Then...Make up your mind.Attack the argument and not the man.By the way, I think that "Whatever two adults consent to do to each other is their business and not mine." is a pretty good principle. Since none of us are interested in our own personal survival, at no point would most of us voluntarily decide that we should be careful how much we change things. We are all suicidal idiots so we'll just tear it all up, trade it to each other and then die of starvation because that's how we roll. The same analysis applies. What I do with my land indirectly affects your land. Too bad. So sad. No, I'm not sure of that.It's also irrelevant. Because, unless you have a time machine and can go forward in time to find out, what right do you have to say, "Oh this is one of those children that will grow up and say they wanted to be molested."? If you have a time machine then by all means, molest away. Otherwise, perhaps we should play it safe, even if we *gasp* end up forcing our morals on someone. I used to own one of these. They are very good machines. The display was paper thin and it also had mobile broadband (required contract & monthly fee). All issues have been fixed. I'm just waiting on a few people to respond to my emails so I can recover their old accounts. I wasn't trying to. Let's review.That's what I'm responding to. I'm explaining why it doesn't matter with this example which is what you asked about. An ad hominem is just fallacious reasoning. I think you're more concerned with the name calling and insults which just shows either the person arguing has such a weak position that they have to strengthen it or they're just frustrated and have nothing else to fall back on. If I own some land with a lake on it and you own some land where waterfowl like to nest because of that lake. And, if I drain that lake thereby driving all your waterfowl to nest elsewhere, that's too bad. You can't tell me that I have to leave the lake intact just because it will change the wildlife on your land. It's my lake. I own it. Therefore, I have complete control over it. Your rights don't extend over into my rights. If the situation were reversed, you would have the same right to keep or destroy your lake and I would simply have to deal with the consequences. Ideal worlds exist only in fantasy. Try focusing on reality. I think all the insults fly because while we libertarians can take refuge in how elegant and morally sound our views are when we get frustrated, the statists don't have that refuge. So, when they get frustrated, they just lash out. You could make more money begging for change on the street. You don't understand me correctly. Save your sarcasm until you do.As an adult, nobody looks back on their childhood and says "I wish I was molested", "I wish I had my clitoris chopped off" or "I wish I was married at 8 years old". Therefore, it's safe to say that, even if as a child they would agree to those things or even desperately want them, since they aren't fully rational, it's not right to allow them to do that. Parents are stewards of their children, not owners. We treat children as they would want to be treated if they were fully rational. So while no children may want to brush their teeth as a child or take piano lessons or whatever. Once they are adults and still have all their teeth and play piano bellissimo, they have a completely different outlook on that situation. They will thank you for forcing them to brush their teeth. Will they thank you for allowing them to be molested? Probably not. Yes, it might have been.  Actually, I do know what edge effects are. It's not a complicated concept at all. I'm not sure why you're pretending like it's something that requires a degree in biology to understand. You also don't know what books I've read so I'm not sure why you're acting like you do. I guess it just makes it easier for you to pretend that your opponents are ignorant so you don't have to actually face the fact that you're wrong. You very close to being on my ignore list if you keep addressing me personally instead of the arguments. Besides, if you think a highly educated individual like myself is incapable of applying political ideologies to the real world, you're just making my case for me. The average person isn't college educated so is even less fit to make those decisions. That's why we need libertarianism, so we only need the average person to understand basic property rights and non-aggression.Your condescension aside, my point stands. Unless I'm crossing your borders, you've got no right to complain. It doesn't matter if the usage of my land changes the wildlife on your land. Try attacking the argument head-on if you can. I'm pretty sure you can't which is why you're being so "herp derp, edge effects is complicated stuff!" Hah. How do you know what libertarians are reading at home? Let me know when you have something based on facts. "One passenger became ill, another went to check on him, and there was never more than one person inside the restroom at any time."Source: http://latimesblogs.latimes.com/nationnow/2011/09/suspicious-bathroom-activity-led-to-fighter-jet-escorts.htmlDo you also think that it was appropriate to take someone of an airplane in handcuffs for "using the bathroom too long"? taxationNoun: A compulsory contribution to state revenue.robberyNoun: A compulsory contribution to a robber's revenue. My point is that regulations aren't entirely products of the state. Trying to argue that we need regulations and therefore we need states is fallacious reasoning.
Here's one story...Here's another story...May I examine your items? No? Alright then, I'll just detain you and blast them open with a water hose. Have a nice day, citizen.Taking a dump on an airplane? Here's your handcuffs. Have a nice day, citizen.God bless America. Land of the sheep. Home of the slave. So in other words, you have some use of your land that requires the use of my land? You have no right to that anymore than I have the right to build my grain silo on your land. Unless I'm directly damaging your land through some sort of border crossing, you've got no justification to tell me what I can and cannot do with my land.By the way, can't you make your point without calling others stupid or do you always insult people that disagree with you? The non-non-non-aggression-principle court? If everyone choose to go to court C that's fine because it's still voluntary. I'm against coercion, not organization.I'm only allowed to use violence as a proportional response to you. If you steal my shirt, I can take it back. If you fight me, I can fight back. I'll let you figure it out. I don't think you understand what I mean by "old". I mean the OpenID address that was used before the system was reset. Speed limits exist on private roads too. I've seen that movie. That's the first time I've heard "overly principled" used as a derogatory. I guess I should just let whimsy guide my actions? How exactly is libertarianism overly simplistic? What does it ignore and why shouldn't it be ignored? I also never claimed that it will fix everything. That's utopian and unrealistic. Libertarianism is justice, not paradise. Stuff Packs:Fast LaneOutdoor LivingTown LifeExpansion Packs:Late NightGenerationsPets (not out yet)SimPoints (for online store)Thanks! Then there's nothing left to discuss. I'll simply wait for you to say something relevant and talk to you then. Every time someone asks me about how courts or police or some other thing will work under libertarianism, I don't say "go read XYZ". Why? Because if I can't put it into my own words, there's nothing to argue about. Simply saying "go educate yourself", other than being incredibly rude and condescending, earns you absolutely no points in the debate. Either make a point or admit you can't. No, it's unlikely that once you are an adult you will look back and say "Damnit, you should have let me get molested!". Assertions, assertions but no arguments. There's no meat, nothing for me to respond to. I notice that you didn't respond to any of my points either. *shrugs* I don't know much about cars but I know enough to find a decent mechanic. Being able to find a good expert doesn't require being an expert yourself. If I look the other way then that's my choice. It's my property. Are you saying that you should be able to tell me how I should value my property?That's not a free market. A free market is based on property rights.Let a private security firm handle it for me. Do you think that police can only exist when run by the government? Somehow the bad people see a book of laws and it's like a Bible to a vampire? If a business pollutes my land, I'll sue them for damages until they stop or go broke and are unable to continue. Let's say that I trade my watch for your shoes. If we both agree to the trade then there must be something I like about your shoes more than my watch and it must be the case that you like something about my watch more than your shoes. After the trade, we both end up with something we like more. We're both better off. How is that not cooperation? Free markets are a form of cooperation. Since you keep responding to me even though I have you on ignore, I'll unignore you for now until you start to get insulting again.It sounds like you're engaging in the naturalistic fallacy. Just because something is natural doesn't mean it's good. Cancer is natural. Death is natural. In Aristotle's politics, he condemns money exchanging as unnatural and therefore bad; war and pillage as natural and therefore good. There is no connection between "is" and "ought". It's an unbridgeable gulf. The closest anyone's gotten are presupposition arguments such as Hoppe's argument from argument. All human interactions shouldn't violate the rights of people involved.
You can't consent to anything. Your guardian has to consent for you and your guardian can only consent to things that you would consent to if you were capable of consenting. Think about it like this. There's a man lying unconscious bleeding on the sidewalk. Do you give him a blood transfusion to save his life? It depends. Is that what he would want if he were capable of consenting. If he is a Jehovah's Witness, then no. Otherwise, then probably yes. A person is an adult whenever they demand to be treated as one and take responsibility for their own survival. Trees are down! This might just be me being a "dumb fuck", as you so eloquently put it, but I'm pretty sure that 1/2 does not equal 0. Also, saying that government fails to work because it doesn't have enough power or money is kind of like when a psychic medium says that they got an answer wrong because you didn't believe enough. It's pretty convenient that the fault is always with someone else. I'll do it for 10 BTC. Let me know if that's ever in your price range. Yes, as long as it's voluntary between all parties involved. You also forgot slavery. If you want to sell yourself into slavery, that's your right. If we allow free immigration, social services will be overrun with freeloaders. Solution? Get rid of social services. Condone, not endorse. I condone any actions between two adults as long as they both consent. You completely and absolutely own your body, so you can do anything you want with it. Does not compute. They enjoy it. Why else would they play it? Why do you hate chocolate and some people love it? They just do. So, government is provably incompetent at setting and enforcing regulations and your answer is, more regulations? Brilliant! Welcome to 1984. No. Murder is wrong. Therefore an impulse to murder isn't fine for them to act on. What two consenting adults do to each other isn't wrong. Therefore an impulse to act on that is fine for them.Julz, nailed it. Consent is the key. The reason I didn't mention consent is because it's irrelevant. Being a homosexual isn't about who you have sex with. It's about who you are automatically attracted to. You can be a virgin and still be a homosexual. I'm not going to argue that opinions are wrong because opinions aren't the kinds of things that are right or wrong. However the point I wanted to argue is this...When I see a pair of female breasts, I'm instantly attracted to them. Sometimes it's hard to think about anything else but those lovely breasts. It's not something I've decided on. I didn't wake up one morning and say "Hey, I think I'll give breasts a try." It's just how I was born. The same thing applies to homosexuals. If they see a hairy ass or some muscular dude or whatever, and are instantly attracted, there's nothing they can do about it. Obviously, they don't have to act on those attractions, just like I don't have to motorboat titties, but being heterosexual is just as automatic as being homosexual. It's not a sin. It's not a choice. It wouldn't even be something worth commenting on if people like nanaimogold didn't exist. If heterosexuals wouldn't make such a big deal about it, neither would homosexuals. You wouldn't have all this "we're here, we're queer" stuff. It would be unremarkable. That's all I really wanted to say. Carry on. vs. I want to argue with him once he finally admits that he thinks homosexuality is an abomination. Is that where the bad man hurt you? You can tell us. You're with friends now. Why? It sounds like you're saying might makes right. Which is also what FirstAscent has put forward. Such a belief is clearly false. You can't give anyone the right to do what you yourself cannot do. You don't get any extra rights just because you talked it over with your friends. It's possible we will have to choose one or the other. It's also possible everyone will kill themselves tomorrow. What happened to dealing with the real world? Both of those are unlikely. That's just an appeal to emotions. People already die under the current system. So, by your logic, since you are defending the status quo, you consider it alright that people die. The only difference between you and I is that I want a system in place that directly punishes rating agencies that allow through unsafe food with market forces whereas you don't. You'd rather have a system with little to no feedback mechanism where unsafe food still kills people every year but the food rating agencies don't feel any pressure from it. Let one of these peanut butter companies produce contaminated food under a free market and see how long they last with a self-interested rating agency that's trying to do the best possible job thereby maximizing profits. I want people to have safe food almost as much as I want them to be free to make their own choices.You try to make it freedom vs. safe food but that's a false dichotomy. We can have both and are more likely to have both under libertarianism.
I agree with you com.... (presses finger into ear) DISREGARD THAT, YOU ARE WRONG! I had a friend in Alcoholics Anonymous that told me about the requirement for believing in a higher power. I asked him what if the person was an atheist and he said that you could be your own higher power. I tried to explain to him that the meaning of the word "higher" precludes one from being higher than oneself but he didn't get it. This Freemasonry stuff sounds a lot like that. If you need to be told not to rape and murder people instead of just coming to that conclusion on your own, you might have deeper issues that joining a cult will only make worse. No. Right, because we know that society always decides what's moral and just. Exactly right. Let's say that we have a disagreement and we each go to our courts, my court A and your court B. There are four possible outcomes.1. A and B both rule in my favor2. A and B both rule in your favor3. A rules in your favor and B rules in my favor4. A rules in my favor and B rules in you favorOutcomes (1) and (2) present no problem. The matter is settled. Outcome (3) is where each of our courts rule against us. That's unlikely so we'll ignore that. The real issue I'm betting you're worried about is (4) where my court rules in my favor and your court rules in your favor. There are then two additional possibilities.1. A and B have a mechanism to settle this by going to court C to settle the dispute2. A and B don't have a mechanism in place and simply go to war with each otherWe'll call the courts that have a mechanism in place "legitimate courts" and we'll call the courts that don't have a mechanism in place "bandit courts". Since as you pointed out, there will be competition, who has the advantage? I'll quote Walter Block on this.If you defraud me into thinking that your restaurant is some other restaurant or that I'm buying a CD from Trent Reznor when I'm really buying it from Rent Treznor, I'll sue you in the aforementioned private courts. If you're not committing fraud, if I'm just a consumer not doing his homework, well, caveat emptor. First of all, drop the hyperbole. If you can't argue on the merits of your ideas alone, few people are going to be convinced by name calling, "utopia", etc. It just makes your position seem weak because you feel the need to engage in such tactics.Private courts. Will that business just be able to ignore the ruling? Sure, but it will make life difficult for them. Would you do business with a company that has a history of never allowing itself to be brought to justice? Probably not.Let's say my name is Bill Gates and I sell software "made by Bill Gates". Of course I can slap my name on it. Of course I can claim I'm "the real" Bill Gates. What I can't do is intentionally lead anyone to believe that I'm "that other" Bill Gates. That's fraud, pure and simple. I've asked you several times now but you keep avoiding the question. I'm going to ask again more openly so it's harder for you to ignore. The longer you refuse to answer the question, the more people notice and the more obvious it becomes what your answer is. The Nine Inch Nails CD made ~$1,000,000 dollars even though anyone could have downloaded it and burned their own copy. That means that the sales were mostly from people that wanted to support the band. If there are several different stores that have the same CD but only one of them is paying royalties to the band, most of those people will buy it there. The store can have a contract with the band to ensure exactly that. The official website could sell it there directly. I've laid it all out for you, there's nothing left to argue about.Yes. However, as I've explained to you several times now, all of those things are still possible and we won't lose them. Just like Clerks could have made its money in DVD sales even though it would have been available for free download.Some movies and some games. Not all movies and not all games. We would still have great movies and games. They just might not be made using millions of dollars. But I thought the cure for heroin withdrawal was more heroin? Am I doing it wrong? Just like the Nine Inch Nails album that was released as a free download but still made ~$1,000,000 in CD sales? Did you forget Clerks vs. Pirate's of the Caribbean 3 already? A movie made on a shoestring budget has a higher audience rating than the most expensive movie ever made. Clerks could have easily made that money back without copyrights and without copyrights it would have spread far and wide even faster than it did.The problem is that you keep equating all movies with $100+ million dollar movies. I don't think that's very fair. FTFY Get a job or get better parents. I'm glad you put "epic" in quotes.Epic.Epic.Epic.Not epic. Morally acceptable to who? To me, no.Define well being. Do you mean having a pulse? Do mean some internal feeling of happiness on their part? If it's the former, I can easily check a pulse. If it's the latter, only that person knows how they feel.I'll point you to the case of Armin Meiwes & Bernd Jürgen Brandes which I find horrifying but also a good example.Apparently, being tortured and murdered increased Brandes' well being, if you define it as his feeling of happiness. There are no moral facts, only moral opinions, and opinions aren't the kinds of things that are true or false. I like movies and games too. I also make my living selling software. I'm already biased towards agreeing with you but my principles prevent me from stomping on the rights of others. Productivity goes up because new technology is invented. We have riding lawnmowers instead of push mowers. We have backhoes instead of shovels. All of these things make work easier, not harder, while increasing productivity.I suggest that you read "The Anti-Capitalistic Mentality" by Ludwig von Mises. It's fairly short and argues against a lot of what you're saying.Here's the free PDF version: http://mises.org/etexts/anticap.pdf It is shared. Look at the lowest class in America. They all have refrigerators, color TV's, cars, etc, etc. They live like richest people did 50 years ago. The rich get rich by making the poor better off. How do you think Bill Gates and Steve Jobs got rich? By putting computers and iPods in the hands of millions of middle and lower class people instead of just the richest.
Since rights, liberties, and laws are all based on personal values, which are ultimately just opinions, there is no factual basis for any of those things. They all stem from emotions. I have empathy. Whenever I do something to someone else, I put myself in their shoes and ask myself, "How would I like to be treated that way?" If the answer is, "I wouldn't like it" then I don't do it. At some point, we might disagree because we don't all have the same opinions and there's nothing we can do other than agree to disagree when our beliefs can coexist or commit violence against each other when our beliefs cannot coexist. There's no shortcut, I'm afraid.Genocide is a direct refutation of utilitarianism. I'm sorry if you were offended. I really respect you because, even though we disagree, you are respectful. So, I regret offending you. However, my point was only that it doesn't matter how many people want something, if it's wrong, it's wrong. I was going to debate this with you since you were making a decent argument but now I'm just going to add you to my ignore list. If someone with some manners wants to take up your argument, I'll debate it with them instead. Don't bother responding to me because I won't be able to see it. Unless, of course, you just like talking to yourself. It's not emotional rhetoric when it directly relates to the issue at hand. If I suggest that we kill all people with blue eyes and you say that would be genocide, is that emotional rhetoric? No. It's a fact. That would be genocide. Exactly right. We have a winner!If you are in the desert and you are offered a gallon of water or an ounce of gold. You'd take the water. Repeat the process enough times and eventually you'd get to the point where you'd say, "let me take a look at that gold". The 1st gallon of water is worth more than the 1st ounce of gold. The 1,000th gallon of water might not be.The only bad thing about slavery was that you couldn't quit. You got to sing songs, pick cotton, you got fed, you had a roof over your head, etc. However, when the whip comes out and you say "I quit!" and you can't quit. That's when it becomes a bad deal.I'm being slight facetious but you get the point. Do you think that an hour worth of pushing a broom is of the same value as an hour worth of brain surgery? Fairness is a good thing. What's fair about you sitting in the shade and watching me felling a forest, clearing the stumps, plowing the soil, sowing the seeds, tending the crops, harvesting the corn and then you coming to claim some of it? You did nothing. I did all the work. That hardly seems fair. I'm sorry you don't understand it. Tell me what's confusing about it and I'll walk you through it. Thanks you've made your stance perfectly clear. That form of socialism I reject.No, it doesn't.Democracy is three people on an island and two of them vote to rob the third. I'm not forcing you to produce intellectual property and I'm not forcing you to give it to me. You're perfectly free to write a novel and then lock it away in a safe. You also don't necessarily own the products of your labor. If you still my lumber and build a chair, do you own the chair just because it's the product of your labor? No, it's my chair and you also owe me for damages to my wood.I reject utilitarianism. You can't measure happiness. There are no units. Therefore, you cannot compare it. Also, if you accept utilitarianism as a first principle then, since there were 90 million Germans in Nazi Germany and only 6 million Jews, as a utilitarian you must accept that the Jewish holocaust was "perfectly valid". That's a reductio ad absurdum of utilitarianism. Murder is wrong, regardless of how many people will be happy.Do me a favor. Go see the movie "Watchmen". It's entertaining but also shows utilitarianism in all its glory. The villain is a true utilitarian. Ultimately, utilitarianism is a form of consequentialism which says that "results matter first". I disagree. If 90 million Germans will be unhappy unless 6 million Jews are exterminated. Guess what? I want there to be a lot of unhappy Germans.Don't get me wrong. Consequences do matter, but not first before anything else. They matter in determining how you apply your moral principles. It's kind of annoying when you don't answer my questions. What kind of socialist are you? A peaceful and voluntary socialist or a coercive and mandatory socialist? In your world would myself and others be free to opt out of your socialist paradigm? These are direct questions which require direct answers. It would be chaos for a while but once people settled on a new sound monetary system we'd recover. Of course, it would be a smart move to already adopt sound money before anything happens. Someone should invent some kind of electronic money that could store value and be transmitted digitally without it being easily counterfeited. Then we could use that instead of money created by arbitrary fiat and not have to worry about these problems. That would be terrible because we all know that when GDP drops to zero, all the machinery, labor force and natural resources magically vanish. I'm denying that you have the right to tell me what information can be shared freely. I'm also denying that you have exclusive right to a name. You're still free to make movies and computer games. You're still free to name your goods whatever you like.This is getting repetitive. Unless you say something new, I'm going to stop responding.I'm glad you admit it was a cheap shot.Other than when someone demands that I provide my labor to them against my will, which is slavery, the only time I mention slavery is when someone tries to imply that "X is legal therefore X is moral" or "society decides X therefore X should be legal". In which case, I'll definitely be sure to point out that slavery is completely immoral yet was legal according to society. That's not trivializing it at all. That's showing it exactly for what it is, immoral and barbaric. That slavery comment is so inflammatory and absurd that it doesn't even merit debate. I also think it's offensive that you would trivialize slavery, a barbaric and immoral institution, by comparing it to not being able to see "Star Wars".I should have the right to share information freely. You shouldn't have the right to stop me. End of story. I'm not stopping you from doing anything other than denying me my rights. That's the USPS. I'm proposing we do away with intellectual property laws, consequences be damned. I've already explained how we can have brand names. Consumers will be able to sue business for fraud if they are misled into thinking that this "Burger King" is the same as that other "Burger King". It has to be made clear that they aren't the same. Just as if my name was Bill Gates and I sold you some software, I couldn't lead you to believe you were buying software from that other Bill Gates. A name is a name and nobody should have exclusive rights to them. I've also explained how commercially viable music, movies and games will still be possible. Perhaps the budgets will have to be scaled back if people refuse to pay money for them but that's just too bad. They clearly weren't worth their price to enough people. I'm not removing anything from you in the sense that I'm not preventing you from doing these things. I'm simply reclaiming my legal right to share information freely. If your business model can't survive, again, that's just too bad. A hammer won't work if you hold it wrong. Clearly, hammers are prone to failure. You said, "if we want entertaining movies, we have to have intellectual property laws".Now you're saying, "if we want Star Wars, we have to have intellectual property laws".Those are two very different claims. I'm not really interested in arguing about Star Wars because even if it never existed, we would still have other entertaining movies. You might be able to get me to feel torn about losing all forms of art unless we stomp all over personal freedom but the fact we won't have Star Wars doesn't even make me pause. I think The Lord of the Rings trilogy is an even better example to use on me as I love those movies. I think they are gorgeous, amazing, etc, etc. However, it's still not worth the price of admission, if that price is the loss of the ability to share information freely. That's like saying that a hammer fails if you smash your thumb with it. Hammers don't smash thumbs. People do. It's just a tool and it can be used poorly or wisely. Hammers aren't people either. That's irrelevant. Even if I carry you into my house while you're sleeping the same logic applies. The point is, you're in my house. Even if it's the case that if you leave you'll die, you have to leave.A lease is a contract. You mentioned it being a lease. I didn't.That's fine with me. Make a thread in the politics/society section and I'll gladly debate the issue there.
Getting pregnant isn't a contract with the fetus. If I invite you inside my house, I can immediately tell you to leave. Simply inviting you in doesn't mean you can live there. There is only one Trent Reznor and a video of him saying "if you want to support me, buy it from my website which is nineinchnails.com". Of course, I anticipate you saying that domain names wouldn't be possible either to which I will simply point at NameCoin, Tor hidden services and Freenet as refutations of that claim.First of all, writing a song is fun but recording a song is not. Doing 20 takes of the same section because there is string noise, one note is slightly off-tempo or some random string rings out slightly, isn't fun at all. Recording an album is a grueling and tedious process, especially when you consider that each successive take tends to get worse, not better, due to tiring out. You have to take regular breaks just to get energized which makes the process take even longer. I have a recording studio and I've recorded bands before so I know this personally. I would much rather program because it's not as demanding. For the most part, programming is fun, for me at least. Just having someone enjoy my work and compliment me is enough. I won't be offering much support or updates beyond what I feel like doing but that's where money comes in, charging people for extras.I've also done a little acting so I can say that it is quite fun. You get to be someone else. It's a very unique experience and I'd highly recommend it. From the few independent films I've had experience with, it's actually rather unusual for non-union actors to get paid anything at all. Most of them actually spend money bringing their own wardrobe, buying their own food, gas money etc. Also, many union actors work for scale, even big names do it some time. Vin Diesel will be working for scale on the next Riddick movie, which I can't wait to see.In summary, you've already admitted that we don't need copyrights for music because "they are artists and even if there were zero reward, they would still make the music as its beautiful" but you failed to apply that same rationale to films and games where it applies equally as well. Not really. Just off the top of my head, see Tom DeLay, Scooter Libby, Kenneth Lay or Ted Stevens for examples. They aren't even good at being corrupt. Oh dear God, not the Freemasons! They could do tens of dollars worth of damage! Fans are people that aren't necessarily cheap when it comes to things they love. One of my favorite bands is Nine Inch Nails. They digitally released their latest album for free two weeks before it was released on CD. After the CD was released, even in the age of iPods and piracy, the CD has sold about ~100,000 copies. Do the math, $20 dollars * 100,000 = $2,000,000 dollars. A paltry $27,575 dollars to be recouped from DVD sales is easily possible for a highly rated movie. Make it a limited edition, add special features, autopen an autograph on it and specifically tell the fans that this is how they can help make future movies possible and it will sell. Also, even if you never made a cent from DVD sales, simply having millions of people watch your films can open doors for you. You can charge for speaking engagements, commercial endorsements, etc. There are lots of ancillary services you can provide to pay for your true passion.  I just gave you an example of something immoral but legal in the post you quoted and are replying to, cheating on your partner. However, everything that should be illegal is also immoral. Illegality is a subgroup of immorality but they don't coincide, like I said.Everything moral should be legal but not everything immoral should be illegal. Can you give me an example of something that's moral but should also be illegal anyways?Abortion is an eviction that usually results in the death of the fetus. However, it's the mother's womb and she gets to decide who stays in there. The fact that a fetus can't survive on its own is unfortunate but won't always be the case. The fact it is the case now doesn't remove the mother's right to her own body. You don't need to invest millions to make a movie.No, we don't. As I mentioned, you don't need millions of dollars to make a movie. You need a camera, some lights, a microphone and some actors. The movie Clerks was made on a budget of $27,575 dollars and has a significantly higher audience rating than does the most expensive film ever made, the $300,000,000 dollar Pirates of the Caribbean 3. You must have also heard about the Sundance and Cannes film festivals. There are lots of ways for independent movies to make money and if they are truly good, they will make that money back. Markets don't fail. People fail. If people refuse to make informed rational choices, they'll get poor results. Uh, no. I'm not implying that intentions have anything to do with whether or not something is illegal. In fact, intentions weren't even part of the discussion. My point is, cheating on your partner is immoral. If we were to make everything that's immoral also illegal, we would be sending people to prison for cheating on their partners. Clearly, some things are immoral but even still, they shouldn't be illegal. The justice system isn't supposed to be the morality police.Legality and morality are separate issues that don't entirely coincide Do you ever plan on answering my question? Alright, thanks for clarifying.If unlawful means something is unethical then let's just use that word instead since it's less confusing to us non-lawyers.Cheating on your partner is unethical and immoral but it shouldn't be illegal. Why are you avoiding the question? Are you afraid to be straightforward? I'm not asking what a dictionary says. I'm asking what you're asserting. A simple yes or no will suffice. Let me ask again.Are you asserting that all homosexuals are perverts? It sounds like just a bunch of role playing. Is Freemasonry the original LARP? Can you link me to a dictionary that will explain the difference? My Oxford English Dictionary disagrees with you. It's definitely immoral but not everything that's immoral should be illegal. It should be legal because there was no aggression or fraud committed. Are you asserting that all homosexuals are perverts? Don't confuse morality with legality. It should definitely be considered legal to keep BTC that was accidentally sent to you but it shouldn't be considered moral. That's all I wanted to know. I'll leave you guys to slug it out. This doesn't affect me because I would never send my BTC to a website that didn't offer evidence of being a registered business. The lesson to be learned is, know who you're doing business with. Has this Bruce guy stolen someone's BTC or what? There are so many threads about him but I can't figure out who on these forums has actually been wronged by him. I'm sorry if this has already been asked a dozen times. A link to the answer will be fine if nobody feels like explaining it again.
If the economy can collapse outside of war, famine or plague, isn't that a sign that it needs replacing? What kind of socialist? A peaceful and voluntary socialist or a coercive and mandatory socialist? In other words, in your world would myself and others be free to opt out of your socialist paradigm? Somehow, without copyright laws we still got great works of art, Beethoven, Shakespeare, etc. In fact, Shakespeare borrowed heavily from earlier fictional works which, under today's copyright laws, would have gotten his work sued into oblivion and we'd have a pretty huge loss on our hands. Artists produce art mostly for the enjoyment of the art itself. The average salary for an actor is something like $16,000 a year and that's including the megastars like Brad Pitt, Harrison Ford, etc into that figure. If you ignore the outliers, the average drops way down. The point is, there will always be great works of art and people to perform it. You might have to go see a play instead of a movie but at least we will be respecting the right of people to share information freely. I'm glad we're being realistic. No particular system will be able to get rid of the problem. The best we can do is make sure that the system in place actually rewards excellence and punishes incompetence. That's what a competitive free market does and a government agency does not do. As I've already pointed out, the FDA has killed 4.7 million people by delaying safe and effective drugs and have saved around 7,000 by prohibiting dangerous drugs. Do the math.In our current legal system, their next of kin can sue. There are also arguments that anyone that wants to take the case should be allowed to sue on behalf of a dead person.You're talking about issues over a century ago. Do you really think that kind of logic applies today? I don't. There will be independent rating agencies. People will not eat food that hasn't been rated. People will not be able to buy health insurance if they eat unrated food. There are so many reasons why regulations aren't needed that you are ignoring.That's irrelevant. Society once deemed it legal to own another human being as property. Just because the majority wants something, doesn't make it right. I was just about to send an email to you regarding this when I got yours. I've replied. I'll have to resend the letter. Please allow 5 business days to receive it. I have no idea what that has to do with libertarianism. Libertarianism is about freedom to be free of aggression. If I leave my windows open and you use a telescope to spy on me. That's compatible with libertarianism and as a libertarian I wouldn't want anyone else to use aggression, government or otherwise, to stop you. I wouldn't be happy with it either. Don't confuse what's legal with what's good. Being able to shoot heroin should be legal but it's definitely not good. So, you present evidence that the FDA is ineffective and public courts aren't enforcing laws against fraud and this is supposed to instill confidence in the government? You want more of that? Regular banks get robbed too. Governments suck at everything, including keeping secrets. Well at least you're finally willing to admit that you aren't concerned about letting people suffer when it suites you.That's your opinion. I think people deserve to be allowed to freely share information such as academic research and textbooks as well as make new art based on previous works. I also think that if your software is worth supporting, it will be supported, if it's not, well that's a real free market and that's just too bad. I think people can read labels. You seem to think that either everyone has to have their own food safety lab or the government has to do it all. Where's the middle ground? Don't you think that it's possible for independent food safety agencies to exist? Don't you think that if you're an honest food manufacturer you would welcome these agencies to check out your operation? If some food is for sale but has no rating on it, only people that want untested food will buy it.If a restaurant doesn't have some sort of rating where it has well known practices and independent verification of those practices, would the average person eat there? It doesn't make sense to claim that people care about something when they appear to be apathetic when it comes to doing anything about it. Since we're using analogies, it would be like me claiming that I love my girlfriend yet I never call or visit her. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Argument_from_ignoranceSo you don't think that people would benefit by being able to access academic papers or textbooks? What about artists that want to use previous works and derive new content from them? What about people that can't afford software but could make a living off of it and eventually afford to support it later? What about the people that have been sued into poverty because they shared some music? I'm a programmer too. I've made over a million dollars in the last few years alone selling my software. Piracy hurts me deeply in that narrow sense but I still think copyright laws should be abolished. I was a libertarian first and went into examining the issue, hoping I could make it fit with my libertarian ideology but I couldn't. In the end, my principles won. I still think that using software without paying what it's worth to you is immoral but it shouldn't be illegal. If it's fraud then it's illegal now and would still be illegal in a libertarian society. The fact that nobody cares to sue these companies means that nobody cares. If they don't care, why bother wasting resources to force people to care? Where exactly is the problem? The people have already spoken, by not speaking.That's what you want. Nobody else seems to care. Why should everyone else be forced to bend to your will? It's one thing to demand that your person and your property not have aggression committed against them. It's another thing to demand that everyone have the same values that you have. How does a publicly available block chain conflict with being a libertarian or anti-statism (not all government is bad, just the involuntary kind known as states)? Also, you're confusing the Bitcoin protocol with the original Bitcoin client. There's nothing centralized about the protocol itself. You're free to implement your own client with your own bootstrapping mechanism. Others have done just that.As for alienating people, I have more faith in my fellow humans. I think they can figure out that a tool and what it can be used for are separate issues. You can use a hammer to build a house or bludgeon someone to death. How you use it is up to you. That's unfair. I care about people dying and I also wouldn't call them stupid. Some people just don't have the same values that you and I do. Ultimately, their lives are in their hands. They are free to ask for help or they are free to go their own ways. I don't want to treat other people like I'm better than them or like they're my children. They are my equals with just as much right to decide their own fate as I have to decide mine. If they don't want to take the time to find a trusted approved product then that's their choice and I have no right to force my values on them. Unless they are committing aggression against me or my property, I have no right to force them to do anything.  That's every person's right though. If they want you to be their savior then let them ask for your help. Why do you feel that you have the right to force it on them? Even if they do want your help, what right do you have to force it on the rest of us that emphatically don't want your help?You might want to check it again. Her book is listed there as available for download.Here's the relevant chapter: http://www.ruwart.com/Healing/chap6.htmlHere's the the bibliography page: http://www.ruwart.com/Healing/references.htmlIf you have other references that contradict hers, please link them. It won't do to just say "she's biased and there are thousands of other researchers that take a different view". Show me.
Is there fraud taking place? If so, why aren't these companies being sued out of business? Fraud is and should be illegal. If there is no fraud taking place then what exactly are you complaining about? It's your responsibility to learn about a product before you buy it. Also, vitamins aren't prescribed by a doctor. Comparing how doctors recommend medication vs. the average joe shopping at GNC doesn't really work. A few people being irresponsible is not an excuse to deny the rest of us our personal freedoms. That's the argument from principle. If that doesn't convince you then here's the argument from consequences.http://www.homelandstupidity.us/2009/03/25/mary-ruwart-deadly-secrets-behind-soaring-pharmaceutical-prices/Watch the video in that link. The doctor estimates that 4.7 million people have died from delays by the FDA of drugs that were eventually declared safe. She estimates that another 4 to 16 million people were killed by not being allowed access to drugs that are safe but couldn't be jumped through the FDA's hoops. How many lives has the FDA saved? She says about 7,000 and even says that if that number is off by a factor of 100 that 700,000 people is still a lot less than 4.7 million people if you only count the delays. Some people will die either way. The way you're proposing makes drugs cost more, makes healthcare have to be rationed sparingly and kills even more people. You can organize how ever you want. Just don't force me to be part of it. Why don't I have the right not to be forced into some organization?Fighting for my freedom to do everything except injure other people or their property is proposing an authoritarian society? How do you go from "maximizing personal freedom" to the exact opposite? That's a single sentence taken out of context. The point is, you can't call me a hypocrite unless you can show that my previous policy was never to insult people that insulted me first. You catch me from this moment on, you'll have made a point. Evidence? Show me some numbers or I'll have to assume that western medicine is pretty much similar. Everything "affects" everyone else. If I buy BTC for a really high price, it raises the price for other people that want to buy BTC. Do we outlaw that too? No, of course not. All that matters is that your rights aren't violated. You have the right not to have you or your property touched without permission unless in self-defense. You don't have the right to brand names. Sorry. Watch the video in that link. The doctor estimates that 4.7 million people have died from delays by the FDA of drugs that were eventually declared safe. She estimates that another 4 to 16 million people were killed by not being allowed access to drugs that are safe but couldn't be jumped through the FDA's hoops. How many lives has the FDA saved? She says about 7,000 and even says that if that number is off by a factor of 100 that 700,000 people is still a lot less than 4.7 million people if you only count the delays. Some people will die either way. The way you're proposing makes drugs cost more, makes healthcare have to be rationed more sparingly and kills people. That's even ignoring the fact that government intervention in voluntary human interactions is immoral. All around, your way of doing things is bad. People already die. Your ideal system is broken and has no mechanism to punish people for these deaths. It's business as usual so why would you expect it to get better?Competition, not charity.No, it won't. You should bother because it's immoral to interfere between two consent adults, no matter what they want to do. I understand but I'd rather you know exactly who you are dealing with. I'm a libertarian and pro-choice. It's better you find out now rather than later. I'm not running this service to get rich. That's why I don't charge transaction fees for trades. I'm running it so that people that want to deal only in cash can do so. If you value my silence more than my service, so be it. You aren't upsetting me. Thanks for the business anyways. As pointed out here, that's false. Then they are unfit to be parents and their remaining kids should be taken away from them.You can trade whatever you want. I object to you trading my freedom. It's not up to you to decide who I should trust. Personally, I'd rather trust my safety to free market businesses that have to compete with each other rather than a single bloated agency with a CYA-mentality that's allowed to stagnate. It's almost as unfunny as Ron Paul's views on abortion. Thanks for the link. The relevant part in the video is at 57:06 where the doctor speaking states that the pharmaceutical companies didn't need the patent system before FDA regulations. What mattered was being first-to-market because even when there was a second-to-market, the first-to-market still kept 80% to 90% of the customers. It was only because of the FDA regulations, which made the costs so high to develop new drugs, that the patent system became so important. In other words, get rid of the FDA at the same time you get rid of patents and we will have safe drugs, cheaper and faster. I think this is the nail in the coffin for intellectual property. Thanks again. That's because Cthulhu killed them all. You will die in the first wave. What's wrong with that? I believe Cthulhu is real. I worship him. I look forward to his return. It doesn't matter what I did in the past. This is my policy moving forward. If anyone catches me insulting someone from this point on they'll have a valid claim to hypocrisy. I tried going toe-to-toe with the insults but it's gotten old. I'm trying something new. If anyone doesn't like it or understand it, too bad. Things change. I'm not sure. I worship Cthulhu. Can I still join? Check your email. That was when information moved a lot slower and the average person knew a lot less.
That depends on the nature of the ownership. Since property can only be homesteaded by a single individual. At some point, all shared property will have once been owned by a single person. When ownership is first becoming shared it will be decided how it will be managed, by unanimous vote or majority vote.You're responsible for the damage caused. It's still the case that railroad cars emit sparks that land on other people's property and causes fires. The government doesn't allow them to be sued as long as they follow regulations and have spark suppressors. That wasn't always the case and wouldn't be the case otherwise.There are no rules on unowned land other than the default rule of non-aggression. I can't shoot you or slam into your car at high speed. I can drive drunk if I want to though.It's not an improvement in that one regard. It is, however, based on moral behavior of non-aggression and it puts a mechanism in place, market forces, that tends to give people what they want at certain price.It's unlikely that would be the case. Remember, different shopping centers are competing. Let's say you open a shopping center like that and since it's the only one in town everyone just suffers through it. Being a smart guy, I get investors to help me build a new shopping center with a standardized set of terms and conditions where you have roads that are paid for by a monthly membership fee. I'll make a fortune by attracting people to my new and convenient shopping center. If you had some bizarre terms and conditions like allowing the the staff to hunt customers for sport, you can be sure that information would spread far and fast. Then nobody would go there because you'd be out of business. That's the brilliant thing about competition. It puts a limit on the kinds of things that business can get away with. If the price and service don't match. People will go elsewhere, attracted by other businesses trying to make a profit by being better.Yes, the transition from public to private would be different than if it was private from the start. Ideally, whatever solution we come up would be something close to how it would be if it was always private. Perhaps we can give all the businesses a share in the roads and they can vote how they are maintained or vote to sell them to the highest bidder. It's definitely something to consider but not a huge obstacle.I doubt that would be the case. Remember, road owners are trying to make it convenient, not inconvenient. There could be maybe three or four different chips and all the roads use them as a clearing house. I don't know how breathalysers would work. That's ultimately something that the market would settle on. Look at it like this. Let's say that shoes were made by the government and then I suggest they are privatized. Then you have many questions."Who will make the shoes? How much will they cost? What styles will be available? Where will I buy them? What sizes will they be in?"The response is, I don't know, honestly. I can give you some ideas but ultimately it will be the market that decides all of that. Which it has, obviously, since we don't buy our shoes from the government.You're not thinking three dimensionally. Don't like the current road owner? Think you can do better? Tunnel under it. Build on top of it. If that doesn't work and you don't want to go a different way to work then you must not care that much. If the conditions aren't bad enough to add 10 or 20 minutes to your commute, how bad are they?"Timid men prefer the calm of despotism to the tempestuous sea of liberty." -Thomas JeffersonFreedom can be a scary idea. I won't lie to you. But if I own property, isn't that how it should be? Isn't that what ownership is all about? If I own a house and you tell me I can't wear shoes inside or smoke in it, how exactly is it my house?Come on, we wouldn't throw informed consent out of the window. If you don't like the terms and conditions then you can leave. If you can make a reasonable argument that you were unaware of them you can still leave. We would recognize the difference between buying a ticket to a mall and becoming a slave vs. signing a contract three times, with witnesses and a recording of your declaration that you wish to become a slave.I'm not trying to con you into becoming a libertarian. I'm not a salesman. I'm trying to accurately describe how libertarianism would work. If you don't like my answers then you probably don't like libertarianism. However, there is a chance you might find better answers elsewhere though I doubt it. If you don't like what I've said, you're probably not ready for this ideology. Good luck to you and thanks for the conversation. I have no way of separating which food-borne illnesses are caused from food prepared at home but here's a sample of cases that were caused by manufacturers.http://articles.latimes.com/2009/jan/22/science/sci-peanut22http://www.npr.org/blogs/health/2011/08/12/139575236/regulators-grapple-with-outbreaks-as-salmonella-e-coli-illnesses-grow?ps=sh_sthdlI'm not saying their worthless but they clearly aren't doing as good a job as they could be. Perhaps competing companies would have more incentive for this to never happen. As it stands, the FDA and CDC simply say "Aww shucks, we let a few people die. Oh well, business as usual." All property will be either owned or unowned. If it's owned then it's owned by one or more people. If it's owned by more than one person it is settled by vote.There could be several competing versions of the FDA. Each one with different costs and different standards. There could be super-expensive and super-safe food for paranoid people. There could be average-cost food with safety comparable to current standards. There could be low-safety standards for people that don't care or don't value safety that highly. It would ultimately be up to market forces and each person to decide what's right for them rather than "one size fits all".Yes, you would have to agree to the terms and conditions and buy a ticket signifying your acceptance much like any other private park, Disney World, etc. By the way, where would you rather meet me after dark openly holding a hundred dollar bill, in Disney World or Times Square?I would hope business owners would consider that when locating their business in the first place. Also, since road owners are trying to attract customers and having business adjacent to their roads will do that, they are going to be very reasonable if they want to make money.That's up to each road owner to decide. Maybe you have to pay a monthly fee. Maybe you have to have an RFID chip on your bumper. Maybe you have to blow into a breathalizer before getting on the road. Maybe you have to agree to be publicly executed if you are caught driving drunk. It will be up to the road owners but since they are trying to attract customers, you can bet it won't be too restrictive or too relaxed. Whoever can provide the safest, cheapest and overall best roads will attract more customers and drive the others out of business.You just need to understand market forces. Currently, about 40,000 Americans die on the road each year. Does the road owner go lose money or go out of business because of that? No. So what's the incentive to improve that? Very little. However, if it were privately run, losing money would surely provoke a response. Slavery was tried and successful. It was also immoral.Yes.They wouldn't call it "Pizza Hut". It would be "Pizza Hut*" and the asterisk would specify exactly who's Pizza Hut the advertisement was referring to. It would be impossible to freeride on someone else's reputation without committing fraud. Just like I can't say a product is endorsed by you personally when it's not.Most people know little about how the Internet works, how TV's work, how cars work, etc. The manage just fine.People don't ever get sick from foodborne illness already? Let's see what the CDC has to say.Oh wow, only 1 in 6? That's a stellar track record.The problem is, government food inspectors don't lose money and go out of business when they make mistakes. If a private company promises that food is safe and it isn't, people stop trusting it and they go out of business. The companies left are necessarily doing a better job. Market forces weed out incompetence. Government agencies don't. Now you're ignored. Congratulations. Your posts are becoming less about debate and more about abuse. If this is all you have to offer, you will be ignored.Property ownership is the key to determining what is aggression. If you take the shirt I'm wearing, are you the aggressor? Well, it depends, if it's my shirt, yes. If I stole the shirt from you yesterday, you're just reclaiming your property. We can't even determine which acts are acts of aggression without a theory of property rights. AyeYo, I can't see what you say because you are on ignore. I assume it's something sarcastic or insulting. If you want to waste your time talking to someone that doesn't read what you write, carry on. Medical research will always exist through charity. American citizens donated around $295 billion dollars to charity in 2006. People want to help each other and themselves. That's why we have those laws in the first place. It can exist in a free market.Brand names can exist in a limited form. Fraud will always be illegal.Again, unless the establishment is committing fraud there's no issue. Most people won't jump out of a plane without a parachute. The ones that do, have that right. Most people won't eat food unless it's been inspected by some credible inspection company. The ones that do, have that right.So, it's not the case that I want to abolish anything. That's your spin on it. I simply want it to be voluntary. Why is that wrong? The part in bold is key. You need to realize that I want all human interactions to be voluntary. If people voluntarily come together and create a government and economic system, that's exactly what I want. It could be capitalism, communism, syndicalism, whatever. The key is that it's voluntary. If you think that a system that exists exactly like the current one but with the added feature that it's voluntary is a failure of my goals then you clearly don't understand my goals.I wasn't clear about what kind of government I'm against since, strictly speaking, even a chess club has a government. As I mentioned above, I'm not against governments that are voluntary. I'm not against the chess club voting on a president and passing rules, etc. I'm against government that's forced upon some people against their will, aka states.If you keep descending into this hostile and rude kind of language, you will find yourself being ignored. I've been nothing but polite to you so I expect the same courtesy. There's no reason why we can't debate this in a calm manner. Nothing we say here is going to make much difference. The stakes are as low as they can be. If you don't have the patience for this then don't bother talking to me. There is a nice way to put what you said. You're claiming that my views are only opinions, not facts. I agree with that. There's what is known as the is-ought gap. There's no fact about whether or not you should engage me in debate or simply shoot me in the head to get what you want. However, once you agree to certain ground rules, it logically follows that taxation and other forms of involuntary interactions aren't legitimate. I can prove to you that stealing is wrong but once you agree that it is, you have to abandon taxation. Who owns the lake? The guy dumping chemicals or the fishermen?Are you telling people how the meat was produced when they ask or are you lying to them?Who owns the road and what rules did they set?There's nothing new you've presented here. These are all questions that have been asked and answered many times. I can point you to a few books if you like. So you're saying that I want to outlaw medical research, food safety and consumer brands? No. That's known as the ad coelum doctrine. I own what I homestead. I haven't been to the center of the Earth. You can tunnel below my property and do whatever you want as long as it doesn't damage my land i.e. you can't cause me to cave in.Humans create governments and grant governments authority, not the other way around. Property existed before government. Government is based on consent of the governed. Yes.Source: http://www.un.org/en/documents/udhr/ No, because that would assume that the government owns everything.  Again, you're assuming that the government owns everything. I'm not living in Uncle Sam's house.Don't get personal. I don't have any such fantasies nor did I imply I was that farmer. It was meant to illustrate the facts of history.By continuing to live in your house instead of leaving the country you are agreeing to follow my rules? No, because I don't own your property. The government doesn't own mine. That's why it's voluntary. They owned the property.I actually own a home and I am a member of an HOA. It's rather restrictive. My mailbox has to be a certain color. My front door has to be a certain color. I can't have window A/C units. My grass can't be above a certain height. I can't have yard sales, etc. However, before I bought the home I was told that if I didn't join the HOA, I wouldn't be allowed to buy it. I could have just said no, but I didn't.Imagine a different scenario. There was no HOA when I bought the house and no mention of any future plans. I bought the house without any conditions. Now, one day there is a knock on my door and someone says "You're now a member of the new HOA. If you don't like it, move."Historically, that's more accurate of the government. Do you know the history of the states? A few people moved into an area. They homesteaded some land. Eventually, a small group of people declared that that area was a state. The owner of the land wasn't consulted. The vote wasn't unanimous. One day, an agent of the state shows up to a farm. The exchange went something like this...Agent: Hey, there. We're starting a new state.Farmer: That's great to hear! I'm a good neighbor and I look forward to trading with you. Good luck!Agent: No, you don't understand. You're part of this state now and you have to pay taxes.Farmer: What?! I didn't agree to this! This is armed robbery! You're no better than a thief!Agent: Well, you can always move.Farmer: Move?! I've owned this land for generations. Why should I move? This is my land.Agent: Not anymore. Still talking about government? No. Whatever two consenting adults want to voluntarily do to each other is their businesses. The funny thing is, for many people, that only applies to sex, not economics. Don't like censorship on privately owned and operated forums? Start your own. That's the beauty of it. Competing ideologies can exist. What do you call being forced to provide a standard of living adequate for blah, blah, blah? Slavery. Servitude.While were at it though, I'd like to declare that cable TV (with HBO) and free beer are also rights. ME, ME, ME!!! MINE, MINE, MINE!!! WAHHHH!!! I also claim that 1 individual has the right to prevent the rest of society from murdering, enslaving, raping or stealing from that person. It doesn't matter how many people want something that's an injustice. It's still an injustice.
Property.Not property.Big difference.A builder can do what he wants with his land because he owns it. The government does not own the entire country so cannot. You have to homestead land to own it. You can't just say "I own all the land". However, I was born here, not immigrated so that wouldn't even apply to me.No, you can't buy the house unless you sign the contract first. You aren't the owner UNLESS you agree to the rules. It's not the same at all.You have to agree before you own it. Oh well then... That's because they entered into the situation by agreeing to a contract. The builder owns the land and therefore gets to set the terms of whoever moves there. That kind of private ownership is exactly not like the government which claims to set rules on property that I own.It is though. It's a private owner dictating the rules of his own property. That's perfectly compatible with libertarianism which is why libertarianism wouldn't be utter chaos.I'm not against paying fees. I'm against being physically forced to do so against my will. If I don't like the rules a builder lays down, then I don't have to buy it. It's his land so he gets to do what he wants with it. Knocking on my door, of a house I own, and demanding I pay a fee is completely different. It's a word and the rules apply to it like any others. If you sell me "gasoline" but it's really water, that's fraud. If you sell me "Coca-Cola" but it's really Pepsi, that's fraud. It's a word which has a commonly understood meaning. You mean those things that you have to voluntarily enter into or they won't sell you the home? Yes, that's a contract which should be enforced.As for your quotes of my comments. I was simply giving that user the same treatment I was given in order to show them how it feels. He's constantly abusive so I see no reason not to show him the same disrespect. After seeing it changed nothing, I'm just going to start ignoring these people. Talk with me long enough without insulting me and see if I insult you, then your point will be made. These quotes taken out of context prove nothing. Actually, even without intellectual property laws, that would still be illegal. If you sell me Y and claim it's X, that's fraud. I'm the victim though, not Coca-Cola. I've given out my fair share of insults, only to people that insulted me first, but that changes now. From this point on, anyone attacking me personally will be put on ignore until an apology is received along with a promise to stop that kind of behavior. Anyone that doesn't want to do that, isn't worth talking to anyways. We all have different opinions. That's fine. We can discuss it politely or we can insult each other. I won't be engaging people that choose the latter anymore. I see no big loss in not talking to you if you can't act politely. I'm sure you'll come up with all kinds of reasons why I just want to ignore your "genius" but you'll never know since you refuse to behave yourself.Current Ignore List:AyeYoFirstAscentjgraham The only way I'll remove you from ignore is if you promise to stop calling me names. In other words, welcome to permanent ignore. You're clearly grasping at straws. I can be free without having the freedom to enslave you.I reject your beliefs about society.That's a non sequitur. Society is nothing more than the humans that comprise it. Humans obviously exist. However, I don't have to accept anything about its legitimacy.Three people are on an island. Two of them vote to rob the third. That's wrong. It doesn't matter if its 3 or 30 million to 1. Yes, we agree that your arguments over definitions are puerile. You know what I mean. I've made it abundantly clear. Why?That was my point. It shouldn't be entitled to do that. Since you think it does have that entitlement, since you think it is entitled to declare anything it damn well pleases, I must reject your beliefs outright. I consider your position reduced to absurdity. It's the second definition in the dictionary. It's not removed from common usage at all. I've already used an extremely common example, workers going on strike until their demands are met. I really can't see the point of arguing about this. It's puerile. You made a claim that isn't backed up by evidence.How could you possibly know this? Did you travel to a parallel universe? Did you just pull that out of your ass?Is society entitled to do whatever it pleases? Is society entitled to declare slavery legal? If so, so much for society. If not, why not? Where do you ultimately get these entitlements from? The same place you got your last claim from? Source: http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/demandThat's how I'm using "demand". If you don't like it then you'll just have to get over it. Then you probably shouldn't make an assertion that you can't back up. You don't understand. They can send a strongly worded letter. That's all."Pay us now. All of it. Without fail."Forceful doesn't mean they can say "We'll send thugs in uniforms to kidnap you if you don't comply." You are focusing on the legitimacy of demands but failing to keep in mind the legitimacy of threats. Other people can't legitimately initiate violence against me therefore they can't legitimately threaten to initiate violence against me. No, I'm not. You're an idiot. Consider yourself ignored. I said forceful, as in tone, not force. Fail. There is no God.
Don't confuse copying with taking. If I copy your hairstyle, I haven't taken anything from you. You don't suddenly become bald. The only thing you don't have is the ability to profit but that was never something you owned anyways. The fact you can profit off of something is a function of everyone else valuing what you have to offer. You aren't owed a profit just because you feel that way.Can you prove that computers wouldn't have existed anyways or in even a better form than they currently do? I don't see how you can. I think your statement is without merit. If i'm not using violence to prevent you from doing anything but you are using violence to prevent me from doing something, I find it odd to accuse me of aggression. Also, what's the big deal about society? Do you get extra rights over others just because you include some of your friends in the discussion? If you can't steal from me, it seems irrelevant how many friends you consult. At first I wasn't planning on it but I've talked with the owner of bitcoincharts and he has assured me that the API won't be changed again so I will be making the requested changes. Which is more aggressive, reading a chemical formula, buying the raw ingredients, mixing them together and selling the resulting product or waiting for someone to do that and then confiscating the product, by force if necessary? If I write some idea down using my pen and my paper, isn't it more aggressive to demand that you now control my piece of paper simply because it contains an idea that you originated?  I don't know if English is your first language but a "demand" implies something slightly different than a "request". When a bunch of workers go on strike, they make "demands" not "requests". Simply making a request implies timidness and that being told "no" is slightly more satisfactory than would be the case if an outright demand were made. However, I would accept the substitution of "demand" as a "forceful and insistent request" if that will help you understand my point better. The website will be back up shortly. I have transferred everyone's BTC to the new server. No information or funds were lost during the move. However, everyone will be required to create a new account and send an email to sales@bitcoin2cash.com so I can transfer your funds to your new account. You need to have your old OpenID address, old account number, old deposit address or some other information that will allow me to identify your old account. Google accounts will work fine now, even if you switch to Google+ at a later time. It says "especially with authority". It doesn't say "only with authority". We are experiencing some growing pains. The VPS I was using for the back-end is choking on all the data it has to process so I have to upgrade to a new dedicated server. I'm migrating everything over. I have the old wallet file backed up in several locations so everyone's BTC is safe. I'll post more news if anything changes. So you disagree with that? This is a new issue that just started recently. You're bumping an old thread. I'm working on a solution. I will have to migrate the back-end to a new provider. It will be fixed soon. Email is the best way to contact me.There is an issue with Google+ but I can help you recover your old account. It doesn't matter who does the killing, government soldiers or hired mercenaries. War sucks, period. I've studied philosophy at Oxford University. I've probably read more philosophical works than you have. I don't care to argue about that though because it's pointless and childish. The point is, I'm well versed in philosophy.I'm not asking for proof in the mathematical sense. You'd think that would be obvious since we aren't discussing mathematics.You seem to act as if it's a mistake to speak about truth or falsity. Yet, if you were to say that the sun will shine tomorrow, and it doesn't, you've said something false. Why? Because you weren't stating a personal preference. You were making a claim about reality. I would assume that the result of intellectual property laws is also a claim about reality. Whatever criteria we give for being better or worse off, that is something you can be right or wrong about. Otherwise, what's the point of debating their merit? Since you can't prove that we're better off by some reasonable criteria, it's irresponsible to advocate them. That's not being adversarial. That's being rational. We can't just agree to disagree about the state of reality. There is a right or wrong when it comes to that.You're the one that seems to fail to grasp this definition. Try to follow the principle of charity before implying I'm unintelligent or don't know much about philosophy. Better yet, just keep the childish insults to yourself. In your opinion. I happen to be of the opinion that consistently applying principles actually matters most of all. You can have the last word but I'm still unconvinced of your position. If that's what you call winning, sure. Sour grapes."I'm right but it was obvious so who cares. "I do agree that it's obvious, to me at least. However, the fact that I have to keep arguing this point when it comes to minimum wage, taxes, etc, seems to suggest it isn't obvious to everyone. Just get over it and move along if you already knew this. How did we go to talking about from responsibility to influence? If your friends dare you to throw a rock through a window are you no longer responsible for your actions?Of course, unless you have some form of mental defect that makes you compulsively act out on your aggression. I covered that already. I'm not angry at all. Why do you think that? Just because I insult you after being insulted by you? You seem to have no problem insulting me so why can't I insult you back? That's a rhetorical question by the way. Don't bother answering it because I don't care.Anyways, I'm glad you agree with me, whether or not you consider it obvious doesn't interest me. You are dismissed now. How exactly does that make you no longer responsible for your actions? Are you saying that if you're born into a poor family then you have no choice but to murder, rape and steal? What is your point?My original post is referring to competent adults, not children or the mentally disabled. I grant that if you are a retard, you aren't necessarily in control of your actions. Everyone else still has to take personal responsibility. I haven't threatened anyone. You're either trolling or you're stupid. For your sake, I hope you're trolling.I guess you really are stupid. I've said it several times. My point is, if I can legitimately do X then I can legitimately threaten to do X. Do you need it translated into another language? Do you want some pictures to go with it? What will help penetrate that thick skull of yours? Cut the bullshit. This is the politics and society section. One of the things we talk about is laws i.e. what should be legal. If something is illegal then you will be stopped, with violence if necessary. I'm sorry if you don't understand that but quit trying to attack me personally and stick to the arguments.
You're an idiot. Please stop talking to me. You might want to read 18 U.S.C. § 873.Legitimate means I can't use violence to stop you. It's legitimate to call your grandmother a cunt but it's definitely not something you should do. https://www.pay.gov/paygov/forms/formInstance.html?agencyFormId=23779454All the people that want to pay more taxes are free to do so. But don't "volunteer" everyone else just because you feel self-righteous. It's YouTube video. Most of the comments are posted by children. Oh, so you disagree with my logic? Alright well I guess Hawker was wrong then. Someone will disagree with my logic. TL;DR Cool, then you recognize the legitimacy of blackmail? I can legitimately tell people your dirty little secret. That's free speech. So then I can legitimately threaten to tell people your dirty little secret unless you pay me $1,000 every month. Right? Everyone else seems to understand me. I'll do that when a non-troll makes the same request.  What's true for the controversial cases is true for the uncontroversial cases. If I can convince you that I should have a mile, I can easily convince you that I should have an inch. I never understood "demand" to mean that, such as when workers go on strike because they demand better wages or working conditions.I'm not concerned from where a right to do X is derived. My only point is, if I have can legitimately do X then I can legitimately threaten to do X. If anyone disagrees with that, let me know. Everything else is off-topic. Well then you really don't understand how philosophers work. We like to talk about edge and extreme cases because they inform us about the general and middle cases. You're either trolling or you take posts made on a discussion forum way too seriously. Either way, stop. Oh I get it. You're one of those idiots that can't tell the difference between arguing that one should be able to do something and arguing that one wants to or should do something. I think people should be able to do heroin but I personally wouldn't want to do it and I would urge everyone not to do it at all. You really need to work on that. The only relevant conclusion in this discussion is: if I can legitimately do X, I can legitimately threaten to do X. Everything else is beyond the scope of this discussion and incidental.If I don't draw the line somewhere, we can argue endlessly about everything. I'm sorry if you feel slighted but if you want to start a debate on whether or not it's legitimate for me to allow you to starve, then start it, in a separate thread. However, since you clearly agree that if I can legitimately do X, I can legitimately threaten to do X, I'm satisfied. Whether or not I can legitimately do X is beyond the scope of this discussion. I'm sorry if you are incapable of understanding that. Just because I demand something doesn't mean you have to meet my demand. So, yes, it is legitimate for you to demand that I give my last $10 away to strangers.Also, this discussion isn't an argument about how our legal system is but rather about how it should be. The Constitution is irrelevant. Slavery was once legal until the Constitution was amended but it was never legitimate.On a personal note, I would like to thank you for actually addressing the arguments and not insulting me. I wish everyone on these forums that disagrees with me was respectful like you. Not a single troll has put forth an argument of why they aren't personally responsible for their actions, aside from coercion. Typical. There was no criticism. Just a bunch of people agreeing with me and the usual trolls. If you want to quote something in that thread that you thing I should respond to then go for it but right now you're just trying to be an insulting little douche as usual.You're a piece of shit troll. The retards arguing about public vs. private property should really stop with the red herrings. The same results would have obtained if it was on their own front lawn. The only meaningful difference is that there is more publicity the way they did it.Morons. Which is why I had the last post before you made that idiotic claim? I also can't help but notice that your recent replies to me have been nothing but whiny little bitch comments that don't even touch upon the issues. I would assume like most other people. Are you unfamiliar with those words?
That's far beyond the scope of this discussion. Let's keep this focused on arguing about whether or not I can threaten to do what I have the right to do, or demand you to do what you have the right to do. Here are the conditions for legitimate threats.If I have the right to do X then it is legitimate for me to threaten to do X.If I don't have the right to do X then it is illegitimate for me to threaten to do X.Here are some examples. I have the right to leave the room. Therefore, it is legitimate for me to threaten to leave the room. I have the right to hang up on you. Therefore, it is legitimate for me to threaten to hang up on you. I don't have the right to kill you. Therefore, it is illegitimate for me to threaten to kill you. I don't have the right to torture you. Therefore, it is illegitimate for me to threaten to torture you.It seems simple so far but now for a real test.I have the right to allow you to starve. I have the right to not give you my money. Therefore? It is legitimate for me to threaten to allow you to starve. It is legitimate for me to threaten to not give you my money.What demands can I make? Here are the conditions for legitimate demands.If you have the right to do X then it is legitimate for me to demand that you do X.If you don't have the right to do X then it is illegitimate for me to demand that you do X.You have the right to kill yourself. Therefore, it is legitimate for me to demand that you kill yourself. You don't have the right to kill someone else. Therefore, it is illegitimate for me to demand that you kill someone else.So please, stop acting as if threatening to allow you to starve is the same as threatening to kill you. Those are not the same kinds of threats at all. They both will result in your death but one is legitimate and the other is not. I can legitimately threaten anything I have the right to do. I can legitimately demand anything you have the right to do. I have the right to allow you to starve. You have the right to work. If I threaten to allow you to starve unless you work, it's legitimate. Work or starve. If I say violence is incompatible with pacifism am I being dogmatic? If I say that an intersection of parallel lines is incompatible with Euclidean geometry am I being dogmatic? Is geometry a form of religion? No. These are just definitions. If you want to be consistently libertarian then you must reject intellectual property laws. If you don't care about being consistently libertarian then you can do whatever you want.Fallacy of argumentum ad consequentiam.Controlling the usage of an idea and receiving credit for originating an idea are two completely separate issues. If I were to take your ideas and claim that I originated them, I would be committing plagiarism, a form of fraud, not theft. There's something known as "my reputation" but my reputation consists entirely of what other people think about me. I don't own the thoughts of others. So even though it's "my" reputation, that doesn't mean it's mine to own and control.Then you are even more irresponsible in your attempts to defend intellectual property laws. You don't even know the content of the laws you are defending.Source: http://www.copyright.gov/title17/92chap1.htmlNo, I can't. That's fine for me though because I'm not the one advocating the existence of such laws. Since you admittedly can't prove whether intellectual property laws are helpful or harmful, it's irresponsible to advocate them. You're like the religious person that says, "You can't prove God doesn't exist."Laws that can't be proven to be helpful have no business existing. It's not supposed to be a game of chance based on "gut feelings". You accuse me of being religious but your unproven faith in intellectual property laws is closer to religion than anything I've put forth.Also, you're very long-winded and I'm a busy person. Keep your responses under 1,000 words, including quotations, or I'll be forced to ignore you. I'm not here to read or write essays. This is supposed to be a conversation. No. Intellectual property is incompatible with Libertarianism.If you want to own a idea then don't share it with anyone. Telling me what I can and can't do with my pen and my paper is claiming ownership over my pen and paper. That's little more than theft.If you sell me a book, you are free to set the terms of the purchase. If you want me to sign a contract that says I can't make copies of that book, that's possible. However, if I violate that contract and show it to a third party, that third party is under no contract and can do whatever they want, including, making copies of it.You can't even provide evidence that, aside from the issues of injustice in controlling the usage of property you don't own, that we are even better off without intellectual property. For every work of art you show, I can show another that doesn't exist because it was prevented from being made, being deemed a "derivative". For every patent you can show me, I can show you someone suffering because they can't have the same thing generically and cheaper. Intellectual property rights help us. That's self-evident. Intellectual property rights also hurt us. That's also self-evident. Can you prove which outweighs which? No, you can't. Therefore it's irresponsible to endorse a course of action that you can't even justify on practical grounds, even ignoring that it's injustice to control property that I rightfully own. My service doesn't require that. You can buy BTC with no fees by cash through the mail. Way to completely miss the point. The point is, few people are going to jump out of a plane without a parachute. Few people are going to eat food that hasn't been inspected. The ones that do, have that right. End of story. Passing a law requiring food to be safe is like passing a law requiring people to wear parachutes when skydiving. Most people are going to do that anyways. The ones that don't, they have the right not to. If I own a house, it's my house. If I want it to sit there unused then that's my choice. Maybe I just like the idea of having a house that I could always live in, in an emergency. The point is, I might want to use it someday and that's all that matters. Let's say that I already own a house that I live in and I buy another house for $50,000. I have it there for 15 years doing nothing with it. Then, you come along and move in to it claiming it's unowned. The next day, the house I was living in burns to the ground and I'm homeless. Do you think that's fair? If you do something wrong then you are to blame. Aside from coercion, what anyone else does has absolutely nothing to do with your behavior. You can still choose to do the right thing. If I'm going to be insulted then you can damn well be sure that I'll give you the same treatment. Can't take it? Don't dish it out.Get over it, whining hypocrite. No, if you remove your interest from it, you are implicitly declaring your intention to abandon it. (Note: I'm not saying the property is simply disused) I've never read anyone argue that once owned, property can never be abandoned. You simply just inquire if anyone is still using some property and if nobody comes forward in a reasonable amount of time, it can be considered abandoned. If someone says, yes, here's my title, I still want it. Then even if it's not in use, you can't have it.That's not because they think capitalism equals government control of the market but rather because they don't believe that the government does control the market. Ask that question in the streets and see what response you get. That's like telling a leopard to change its spots. Yo-Yo is a trolling piece of shit and nothing will change that short of several extra IQ points or medication for whatever mental illness he has. If I take unoccupied land, clear it, plow it and plant a crop. Then I have a better claim to that land because everyone else is a latecomer compared to me. If you want to claim that, as a latecomer, you have a better claim compared to me then another person even later than you can make the same argument. To have ownership at all, you have to recognize the prior-later distinction. That's nonsense. If a property owner removes his or her interest from it, isn't trying to sell it, do anything with it, etc, it can eventually be considered abandoned and can be homesteaded again.Words obtain meaning based on their usage. Few people use that word that way. They usually just mean private ownership of capital. If you want to mean something else, then use a different word or say exactly what you mean. You're just making things ambiguous by arguing against a definition that few people currently use. I call government control of private property, fascism.As I figured, you're just redefining words so you can raise controversy when we agree on the ideas but differ on language choice. Those are the most pointless and uninteresting debates imaginable. Let's just agree that private property should be controlled by its rightful owner and leave it at that. Call yourself anti-capitalistic if you want but you're just causing confusion."How many legs does a dog have if you call a tail a leg? Four. Calling a tail a leg doesn't make it one." It doesn't matter what third parties think about interactions between two consenting adults. So you're against private ownership of capital? Whatever two adults want to do with each other is none of your business. If one adult wants to be paid money to pose for nude photographs and another adult wants to pay money to photograph someone nude, it's none of your damned business. Why would you think that what one woman does reflects on all women? They are individuals.So what? Anyone that can't tell the difference between a medium of exchange and the services that accept that medium of exchange, probably couldn't figure out how to use Bitcoin anyways. The point is that the government isn't magical. It's capable of making mistakes and since it doesn't go bankrupt when it does make mistakes it has less incentive to prevent them in the first place compared to a private company in a free market. I'm hoping that once they see how they don't like to be constantly insulted they'll understand why they should stop. Thanks for the advice but it's unwanted and unneeded. I want the best for them but I also think their presence on this forum adds absolutely nothing at all. They are loudmouthed douche bags and I hope they get bored with trolling soon.I'm glad to see there is at least one statist on this forum that has some honor. I look forward to debating you without exchanging insults. I've given up on everyone else though. If I'm going to be called a libtard, etc, I plan on showing these people the same disrespect.
You're not even trying anymore. Good day sir. The entire reason you started whining about independent rating agencies is because I said "Businesses would brag about how their products are rated A+ by 'Really Trustworthy Rating Agency'." which is what Consumer Reports does. Now you're talking about investments, which is completely irrelevant. In other words, you're an idiot.  Sour grapes. The logical fallacy you're committing is called cherry picking. Since when are Consumer Reports and Underwriters Laboratories unreliable? You pick one bad example and pretend that it speaks for all ratings agencies. You're either trolling or an idiot. You're just not intelligent enough to see the connection. I found the problem. It's not an issue with bitcoind hanging. I've figured out a solution. I'm implementing it now. It will be permanently fixed very soon.EDIT: It's fixed. Thanks for your patience. Everyone with a balance with our service will receive a deposit of 0.10 BTC from me as an apology for the downtime. No, just call FEMA. That really worked out well for New Orleans. Oh wait, I forgot, you're one of those idiots that thinks the government has your best interests at heart and can never fuck up. First of all, the college education example is a terrible example to support your case. Why is college so expensive? Because of two reasons, one, intellectual property rights make it so that textbook publishers can gouge students or face fines for infringement. If it weren't for intellectual property, which is incompatible with libertarianism, textbooks would be dirt cheap. My calculus book costs $120! Think about that for a moment. Why the hell am I learning about a rule first published by a guy that died in 1704 yet still have to pay $120?! Get rid of government interference and that simply wouldn't happen. The other reason is that governments only recognize certain accreditation agencies if they conform to their criteria. This creates an artificial barrier for educators. If you want to help the poor, then stop interfering with the free market.As for welfare, guess what, the world doesn't owe you anything. I'm generous though. If I see you in the street and you're hungry, I'll invite you to come grab a sandwich with me. I've done it before. However, I can't feed everyone and it's not my responsibility to. If voluntary charity can't solve the problem then that's just tough. Libertarianism isn't Utopia. I only claim that it can do a better job than governments at giving people what they want voluntarily. If nobody wants to help the poor, you have no right to hold a gun to their heads and force them to do it.Under libertarianism murder wouldn't be allowed so I'm not sure what that has to do with anything. You also wouldn't be able to sell rat meat labeled as beef. Allowing fraud isn't even open for discussion. Regulations would still exist but they would be voluntary and decided by the market. Businesses would brag about how their products are rated A+ by "Really Trustworthy Rating Agency". Brandnames would be hugely important and guarded like a hawk. It's kind of hard to take you seriously when you don't even understand that tiny fact.The majority of Americans believe in God too. Does that prove anything at all? No, that's an ad populum fallacy aka bandwagon fallacy. Nothing you've said so far makes a case for rejecting libertarianism. You simply made a bunch of unsubstantiated claims and logical fallacies. Most statists are immoral/idiots, otherwise they would have stopped or will soon stop being one. It's fairly simple. As long as the number of people that want to use aggression to achieve their goals are outnumbered by the people that don't, we'll win. If not, we're fucked no matter how society is organized.Both seduction and rape can look exactly alike with the same results. There can be penetration, fluids exchanged, smacking around, etc but one is moral and the other is immoral. Why? Because seduction is consensual. If you and a sexual partner agree to smack each other around, I may find it obscene, perverse, whatever, but it's still voluntary so even though the observable consequences are the same, it's a very different situation. The fact that we would have we still have workers and society under libertarianism is not an issue because it will be voluntary, in the sense that it won't be perpetuated by physical aggression or fraud.Then what's the issue? If we're not prepared to shun people like that then how can we insist we have a huge problem with it? I may hate that gas costs the current price it does but I still pay for it because considering the alternatives, I value the gas more than the dollar amount. If I had the converse evaluation, say if gas as $1,000 a gallon, I'd keep my money and buy a bike.Newspapers are businesses just like any other. Different ones cater to different interests. If the demand for tabloid celebrity gossip is high, there will be more of those. If the demand for "just tell me what I want to hear" is high you'll get heavily biased news sources. There's nobody else to blame but ourselves. However, there are companies like Consumer Reports and if we have a high enough demand for it, they could expand or similar sources could enter the market.Also, I noticed that you didn't respond to:Does that mean you agree? War costs. Peace doesn't. The companies that go to war with each other will be out-competed by the ones that don't.It's the difference between seduction and rape.It's not our job to enforce morality on each other with violence. We shun people that do things like that but we don't hold a gun to their head and tell them to stop. That's why we don't lock people up for cheating on their partner or calling their grandmother a cunt.I didn't ignore it at all, that's why I specifically said "All free trades are mutually beneficial before the trade takes place." If you change your mind, decide you don't like the color, the flavor or whatever, you're goddamned right that's your fault. Next time, be more careful. As long as there was no fraud involved, it's definitely your fault. Newsflash: I'm not doing this to get wealthy. Bitcoin is free market money. I'm here to support that. I'm also covering my costs so I'm satisfied with that. I'm sure you're one of those ignorant morons that thinks "free market equals selfishness" but charity and activism are part of the free market.Herp derp!More like, get ready to feel the wrath of my shotgun or if I don't catch you, my private security firm will. Most people on this planet understand that theft is wrong when it comes to one-on-one interactions. It's only when they are fooled into thinking of themselves as worker ants, bees or cogs in this great machine called "society" that they abandon simple ideas such as "keep your hands to yourself". No, no, let's rob each other in order to protect ourselves from robbery!All you have to understand is that free trades, i.e. trades where I don't say "accept or I'll kill you" are beneficial. Why? Let's say that I want to trade my watch for your sandwich. If we both accept the trade then necessarily, I must want your sandwich more than my watch, and necessarily, you must want my watch more than your sandwich, after the trade, we both end up with something we want more. Otherwise, why the fuck would either of us agree to the trade?! It's pretty damned simple. All free trades are mutually beneficial before the trade takes place. Convince me that's incorrect and I'll submit to whatever dumbfuck collectivist ideology you support. I can point to why my ideology is superior. My ideology only requires that you keep your hands off of other people and their property unless it's in self-defense. Other than that, you can do whatever you want. Everything else is immoral. That says absolutely nothing about how much I actually use. I really don't need or want social security, medicaid, foreign wars, etc, etc. Your numbers are worthless just like the posts you make. [citation needed] Ad hominem plus I'm sure I've done more back breaking labor than you have, digging septic line ditches, hauling bags of concrete mix, etc and I still say your ideology is dead from the neck up. My service is targeted towards libertarians and anarchists. You're still welcome to use my service if you change your mind but I really won't miss you if you don't. Ad hominem fallacy. I'm against welfare for the rich and poor alike. Here's a novel idea. Live off of what you can earn through free trade or receive through charity. No wait, that would require whining parasites to actually fend for themselves. We can't have any personal responsibility. If you want to give your money away then have at it but just because you have some wild hare up your ass doesn't mean you speak for everyone else.
That's a complete non sequitur. What does that have to do with anything?I never said that the market "will always choose gold". Where do you come up with that? I said that, in a truly free market, the market prefers gold and by that, I mean gold backed currency. Give someone the option for paper backed by gold and paper backed by nothing and they'll choose the gold backed currency. That's historically speaking and this isn't a truly free market. When there is a truly free market again, the market could settle on palladium. I predict it won't, however. Get used to it. I'll destroy your idiotic arguments any day. LOL @ ad hominem fallacy. Because of legal tender laws and Gresham's law.You can write a contract and specify payment in gold but if the other party doesn't pay and you sue them, you're required to accept payment in legal tender. You can't say "but I wanted gold!" Likewise, since you are forced to take legal tender if you want protection from the courts, according to Gresham's law, people would rather save their gold and pass off their paper currency to you. All of this serves to reduce the amount of gold in circulation as money and we get to the state of affairs like today where very few people could even pay in gold without first buying some with paper. That makes it hugely inconvenient and businesses don't want to shrink their market share. Remove the legal tender laws and have courts honor gold contracts and then you can make an argument. As it stands, when there is a truly free market, without government threats, the market prefers gold. You claim to be big on evidence so let's not ignore thousands of years of history. There's nothing magical about it. Gold and silver have thousands of years of historically being accepted as money therefore it's likely to continue that way. Whenever the free market decides what it will use as money, it settles on gold and to a lesser degree, silver and other metals. That's what I'm more interested in, free market money, rather than any specific metal. Let the market decide. Historically, it's been gold. What's the point in trying to fight that? Just so you can seem sophisticated? The problem has returned. I'm trying to figure out what exactly the problem is. I'll keep this thread updated as I figure it out. It's bad enough that you're wrong, that's forgivable, but being an arrogant douche about it is just pathetic.A government bond is a loan to the government. There is a difference between savings and a loan. If you think that an IOU is a form of wealth, you're an idiot.Think before you post. I don't know why you even still bother talking to him. I gave up on him long ago. Every now and then I'll read one of his posts but I always regret it so I just avoid him altogether. I recommend you do the same. The problem is you're just using a vague term "centralization" without describing exactly what's being centralized. Would the FBI benefit if all of their people were centralized to a single (very large) room? No. Would the FBI benefit if all of their data was centralized to a single network? Yes. Centralization is good and bad, depending on what's being centralized. As long as you're being vague, you won't reach any meaningful conclusions. I'm a college student and I just got done with finals so I went to Cedar Point to celebrate. You caught me just as I left town for the weekend. I've replied to all emails. I'm looking into the situation.The political opinions I espouse and the debates I participate in have absolutely nothing to do with my business dealings. If you don't use my service because you're not a Libertarian, that's your choice but it shouldn't matter.Check your inbox. Also, I didn't do anything manually. It must have went through but for some reason the host's load balancer didn't properly display the results. I am alerted whenever the backend isn't working and I haven't gotten any alerts. I'm thinking that it's something to do with our host. I'm looking into the issue now. I don't care what's "better". What's right? Stealing from people or not stealing from people? Relax. I'm sure it's neither. There's actually a very subtle distinction between force and energy and not everyone understands physics enough to know the difference. People see a magnet sticking to their refrigerator and think that it must be doing some kind of work to to stay there when it's not. Common sense tells them they should be able to harness that into something that can provide energy. It hardly makes anyone a total idiot, just slightly ignorant of physics which we are all guilty of, unless of course you understand quantum chromodynamics, etc. Since you ignored me, let me ask again...Which kind of socialism? Coercive and violent socialism or voluntary and peaceful socialism?If you made $375k a year and you "owed" $100k on that, you'd know how much that stings and you'd get the feeling that the hate for the rich goes a lot deeper than just the billionaires. It's a fucking joke and I resent it like hell. No, I haven't and I'm glad because apparently being poor makes you quite stupid. Actually, it's more likely that being stupid leads to being poor. There's a correlation there at least. Either way, you can assure me all you like but you're wrong. The justice system is being utilized by the poor more often because they have a higher crime rate and there are more of them. So, naturally, they should pay for what they use instead of free-riding off of the rich. Which kind of socialism? Coercive and violent socialism or voluntary and peaceful socialism? Children have the same rights as adults as soon as they demand to be treated as such, which includes taking care of their own survival. A child that claims to have the same rights as a parent but still expects to be fed and clothed and looked after isn't much of an adult. A handful of regulations being removed while leaving the rest in place and calling it "deregulation" is like a few people dying of old age and calling it "depopulation". Right because you don't use any of that. I forgot about the fact that I get a police escort every time I go to the bank. Oh wait, I don't. If I want any extra security, I have to pay for that.How many rich neighborhoods have the cops there daily making arrests vs. poor neighborhoods? Many of us live in gated communities with a private guard at the gate. We don't need the cops there.How many court appearances are by the poor after raping, robbing or driving around drunk, etc vs. the rich? As for the military, I don't see how any of us benefits from murdering people on the other side of the planet. The only thing we need is a coastguard and a few nukes pointed at anyone thinking of launching theirs at us.So, pay money or get assaulted or stolen from? That's called extortion. If I want extra security, I'll pay for it, just like I already do.Like I said, I don't have any employees. My infrastructure consists of a few web servers which I pay for and a computer at home, which I also pay for. Some companies may use a lot of a resources but that doesn't translate to every millionaire being the owner of one of those companies. I don't have any employees. I only do business with customers directly through my website or with other businesses such as payment processors. Try again.Even if I did have employees, they use public services whether or not I hire them. In fact, since they aren't on welfare and food stamps, because I gave them a job, they are using less public services. You don't actually have a clue what you're talking about. You haven't done any kind of calculations. You're just pulling these claims out of your ass.Their "share" is only what they've used in services. They don't owe you anything extra. Stop being a leech and support yourself. Newflash: having a few million dollars is not a big deal and it certainly doesn't put me in league with the fantasy rich fatcat robber barrens you've gotten yourself in a frenzy over. I don't take government handouts. I'm not lobby congress to get special favors. I'd be more than happy to pay for what I use but I'm expected to pay many times more than that because of people like you that are simply jealous of success. It's amazing that you can delude yourself into thinking that while you're paying $1,000 in taxes and I'm paying $100,000 in taxes somehow I'm getting a better deal and do less work than you. Just because I don't dig ditches or flip hamburgers doesn't mean the way I make money is any less work. In fact, if your job is so important, why are you making peanuts? Clearly the world values my labor more than yours, hence the fatter paycheck. If you didn't have people like myself that make most of the money, who would you leech off of?Flat tax is a joke. You pay 10% of nothing and I pay 10% of a million dollars. There's nothing fair about that. How about we each pay the same dollar amount, or better yet, pay for the services we actually use?
That damage was done while there was still a government. Fail. It's fallacious reasoning to argue that all stateless regions would end up like Somalia. If you come in my house, you have to take off your shoes. If you drive on my roads, you have to drive on the right side.There is no law saying you can't punch me in the face. There is also no law saying that my hired security guards can't punch you back twice as hard.There are no police in Disney World either. Try to start something there though and you will find yourself surrounded by ducks and mice packing guns. With government:Without government:Whatever shall we do without the magical blessings of government?! Yes, it does. Libertarianism isn't Utopian. What's Utopian is trying to protect yourself from criminals by creating a monopoly on violence while expecting criminals not to take control of that monopoly. What's Utopian is letting the state be the judge of how much authority it has while expecting it not to overstep its bounds. What's Utopian is thinking that people are incapable of governing themselves but are capable of governing others. Libertarians are well in touch with reality, which is why we strive for changes that can have some realistically stable outcomes. Overthrowing evil empires with bloody revolutions only to allow them to build back up again, thinking that one can give others the right to do something one cannot do, thinking that extortion and payment for services rendered are the same, thinking that secession and emigration are the same, those are the products of delusion. No, we're wide awake.Right, because Somalia was full of thriving metropolises until it became stateless. Your posts have about as much focus as a toddler with ADHD. Here's a real review:"jgraham is a loudmouthed douche that tries to make up with posturing what he lacks in intelligence and he'll never convince me that stealing is justifiable and doesn't require restitution in kind" -bitcoin2cashHave a nice day, statist clown. I'd recommend you pull the stick out of your ass.  It's a shame how many people buy into this absurd notion. The small armies are private armies too. They are funded by revenue from people paying for private defense. Think of it like the current security companies, Brinks, ADT, et. al., that have armed guards, armored trucks, etc. I'm assuming that the small armies are equally well equipped with AR-15's, night vision, whatever. Keep blaming others for your own failings. That's why we have to make a distinction between the initiation of force vs. the response of force. A completely voluntary society means that no person may initiate force, nothing more. By denying you the right to murder me, I'm not initiating force, I'm responding with it, to your attempts to murder me.What is "the establishment"? If I own a business and build it up from zero empolyees to 10,000 employees at what point does my business, offices, equipment, etc suddenly become "the establishment". All of my property is my personal belongings. Everyone has the option to not work. So, if someone is working in a sweatshop rather than not working it all, they must prefer that. You're essentially saying, "Who cares what you want? I know what's better for you than you do." No, all you have to do is hold up a book of government laws. It repels criminals like the Bible repels vampires. So, you don't understand the difference between the force a mugger uses to take your wallet and the force that you use to keep him from taking it? Force is force? There's no difference?  No, but you are supposed to not be a thief. So I'm supposed to feel sorry for someone that had a $200,000 house and wouldn't protect it for $100 a year (or whatever the dues were)? A fool and his money...
That calls for a great deal more speculation as to being able to manipulate people with a vast conspiracy without being exposed, etc, etc. So, let's imagine that there are no governments and that the rich and powerful have vast private armies. Let's also imagine that, as would be likely, there are a bunch of other private armies and though they are each far smaller, altogether the number of soldiers is greater than that in the private armies of the rich and powerful.Now, let's simplify things a bit. Let's say that there is one big army of 1,000 soldiers owned by the rich and powerful and there are 500 small armies each with 100 soldiers owned by everyone else. If the big army were to attack any of the small armies one-on-one, they would win. So, it seems like whoever controls the big army, controls everything. But wait, what if the big army started attacking each of the small armies one after another to grab for that power? Would each of the small armies line up like dominoes waiting for their turn to be knocked down? I don't think so.It's more likely that, even though the small armies are controlled by many different people, since they have a common enemy, they would unite long enough to take out the big army. It looks like it's not merely the biggest gun that wins. A bunch of smaller guns can win by working together and they have a motivation to do so, out of their own selfish sense of self-preservation. It's naive to think that you can just knock down army after army without being perceived as a threat to the others and taken out by a briefly united group of small armies. Good, that's my goal.It might not happen anytime soon. It might take generations. It might get worse before it gets better. Slavery didn't end worldwide overnight but when the time was right, it ended. That's the same kind of thing I envision for statism. When people are ready, it will happen but first it has to at least be seen as something possible and worth hoping for. I see we're having trouble coming up with anything of substance to say. You're outmatched and you're frustrated so you resort to your default sarcastic douchebaggery self-defense mechanism. I swear they must have an assembly line for you statists. Oh that's right, it's called public school. They won't once intellectual property laws are done away with, not in their current forms at least..Contracts don't apply to third parties. I may sign a contract with Microsoft promising not to give away their software but if I do, anyone that receives that software isn't bound by that contract. They can do whatever they want. Once the cat is out of the bag...Right. I don't expect to get anything for free. If I leave my property, I'll have to abide by the rules of others. That's voluntary which I'm not against. That's not a tax. That's a fee.If the good people out number the bad, it's better to keep things decentralized because as soon as you have a single point of failure, it's easier to attack. If the bad people outnumber the good, we're fucked no matter what. See below.That always applies. Do you think you'll be able to repel invaders with a book of laws as if it were the Bible to a vampire? It'll slow down the bullets but it won't stop them. Whoever controls the most resources wins but it doesn't have to be a single person controlling them. I'll pit your single 1000-man army against a thousand 100-man armies any day. NO It's simple. Find me all the raw materials and send them to me. I'll solder the cables together, make them look nice and pretty and send them back to you USPS. No, Microsoft and Cisco wouldn't exist because they are based on government enforced intellectual property laws.If you don't want to give your money to a state, you're kidnapped or murdered. If you don't want to give your money to a corporation, you're forced to do without their goods or services.Who do you think is going to try to seize control of the state hardest of all other than the evil greedy bastards you're trying to stop? We also have to define property rights. If I grab the shirt you're wearing, am I the aggressor? Well, it depends. If you stole the shirt from me yesterday then you're the aggressor and I'm just reclaiming my property. If you own the shirt though, I'm the aggressor. We have to detail property rights before we can sort out who is the aggressor. The theory of property rights we advocate is homesteading and legitimate title transfer. You can claim unowned property by mixing your labor with it or you can transfer the title to already owned property by any legitimate means, gifts, gambling, trade, etc. The biggest failure of evolution is having our food hole and breathing holes share the same tube. Anyone that's inhaled soda after reading some of the idiotic statist arguments on these forums probably knows what I mean.I think the second biggest failure is having testicles dangling unprotected. It could have at least built a cage around them like my lungs have. So if I have food and I don't give you any, I'm enforcing starvation on you?The rest of your post is being ignored because it's based on a bunch of false assumptions. You don't know me so don't pretend to know why I favor markets. I'm not talking about unemployment insurance which doesn't last forever. The point is, if eventually the option is to not work and get nothing or work and get very little then some people might prefer to work and get very little rather than to do nothing and get nothing. Who are you to enforce your personal opinions on them? No, the question was, would you argue that not working and getting $0 an hour is better than working and getting $1 an hour. Also, assuming you say it's better to not work and get $0 an hour then do you think this is just your personal opinion or is it something that should be enforced everyone regardless of what they believe? I heard it was just a bunch of BS about how we need more regulations because the ones that got us into that mess weren't enough and capitalism is based on greed, blah, blah. Is that an accurate description? If people are smart enough to govern each other then they are smart enough to govern themselves. Idiots and/or cowards. Clearly, you're the one living in a fantasy.Why are the statists on these forums such clowns? Oh that's right, because it's an ideology for idiots and/or cowards. I said you were stating the obvious. I'm sorry if you don't know whether or not that implies I agree with you.Define in his context how you are using "rational", "future" and "guaranteed".[/quote]Use a dictionary. Answer the question.There's no reason for me to assume any of that.[/quote]Why is that an unreasonable assumption? Please provide some substance. What's your point? I claimed that stores would assure access to a major highway and then you state the obvious viz. that they wouldn't assure access to every customer at any cost. How does that disprove my claim that stores would still assure access to a major highway? I'm assuming that you concede that point.Would any rational person have bought that property in the first place if they couldn't be guaranteed access to it at a reasonable price in the future? No.Of course it is. It's also feasible that everyone decides to kill themselves tomorrow at 2:33 PM -5 GMT. Just because something is possible doesn't mean it's probable. I take it that you concede my point that most roads will be owned by a business.Thanks but I'm taken. You're going to die anyways. Why rush the inevitable? At least if you stick around you have the chance to have some fun.
Look at any relativity free market. Are you overwhelmed by incompatibilities? Most video connections are HDMI these days. Most gadgets take AA or AAA batteries. Most cell phones use mini USB to chargel. Most cameras use SD memory cards. Most cars have CD players. I could go on and on. There aren't government regulations that force any of this to happen. Businesses want to make money and while there is money to be made in variety, that only goes so far and only when it makes sense. If people want standardized laws, they will get it. If people want different laws but to be able to know when those laws apply, they will get that too. Someone could make a GPS device that detects your location and shows the laws that apply in that area depending on which court system you subscribe to or whatever. Don't underestimate how smart people can be when they are acting out of their own selfish interest to obtain wealth. You need to understand the difference between secession and emigration. Here's how it went down with my ancestors that have owned this land since before the formation of the state.Agent: Hey there, we're forming a state.Farmer: That's awesome! I'm a good neighbor and I look forward to trading with you.Agent: No, you don't understand. You're part of it now. You have to pay taxes.Farmer: What?! I didn't agree to that. I want no part of it.Agent: That's fine, you can just abandon your property if you don't like it.Farmer: That's extortion! That's theft! You're just a highway robber.Agent: No, I'm an agent of the people. Well, everyone but you anyways.That's not voluntary. If I could secede then it would be but I can't. "If consequences dictate my course of action then it's only wrong if I get caught." Work on your self-esteem so you won't have to constantly declare yourself the victor. It looks like you called it. He left us for a whole hour. Haha, what a clown. Derp! I don't know when anyone claimed it was perfect. If so, they were mistaken. Libertarianism is just and also, even though that's enough for me, it implies an economic system which works better than any others, free trade.They're all not just but libertarianism is. Libertarianism is not Utopian though. If that's what you thought it was, that's just your own ignorance shining through. Read up, dummy. So, you think that the consequences that result in emergency, life or death situations, should apply in all situations? Is your position that weak that you can only come up with examples that don't apply in real life, everyday situations?Violence. The same as any system. Forcing whitey to allow blacks on his property vs. forcing blacks to stay off whitey's property. Get your head out of the clouds and stop pretending that any system is going to be perfect. What's your point? Congratulations, why do I care about driving on your private road? Some shitty little dirt road on your property isn't the issue. People building major roads that stretch far enough to get anywhere important will most likely be a business. Why else would people invest money in building a road from A to B (where A to B is a significant distance)? Any major road I'll care about driving on is most likely going to be a business, ignoring the crazy billionaires that build roads for no reason, which of course is something realistically worth worrying about.  The point still stands.No. I've already explained that one is possible with current technology, it's just a matter of ironing out the details. Making tanks run on dirt isn't. The problem is that it's childish and only shows how pathetically frustrated you are that you can't attack the issue intellectually so you have to lash out like a whiny brat. Speaking of "fantasy-land". Since you demand complete and utter perfection, that must be where you live. Like what, harassing people that cross your bridge? Fine, take your ball and leave."Screw you guys. I'm going home!"Would you build a grocery store unless there was a major road that could get people to your store? No, of course not. That's what I mean by it's all figured out. Businesses want to make money therefore it will be in their best interests to do so. This isn't even remotely the same as making tanks run on dirt because that's technological problem while getting people to drive on roads to a store, isn't. It's a entrepreneurial problem.I can't predict the future but I can suggest some possibilities. Since major road owners want people to drive on their roads, they also want to attract businesses which will attract customers, thereby bringing more drivers on the road. Road owners will guarantee access to grocery stores and other shops for that reason.Another possibility is that major stores will first buy options and then build the roads themselves once they have all the options in place.There are other possibilities but I shouldn't have to exhaust them all just to placate you. The fact is, road owners want drivers and shops attract drivers therefore road owners want to attract shop owners, it's pretty simple really. Just ignore that though and keep talking about "fantasy-land" like a complete and utter tool. That's not what we were discussing. Try to pay attention to context.It's the fact that if you don't get what you want here you're just going to leave it at that. The whole threat of "debate me or I'll just be closed minded" is kind of stupid. I don't really care. If a forum debate is going to drastically affect your philosophical views then you're dumber than I thought. Go read some books, educate yourself and make up your own damn mind. This is just an avenue to explore ideas. It's no substitute for reading works by eminent scholars. Funny, that's the same reason I'll be ignoring you now.You won't be worried about access on a parcel by parcel basis. You'll be worried about getting access to a major road. Since businesses want people to be able to get to them, they'll make sure you can. Once you get to the highway, you won't have to worry about how you get to Kroger or Publix because Kroger and Publix will have that already figured out. So you want to change topics from how do I ensure I can access my property, which I explained was through the use of buying and selling contracts for access rights, to now discussing who enforces said contracts? And then I asked "What do you mean by "unstable" and why should we care?" but was ignored. What negative label should I attach to you since you're so deserving? Weasel? Coward? Blind? If you were dumb enough to buy property next to my property without ensuring that you also bought access rights to get off your property, yes. However, that would rarely ever happen. A builder wants to sell houses. A road owner wants people to use his roads. These two would naturally come to an arrangement so that it would be possible. However, there might be a few cases where some idiot like yourself bought land he can't get on or off without a helicopter, in which case, too damn bad. Maybe you won't be such a drooling moron in the future. It's already been addressed. You lost the argument by admitting that I have the right to control my private property however I see fit.The fact you keep attaching negative labels and generally being a sarcastic douche only shows how intellectually bankrupt your philosophy is.Kick down my front door and see what happens. Depending on how scared you make me, there might be a loud noise followed by eternal nothingness or I might just crack your skull a little. The fact you keep using the word "negro" and now expect us to believe they will resort to violence is offensive. Stop trolling. That's just playing into his hands. Now he's going to whine about all the poor people that can't afford helicopter rides.The point is, nobody is going to buy land unless there's a stipulation that access can never be denied by some maniac buying up all the surrounding land. When he buys the land he won't be buying up the right to deny access because that's not something the seller will own. It will have already been sold to the guy in the middle of the other land.See Walter Block's "The Privatization of Roads and Highways" for a detailed argument. How do they provide that? Buy taxing people at gunpoint? You're still a statist and as such you're only hurting logically consistent libertarians by pretending you're on our side.What do you mean by "unstable" and why should we care?
There may well be considerable support for repealing the 13th amendment. No system can save you when most of the people disagree with you.In other words, you've got nothing. Yet again, we have a statist calling a system ignorant because of some objection he thought of after a few seconds, disregarding the fact that plenty of libertarians, much smarter than he and I have already come up with the same objection and figured out a response.You're talking about homesteading a donut shaped parcel of land around some unowned parcel of land. You can't do that in the first place. However, if you were to homestead a parcel of land and then try to sell the center of a donut to someone, nobody would buy it unless there was a contract granting access. Just like you have title insurance when buying a house, you would have access insurance, to make sure you can actually get out of the driveway of the $200,000 home you just bought.Seriously, read some books before you start hurling insults. It only makes you look ignorant. You won't convince any libertarian that's done their homework with hamfisted arguments. Yes, in a libertarian society, there won't be any public property. So if I own a home, I can lock people out. Fine. Now let's say that I only allow certain people in, perhaps only family, perhaps only white people, perhaps only homosexuals, at the end of the day, it's my house and if I want to lock people out of it, it's my right. You don't have a right to barge into my home so I'm not infringing your rights by locking you out.The same applies to all private property, a club, a grocery store, a dirt road I own. You already agree with me but you are incapable of following the logic. So let me get this straight, you think that in a libertarian society I won't be able to own a home and lock people out of it? I'll just have to allow people to come and go as freely as the wind? Is that what you really think? Do I have the freedom to murder you or do you have the freedom to live? Either way someones liberty is being infringed.You speak about naivety but then you put forth blithely ignorant arguments as absurd as the one I just did.The only freedom that matters under the law is the freedom to not have people touch your person or property without your permission. If I own a building, it's my building and I can make whatever rules I want. If I say you have to push a peanut across the floor with your nose in order to stay inside, guess what, do it or leave. It's yet another example of the statists inflated sense of entitlement to think that they have the right to go anywhere they want.So, to answer your question, yes I can form a club or association that excludes based on race or sexual orientation. There's a reason why that would never be a big problem as long as it's a minority opinion but I'm sure logic and reason aren't your cup of tea. You rather foam at the mouth and go "those goram libertarians!" You came off sounding as if we should only care about things that are illegal and no other social issues.I care and you should too. Being ignorant isn't a crime but there's more to life than justice. We shouldn't adopt a "who cares" attitude. If that's not what you meant then I don't know. Your posts usually strike me as wordy and pretentious. Your whole style does. So it's kind of difficult to know when you're being sincere. I disagree. It should be (and is) legal to be an insufferable douche. I wouldn't use violence against anyone to stop them from being one. But I would still care if a significant portion of the population were douches. Just because people are doing something legal doesn't mean I shouldn't be concerned. I am concerned. I want more than to be left alone though I would settle for that. I want everyone to appreciate our likely place in the universe. If you walk around thinking you'll spend eternity with your relatives, you might not think it's so urgent to spend time with them while alive. I think that's a tragedy.Anyways, you're contradicting yourself. You're concerned with whether or not we are concerned with anything other than legal issues, which itself is not a legal issue. If you were being consistent, you wouldn't be concerned to write your post in the first place. It's kind of like government. The only people that support either are stupid, scared or both. I'm only pointing out that something being natural or inevitable isn't an argument for it's being either good or bad. Cancer is natural. Death is inevitable. Neither are good, in my opinion. Those random bytes on your hard drive look encrypted to me. I think it's $5 wrench time. I met a guy that thought he was a truck. When he backed up, he said "beep, beep". I meant here in this thread though.That's the naturalistic fallacy. Just because something is natural or inevitable doesn't make it good. I'm pretty sure nobody is denying that. However, groups are nothing above and beyond the individuals that compose that group. That group doesn't gain anything extra by being a group. There are no extra rights granted to the group above and beyond the individual rights. Since you can't grant someone the right to do something you don't have the right to do yourself, then groups are nothing special. They can't suddenly decide they have the right to steal from others for the good of the "group". We know what he's going to say anyways. He's going to say that the plebs are too dumb to assess the risks associated with buying a drink from kids. Also, since kids are even dumber than the plebs, they are likely to use rat poison instead of sugar, thereby inflicting an ever increasing burden on our beloved socialized medical system. lolverment! That's true but you've abandoned arguing for why goods that can be stockpiled need antitrust regulations. So, we're at least making progress since you've given up on justifying regulations for those kinds of goods now.I'm skeptical of that being a free market. I'm sure the government was involved in creating legal barriers to entry. However, services in general can be addressed the following way...When a company operates at a certain price level and another company enters the market, it means at that price level, there was an incentive to enter the market. When a company operates at a loss, it has to recoup those losses by raising prices even higher than the old prices but that means that there's even more incentive to enter the market. You can't establish a monopoly with predatory pricing unless you've got the government backing you up.Again, all I need to do is to show investors that a company is engaging in predatory pricing and that if we can wait out the company and be ready to go into hibernation whenever it tries to take losses, we can win through attrition. Make up your mind. Is it "might makes right" or is it "brains beats brawn"? Actually, a cow could kill me in an instant. Those things are huge! I'm not asking them to arm wrestle me. I just want them to ask me to stop. If any single cow in the entire species asks me to stop eating them, I'll stop eating all cows. Yes, meat is murder, tasty, tasty, murder.And when cows start taking us to court, I'll stop eating them. Sorry, I can't hear you over the sound of my steak sizzling.
Yes, if someone can prove any property that I possess is stolen, I will forfeit it.However, for the sake of argument, what if I said that I wouldn't do that? Would that change the truth of "theft is injustice"? No, and to argue that it would is simply an ad hominem. If a rapist says "rape is immoral", does that change anything? No, it does not. If you sell something at a loss, I'll just buy it from you, stockpile it and then sell it later after you run out of money. All I have to do is show investors what you're doing and I can make easy money. Theft is injustice. Let's just assume that the monopoly doesn't get inefficient. The reason why a natural monopoly isn't a problem is because, if you have a monopoly, the last thing you want to do is attract competition. That's why you can't start charging absorbent prices or start being wasteful. The mere threat of competition is enough to keep a natural monopoly competitive. All we need is a free market, whether or not there are multiple sellers is irrelevant because the competitive pressures still exist. It just as much qualifies as work as manual labor. If not, why not? Read this:Investing in and running a business is just as much work as digging a ditch with a shovel. One last time, looking at the price on the shelf is absolutely pointless for comparing costs. If the government forces you to pay a $20,000 car tax and then you go buy a subsidized car for $0.01 then guess what, the cost of the car isn't $0.01. Simply focusing on the sale price is misleading and pointless.That being said, focusing on just the cost is also misleading. If I pay $5,000 for a car that gets 1 mile per gallon, has no air conditioner and takes a month to get fixed if it breaks it sure is cheaper than a $10,000 car that gets 30 miles per gallon, has air conditioner and gets serviced within a day or two but who the hell would care? The $5,000 car is a piece of shit.The moral is, you have to compare true costs and you have to take quality into account as well. The fact that the government can give us a sale price of $0.01 for piece of shit car isn't a "deal" and it sure as hell doesn't justify robbing people at gunpoint (taxes). I don't know what would, if anything, but I know it isn't marginally better products, if that can even been shown, which hasn't happened yet even once in this entire thread. That bugs the hell out of me.http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=labtop Yet again, you only focus on one thing. How was the customer service? How long did it take for outages to get fixed? How often did outages occur? How efficient was their grid? Did they support purchasing surplus power from solar panels or wind turbines? If so, what was the price per kilowatt hour? Did they have different kinds of meters, digital meters, analog meters, etc?You see, competition doesn't just lower prices. It also raises quality and increases variety. Try to look at the big picture instead of whatever agrees with your conclusions. Was that a typo or are you one of those people that calls them labtops? Yes, if you only look at the price on the shelf at the supermarket. However, if you take into account all the hidden costs. Removing a subsidy would lower the real cost. You have less money being taken from taxpayers, less paperwork, less transaction costs, etc, etc. I think the real problem is people like you that think Bitcoin is some kind of get-rich-quick scheme rather than being a currency. It prevents outsiders from seeing the potential and focusing solely on "ZOMG PONZI SCHEME!" I'm glad the price is currently stabilized because that's what we need, not volatility.Since we're being pedantic, decimals are fractions. They were originally called "decimal fractions". Surprise, surprise. Government intervention that causes a problem that can only be solved with... yet more government intervention. Stop buying junk and someone will fill the gap in demand. If nobody can fill that gap then you're already getting the best quality/price possible and should probably stop whining since nobody can do any better. Yes, because nobody would ever start making quality products if everyone refused to buy crap./sarcasmThat's also not the only option I listed but I guess you can't process all that information at once. Arguing is fine and dandy but what if Catholics started pointing guns and arresting Mormons? I think that's the real issue here. I couldn't care less if these statists agreed with me. I just want them to stop trying to rob me at gunpoint. No it didn't. Stop buying crap and people will stop making it. The fact you're too lazy or unintelligent to stop buying it doesn't invalidate that theory at all. Get a new job. Start a business. Start walking. Telecommute. There are a myriad of options but even if there weren't, nobody owes you anything. Curl up and die if that's your only option. You won't be missed. It's quite pathetic that you've taken after AyeYo. I used to have respect for you. We disagreed but at least you were rational. Now, you're just another statist troll. Clearly, your government masters know what's best for both you and them. In your case, you need to wear a seatbelt. In their case, they don't. Who cares?
"Oh wait... my inflated sense of entitlement has deluded me into thinking that I deserve whatever I want at whatever price I want."The world does not owe you a living. It depends, are we talking about a libertarian society or the current fascist one? And for some idiotic reason you keep buying them.If you stop buying crap, they'll stop making crap. The sun is powered by fusion which generates less radioactive waste. The reactors here on earth are powered by fission. Funny, I get that from reading your post.The book is brilliant and even though it was written over half a century ago, you wouldn't know it because people are still using the same fallacies today. The only thing that matters is a lack of threat of violence. That's true consent. The problem is that we don't have a free market. So either side can claim the benefits. That's why we need to reduce things to certain undeniable facts.1. Human action is based on improving our position.2. People that want to work for a certain amount of pay think that their position will be improved.3. Employers will only pay as much as the employee can return in productivity.4. Minimum wage forces low productivity workers to be unemployed.5. If we didn't have minimum wages then employers would compete for employees and their wage would tends towards their productivity level rather than a race to the bottom, etc, etc.These are all facts so therefore we can deduce that minimum wage only hurts low productivity workers. You know who tends to favor minimum wage workers? Unions, because it keeps competition out of the market. Instead of hiring a bunch of guys with shovels that can compete with a bulldozer operator without minimum wages, employers don't have that option so they hire bulldozer operators. Who loses? We do through higher prices, the unemployed low productivity workers lose because they don't have a job and employers lose because their costs are artificially raised.Oh yea, even if this wasn't all true, it's still immoral to prevent adults from interacting however they want, be it gay sex or low wage work. You have to wait for an overt threat. You and I have a dispute and you go to your court (A) and I go to my court (B). There are four possibilities.1. Both A and B rule in your favor. There's no issue. You win. Case closed.2. Both A and B rule in my favor. There's no issue. I win. Case Closed.3. A rules in my favor and B rules in your favor. That's weird since my court ruled against me but your court ruled against you. It's also not the scenario most people care about. The last scenario is the one that worries people.4. A rules in your favor and B rules in my favor. This is likely to happen if we both pick courts that are biased towards us. It's the scenario you seemed worried about. This leaves us with two further options.4a. A and B have an agreement in place to go to a neutral third party C to settle the dispute and are what are known as "legitimate courts". C rules in either of our favors and then both A and B agree to abide. One of us wins. Case closed.4b. A and B have no agreement and are what are known as "bandit courts". The problem is, since they have to fight everybody, other bandit courts and legitimate courts, and the legitimate courts only have to fight the bandit courts, the bandit courts have higher costs and lower profits and eventually get out competed. Also, few people are going to deal with you unless you have a reputation for dealing with legitimate courts rather than bandit courts.It's not a perfect system but it's still one that tends towards the preferred outcome, having disputes settled without violence in an equitable manner. More time? I've spent hours and hours arguing about these topics and twice in on these forums have I ever corrected someone's spelling or grammar. I think you're being a little bit hysterical. I would say that if I was starving or freezing in the woods and I stumbled upon a log cabin, I would break in, eat food and get warm. However, having violated the NAP, I wouldn't expect that nothing should be done to me. I would still expect that I be forced to pay restitution, any damages, plus the cost of the food, etc. The key for libertarian punishment is to make the victim as whole as possible, as if the crime never occurred. However, this is an emergency situation and we don't make general laws based on emergency situations. Most of the time we aren't starving and freezing in the woods so our general laws should reflect that."Hard cases make bad law." "of course" Spare me the snide remarks. Just clarify your statements because it sounds like special pleading. I don't understand what you're saying. I grow weary of arguing against consequentialism.A guy dying of a terminal disease is allowed to die vs. me shooting him in the head. Is the outcome of these two scenarios any different? Wait, before you answer, let's just stipulate that the outcomes are identical. Do you really think that they are therefore morally equivalent? I don't. I think murder is still wrong, even if he was going to die anyways and the outcome is the same. Just to expand on this idea. I wonder who is more likely to be able to effectively lobby for legislation, the poor and needy or moneyed special interest groups? Troll boy is worried about the rich funding private armies but that would at least be a step up from the rich that can just buy control of the public armies. So if you can leave but you have to drop your wallet on the ground, does that mean you're not being stolen from? Some people just don't understand the difference between secession and emigration. That's because you can't get it through your head that we're not hung up on the consequences. If respecting property rights winds up with the exact same results then so be it. The difference is that it will be a property owner setting rules for his or her own property rather than the government expropriating it and making up rules for stolen property.However, I know this will be a shock to you, since road owners want to make a profit and the way to make a profit is to compete for customers by giving them quality services at lower prices, it's more likely that we will end up with what we want. Imagine that. We can get what we want and not steal while doing it! Why don't you prove your own point instead of engaging in obscurantism?
I said the only thing stopping you, which has nothing to do with rights.However, if we follow your logic then nobody has any rights at all. The only thing stopping you from murdering me is more firepower so according to your logic, I don't have the right to not be murdered. That's a pretty absurd viewpoint. Yes, I agree that the only thing stopping you from stealing my property is that I have more firepower than you. Right now it's me and the government but under a libertarian society it will be Brinks or ADT or any other security company that I choose to pay. You don't even understand libertarianism. If you voluntarily agree to my enforcement, which will be a condition of driving on my road, then I can stop you, arrest you or anything else you agreed to. If you agree to let me beat you if I catch you speeding or driving while intoxicated, I can beat the hell out of you. Go read up on libertarianism because you can't even cogently disagree with something that you are ignorant of. Only on roads that allow it, which would be absolutely no roads or very few. Would you go to a bar that allowed someone to stab you? Then why would you drive on a road that allowed drunks to smash into you?Three common flaws of statists on these forums:1. Extreme deficit in civility/maturity.2. Terminal lack of imagination.3. Inflated sense of entitlement. I bet I have more firepower than you do too. If they can prove any theft they should have their land returned to them as well as paid restitution. Actually no, there weren't any Indians living on this land when my ancestors settled it.Keep drinking that Kool-Aid. Cool. Are you a voluntary socialist or a coercive socialist? Teenage males are allowed to endanger everyone's life for their own amusement? Lock them up!No, we just have a difference in opinion. We can either debate it until one of us changes our minds or you can commit violence on me or my property and then we go from there. Cool story. Too bad history shows it's not true.My family owned this land since before it was a state. So one day, my ancestor, a farmer, is on his land and a government agent shows up. The exchange went something like this.Agent: Hey, there. We're starting a new state.Farmer: That's great to hear! I'm a good neighbor and I look forward to trading with you. Good luck!Agent: No, you don't understand. You're part of this state now and you have to pay taxes.Farmer: What?! I didn't agree to this! This is armed robbery! You're no better than a thief!Agent: Well, you can always move.Farmer: Move?! I've owned this land for generations. Why should I move? This is my land.Agent: Not anymore.Right, so now I'm the thief? Because some farmer couldn't stand up to an entire army?Like I said, cool story. Too bad it's not based in reality. I also think rights are timeless. Throughout the history of the humanity, one human always owed it to another human not to attack them or their property. However, to say that cavemen owed each other healthcare is absurd. Deserve to die? None.I think you mean, which of the above justifies coercing others to help you and again the answer is "none". Right.Once you allow that someones fear of risky behavior permits coercion then any form of tyranny can be justified. There's no stopping point. If teenage males are more likely to commit crimes than any other demographic, you can argue that we should lock them up until they are adults.Unless of course, when you said "your life raft" you meant that I actually own it. In which case, I can set any rules I want because it's my life raft. No, I don't believe in positive rights. I owe you inaction, not action. I owe it to you not to hurt you or your property physically. I don't owe you my labor or the fruits thereof. That's only something a slave owes its master. Deserve? No. You only deserve to be left alone. Other than that, you either need to earn it or depend on voluntary charity. However, educating young people does benefit me and as such, I would definitely donate to charity to support education. I resent being forced by threat of physical violence though. I resent not being able to pick which charities to donate to and what form my charity should take. I would rather donate tutoring services in math or computer science than money. I have no problem paying for services that I agree to pay for and actually use. If I want cable service, I pay for it. You want to pretend that it's a package deal but it's not. I should be able to pay for military defense but not waging wars in other countries. I should be able to pay for roads that I actually use but not roads in other area codes. How exactly am I stealing by not paying for a road I never drive on? Read this...When you get someone to do your bidding, to steal from someone, that's called aiding and abetting. I'm forced to pay taxes against my will. That's theft. You are receiving part of that stolen money and you encourage it to happen. You are having money stole from me and anyone else that pays taxes against their will. Let me rephrase that. You only have the right not to be negatively affected when it's directly damaging you or your property physically. No viewpoint is true or false because those type of statements are personal opinions and personal opinions are neither true nor false.Also, we're called "libertarians", not "libertarianists". Hmm, "fairenough" deleted his post so I guess he's not interested anymore.
Because you make childish insults? At least he's logically consistent. If people need a national government to avoid or mediate interpersonal conflicts then national governments need a world government to avoid or mediate international conflicts. Of course, once we have a worldwide democracy, India and China will run the show. Competing jurisdictions. The market will decide the law. That's like saying "I don't have to steal from you, I can just ask someone else to do it for me and then receive the stolen property". That's called aiding and abetting.Right, so you refuse to do your own dirty work but you have no problem advocating thugs in blue costumes doing it for you. Culture does not equal the state.Good, then you pay for it. Speak for yourself. I didn't sign anything. I'm not anymore in a relationship with the rest of the world than a rape victim is in a relationship with their rapist.Here's another thing I hate. This general sense of entitlement. You're not entitled to anything but to be left alone. Food, shelter, clothing, medical care, etc are not rights. The world does not owe you a living. I said "regardless of consequences". That would include the end of the world.Work on your reading comprehension. Like I said (several times now), I can't justify why people should think stealing is wrong, regardless of consequences, anymore than I can justify why people should think blue is a pretty color. You either agree with me or you don't. You shouldn't do things that are wrong. If you do something that is wrong, you should pay restitution. Stealing is wrong. Therefore you shouldn't steal. If you do steal, you should pay restitution.If you mean consequences other than that, you'll need to clarify. If you try hard enough, maybe you can make a cogent point. The fact that there are only moral opinions is very relevant. Opinions aren't justified because they are subjective. I no more need to justify why I think theft is wrong than I do why I think blue is a pretty color. Nah, they just want to hoard gold, which for some reason would hurt us. Unless you want to claim there are moral facts, that only leaves moral opinions. Can you show the existence of a single unqualified moral fact? No? Then my point stands, no matter what kind of names you call me. I think it has something to do with Islamic law requiring pure gold whereas Krugerrands aren't. They shouldn't anymore than murder or rape should.Yes, we do. I can promise you that I won't touch you or your property first but it seems like you aren't willing to offer me the same respect. We have two mutually exclusive opinions and if one of us can't convince the other to change his mind, the only alternative is violence. Then my previous criticism stands. You're looking at the consequences and deciding if the action is right or wrong based on that. You've got it backwards. You need to first decide what actions are right or wrong and then accept whatever consequences they entail.Even if you steal as a matter of life and death, you should still be forced to pay restitution because it's still wrong. It's not something owed to you just because you are hungry. If it weren't wrong then you wouldn't be expected to pay for your crime. So you don't think theft is immoral? You're taking the wrong approach. You're starting with some kind of goal in mind and then deciding how to reach that goal through various actions. Instead, you need to decide what kind of actions are permissible and then figure out what goals are compatible with those actions. As you mentioned, murder is right out but so should all forms of assault on person or property, including theft, which is what taxation is. They are both opinions.You're begging the question. I can make arguments for why the color blue shouldn't be allowed or why it's an ugly color. Give me any argument for why murder shouldn't be allowed and I can give you an analogous argument for why blue is ugly.
Molyneux's book is pretty much a wordier version of Hoppe's "argument from argument" which says that by arguing with me you presuppose certain beliefs. However, if I don't argue with you, if I just shoot you instead, there's nothing to discuss. You can't say "you shouldn't shoot me because..." since I'm not presupposing anything by shooting you. It's as close as you can get, if you accept that debating is the way to settle these issues but it's not a demonstration of moral facts, only moral presuppositions. The entire field of philosophy? Epistemology? Ontology? No. Not even the entire section of philosophy that deals with ethics attempts to justify moral claims. Some branches of ethics argue that they can't be justified and I agree with them.Saying that "murder is wrong" is like saying "blue is a pretty color". It's not a fact. It's an opinion. There are no moral facts, only moral opinions. If you claim there are moral facts then please demonstrate it. Don't just say "philosophy herpa derp!" Nothing about my views have changed. It's rather dishonest to try to frame the discussion as if they have. I've never been interested in achieving your ideal society, only the libertarian ideal society.I won't compromise libertarianism. Your rhetoric fails. In this case, externalities are irrelevant. You only have the right not to be negatively affected when it's damaging you or your property physically. You don't have the right to a liveable wage. No, you also have to be unwilling. See the definition above.Then how can you say you're unwilling? You can't. You clearly see the flaw in your argument which is why you wish to avoid the dictionary definition I provided.This is yet another pointless debate where you cherry pick definitions. Just like with your "I was using an informal definition" cop out. Fine. Whatever. We're just ships passing in the night if we're not using the same definitions. If I physically coerce you to do something then you don't want to do it. How are you not suffering?Are you saying that being physically forced to do something that you don't want to do isn't unpleasant? If it's not unpleasant then it's hard to see how you don't want to do it or are being physically forced at all. Even if he wasn't alright with it, I highly doubt he would admit it. I'm still confused as to what his personal opinion has to do with the rest of the world though. You don't mind paying taxes, so pay them. What does that say about the rest of us that do mind? What exactly is your point? I haven't been following the back and forth. I've got a minor in mathematics. I'm not taking math advice from anyone. I'm just trying to educate you. Since you're going to reject anything that doesn't say it in black and white that's the best I could find. If you really believe that ordinal numbers quantify then please go ask a math professor. You don't even have to admit you're wrong. Just don't go through your life believing something that's factually incorrect. I'm done arguing about this. Ahh, so you think that while cardinal numbers quantify things it could be the case ordinal numbers could quantify things too. Well, then I take back my claim that it was a non sequitur. It's just wrong instead. Also, you clearly don't understand the difference between cardinal and ordinal.http://www.ehow.com/info_8525963_differences-cardinal-numbers-ordinal-numbers.html http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Non_sequiturYou're wrong. Deal with it. http://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/cardinal_number So, morality is a popularity contest? If you can't assign a cardinal value to something then it can't be quantified. A unit is a quantity. Therefore, anything that can't be assigned a cardinal value can't be measured with a unit. Like I said, you can rank subjective things but that's apparently all you wanted to assert anyways so I'm not sure why you're going out of your way to prove something you're clearly wrong about. I didn't say you couldn't do that. That's not quantification. That's ranking. You can rank pain but you can't quantify it. Do you understand the difference between ordinality and cardinality? There are no units of pain. Imagine if you said that your toothache hurts 48% than your headache. That would be absurd. Now imagine if I said, my toothache hurts 48% more than your headache. You can't even quantify your own pain much less quantify pain between two subjects. No moral claims can be justified. I'm sorry that you didn't know that but I suggest you go read up on ethics. Nice quote mining. The part you forgot to quote and respond to is... So I guess you don't understand. It's not justifiable. No moral values are. Do you understand that? Fiat justitia ruat caelum.
I think that forcing someone to do something (other than forcing them to keep their hands to themselves) is wrong. You are free to disagree but there's nothing I can do to "prove" that some set of moral values is correct and all others are incorrect. If stealing is wrong then, even if you are starving and you need some food, when you steal, you have committed a crime and you should be forced to pay restitution. Yet, again, consequences are irrelevant. You are forced to keep your hands to yourself even if the planet explodes. Stop with this petty name calling. You're clearly looking for an excuse to disregard my position because you can't attack it head-on. The goal is to make a system based on keeping your hands off of other people and their property unless you have their permission i.e. a system compatible with libertarianism. If that's how you define "better" then we agree.My point is that it works. It's not perfect but it's a solution and one that's compatible with keeping your hands to yourself. I think we should lock YoYa and AyeYo in a closet until blood seeps out from under the door. Markets can determine risk. There can be private courts. Nothing you've said makes a bit of difference.I'm sure you would have said the same thing about abolishing slavery. Millions of people, myself included, have used the system and it satisfied their requirements. It's no surprise that coercive governments are willing to abandon a working system for something better regardless of its coercive nature. The point is, there is a solution and instead of just admitting it, you want to claim it's "not good enough" and "unpopular". That's called moving goalposts. You're entitled to your opinion (which is all it is) but just don't pretend there isn't a working solution already implemented. Opinion. I think you missed the point. The point is, the same solution that works in the USA can also work in a libertarian society. Yes, that happens with our current system as well.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Title_insurance_in_the_United_States To me, that's the only thing that matters since I'm not a utilitarian. The other benefits you mention, though true, are just a bonus. Wrong. It's not alright if I pollute your land, air or water. It's alright if I pollute my land, air or water. If any of my pollution spills over into your land, air or water, you have a legitimate complaint but you don't have the right to protect things that you don't own. That's entirely false. I'm not even questioning the impact of the issues you mention. I'm willing to grant those as being true and more. Let's assume that if we respect private property rights and let people do whatever they want with their own land while not polluting the lands of others that the entire planet will be inhabitable within 50 years. I still say we should respect private property rights. If we all decide to take our land and all voluntarily make it an inhabitable wasteland then obviously, we all wanted that and it's just a form of suicide. The only thing that matters is, are you polluting my land? No? Then have at it.You want to pretend that if I really thought I was in danger that I would abandon my principles and agree to violate property rights of others, but I won't. Private security firms will enforce it but it's unlikely the problem will arise in the first place. Let's say that there are two very large companies, A and B. If you have a piece of land registered with A and I try to register that land with B there are two possibilities. One possibility is that B is incompetent and will allow it to happen. In which case, people won't trust B and they will go out of business. Insurance companies won't deal with them. Mortgage companies won't deal with them. The other possibility is that B is competent and will notice that the land is already registered with A and tell you to get some sort of documentation from A allowing you to transfer registration from A to B.Now, let's say that some joker starts up his fraudulent C company that just lets anyone register anything regardless of being registered at A or B. First of all, nobody is going to insure property registered at C, nobody is going to finance property C and only groups of bandits are going to help you take C by force if you have enough money. But suppose you just pay cash to C and get your piece of paper. Now you go to claim your land with your group of bandits. That's when the private security firms get involved. Being smart, A and B already have insurance against this sort of thing. When you register land at A or B, it costs more but if there is a dispute, they will send a private security firm to protect you, enforce any judgements, etc. The private security firms are much bigger, more organized and better armed because they have funds from millions of land owners while C has a tiny fraction of that.There would be so many safeguards in place to stop things like that from happening because most people don't want that to happen. It's only a minority of people that want to defraud others. The market responds to what people want and prevents such disputes from occurring. What makes a state a state is its involuntary nature. There's nothing wrong with everyone voluntarily agreeing not to wear hats or anything else that isn't a violation of rights. The voluntary aspect is the key. Why are you so eager to have something called a state anyways? What are you after other than trying to prove libertarians wrong? That's for the market to decide. There's nothing preventing that from happening.There's several different agencies I can register my pure breed dog with, each with different advantages. The same way you start any other business. What exactly are you having a problem with understanding? It helps if you're a little bit more specific so I don't have to detail an entire private legal system in response to a single question. Sometimes you can just say without actually doing. The mere threat of doing is often enough. All of that can exist without a state. Until another government with a bigger army does the same thing. Governments aren't magical. They have the same weaknesses that any private system has plus the added handicap of not being subject to market forces.
The landlord owns his property. The government doesn't own my property.My house, my rules. vs. Your house, my rules. No, it's up to you whether or not you answer my questions. A parasite on who? Borrowing from who? I suspect the answer is some absurd notion of society at large or future generations or anyone else besides the people that actually own the land in question. Selfish desires? I have no dog in this race. I don't own an oil refinery, coal-burning power plant or lumber company. I like pristine land, clean air and fresh water just as much as you do. I just happen to have principles that prevent me from grabbing whatever I want by force.Please just answer the questions. A parasite on who? Borrowing from who? Can you answer? If not, stop wasting my time. Your childish temper tantrums only illustrate how morally and intellectually bankrupt your position is. A parasite on who? Do you own the world? No, so how can anyone be a parasite towards you? Borrowing from who? Do you own the world? No, so how can anyone be borrowing from you?I'm beginning to see that most of the statists on these forums have two things in common, a severe deficit in civility and an inflated sense of entitlement. I don't want to sell my land. I just want you to stay off of it. I'm sorry if that's too much to ask. I'm sorry that you feel entitled to the entire planet but I just think you need to be reminded that you don't own the Earth and therefore your opinions on what to do with it are essentially worthless. You don't own the entire ecosystem of the planet. Within a geographical area.I can't take my land with me. It's kind of sad that keeping your hands to yourself is seen as "outlandish". I've already explained how a libertarian society would handle pollution but you "just don't buy the reactive models" which isn't really my concern. That's how it would be handled and that's justice. I'm more than willing to argue anything you can throw at me, if you're willing to remain civil. If you can't remain civil then you're either incapable or unwilling. I'm well aware of the nature of the Interwebs, but if you don't know the difference between a rational debate and a flame war then you need to figure out. I react the same way during any debate, be it in person, phone, email or message board. If you keep pushing when there's no need to, it's obvious that you're the one trying to find an easy way out. I'll be here to debate all the tough questions you can muster. Don't get it twisted and think that because I won't tolerate name calling that you've got any kind of upper hand. Like I said, I'll just assume you aren't up to the debate if you keep pushing.I would imagine the same place the FDA gets them, extensive laboratory testing by private laboratories and then clinical trials by private doctors. However,I wouldn't be surprised if a private business, which is highly competitive, comes up with some improvements that a government agency, which has no competition, didn't think of. I wonder if he'll ever answer the question. I can't help but notice that you didn't actually address the points I made but instead resorted to childish name-calling. I think that's rather telling. There's no such thing as units of utility. We have mass, length, speed, etc, but there's no such thing as "utils". You can rank preferences. You can assign ordinal values. It makes sense to say you love your mom more than your dad. But how absurd would it be for someone to say that they love their mom 48% more than their dad? How absurd would it be for someone to say they love their mom 48% more than you love your mom? Me: Slavery is wrong and it should be abolished.You: But how will slaves get jobs? Where will they live? What will they eat?Me: That doesn't matter. Slavery is wrong and it should be abolished.You: I guess you aren't up to the task of detailing a system that has any merit.Me: I guess you aren't up to the task of accepting justice, no matter the consequences. I'm sorry but it just doesn't matter. Any laws that are incompatible with libertarianism shouldn't exist. I don't need to convince you that libertarianism will do anything other than provide for a just legal system."If consequences dictate our course of action then it doesn't matter what's right. It's only wrong if you get caught." As far as I know, suicide is legal in all 50 states and some states even allow for physician assisted suicide for the terminally ill. We should also outlaw suicide because if I'm dead, my employer loses my labor and someone else has to fill in for me. Also, dead people don't eat out, go to the movies, burn gas, etc. That's less revenue for businesses. In fact, it would be better if all decisions were made by the government for fear of hurting anyone's inflated sense of entitlement. Right and as a business owner I would like to outlaw competition so I can charge whatever I want. Apology accepted.You can't hurt my feelings but I will not debate with someone that can't stick to the arguments instead of making things personal. You've been warned that such behavior will not be tolerated. So if you want an easy way out, all you have to do is insult me. From this point on, I'll assume that's why you're doing it, should you continue.Now, on to your question...There are two metrics, quality and price. I would expect to see something like a consumer reports for medicine or some other voluntary organization. You see, despite what some people think, there are businesses out there that know they can make money by simply providing a useful service. There can be voluntary industry standards. The mounting brackets on flat-screen displays is one example. There was no government agency that said "all flat screen displays must use this bracket" but rather, major companies realized they could benefit by setting a standard. That's why I can take a single display and mount it on one stand, then later another and finally a bracket on my wall in my exercise room. If we can have things that are somewhat trivial, imagine what we can have with something important.So to put a finer point on things, I don't know how rating agencies should operate because I'm not in that business. However, I do know that our current government agency kills people but doesn't go out of business. It seems to me that if other private agencies existed, they too would kill people but they would go out of business and the ones that remain would be better than the ones that went out of business. That's how markets work. They weed out inefficiency and incompetence.I hope I answered your question to your satisfaction. If not, explain what I'm missing and I'll be more than happy to clarify.
You'll be ignored as well.  Don't bother talking to me again because you clearly cannot keep this discussion academic as evidenced by your repeated childish insults. You will be ignored. Do you really think the FDA has never approved a drug that killed people and then later revoked that approval? Even worse though are the drugs that the FDA refuses to approve or approves too slowly.The FDA kills people in two ways, not just one. They allow bad drugs through and don't allow good drugs through. Like I said, mistakes are something all humans make. I don't require humans to not make mistakes but I do require them to pay for them. The FDA should have been driven out of business a long time ago and would have, if they were subject to market forces.Why don't you address this instead of making ham-fisted analogies? Even if the US didn't clear Thalidomide, other countries did and suffered because of their government agencies. It seems the fashion of the day for statists is to only acknowledge points that agree with their conclusions.My point stands. If you were unlucky enough to be under the thumb of those agencies that approved this tragic use of the drug, you didn't even get the comfort of seeing them go out of business. I'm now going to ignore you since you've clearly shown that you're not interested in a rational debate but would rather hurl childish insults. Here's a drug that was approved by the FDA:It looks like making mistakes is just something that humans do so that doesn't bother me too much. What really pisses me off is that the FDA is still alive and well. If that were a private company that made a huge mistake like that, they would be sued out of existence or at least broke because nobody would trust them. The market weeds out incompetence, which is inevitable even with government agencies, but with government agencies, they get to keep on approving bad drugs, keep on killing people, and never go out of business.Incident rate, i.e. complications from the medicine, side effects, birth defects, organ failure, etc. If company X has a lower incident rate while company Y doesn't but both cost the same amount, I'm going to go with company X and company Y will be out of business. Like I said, the market weeds out incompetence. How old are you? I don't need a license to repair vacuum cleaners. There isn't government regulation in those industries comparable to the medical industry. Try to attack the spirit of the argument rather than a superficial "government has its hands in every cookie jar" type of response.No, but I can judge which companies are doing a better job than others. People that use company X over Y to approve medicine have a lower incident rate. Of course, the more strict their controls are, the higher it costs so if I'm willing to take a higher risk for a lower cost then I'm able to.Right now, if I want a doctor to pull a splinter out of my finger the fee is several hundreds of dollars, mainly because he has to have malpractice insurance but if I could sign a piece of paper saying I promise not to sue if you do it for cheaper then I could have it done for a lot less. Those aren't state governments which is what we're talking about. I'm not against "government" in the chess club or any other private organizations. It's more effective because the market would sort it out. If most people want to drive on roads where everyone else is insured then private road owners that require insurance to drive on the roads will make more money and the others would either follow or go out of business. The reason why we don't have a pizza crisis but we do have 40,000 people dying on our roads each year is because of government management. If people die, they lose nothing. They just raise taxes. If pizza restaurants start killing people, they go out of business. The market is better but you can't even get that far because all you can see is that "people aren't forced by the government to do X so therefore X will never arise in the market" which is absurd. I know very little about cars, televisions, cellular phones, photocopiers, vacuum cleaners, etc. My body is only one of the things I don't know how to repair. How do I know how to hire people for those things? If not being an expert in something opens the door for government control then we need the government to control just about everything.How do you think they test drugs in the first place? Obviously, we test it on animals, then we take volunteers from the terminally ill that are willing to try anything at that point. After a while, we start human trials in healthy people. How else are you going to test new drugs? Magic?Trust me, I'm more worried about not dying than you are or some government agency. If I die, it REALLY matters to me. You probably won't shed a tear and some government agency won't even lose any money because they aren't subject to market forces. I strongly disagree but then again, I'm extremely principled and don't abandon my principles just because I might be inconvenienced.Why is yours? Why do you wait to lock up teenage males before they attack someone instead of locking them up before they do it? Why should we force them to when you can't prove they're going to get in a wreck? In 2009 there were 24,474 deaths in vehicles and 16,591 murders. Clearly we also need murder insurance. In case you decide to kill me, my family can collect. There's two reasons we should get rid of minimum wage. One is moral, the other is economic.Moral:If two consenting adults want to have sex, beat each other with whips or pour candle wax on each other, that's their business. If it's a voluntary act between two consenting adults, we should allow it to happen and no third parties have the right to interfere with them. This applies to minimum wage too. If one person wants to pay another person less than minimum wage, that's between them and we have no right to interfere as long as it's voluntary.Economic:Let's say that all I can do is make widgets. I can make 1 widget per hour and these widgets can be sold for $5. Therefore, my labor is worth $5 an hour. What happens when there's a law that says I can't be paid less than $7 an hour? I can't get a job. No one is going to hire me and take a loss of $2 an hour. Minimum wage laws aren't going to raise my wages. Minimum wage laws are going to keep me unemployed. If I want to work for $5 an hour and I'm forced by law not to then the law is making me worse off because I preferred to work rather than get nothing, or welfare. A family of three on welfare receives the equivalent of about a $3 an hour job. I could earn more money and be a productive member of society without minimum wage laws. You're extremely presumptuous. You don't know what books I've read.Anyways, we've established that you do think I should be robbed, even if only a little bit. You make it difficult to take you seriously when all you offer is jokes.You claim nobody wants to rob me yet if I fail to pay taxes I'll be kidnapped or murdered if I resist and my property will be taken and sold to pay for those taxes that I refused to pay. Taxes? Actually, all crimes are crimes of property rights. You own yourself. Rape and murder are violations of that property.It's not just about my property. It's about the property of others as well. I don't want to live in a world where theft is seen as legitimate. There are some things more important than living a comfortable life or living at all, such as justice and morality. Everyone dies but few people live a life worth living. It sure does. I think that murder, rape and theft are wrong and if you disagree, tough shit. I am a tyrannical bastard when it comes to you keep your hands to yourself unless you have permission otherwise.No, I'm not. I'm forcing you to pay for things or do without, rather than steal them. It's that inflated sense of entitlement that is clouding your mind. All you can think is "me me me, mine mine mine."Anyways, you've made your point. You feel entitled to a certain lifestyle and therefore think you are justified in advocating theft of money in the form of taxes by threat of violence or imprisonment and a bunch of other violently coercive practices. I vehemently disagree and if I had the ability to defend myself, I would. Until then, I'm biding my time. Some rape is alright but where we draw the line is a matter of debate?
You have to show a clear and present danger. You don't have to wait until the bullet is ripping through your flesh to defend yourself from a mugger but you can't kill him in his sleep because you think he might mug you someday. You have the right to seek restitution if someone wrecks into you. You have no right to require them to have insurance in case it happens though.That's not protecting your money or time because your money and time aren't being stolen. Just because you feel entitled to get things at a certain price and convenience doesn't equate to self-defense when your inflated sense of entitlement isn't met. You're torturing the English language.Like I said, I don't have the right to pollute your property or cause you physical harm. However, if I'm not doing that then you have no right to regulate what I do.Again, you don't have the right to prices or certain levels of convenience. You don't get to trample all over my rights and steal my money just because you'll be inconvenienced.Yet again, you have to show a direct threat, you can't just say X will increase the chances of something bad happening to me. If that were the case we'd have to lock up all teenage males since they are more likely to commit violent crimes than any other demographic.You need to acknowledge the distinction between taking money out of someone's pocket vs. charging them higher prices. One should be a crime, the other should not. I'm protecting my money by not being forced to pay insurance premiums if the owner of the road doesn't require them before he or she allows me to drive on said road.I'm protecting my money by not being forced to print labels unless I choose to so I can advertise that I comply with certain standards.I'm protecting my property because as long as my pollution doesn't contaminate your property, I can do whatever I want with my property.  I'm protecting my money by not paying for court services unless I plan on using them.I'm protecting my body by dictating the wages and conditions I'm willing to work for, even if they don't meet your expectations.All of the above. Since I think murder, rape and theft are wrong, I'm leaning towards not giving a shit if you disagree with me. It's a good thing he's over 15 because the age of a person helps determine whether or not their statements are logically consistent or factually correct. Yes, it's just an opinion that murder, rape and theft are wrong. However, if you disagree with my opinion, why should I care? But you're forcing me not to take whatever I want by force! Wahhhh!!! Also, hyperbole. All human interactions should be free of initiatory physical violence against people or their property. Why? Why doesn't my philosophical stance overrule theirs? Sure it is. I'm defending my property from you. Since you can't just take my property then you have to make me an offer to get what you want. That's called the free market.I read it but I'm not here to let you off easy. I'm going to hold your feet to the fire until you admit you're wrong. Ignore it if you want but just know that you are avoiding the issue instead of addressing it. According to your logic, it's also hypocritical to say rape is wrong but defending yourself from rape isn't.I'm also forcing you not to have sex with me, how is that not defense? Like I said, according to your logic, forcing someone to have sex with you and forcing someone not to have sex with you both involve force, therefore rape and defending yourself from rape both involve force. That leaves out a huge part of the equation, namely, rape is wrong and defending yourself from rape isn't. You can't keep chanting "everything involves force" as if that's supposed to be an argument for anything. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reductio_ad_absurdumYour beliefs entail absurd conclusions. So much the worse for your beliefs. Instead of addressing the issue, you brush it aside. Stop whining. Either answer my question or just say you can't. Yes, they do but since I don't consent to be governed by these elected people then that option of the poll doesn't quite work. You poor thing. It would be so awful to have to keep your hands off of other people and their property. I'm really just torn up about it.Here's your argument: You're forcing someone to have sex with you but they're forcing you not to have sex with them, therefore rape and defending yourself from rape both involve force. Your logic is utterly ridiculous. Before you whine about hyperbole, explain the difference in what I'm saying and your actual argument. You need to look up what the word "secession" means. Hint: It doesn't mean abandoning your land and moving somewhere else. Yes, if by government you mean like the chess club where you can join or quit whenever you like. I can't secede from the US government though. http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=pissing%20Kool-Aid You missed one thing. Since the remaining BTC are more valuable it's similar to making the remaining pies bigger. Those 8 pies that get lost are actually causing the remaining pies to get bigger. The pies have to get divided up into more pieces but the pieces themselves are bigger so everyone ends up with the same amount of pie as before. You've done nothing in the long-term. If you make all other BTC worth more and they are divided up into smaller pieces, the net result is no change long-term. You're not hurting anything. You're only helping us out in the short-term.Also, if Bitcoin is a "concept that is doomed to fail" then why are you even wasting your time? It'll fail anyways. I guess you don't really believe that then, do you?
I didn't. Complex systems are often governed by a few simple rules. Like I said, there are solutions to the problems mentioned and reasons why those solutions would be implemented. I did however say that even if no solution was offered, it doesn't matter. Let justice be done though the heavens fall. So, whether or not those solutions are available is completely irrelevant. If you think you should be able to put your hands on other people or their property without their permission because you feel entitled to a comfortable life, I feel bad for you. My case is won by showing that we should keep our hands off other people and their property unless we have their permission and following that to its logical conclusion.Maybe some people think the world would be better off with a little injustice but I value justice highly. For me, even if the heavens fall, justice is more important. Too bad.  Walk.  Grow your own food.  Live in a plastic bubble.  Refuse to appear.Aww, you poor thing.You have a real problem with entitlement. You think everybody owes you something but they don't. There are reasons why everything you've said can and would be avoided but even if they aren't avoided, that's just too bad. You'll just have to keep your hands off of other people and their stuff even if it's an inconvenience. Slaves weren't employed anymore than cows were employed. They were considered human cattle. The kind of employment we're talking about is voluntary, where people want to work for a price that is offered to them. Forced unemployment is definitely not a good thing for the people being unemployed. The fact they chose a job vs. anything else tells us that they preferred having the job. Forcing them to not work is putting them in a less preferential situation i.e. they are worse off. If humans can't govern themselves then what hope do they have to govern others? How can you grant someone the right to do something that you don't have the right to do yourself? I don't need faith. I need justice. If the world explodes because of freedom, it had to end sometime. The original poster is trying to argue that certain people are being inconsistent so of course the majority disagrees with that.Alright, let's talk about those too then.What do you mean by unfairness? Is it fair that some people are smarter than others? Is it fair that some people can make millions of dollars because they are good at tennis? I agree but why is anyone owed anything because of this? Maybe you mean some other kind of unfairness.I don't understand what you're saying. Some people have to give more money than others, some none at all. Some people have to give kidneys and others don't. There's nothing exactly equal in either case. The majority also once supported ownership of black people. Popularity means nothing. QED. Well, at first it'll just be a nicely worded letter. Then the letters will get nastier. Eventually, some people in blue costumes will come kidnap you or kill you if you defend yourself. It'll all be your fault though, for not listening to your betters. Keep chanting. You want to force others to give up their money and we want to force you not to. So your plan is to just keep chanting "hyperbole" over and over again and maybe it'll make us think that stealing is moral and forcing you not to steal is immoral? Brilliant plan. Why don't you answer my last post by the way, instead of ignoring it. I read it but I don't see anything new. Yes, you are forced to keep your hands to yourself. Yes, that has certain consequences such as being forced to live (or commit suicide) in a world where pornography has affected it. Why should I care? I've already said that I have nothing against forcing you to keep your hands off of other people and their property unless you have their permission and all the consequences that entails. Why should I have a problem with that? Give me a reason to care. So in other words, you've got nothing. That's fine with me. Let me know if you come up with something. Yes, those are consequences of keeping your hands to yourself. If you can't just grab what you want, you have to pay for it and you might be forced to pay what the seller asks or do without. Again, I don't really care. Why should I? Because you feel self-entitled? Not good enough. Sorry. Yes, I get it. I also said I support forcing people not to do certain things, like murder, rape and theft. Do you get that? It's kind of hard to claim I'm against force and call me a hypocrite when I just said that I support certain kinds of force. Now tell me why I should care. No, I don't. You define force as making people do things they don't want to do and since I want to force people not to murder, rape or rob me, I'm definitely in support of force. Try again. In libertarian society, you are forced to keep your hands off of other people and their property unless you have their permission. Give me a single reason why I should care if you don't like this. If you weren't implying that I'm wrong then what's the relevance of accusing me of being a hypocrite? Ideas don't engage in hypocrisy. People do. Hypocrisy is the act of claiming to hold a belief or value that one does not truly hold. So how can an idea even be hypocritical? That's a rhetorical question. I don't really care to discuss that. Just stick to trying to prove my statements to be either logically inconsistent or factually incorrect.What am I to conclude from this? Am I to conclude that therefore their philosophical stance overrules my own? What exactly is your point? First of all, calling me a hypocrite is simply an ad hominem. Second, I never claimed violence per se is immoral. I'm perfectly fine with self-defense of person or property. I don't condone initiatory violence, however. Don't confuse the Libertarian Party with the philosophy of libertarianism which, if one is logically consistent, implies anarchism.
I agree. I think that it's unfair some people are smarter than others. Let's give them brain damage! Also, what about people that are better looking? Acid to the face! Lots of hair? Scalp removal! Taller than me? Chop off their feet! Skinny? Force-fed donuts!The sooner we all sink to the same level, the sooner I can stop feeling sorry for my own personal shortcomings. If I plow a field, plant a crop and harvest that crop then you come and take my harvest, that's stealing my labor. It's not much different from forcing me to do labor for you, aka slavery. It can also be avoided by competition. Companies that are incompetent will eventually be out-competed by others. The companies left standing are better than the ones that failed. The fact people are still using Mt Gox tells us that it wasn't that big of a concern. Stop thinking that you know what's best for other people and let them make their own choices, their own mistakes even. You have to show a direct threat. You can't just say that so-and-so doing X will increase my chances of coming to harm. If that argument applies then we need to lock up all teenage males because letting them roam freely increases the chances that I'll get attacked by one of them. The private keys would still exist and they could still be used. That's like saying that if I give you the password to my encrypted hard drive and you delete the contents that some how the password vanishes and can't be used. It can still be used but the information you deleted can't. Therefore initiating violence against other people is moral? I don't condone initiatory violence to solve problems. If you damage my property or it's clear that your actions will damage my property, I can stop you but I can't do anything until there is a clear and present danger. I don't have to wait for you to shoot me, just until you threaten me. It can be proactive but not to the point where there's never a threat in the first place. There has to be a threat before it's legitimate to respond in kind.It doesn't matter if not using initiatory violence "doesn't work". Let justice be done though the heavens fall. Even if the world will implode unless we initiate violence against a minority of people, my only response will be "it had to end sometime". In the long run, we're all dead. Let's live our lives nobly until then. I doubt it. I'm an atheist. Can I buy shares? Utilitarianism is only useful for determining how to apply principles. It's not a replacement for them. You don't have to prove your innocence. They have to prove your guilt, beyond a reasonable doubt. Thanks. All you have to do is attack the arguments and not me personally. I may be naive, brainwashed or whatever but I'm not going to just take your word for it. You'll have to convince me. I'm also sympathetic to your cause. However, I refuse to condone any solution to the problem that involves initiatory violence against other people or their property.The problem is that it's owned by governments and not private citizens. If I owned the Arctic Refuge and you tried to drill into it then I'd stop you, with force if necessary. That's why I said it needs to be claimed by a person or group of people. I didn't claim they were. My point was, if you replant trees, you don't have to keep cutting more and more old growth. At some point you can go back and cut down the new growth. The problem with clear cutting is that it's unsustainable.Go claim sections of the Arctic Refuge or Patagonia and make it an ecological preserve. Problem solved. It sounds like you're saying that you want the world to be untouched. That's unreasonable. You need to come up with some kind of plan whereby we preserve as much biodiversity as possible, in case we might need it, without bringing the rest of the world to a grinding halt.Your insults are only showing how hysterical you are. I'm now ignoring you. Congratulations on completely alienating someone that could have been persuaded to your viewpoint had you not been so belligerent. You're really not helping your cause. If everyone on Earth lived in a typical 2000 square foot home on a typical sized plot of land, we could fit the entire world population inside of Texas. Please stop claiming there are too many people. The planet is mostly empty. The issue is there isn't enough food. We need more food grown more efficiently. We also need more people! I love people! I may be biased though. Want to solve really tough problems? We need more Einsteins. How do you get more Einsteins? You grow the population to support a few more billion people. Eventually, a few of them will be exceptionally brilliant and break through these tough problems.If you want to reduce the population, kill yourself. The fact you're still alive reading this means that even you don't believe your stupid theory. Each of them are legally liable for murder. Just put forth your argument. There's no need to make this personal. That kind of comment adds absolutely nothing to the discussion and only serves to make it less civil.Which business is going to last longer, one that clear cuts until it runs out of a trees or one that cuts down trees and plants new ones? The business that plans for the future will be around longer. It's better for the long term bottom line to engage in sustainable practices.As for biodiversity, how much rain forest do we need? Just mark off a section of it and claim it has an ecological preserve. Problem solved. I'm sure plenty of medical companies will also donate a little to this because who knows, some species of bug may cure cancer someday. Let's say that you're standing inside of an empty tank that goes up over your head with your feet strapped to the bottom. Some guy dumps in a 5 gallon bucket of water. It splashes around your feet, no harm done.Now let's say you're up to your neck in water in that same tank. Some guy dumps in a 5 gallon bucket of water and you drown. Is it a defense for him to say that his bucket of water alone wouldn't have killed you if the tank was empty? If a power company refuses to use courts then it will have a tough time settling disputes where it's the victim. It's going to be a riskier investment which means fewer people are going to invest and those that do invest will invest less. No business is going to get very far and a large business that requires a huge startup cost won't even get off the ground without agreeing to abide by a court's ruling. If it does agree to abide by a court's ruling yet fails to obey then it's violated a contract and can be forced to comply and be charged with the costs of forcing it to comply.It doesn't matter how much pollution you emit. If you can prove damage is being done to your property and you can measure the amount of pollution emitted then you'll be able to sue proportionally to that damage. You also won't have to sue every polluter on the planet simultaneously. I'm not even sure why you asserted that. You can sue them one at a time. Also, assuming everyone will be a victim then a class action lawsuit can be filed and you won't even have to do much, just sign your name somewhere.The bottom line is, as long as people value pristine land, clean air and fresh water, there will be a cost associated with spoiling them. Businesses that can avoid these costs will increases their profits, expand and eventually drive the less green companies out of business. The market can handle pollution and has an incentive to do so, as long as we respective property rights and allow victims of pollution to recoup damages from polluters. Even if it happens tomorrow, I wouldn't advise holding your breath that long. The market volume is over 3,000 BTC a day. Someone is spending BTC.
Physical laws are not prescriptions of what must happen. Physical laws are descriptions of what does happen. There's not some magical and mysterious force controlling the universe. The universe is objectively random but certain patterns can and do emerge from that randomness. This is off-topic but it's a pet peeve of mine that most scientists still embrace religious and magical thinking when it comes to physical laws. There are two ways we can interact with other people, civilized or uncivilized. The civilized way to interact with other people is to interact voluntarily, meaning, you don't initiate violence against other people or their property. The uncivilized way, the barbaric way, is to interact involuntarily, meaning, you initiate violence against other people or their property, for any reason. If you support statist governments then you support barbarism. You're uncivilized.Taxation is involuntary. Being a citizen is involuntary because we can't secede. We can't part ways with the government and keep our property. That's a form of slavery, extortion or theft depending on circumstances but it's always at least one of those. We need to leave our barbaric past behind us and fully embrace civilization. Stop advocating initiatory violence and stop supporting institutions that commit initiatory violence. Join civilization. So, you're saying the people that are already in control will still be in control? What's the difference again? No, he thinks that people with the biggest guns can just take what they want. But to get the biggest guns they already have to have the money in the first place i.e. his argument is circular. I've already debunked his "go to whatever court I want to" argument before so I see no point in rehashing it but just to review, nobody is going to do business with you unless you agree to abide by a respectable court and no court is going to be respectable unless they have a solution for disputes between other courts viz. yet another court that both will defer to in disputes. He makes a bunch of arguments that are plausible albeit naive but don't stand up to scrutiny. The only person he's convincing is himself. Only if most people are violent assholes, in which case, laws won't do us any good anyways. There also isn't any finality in disputes already. I can take it all the way up the courts and if I don't like the ruling then I can lobby the government to change the law. If we are in a disagreement over a piece of land and you win the court case, guess what, the government can just pass a law granting me whatever I want, some new ordinance that says I get to do whatever I want. The only final arbiter in any dispute is death. No, in his fantasy world he will have already purchased all the guns with his unlimited supply of gold that fell from the sky. If you have more guns than me, you can do that anyways, laws or no laws. Fortunately, there are more people that are decent and peaceful until provoked than there are megalomaniacs.We need to commit violence against each other in order to protect us from violence against each other. Brilliant. That's nothing but idle speculation. You haven't crunched the numbers. Let me know when you have some kind of facts to back up your baseless assertion. Yes, 6 billion people is a large number but 0.0000001 cents is a small number. You'll get a whopping $600. That's enough to keep you in macaroni and cheese for... months. Of course, my numbers are completely made up, just as yours would be. What facts do you have to prove your case? None? Then I reject it outright. Did you invent the words you are using to think and speak with? No?! Theft of intellectual property! I'm glad you liked the answer. I'll answer your questions since you're being civil for the moment.Yes, you can but restitution has to be proportional. It's hard to see how my breathing can be contributing damage worth more than an infinitesimally small fraction of a penny. Feel free to waste your time suing for that.If you can't prove damage to your property then why else would you be suing, hurt feelings? Everyone is now paid up. Please confirm. It doesn't matter even if the market can't figure it out (it can), it's still hyperbole.Unless you really think magic, pixie dust and happiness aren't exaggerated statements and you really meant them to be taken literally, you're being a hypocrite. Just be a man about it. Admit when you're wrong and change your ways to match your professed ideals or stop whining about hyperbole. Either way will make you stop being a hypocrite.However, not that this makes you any more of a hypocrite, I will answer the question since it's so easy. Global warming can be dealt with by the market. If it's scientifically proven that greenhouse gasses contribute to global warming, and global warming damages my property, anyone that pollutes with greenhouse gasses is contributing to the damage my property and I can sue them for damages.If you don't like this answer, tough shit. I'm not arguing with you. Yes you are wrong. Markets aren't "magical" and they don't run on "happiness and pixie dust". You're a hypocrite. You whine about people calling names and using hyperbole right up until the point you start to do it and then you don't even have the balls to admit when you're being a hypocrite. That's why I won't be engaging you in any more arguments. You're intellectually dishonest and rude on top of it. I will however be bookmarking the posts where you whine about other people calling names and using hyperbole so I can point out whenever you're being a hypocrite until you either shape up or get bored with trolling these forums.  If you steal some wood from me and make a chair, you don't own the chair. It's my chair and you owe me for damages to my wood. You mean like your constant usage of "fantasy liberland" or whatever it is you like to say? I can read, thanks. I was trying to make a point to bonker. I've heard all these claims about how libertarianism can't happen and would fail. So why fight so hard against it? If I say that I plan on blowing up the Earth with my mind, which obviously isn't going to happen, would people spend countless hours arguing about why it can't happen and would fail? I think all the noise about libertarianism is precisely because it's not such an obviously doomed idea. If you stop feeding him, he'll get probably get bored and go away. If you steal my TV, you owe me a TV. If you steal my life, you a owe me a life. I'm not sure why that's so complicated. Does me taking a TV from you make it so that you never stole my TV in the first place? No, but it's as good as we can do. Does taking your life and giving it to my family make it so that you never stole my life in the first place? No, but it's as good as we can do. Nobody here is thirsting for blood so spare me the negative labels. Either you have some argument of merit or you're just appealing to emotions.
No, let him or her die. You've confused anarchism with egalitarianism. That's fair. Ideally, if A kills B then we would put B's dead body in one chamber of a machine and A's live body in the other chamber of the machine and transfer A's life to B. Since we don't have a machine like that, the next best thing is to give A's life to B's heirs and they can do whatever they want with it, including public execution. Web of lies! I didn't say that. I said that it is morally wrong to violate the non-aggression principle as libertarians define it, in accordance with property rights as libertarians define them. That's what I'm saying. Do you have anything in response against that? Stop trying to couch the debate in your terms thereby making straw man arguments. If you just can't help it then try using the quote feature and respond directly to what I say instead of your fabrications. Remember how you defined taxation not to be theft? I define defending my person and property not to be aggression. It's funny how you keep calling people hypocrites but make up all these silly rules that apply to everyone but you. No, wrong. My belief system is based on the belief that it is morally wrong to violate the non-aggression principle as libertarians define it, in accordance with property rights as libertarians define them.I'm sorry if there was ever any misunderstanding about that but the above statement is my belief system so attack that, not your straw man version, if you can.I've said this at least a half dozen times so I'm not sure how you keep failing to understand it. The only thing you are forced to do is to keep your hands off of other people and their property. Do you get it now? No, I don't have any plans right now because they are a chore to make. I'm looking into something that can be done on a mass scale for in the future though. I just need to find the time.That was the point in giving him BTC. Now he's out there trying to sell BTC and spreading the word about it. I gave him the $25 so he would take it seriously. Yes I see how it works. You think it's alright to define terms however you like because after all, you have a different belief system than I do.Stop avoiding. Some people think rape is alright therefore you're forcing your belief system on them.No, sorry. You have a different belief system than I do so I disagree. Are you going to force your belief system on me? Don't avoid the question this time either. Answer it. Are you going to force your belief system on me and force me to pay taxes? If not, good, I won't pay taxes. If so, then you'd be a hypocrite in saying that I can't force my belief system on others while you are allowed to. Answer the question and stop avoiding. Let me repeat it a third time, are you going to force your belief system on me and force me to pay taxes? The BTC are still in my wallet. The codes underneath the scratch-off just allow him to redeem 1 BTC and have it sent to his wallet, or more likely the wallet of someone that actually owns a computer. If he just throws them away, I'm only out the cost of the cards. I would still keep the BTC. Some forms of theft are currently legal. What else do you call taking money from people without their consent?So you're saying that our current system forces people to do things they don't like and a system where rape is legal wouldn't be any different? I think that's just an absurd position. Obviously there would be a huge difference. Even if we acknowledge that both systems would force people to do things they don't like, why is that an argument for anything? Clearly there are some things that are alright to force people to do, such as not rape.Your position is absurd and pathetic. You're absolutely wrong that there is no difference between the two systems. I said murder, rape and theft. Why did you leave out theft? Is it because you know you don't have a leg to stand on unless you attack a straw man version of my statement?It sounds like you're saying that everyone has an opinion and all opinions are equally right. So what if my opinion is that only my opinion is right? Or are you not saying that all opinions are equally right? If not, what exactly are you saying? I acknowledge the differences in opinion. Some people think it's alright to murder, rape and steal. But can you give me a reason why I should care what these people think? Am I really supposed to feel empathy for these people? Would you defend yourself from an attacker or would you bend over and take it? After all, it's just a matter of opinion.I think you need to read: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Relativist_fallacy You call it coercion. I call it self-defense. I saw a homeless guy standing on the corner today on my way home. I had to leave again to run some errands so when I saw him the second time I gave him $25 cash and 5 BTC along with a flyer explaining what Bitcoin is. This is what the BTC look like that I gave him.I told him they are worth $15 each but he has to find someone to buy them and he said he would. So if you see a homeless guy selling these in Huntsville, AL then he's probably legit.This might also be a good way to help spread the word about Bitcoin, getting homeless people to sell BTC. It's sad how you can start quoting things the founding fathers said or talk about the constitution and suddenly be labeled an extremist. That's a good question. Let me think about it and get back to you. My first instinct says no, however. I have.Yes, twice.Alabama. Is that true? Money is property. Information is not.
My exchange doesn't charge any commission for trades. No, I get what you're saying. You're saying that even though I don't want people to rob me, other people want to rob me so I should compromise and let them rob me some of the time or only let them take half of my stuff because that way I'm not forcing my beliefs on others. I see where you're coming from but at the same time, I don't give a shit. Rob me at your own peril, thief.Thanks for trying to reach out to me though. Maybe someday I'll be as sophisticated and egalitarian as you and think we should comprise on murder, rape and theft. Until then, wear bullet resistant armor. Whoever wins this has no life. My way being not attacking me or my property. So, yes, if people attack me or my property I will defend myself. If you want to be a murderer or a rapist then I'll shed a single tear for you and pour out some beer for you in your memory after you're dead. Congratulations, you got me to confess that I will kill murderers and rapists if they attack me. I hope my reputation can survive this shocking revelation! It's not my personal definition. It's a definition used by hundreds of thousands of Libertarians.I'm sorry that you think morality is a popularity contest but even if 5.9 billion people think rape and murder are part of a fun Friday night I really don't care. We can argue about whether or not you should be allowed to rape and murder but as soon as you attempt to do it, you're going to have a few extra holes in your body. There's nothing wrong with a license, which is essentially a contract. You simply can't enforce your contract on third parties unless they agree to the terms. If I sell you software but the contract says that you agree not to give it to third parties and you must sacrifice a chicken each full moon, that's compatible with Libertarianism. However, if you violate our contract and give the software to a third party, I can't enforce the terms of that contract on him or her. Define "taking care of". Maximizing our happiness? Sounds like a utilitarian nightmare to me. Yes, I see how it works. However that doesn't explain how I'm being inconsistent. You might not agree with my definition of coercion but you're still wrong when you say that I'm applying it inconsistently. QED. Yet again you've been proven wrong.Anyways, if you think the definition coercion still allows you to attack and rob people or that murder is eating ice cream then you'll need to come up with some kind of cogent argument for it. The accepted definition is that using threats of violence to get what you want is coercion. I'm sorry if you don't understand the difference between persuasion and coercion but there is a difference. That's wonderful. Libertarians always view charity as part of the free market. I would suggest though that people be able to provide some sort of evidence that they are needy so that the system doesn't get abused. You're moving goalposts here. You were asking about an intelligence which operated purely on logic and nothing else and that's what I was responding to. A an intelligence that operates purely on logic would have no motivation to survive, care about anything or even wish to apply logic. You need to understand why humans act. Humans act because they are dissatisfied with their current state of affairs, the state of affairs that would obtain if they didn't act or the state of affairs that would obtain if they stopped their current action. Dissatisfaction however has nothing to do with logic. A purely logical creature wouldn't act. There would have to be some non-logical underpinnings such as emotions, instinct, hardwired programming or whatever else you wish to call it. So, would you say people were drowned by an Earthquake? I don't think so.Instincts may trigger emotions but the desire to survive is still emotional.Anyways, this is a pointless argument. The relevant point is that there's nothing dictated by logic that you should desire to survive. It's irrelevant whether you wish to argue that desire is emotional, instinctual are whatever else. That's a red herring. Instincts trigger emotions. No, remember, my definition is "persuading someone to do something by using physical force or threats of violence other than in self-defense of person or property". If I do that to anyone else then it's still coercion. You've utterly failed to show that I've been inconsistent in application of my definition. The only connection between logic and morality is that logic can help you see implications of moral beliefs. If you believe killing is wrong and shooting someone with a gun will kill them then you can deduce that shooting someone with a gun is wrong. Aside from that though, the premise that "killing is wrong" is based on emotion, not logic. If you were completely logical with no emotions, you wouldn't even move, feed yourself, etc because there's nothing about logic that says you should prefer pleasure over pain or living over dying, unless you have some emotional predispositions built-in. If an intelligence has no emotions, we could do whatever we want and it would have no preference about whatever we did. Here's my definition.Show me where I've been inconsistent. We're talking about who was there first with the pollution vs. the need for there not being pollution. Let's say that a doctor and a machine shop are next to each other and the machinist starts with his grinding and other noise and the doctor doesn't complain because the doctor has his office on the other side of the building where it doesn't affect him. Now let's say, the doctor later decides to relocate his office to a point where the noise is now a problem. That's too bad, the machinist was there with his noise first.That's too bad. We don't protect possible futures. You have to have something that will be damaged before the noise is in place and something that is damaged after the noise is in place.If you were there first with your bees then I have to stop but I only owe you for your current operation. I don't owe you for your future expansion or if you suddenly decide to buy only ultra-expensive rare bees. I've already answered this in my above post. If you were there first, you win. If they were there first, they win.No company is going to reach a settlement unless it includes conditions that disallow you for suing from further damages. In that case, the company will just have to shut down their operation.I'm well aware of Ronald Coase. I'm an avid follower of Walter Block. He's got an hour-long lecture critiquing Coase.Watch it here: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Id6glPCLm0EIf you don't want to watch it, I'll explain the flaw with Coase in my own words. Coase ignores the prior-latter distinction. All he sees is that A harms B and B harms A. But that's like saying that if you kick me in the shin, even though you're hurting me, my shin is also hurting your foot. For Libertarians that's just too bad! You shouldn't have kicked me!This problem isn't hard at all. Who was there first? The other person? Then you lose. My shin was there first. Don't kick it and you won't hurt your foot on it.Exactly. I don't understand why we have to pretend this is such a subtle and difficult issue. It's not. If I start an airport next to some unowned land and then you move there and tell me to shut down my airport, that's absurd. I was there first. I homesteaded the rights to pollute. If, however, I build an airport next to some previously owned land then you have the right to tell me to stop the noise. It's all about who was there first.You can sue over every form of pollution if you were there first. The only difference between voluntary organization and government is that the government uses coercion. Without it people would only do what they voluntarily wanted to do. It's hard to see how protecting the weak from the strong wouldn't be one of those things. If it isn't how could a government possibly accomplish that? It can't.Thanks for the book recommendations, I'll check them out and see if they merit reading, but unless you can make a cogent argument in your own words then this isn't a debate.Concentrating power in the hands of a few politicians is handing them the world on a silver platter. Decentralizing power isn't. Rich people can organize and lobby more effectively than poor people. That's why any system based on swaying votes is going to necessarily favor the rich. Of course, it's easier for you to make baseless assertions, call people names, etc, than to actually address the arguments with some kind of evidenced based reasoning. It's the society you live in remember? You said that's how countries settle disputes. Somehow it's a different story when it's private courts?That's just your baseless assertion.I know I'm right and it also defeats your point. Persecuting me frivolously is a waste of money and you'll go broke.I'd say that greater than 90% of the people on Earth are decent hardworking people that wouldn't want to be caught committing a crime and don't want violence in their daily lives. Your criticism applies only if most people are scum and it would equally apply to any form of society.All tyrants get overthrown eventually. It only takes one pissed off guy with a gun to catch him slipping.
Then you answered your own question. The private courts go to war and the last one standing wins.Fighting wars costs money compared to not fighting. You may oppress people for profit but the people fighting back are fighting for their freedom which is a lot more motivating. Also, at some point, your private police force is going to have to start fighting their own families and that's going to destroy their morale especially when you don't have legitimacy. It's funny how you pretend that all the big companies will take over and oppress everyone yet the most powerful country in the world currently allows me to criticize the leader. Yet somehow, this is a magical property that only government can achieve.You can't even keep your own arguments straight. You were attacking me because a microscopic bit of tar got on your property, remember? Notice how his argument is nothing but a defeatist "tyranny is inevitable so lets give up". Nowhere does he say anything about legitimacy or morality. I think that keeping your hands off of other people and their property unless you have their permission is fairly important compared to a bunch of hypothetical bullshit that has never been tested. You haven't said anything of substance so there's nothing to argue against, just more insults. I think that's rather telling that your position is without merit.Just like there is no final authority in disputes between countries there is no final authority between disputes between private courts. It's something that the market will have to sort out.You won't have more money for long if you keep spending it on private police forces that don't turn a profit and wage costly wars over silly whims. There would be other companies not supported by one rich guy trying to abuse his power but companies supported by millions of middling but decent people. They would take my case on a contingency, protect me and then charge you for the service.Like I said, you might have more money at the start but if you waste it on fighting pointless wars, you won't for long. You might be able to oppress a few people, me included, for a while but in the long run you will lose. There are 5 people total that have been paid, please confirm if you haven't done so yet. I'm afraid you missed the point. Let's say that, since you are a large company, you can make product X for $10 a unit and since I'm a small company, I can only make them for $20 a unit. What happens when you charge $30 a unit? I can make them for $20 and sell them for $29 and still make a profit. Therefore, your economy of scale only gives you a benefit if you don't charge as high of a price as you otherwise would. That's my point. An economy of scale doesn't enable a cartel to charge whatever price it wants. Try to understand what I'm saying before you begin with the childish name calling.Yes, let's say that when you and I have a dispute we both go to different courts and my court rules in my favor and your court rules in your favor. There are two possibilities then. Either the courts have some policy in place to account for this, some other third party that settles the dispute, or they are what are known as "bandit courts". The problem is that since the bandit courts have to fight everyone all the time and since fighting is expensive they are going to lose money compared to the other courts that will only have to fight some of the time. The bandit courts will eventually lose out to the legitimate courts due to competition.Nothing is stopping you but since your firm isn't recognized as legitimate, I can just hire a legitimate firm which will have more money due to lower costs of only fighting some people, some of the time, to protect me on a contingency basis. In other words, after they wipe your police force out, they stick you with the bill for my services. Cartels lose the advantage of having an economy of scale by charging higher prices if they are high enough. I can enter the market at a smaller scale, pay higher costs yet still make a profit. I can also advertise exactly what I'm doing and show how the cartels are charging more than myself. People resent being gouged like that and word of mouth would quickly increase my market size. You've got a lot of "if's" that can be overcome and don't even apply to all cases.You have to show damages. There will be courts.There are many reasons why people wouldn't deal with courts that are biased without having some impartial party to settle disputes. Really though, describing a libertarian legal system isn't something I can do in a few sentences. It deserves a thread of its own. You focus on adding improvements. Your argument would only apply assuming we have reached the apex of technology, which we haven't.Let's concentrate on one of your fallacies at a time please. So you think morality is a popularity contest? If the majority of society says rape is acceptable then you just bend over and take it? You're talking about cartels. The same profit motive that causes them to form also causes them to fail. If Companies A, B and C all agree to charge the same high prices, each company has an incentive to charge lower prices to gain more market share. Even though they are charging less, the volume is greater and total revenue can increase. But let's say that A, B and C resist the urge to cheat and the cartel remains strong. There is still a higher profitability in that market which encourages Company D to enter the market and undercut the others.No, you can't. You can only win a lawsuit against companies for pollution if they are breaking government regulations. You can't win a lawsuit outright for pollution if they are following regulations. That was my point. As long as the government says they can pollute, they can pollute.Because I can increase my profits faster by undercutting you and gaining market share as well as goodwill for my brand which goes a long way towards profitability. People pay hire prices for brands they associate with quality. Notice that the promise doesn't say they won't reverse fraudulent transactions. It's a personal pedantic pet peeve of mine when people confuse free fall with a lack of Earth's gravity. The Earth's gravity acts on the moon. It has no problem reaching a tiny fraction of that distance to a space station. If you get robbed 1% of the time then charge 1% more to do a transaction with BTC. That way, you spread the risk around and come out even in the long run. First of all, it's always fallacious to compare our current system of fascism (privately owned business with public regulations) with a truly free market (privately owned business without public regulations). So don't think that our current system is any reflection of an actual free market unless you have taken into consideration all the ways in which the government is interfering.As far as planned obsolescence goes, if it costs $1 to make a product X that will last 1 year, yet Company A makes it so that it only lasts 6 months then Company B has an incentive to make a version of product X that will last 7 months. Also, Company C has an incentive to make a version of product X that will last 8 months, and so on. The length of time that a version of product X will last at a cost of $1 will tend to approach 1 year. Free market competition tends to prevent wastefulness.As far as pollution goes, as long as people value pristine land, clean air and fresh water, there will be a cost associated with spoiling them. Businesses that can avoid these costs will increase their profits, expand and eventually drive the less profitable polluters out of business. The only reason why we have such a problem with pollution is because governments prevent private property owners from suing for damages from pollution. Also, we a have a tragedy of the commons on rivers and other public land. If you dump garbage on my privately owned land or burn coal fires that pollute my air (assuming I was there first) and I can sue you, you will stop or be sued into bankruptcy. Right now, there's no way to stop some company from polluting the air on my land because the government gives them a free pass. I bought three 22" computer monitors from a company. I then bought a triple monitor stand from another company. After a while, it got to be a little unwieldy. The three monitors were taking up too much space. I sold that stand and purchased a double monitor stand as well as an articulating monitor mount from two other companies. Now I have two of the monitors in one room and the third hanging on a wall in another room. Why am I telling you this? Because as I'm doing all this swapping around, I found it slightly amazing that all these different companies producing different stands worked on the same monitors. They were all using the same standard by VESA which isn't a government association. There's no law saying "all you companies have to make compatible parts". Yet somehow, all these companies are cooperating so that I can have all this awesome interchangeable technology. My point is, the free market can settle on standards without being coerced to do so if it's in their best interest and if consumers demand it. All of these companies are doing more business because their mounts will work on virtually any flat display. The same thing can work with roads if the market demands it. Quicker guide to becoming a libertarian...Learn to keep your hands off other people and their property.I agree that it's pretty messed up how these tobacco companies are putting guns to people's heads and making them smoke cigarettes until they die.Where have I heard something like that? Oh yea, when you said... There's no such thing as "correct" use of a word. There is only standard and nonstandard. Let's assume, arguendo, that there is some awful, terrible problem that can't be solved by a libertarian society. I say too bad. It still doesn't justify putting your hands on other people and their property. This entire exercise in coming up with plausible solutions is pointless and irrelevant. In a libertarian society, the only thing you are forced to do is keep your hands off of other people and their property. I challenge someone to give me an example to the contrary. Otherwise, my point stands and consequences be damned. "Let justice be done, though the heavens fall." -John Quincy Adams Since you continuously refuse to address my points, wish to ignore what I say and are constantly engaging in name calling, I'll be ignoring you now. As far as I'm concerned, you were refuted. Bye. You're moving goalposts. We were arguing about whether or not you are physically forced to do anything other than keep your hands off of other people and their property. Now you want to argue about whether or not the system works. That's an entirely different argument. Stick to one at a time please.Why is it a "piss-poor" example? Just because you assert that it is so? You didn't even attempt to give a rational argument to back up your claim.Do without. Become a farmer. The rest of the world doesn't owe you a living.Use cash. Don't spend more than you earn. Nobody owes you a line of credit.I just came back from the Netherlands. A friend of mine living in Rotterdam doesn't own a car. Most people don't there. He only owns a bike and survives just fine. Lots of people ride bikes over there. Maybe you should too? It's good exercise.Don't confuse our current legal system with the hypothetical libertarian legal system you're trying to argue against. You said that X was being passed off as Y. That's fraud. You can't imply that X is Y when it's not. However, if all you're doing is selling X and people mistakenly think it's Y because they didn't do due diligence, research it, read the label, whatever, then that's not fraud. That's ignorance on the customers part and the blame rests on them.That's why you should ask what the probabilities are and if they don't know or can't provide evidence to back up their claims, don't do business with them. That sounds like fraud to me.In one sentence you say the regulations didn't prevent what they were designed to prevent and then in the next system you despair that we wouldn't even have those nonworking regulations? That sounds like nothing of value would be lost. However, there will be policing and standards set by the market. That's why we have things like Consumer Reports and other independent agencies that are actually independent because they don't have an artificial barrier to entry. You can't look at our current hybrid system of private companies regulated by the government and draw conclusions about a purely free market from that.That's why you do your homework and factor that risk into your investments.No, it's the issue at hand but since you want to ignore it and refuse to meet my challenge to give me an example of anything you are forced to do under threat of physical violence other than keep your hands off of other people and their property then I guess there's nothing left to debate. You give up.I'm sure he understands the difference. He just wants to pretend that there's more to liberty than that. He wants alternatives that suit his personal tastes but that's just too bad. I go back to my previous example, he may be "forced" to rape a woman or do without sex tonight but that doesn't mean his choice to rape or not rape isn't voluntary. Just because he doesn't like the alternatives doesn't mean there isn't one that doesn't involve him being forced under threat of physical violence. It doesn't matter where the money is going unless that's part of the agreement. I hope you understand the difference between "I'll buy that watch from you" and "I'll buy that watch from you but only if that watch wasn't made by Chinese orphans". If you agree to the former then it's irrelevant who made the watch, it's still voluntary. If you agree to the later then it's fraud if it is the case that the watch was made by Chinese orphans.Emphasis mine.Having a limited choice of alternatives is not the same thing as being forced to pick one of those alternatives rather than another. You might be "forced" to rape a woman or go without sex tonight but it's still a voluntary choice to rape or not rape.Then that's fraud, which I'm against. That's not an argument against my position. If I say my watches are made in the USA but are really made by Chinese orphans, that's fraud. If I say my investments are safe but they're not, that's fraud.So, you still haven't met my challenge. Give me an example of anything you are forced to do under threat of physical violence other than keep your hands off of other people and their property.
It's called interest. It's a feature of all loans. The rates would reflect deflation.In general people will always have to eat, drink, wear clothes, get to work, educate their children, etc. Consumption will always exist. There's a time preference for now vs. later. You get less pay but your pay is worth more and somehow this is a bad thing?See above. Real value isn't going to change. When you have inflation, prices go up. When you have deflation, prices go down. Businesses can't charge as much as before but they can buy more with their money.Prices tend to approach marginal cost of production, whatever the currency is worth. I'm sure you'd say the same thing about people that had the foresight to buy into Google's IPO. Life is unfair because nature makes it that way. The early adopters had no way of knowing for certain that BTC would increase in value. They took a risk, forwent other opportunities and fortunately for them, it paid off. Do you think any other crypto currency is not going to have early adopters? Any system that doesn't give early adopters an advantage is going to be worthless as a currency. There's a reason why the banks don't all just say "everyone has a million dollars in their account". That's because we aren't all equally productive and equally consumptive. You're probably a neoclassical economist judging from your post, which is probably worse than being completely ignorant of economics altogether. That kind of economist knows just enough to sound convincing and mislead others with damaging beliefs because it sounds like stuff the public wish were true or want to hear. I agree with you there but you're misapplying that maxim. If I tell you that I'm selling X for $6 then you are volunteering to buy X for $6. As long as it's actually X and actually $6, it's voluntary. However, if I bait and switch you, that's not voluntary. That's fraud. I mentioned in my previous post that fraud is completely unacceptable.Where we seem to disagree is that you think failing to disclose that I bought X for $5 and sold it for $6, or telling you where to buy it cheaper, is somehow fraud. Your doctor analogy isn't applicable because there's nothing I'm physically doing to harm you, unlike informing you about a risky surgery so you can give informed consent.The good news is that at least we are having an actual disagreement now instead of hurling insults and personal attacks.Damn, I spoke too soon. I'm not sure what you think you gain from these personal attacks. I'm either right or I'm wrong. You should be able to explain why based on evidence and reason. Saying that "you don't care about other people" or "you're just a big old meanie" adds absolutely nothing to the discussion. It's just noise. If you want to vent your frustration, go squeeze a stress ball.Please, let's keep this academic, thanks. The problem is that you're conflating "voluntary" and "informed" as if those were inseparable. As far as the law is concerned, it's only the voluntary part of the issue that should be enforced. We need to be protected from force and fraud. But let's say that I know where to buy X for $5 and you only know where to buy X for $7. It may or may not be immoral to exploit your ignorance and sell you X for $6 but I'm not taking a side on that issue because it's irrelevant to the issue of legality. Also, let's say that I'm the only one that knows how to get Y which is in high demand and therefore gives me a natural monopoly. I start charging $1,000 for Y because you'll pay it even though it only costs me $1 to obtain Y. You can't influence the terms equally but it's still my Y and therefore you can either pay the price or do without. It may or may not be immoral to gouge you on the price but again, that's irrelevant to the issue of legality. In both cases, X and Y, everything is still voluntary because I'm not physically forcing you to do business with me nor am I physically preventing you from doing business with anyone else.Like I asked before, what else are you forced to do under threat of violence that doesn't logically follow from physically forcing you to keep your hands off of other people and their stuff? If you can't name anything, this debate is over. I'm threatening to defend myself and my property.What else are you forced to do that doesn't logically follow from keeping your hands off of other people and their stuff? Please be specific. You mad bro?I'm sorry but you registered after this thread was created. You're not eligible. Please remove my link from your signature so you're not giving me something from nothing.Everyone else, please make sure to read the first post carefully. I'm not sure how you got that idea but hopefully the misunderstanding has been resolved. Homesteading or legitimate title transfer.No, restitution and punishment have to be proportional. If you point a gun at me and demand my wallet, I can shoot you. If you just grab my wallet and run, I can't shoot you. However, once I capture you, you owe me my wallet, plus another wallet, plus the cost of capture, plus the cost of how scared you made me.Have you read up on Libertarian punishment theory?Nobody because you're making a straw man argument. The only thing you're being forced to do is keep your paws off of other people and their stuff.We can debate whether or not you should be allowed to rob, rape and murder all day but as soon as you try to do any of those things, the debate is over and we settle this with violence. It's your call. I'd prefer peaceful means but if you touch me or my property, you do so at your own peril. It's never triggered it before but no I'm not sure. Hmm, I wonder if hacking is compatible with Libertarianism. Any thoughts? I recently launched the client on my school's network and I got a bunch of syn flood attack warnings. "My house my rules."vs."Your house my rules."It's customary for people to expect to pay for food they order in a restaurant. It would be hard to claim that you didn't know that was the custom. However, secession is what made the USA possible. It's just as possible for people to remain being governed or secede. There are two customs, though one is more popular than the other, it's still something that has to be made explicit. I love reading philosophy but if you're making an argument, you need to back it up and not send people off to do your homework for you. At the very least I need some kind of quotation but even better, put it in your own words.No, I live by it.Yes.Yes but it needs to be explicit. It may be that if I go into a restaurant and order a hamburger, I'm implicitly agreeing to pay for it but simply existing on my property isn't implicit consent of being governed.Yes, that's what legal justice is. That's not to say morality is only a lack of coercion. Calling your grandmother fat or cheating on your partner are immoral but shouldn't be illegal. You're not eligible anyways. This is yet another reason why we use OpenID, there are no passwords to steal. Please delete my link from your signature. Your attitude makes me think you can't be trusted.This is a take it or leave it offer. Where/when exactly was that said? I already covered that. Native Americans were just as likely to steal land as anyone else. I hope you really don't believe for a minute that not a single drop of blood was spilled over land by Native Americans. However, I'm all for returning stolen land if there is any evidence that there was once a rightful owner with a heir that's still living, otherwise, it's a moot point. Can you prove that anyone living owns this land? No? Alright then, let's move on.Oh but I did answer your question. I guess you weren't satisfied with my answer so I'll try again. How is forcing others to live under a Libertarian society different from being forced to live under any other society? The answer is, Libertarians don't violate your rights. If you want to form a hippie commune then go for it. But, when you try to take my property through taxes or arrest me because I don't empty my pockets, I'm well within my rights to defend myself. You, however, don't have the right to take my property. That's how it's different. All other societies are based on violations of rights but a Libertarian society is not. Are you satisfied now? What was the question again?
No, intelligence requires complexity and BTC mining is relatively simple. Please either post a link to something that's publicly accessible or put it in your own words. Otherwise, it looks like you're just making an assertion without backing it up. Giving someone a laundry list of authors isn't an acceptable substitute for a rational argument. If you don't believe me then read Dr. Seuss, Hitler and J.K. Rowling, in that order. Yes, exactly. I'm with Walter Block on this.Without evidence, what is left? Your word? A gut feeling? Even if we had a god's-eye-view of history, not every parcel of land that was once stolen currently has a living heir that it could or should be returned to. In those cases, it can be considered abandoned property and the current owner does have a legitimate claim to it as having homesteaded it. Even worse, since we don't have a god's-eye-view of history, it's irresponsible to overturn who knows how many legitimate property titles because of some vague notion of injustice that can't even be proven to have occurred.That's not to say that all property titles should be upheld as legitimate. People that claim to own vast sums of land that hasn't been homesteaded actually don't have a legitimate claim to it, even if they paid for it, simply because there was no owner from which to buy it from. Just like people that claim to own parts of the moon don't have a legitimate claim to it because they haven't homesteaded it. If you pump out pollution that damages my property, then you're liable for that.See Walter Block as he has done a lot of writing on this subject: http://www.walterblock.com/wp-content/uploads/publications/misallocations_externalities.pdf Please read the first post and follow the instructions exactly. You need to have the code I give you in your signature. If it's not bold, same font, etc then it doesn't count. Also, you get paid 1 week after you add your link to your signature and then after that you are bound by your word to keep it there for the next 11 weeks.I need your address to pay you.It would only be ripping you off if I didn't pay you. Don't spam this thread with insults or arguments. If you don't like my offer then just ignore it and go somewhere else. How is MtGox responsible? That's like me letting you keep your car in my front yard with a "for sale" sign on it, the car gets stolen and then you demand that I buy you a new one.  If I remember correctly, the user in question didn't point out anything specifically. He just said a bunch of websites were exploitable. He didn't give any details of how to exploit them and he was treated with an understandable level of skepticism. The fact that some ClearCoin vulnerability was recently disclosed still doesn't vindicate him since he could have been full of it and this is just a coincidence. It's his fault for not disclosing some kind of evidence. Talk is cheap. Anyone can say that a website is exploitable. It's a different matter to actually prove it. So, all your finger wagging isn't actually warranted. If you posted before this message but your name isn't on the list in the first post, that means you aren't eligible for this offer. Either you didn't have 50 posts before this thread was made or you didn't register before this thread was made. I'm sorry but you need to read the rules carefully. Those of you that aren't eligible should remove my link from your signature so you aren't giving me something for nothing. I take offense to lumping all of us libertarians together as if we are the problem. Please look over my post history and you will see that I simply don't engage in personal attacks or abusive behavior in general, even when viciously insulted. The people that are decrying anything that could devalue BTC are the people that are just into Bitcoin to make a few quick bucks. I'm in it for the long haul because I value economic freedom as a libertarian. I'd rather see the currency stabilize than make money. I have a source of income. I don't need to speculate. I also welcome disclosure of vulnerabilities because it puts pressure on administrators to fix the problem as well as notifies the community that they should think twice about trusting the keys to the kingdom without considering risk. Please rethink your opinion on libertarians because even when the speculators are long gone, we will still be here wanting to use this currency. Care to back that up or will calling me names be the entirety of it?A single exchange fails. A bunch of banks get robbed. Somehow this is supposed to be a weakness of the underlying currency? I don't see how. Explain yourself. I've studied libertarian theories of contracts and title transfer.That's true. For example, you can't have a contract to buy a square circle because those are logically impossible. You also can't have a contract to sell true love because feelings of love aren't something that can be consciously controlled. However, this seems completely irrelevant because I highly doubt MtGox had anything that was unenforceable from a libertarian perspective. Do you even know? I doubt that as well.If you agree to a contract that gives someone authority to reverse transactions or simply take your money and run then there's nothing you can legitimately do about it except learn not to agree to such foolish contracts in the future. I have a feeling that you understand my point is valid but instead wish to engage in personal attacks. Of course, you can prove me wrong by explaining what you think is unenforceable about what you agreed to with MtGox. Otherwise, this is just a red herring. What does the contract say that you agreed to when you joined their service? They can do anything within those bounds. If you don't like it, you shouldn't have voluntarily agreed to it. I agree that it's a world of difference, for now, but eventually someone's going to point this out to the media and they'll run with it. My point still stands though. If you want a politically neutral technology, this ain't it. The very idea of free market money is already politically charged in itself. Good luck with your petition. I'll be in the politics section if you need me. She's probably a typical left-liberal that thinks anything inside the bedroom between two consenting adults is acceptable but as soon as they leave the bedroom, all bets are off. So, if a bank gets robbed then USD is worthless? Brilliant! My point was, the genesis block contains a somewhat politically charged message and therefore the entire blockchain and project itself is tainted by its ideological beginnings. If you're really worried about scaring people away then you'd need to reboot the entire project. With the recent hack of MtGox, I'd like to take some time to explain what kind of security practices we have in place.First, we use OpenID which makes available two-factor authentication. You can have a keychain generator that creates a password required to login to OpenID. This prevents someone from hacking your account since as long as you have your keychain generator and they don't, they can't gain access. Also, Google's OpenID has a similar system whereby you have a text message sent to your phone. As long as you have your phone, someone with your OpenID password can't hack your account.Second, our PHP scripts are developed by a Zend Certified PHP 5 Professional with 10+ years of security hardening experience and familiar with programming best practices. We also have in place an intrusion detection system designed to monitor and block malicious requests. The IDS is set to the maximum threshold possible. All database queries also filtered through the IDS and are sanitized, bound variables. Your personal identification token is a SHA-256 salted hash making it almost impossible to crack.Finally, our Linux servers are monitored 24/7 and updated constantly with the latest security patches. All non-essential services and ports are disabled. We also share our hosting with thousands of very popular websites so if there were a security flaw, it would have a large impact and therefore our hosting provider has a huge incentive to make sure none of this is possible.However, if there were a successful attack on our system, we have a response procedure in place to immediately shut down the website. Any transactions that occurred would be irreversible and the transaction database would not be rolled back. Though, any other vandalism would be undone. Because of this, we recommend that you only keep as many BTC as you are currently wishing to sell at a given time on our servers. This will minimize any possible risk to you in such a case.Thanks for your business and if you have any questions please feel free to ask here or by email. There is also ample proof and historical record that the indigenous populations stole land from each other. Do you honestly think that every Native American tribe obtained its land through homesteading and never a drop of blood was shed? My point is, even if we acknowledge the fact that there is some rightful owner, there's no way to return the land to the heirs of its rightful owner because there's no record of who that rightful owner is and no record of who the current heirs would be. Simply saying, "let's give it all back to the Native Americans" ignores the fact that they were just as likely to use violence in obtaining land as anyone else. What you suggest would be ideal if we had a god's-eye-view of history but we don't. Without some sort of record of actual theft, even acknowledging that theft took place, the rightful owners have no way to prove they have a legitimate claim. I agree that an appeal to authority coming from a Libertarian would be pretty ridiculous. Which is why you'd think that would be enough to stop you from jumping to such an absurd conclusion but unfortunately not. Somehow you managed to twist a simple question into an appeal to authority even while acknowledging how ridiculous it would be coming from me. That's pretty impressive.Now, would you like to know what my point actually was in asking that question or would you like to just keep putting words in my mouth?
I wonder if any of you know what text was in the blockchain's genesis block. http://www.nytimes.com/1999/09/09/nyregion/metro-news-briefs-connecticut-judge-rules-that-police-can-bar-high-iq-scores.htmlLiterally. If you want to solve a really hard problem then you need a few more Einsteins and other really exceptional geniuses. Do you know how you get more geniuses? You create a few more billion people and a certain percentage of them will be exceptionally smart.Besides, what good is a pristine planet when there's nobody around to enjoy it? Good luck with that.There's no precise definition but basically, a failed state is characterized by political and economic failure. A non-state isn't necessarily characterized by those things. What Libertarians desire is a society not based on statism but with a thriving political and economic system that is entirely voluntary.Getting back on topic...They don't sound like very smart business owners. If they were then they'd follow the money and ignore the rest. Doesn't sound like a huge loss here. Most people don't want violence in their daily lives, just want to be left alone and are basically decent human beings when they know other people are watching. That being the case, the majority of people can easily defend themselves against a violent minority that don't care who knows they're murdering thieves.You're right that authority grows from the barrel of a gun which is why we need to make sure that most of us decent folks that don't want constant violence, don't want to harass others and don't want to kill and steal, are well enough armed and organized to keep the minority at bay. That kind of power is simply self-defense and if you think that self-defense is morally wrong then you might as well just lay down and wait to die.I think it's evidence that the kind of crowd that's interested in Bitcoin has strong opinions about politics and therefore political debate is inevitable. Therefore, it makes more sense to give it a place to happen rather than having it sprinkled all over the forum. A moderator can now come along and split the thread, moving the political debate posts to the proper section. That's pretty much why the politics section got started in the first place. Citation needed.A failed state is not the same as no state.I'm not against organization. I'm against aggression. If you think that you need to use aggression against others to protect them from aggression, you need to reevaluate your logic.If you have sex with 1,001 people and 1,000 consent but 1 does not, you're a rapist. If you take money from 1,001 people and 1,000 consent but 1 does not, you're a thief.You accuse anarchists of being Utopians but it's you that is being unrealistic if you really think that people can't govern themselves but somehow will be able to govern others. First of all, I would never advocate the breaking the law. I advocate abolishing it. Second of all, overthrowing governments is what the United States of America was founded on. It's pretty amazing to me how one can be considered a "radical" or "extremist" just by advocating values that this country is based on. Have you really never heard of the American Revolution or read the Declaration of Independence?We overthrew the colonial English government and created a new government based on our own ideals. Somehow people should be freaked out when we suggest that it might be time to do that again? It's depressing that we've grown so far apart from our roots. The words in bold mean that we grant authority to the government, not the other way around, and if we don't like what they do with the authority we give them, it's our right to revoke it. Experts in general are competent in their field but incompetent in others. In this case, they're good with computer science and engineering but bad with economics and political science. Also, there have been several stories about Bitcoin. The Slashdot crowd hates repetition and attention-seeking. Many people perceive the spate of Bitcoin stories to be a way to pump up the value of Bitcoin. That combined with the jealousy over not getting involved earlier makes them generally bitter. I agree with you but the reason why my answer still stands is because the keyword is record. There's no way to determine who the rightful owner is without some sort of record. If I bought a parcel of land from Alice, who bought it from Bob, who bought it from Carol, and so on, then all that is considered legitimate unless you can demonstrate that at some point it was stolen from someone, for example Carol stole it from Dave. Otherwise, the current titles can be considered legitimate. If you disagree then you have some sort of burden of proof. Also, I did mention "eminent domain" in the post you're responding to. So you can't say that I didn't already acknowledge your point before it was even made. Not with this offer but I'll probably do something like that in the future. Unless there is some record of theft, we assume that the current owners are the rightful owners. The exception, as I hinted at, is when there is a record of theft, for example, my family owned a farm for dozens of generations and then the government seized it under "eminent domain" to build a road. That land would be returned to me.They don't own the whole moon, no. They own part of it. You need to understand homesteading. To claim unowned property, you have to mix your labor with it and you only own so much as you've mixed your labor with. If you build a base on the moon, you don't own the whole moon or even that chunk of the moon all the way to the center. You've never been to the center of the moon. You only own that area on the surface and enough below it so that if I dig beneath you, I'm not compromising the structure of your construction. If it's found out that there's a lot of valuable resources below that, I can dig at an angel to retrieve them, as long as I don't damage the integrity of your base.You really need to read some books on Libertarianism. I would suggest Walter Block's "The Privatization of Roads and Highways" as he discusses how to homestead things that are currently unowned as well as things that are currently owned by the government, which presents a slightly different problem.You can read his book online: http://mises.org/books/roads_web.pdfYou have to be able to exclude others from using it. You can't own a farm and then yell up at the airplanes to stop trespassing. However, if you build a glass dome over your land then you can own the air, the radio waves as well if you can stop them from leaving your property. Rivers are a slightly more complicated issue because if there are people downstream from you, you can't dam it or pollute it because that would be damaging their part of the river and you can't damage other people's property. However, if the rest of the river is unowned, you can do whatever you want and someone can't come in later, notice a dry riverbed and then demand that you tear your dam down so they can have some water. You were there first. I am, by the way.Well, if he wants to steal property and since a Libertarian society doesn't permit theft then he will be forced not to steal. Likewise, if he wants to murder people and since a Libertarian society doesn't permit murder then he will be forced not to murder. In a way, he will be forced to abide by Libertarian ideals. However, the question is, why should we care about disallowing theft and murder? Am I really supposed to feel pity for a murdering thief? Why should I, when such a person has no pity for their victims?It's voluntary because you aren't forced at gunpoint to refrain from doing anything that doesn't violate someone's natural rights. If you think you should be free to take money from people, too bad. That's nonnegotiable as far as I'm concerned.The current system isn't voluntary because we are forced at gunpoint to refrain from doing things that don't violate someone's natural rights i.e. there are certain drugs we can't consume, we can't pay or be paid less than minimum wage, we can't keep all the money we earn and not be forced to pay taxes, and the list goes on. Again, if you think you should be free to steal from others in the form of taxes or kick down their doors because they are smoking a joint, that's just too bad. I don't feel sorry for coercing you to leave other people alone.Since we're making analogies to religion, your argument is kind of like when some religious person claims that atheists have faith because they can't prove God doesn't exist. So yes, I am forcing you to leave other people alone and keep your mitts to yourself. If you think you should be able to steal and kill, there's nothing stopping me from doing the same to you. You can't have it both ways. You can't claim you should be free to strip others of their freedom. You really need to acknowledge the difference between self-defense and aggression. One is justified, the other is not.Notice how I responded to your argument without resorting to name calling. I didn't accuse you of "whining" or "sucking the teat of the government" or any other insults. Please give that a try because that kind of cruft adds nothing to the discussion. It's just noise. So, you think you should be free to deny other people their freedoms? Then why should we respect your freedom? It's nonsensical. You aren't special. If you make a rule such as, it's alright to deny people their freedoms, then the same rule applies to you. It's like saying that you should be free to kill other people but they shouldn't be free to kill you. It's not even something that merits debate. Libertarian society is simply "keep your hands off other people and their property unless you have their permission". Are you really going to argue disallowing that is tantamount to coercion? Do you really think you should be free to deny others their freedom? If you want to form a Democracy, Theocracy or Communistic society you're perfectly free to do so as long as the people that are participating do so voluntarily. You just need to refrain from using aggression to force others to do what you want them to do and it'll still be a Libertarian society. Like I said, all human interactions should be voluntary. Try couching your argument in those terms and see if you can make sense of your complaint of being forced to not force others to do things they don't want to do. I don't think that's even coherent. Abolition of aggression is also a single issue.The belief that all human interactions should be voluntary isn't a very complex issue. I'm confused as to what you're actually saying. Can you explain for those of us that have never used the service? The same goes for the abolition of slavery. I guess that'll never happen either. Oh wait...Yet again, you're engaging in name calling, attaching negative labels to ideas you disagree with. Awesome, I've added you 3 to the list. Calling people names does you no good.
You're talking to two different people. For someone complaining about others not reading that's, kind of ironic. Anyways, the system that's being described isn't anarcho-capitalism or Libertarianism. It's fascism.In a truly Libertarian society, you couldn't use government violence and you couldn't seize large chunks of resources without earning them. You would have to homestead, which is a process that requires some kind of work. In other words, in a Libertarian society, everyone earns what they own. If I own something then I don't owe you anything. I can offer you the use of my capital under my terms and you can accept it or reject it. I don't need to. By threatening me with violence I'm within my rights to respond in kind. That's a violation of my rights. I have the right to not be raped, robbed or physically assaulted. I don't have the right to a livable wage. I'm certainly not an apologist for big business. I'm an apologist for voluntary human transactions i.e. not being forced by threat of violence to do something. If you don't want to work for Megacorp Inc. then don't. Start your own business, work for a small business or go live off the land. The free market already pays people a reasonable wage based on what their labor is worth. If you make 1 widget per hour and I sell those widgets for $5 each then your labor is worth $5 an hour. If someone comes along and demands that I pay you $8 an hour, guess what? You're fired. I'm not taking a loss of $3 an hour. I'd rather stay at home, eat Pop Tarts and watch "The Price is Right" because at least then I wouldn't be losing money. So your solution would be to deny them the ability to provide for their family, so that their only option is to allow them to starve to death? Brilliant! If it's so bad, why don't these people quit? They obviously prefer those conditions over not having a job. What's your solution, to deny them the choice that is rightfully theirs and theirs alone to make? Do you somehow know what's better for them than they do? What are you going to do about it? Point a gun at me and force me to feed the poor? If not, I don't particularly care. You're welcome to have your opinion. Just give me the same respect and allow me to have my own opinion too. You don't need to have Bitcoin running in order to receive BTC. Check out http://bitcoincharts.com/bitcoin/ and do a search for your payment address. If it's there, it means that your transaction is low priority and won't be processed for up to 24-48 hours. I would recommend that you deal with a reputable exchanger or someone with a good reputation on bitcoin-otc. I'm sorry to hear that. How much did you lose? Thanks, I'll keep your criticism in mind the next time the web designer overhauls the website. When I first created that particular script last year, certain features of the RPC API weren't available. It wasn't an issue until recently so I updated the script to take advantage of the new features. I updated it immediately as soon as it became an issue.What don't you like about the content display, graphics or copy? Is it too flashy? Is it not flashy enough? Is it hard to read? Please be specific. All I know right now is that "you don't like it". Why? What would you change? How can I make my website better in general other than to suit your particular tastes? What don't you like about the scripts? If you're talking about above then I've already answered that. The way the script works now simply wasn't possible before. Is there something else about how the website works that I should change?I welcome suggestions. My goal is to make my website better and more accessible. That's why I really need you to be specific so I can understand what your concerns are. Thanks! What does knowing the religion of a person have to do with knowing their meaning of rational? Also, I didn't say there is an expectation that you should know the religion of a person. I said we should strive to treat people as they would want to be treated which could depend on a person's rationality. Obviously, unless they have some sort of bracelet or other identifying information on them, it's not possible to know their religion. No, that's not what I said.Again, that's not what I said.It's possible but not legitimate.I'm not trying to be rude here but is your first language English? There seems to be some kind of communication barrier between us. As I said in the first post, you have to make your signature match mine. That means you can't append. It also has to be the exact same font family, style, size, etc. I've updated the first post to make that clearer.For example, underground_ is close but it's not in bold. The reason I'm requiring this is because repetition and uniformity is much more memorable. Also, it does me no good if my message is lost in the forest of other links. Can you explain how you come to that conclusion? The first quote you refer to makes no mention of meaning.Also, please quit with the hostility. It adds absolutely nothing. If you don't have the patience for this then we can simply end the discussion. I have better things to do than be insulted. I'm confused. Do they mean that we have the right to feed people or that people have the right to be fed. If it's the former, I agree. If it's the later, I disagree. Rights are only negative. You have the right not to be raped, robbed, murdered, etc. However, if you have the right to be fed then by me not feeding you, I'm somehow violating your rights. That's unacceptable. Nobody has the right for me to be their personal slave. If you want food, earn it or wait for someone to give it to you voluntarily.I'm hoping they mean that we have the right to feed people. In my last post I thought I explained that the meaning of rational isn't dependent on the unconscious agent. I think where we went wrong is when you asked "Who decides what a rational adult is?" and I took that to mean, "Who gets to decide if someone is a rational adult?"The meaning of rationality is shared and normative much like the meaning of table, salt shaker, etc. To answer your question, nobody gets to decide what a rational adult is just like nobody gets to decide what a table or a salt shaker is. We all just settle on the definition by referring to certain meanings."How many legs does a dog have if you call a tail a leg? Four. Calling a tail a leg doesn't make it one."  Where does the meat come from? How is it packaged for shipping? What are the shipping rates like?
That's fine. Bookmark this thread and check back again in a month. There was a large influx of new accounts which caused our update script to start timing out. I've redesigned the script so it it's about 100 times faster. This shouldn't be an issue anymore. We apologize to anyone that had a delay in their BTC showing up in their account. It should be there now. Please confirm this if you can. Thanks! I'm offering to pay 0.10 BTC each to 50 people that will make their signatures match mine for 3 months (it must be the only code in your signature, exact same font family, style, size, etc). I'll check your signature periodically until a week from now (6/19/2011 if you do this today) and then pay you. After that, you will be bound by your word to keep it there for the remaining 11 weeks. This offer is only open to people that have registered their forum account before today and have 50 or more posts before today. I will check this so please don't start making new accounts or start posting like mad to bump up your post count. There is no agreement between us until I post your name below in this list. I reserve the right to refuse anyone that I perceive won't honor the agreement or will make a bad impression on my business.Here is the code for your signature:Code:[b]Anonymous Cash-By-Mail Exchange: https://www.bitcoin2cash.com[/b]There are 38 spots left.The list of people that are committed are:gamekingx (paid)Insti (paid)GeorgeH (paid)Babylon (paid)Vinnie (paid)The Script (paid)darkpandora (paid)chmod755 (paid)sanchaz (paid)killer2021 (paid)ptmhd (paid)Aqualung (paid) http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=pissing+kool-aidThis is how I describe statists. There is a difference between definitions and meaning. A definition is which meaning we attach to which word.Do we all agree on the definition of a dog? Maybe not. You could be using the word dog to refer to tables or salt shakers. However, there is a meaning that refers to four legged things that bark, have tails, sharp teeth, were bred from wild wolves, etc. So when I talk about dogs, that's the definition I'm using. You have to go beyond the words themselves to get at the meaning.When I say rationality, I mean the ability to use reason, logic, etc. No, it's not up to the agent to decide what rationality is. That's presupposed. It's only up to the agent to declare that he or she is rational. Think of it like this. You see a person unconscious and bleeding on a sidewalk. The only thing that will save their life is a blood transfusion. Do you give them one? Well, that depends on what the person would want if they were fully rational i.e. conscious. For most people, the answer would be yes. If they are a Jehovah's Witness then the answer would be no. You treat people how they would want to be treated if they were fully rational. Each of us does, by declaring ourselves to be rational and fending for ourselves.Again, each of us does. If we aren't fully rational then we should treat them how they would want to be treated if they were fully rational. Obviously, that can't be done perfectly but that's what we should strive for. Parents are custodians of their children until those children demand to be free by leaving home and living on their own. Also, if you abuse a child or otherwise treat him or her in a way that he or she wouldn't want to be treated if he or she were a fully rational adult then you lose custodianship and someone else can take over that responsibility. I can't accept any system if one of its faults is that it allows for initiating violence against persons or property as being legitimate when done by certain groups. All human interactions should be voluntary. In my opinion, the current system has such a flaw and it more than outweighs any technical difficulties imposed by competing jurisdictions. BTC is a commodity. Bitcoin is a proof-of-work system. It's useful because it proves that you've spent resources generating BTC. This means someone can charge for otherwise relatively free actions such as signing up to a website, posting on a forum or sending an email. This forces spammers to incur higher costs, making spam less profitable and reducing the overall amount. If you have sex with 1,001 people and 1,000 consent but 1 does not, you're a rapist.If you take money from 1,001 people and 1,000 consent but 1 does not, you're a thief. A few articles and YOUTUBE? Come on... Read some books. I'll suggest some if you don't know how to use Google. I think it's just easier for you to reject ideas that you are ignorant of. The crops themselves act as a border. It's pretty obvious where a plowed field ends and the forest begins. It's pretty obvious where a wheat field ends and the forest begins. So because owning a forest would be difficult you think that is a death blow to the entire system? There are many other ways to mark a boundary. Post some signs every half mile, stake the corners, have a radio transmitter. The common thread here is that this is a technological problem, not a theoretical one.No just in court if you evict someone and they sue you or you use force against them and there is an investigation. That's a non sequitur. In other words, since there's no final authority that you can appeal to, no dispute is ever truly resolved. That's actually the same case with our current system. Even if you get all the way up to the Supreme Court the issue isn't settled because then you can just petition Congress to pass a law so that your case is won that way. Do you really think that you, off the top of your head, can come up with objections that many great thinkers haven't (a) already thought of or (b) already offered solutions to?At the very least, you need to fence in the land. There has to be some kind of visible border around your property. Also, if someone moves into land that you own, you can't just say "oh I own that", you have a burden of proof. In the case of ecology, it would be some kind of historical data, survey maps, a deed whatever.How do you keep up with your credit rating? Is there a single government agency that does that? No, actually its several different agencies. I'm also not against central authority or even monopolies, as long as they are voluntary. If everyone decides to use Bob's Land Registration because they are honest and it's convenient to have only one, fine with me. However, if Bob's Land Registration starts getting abusive, the door is open for competition, which somewhat assures that abuses aren't that tempting in the first place. It's a sort of business suicide. That's definitely immoral and probably illegal depending on where you live. All this panic is amusing to me. I'd rather see what attacks can be accomplished and how the community can recover from a successful attack. That way, when people ask "what happens if..." we can say "it did happen and we survived it". Of course, some people are a little over-invested and don't find it amusing at all. I'm not sure if you're joking or if you are actually ignorant of Libertarian property rights. There's two way to obtain property, homesteading, which is mixing your labor with unowned property, land, natural resources, whatever, and legitimate title transfer, barter, gifts, gambling. It's hard to see how you'll be rich through mixing your labor with anything unless it's just through diligent hard work. You can't go plant four flags at the corners of Nevada and claim you own it. You actually have to do something with the unowned property you claim, farm, mine, or even study ecology by recording it but not altering it. So, how exactly would you be "rich" in "my" world? You'd be richer since you wouldn't be forced to give money to the government which does everything inefficiently and has little to no incentive to improve. I subscribe to a different theory of property rights than you. Then the debate is over. We agree. The reason why people join pools is to make money. If you shake confidence in BTC, it will become worthless. Why would any pool do this? You can say that the pool operator might start doing it but miners would leave in droves. What principle guides you to abandon your principles?I like how you can declare rape not up for vote but I can't declare theft not up for vote.Again, how do I get there and how do I survive once there? How are these places better than the middle of the ocean?
Then the fact that X number of people declare Y is acceptable isn't the principle you're operating with. So, the fact that X number of people say they can steal from me and you think it's alright has to be based on something else other than "the community says so".Then you're back to the "agree or die" situation which you've already said isn't a real choice. In other words, because I have no choice, I haven't consented to anything. While I could go live on a moonbase or in the ocean if I were rich enough, I'm not. So, my staying put isn't consent. Yes.Charity.If you want to give your money away then you're welcome to do so. I'm all for charity. In fact, I would donate to a charity that had certain requirements, such as working at a job, going to school, etc. The declaration of human rights is just another set of rules created by another community. What if the global community agrees to get fucked in the ass but I don't, is that not rape?If I can't afford it then how is it possible? You might as well suggest that I build a moonbase and live there. So, if the community agrees to let Obama fuck them in the ass, even though I don't consent, it's not rape?That's what you're advocating. You suggested to someone to go live on a barge in the ocean yet, who can afford that? Where will fresh water come from? Food? Maybe it's not instant death like drowning is but it's not much better. He's just going to say that remaining in a geographical region counts as implicit consent. Which leads us back to the point that remaining on a ship at sea isn't implicit consent when the only alternative is jumping in the ocean and drowning. If that were true, I'd have the right to cancel these services. Stop dropping bombs using my tax money. Stop giving welfare checks to lazy parasites. Stop sending kids to be brainwashed by the state. I want these services to stop and I don't want to pay for them. By continuing to "render services" you're little more than a mafia Don that is rendering his protection "services" i.e. you're thief, a crook and nothing more. Please provide some kind of evidence for this claim. How exactly did the government intervene so that Internet Explorer was forced into more "fair" competition? Has Microsoft stopped bundling Internet Explorer with Windows? No, they haven't.Since you've failed to back up your claim, I can only assume you are referring to the European Commission's settlement with Microsoft whereby Microsoft agreed to present users with a browser selection screen. The problem with that theory though is that it only applies to EU countries and only happened with Windows 7, several years after Firefox had already been chipping away at Internet Explorer. Unless you provide some new information, your claims don't hold water. Firefox is exactly the evidence you required yet, unsurprisingly, it doesn't "count".The same argument applies to the raw materials monopolies. You are just welcoming competition by not selling to whoever bids the highest. Look, if I have a business harvesting moon rocks and you complain that I'm charging too high of a price or that it creates a terrible drain on the workers then start your own company. If you can't find investors willing to risk their money then what right do you have to say that the prices are too high? All prices are too high since consumers would like to get everything for free but when dealing with economics we have to evaluate actions, not words.Let's take oil for example. It's rare and hard to acquire. Therefore, the prices they charge reflect this. If the price of oil is too high then people will switch to other sources of energy. If they are still buying it, it doesn't matter if they are grumbling about the price, clearly the price isn't too high, otherwise, it wouldn't be selling. The same applies to any other natural monopoly. Free market monopolies aren't "bad" as long as you get rid of the idea that you should be able to get everything for free. The prices will always approach what it's actually worth.That's just opinion, nothing more. Perhaps the software itself is inferior but you can't consider it in a vacuum. You need to consider human capital, how many people understand it, use it, can program with it, what kind of support there is for it, etc. If Linux was so wonderful, it would have taken over by now. Counterexample, Mozilla Firefox. Internet Explorer had a monopoly but now it's losing market share daily. Firefox is king these days. If it's difficult to enter the market then Nike had the same difficulty entering the market. Turnabout is fair play. In a free market, even with monopolies there is still the threat of competition. Let's say that Nike has a monopoly in shoes. As long as everyone is getting what they want at a reasonable price, who cares? The reason why, even with a monopoly, Nike isn't going to start charging $1,000 for a pair of low quality shoes is that they know it would entice competition. They want to keep their monopoly so they refrain from doing that because, at a reasonable price and reasonable quality, there's no incentive for competition. Hence, the mere fact that someone could enter the shoe market will prevent Nike from getting uppity.Monopolies aren't bad unless they're enforced involuntarily which requires government action. Voluntary monopolies aren't a problem. That's like saying that I'm free to jump in the ocean and drown if I don't like being on a ship at sea. Even if there were someplace I could go, I have no means to get there or to survive once there.Why do I need to not have contact with other humans? Are you telling me that just saying "hello" to someone is grounds for being taxed? That's absurd. Also, there's large swaths of land in the USA that are deserted but I would still be subject to taxes there.Anyways, there's no reasoning with you so I'm just going to ignore you in the future. You're pissing Kool-Aid.If you have sex with 1,000 people and 999 consent but 1 doesn't, you're a rapist. If you take money from 1,000 people and 999 consent but 1 doesn't, you're a thief. That's all you are, a petty thief and in an ideal world I'd be able to deal with you like any other thief. I wouldn't think twice about putting a bullet in your thieving ass.Justify it all you like so you can sleep at night, thief, but we all know what you are, those of us that aren't self-deluded anyways. Notice you said, "other than leaving the club". That's why it's not a state. You can leave the club and simply stay on your own private property and not go on their private property anymore. I can't leave the "USA" club without abandoning my private property.The entire USA isn't your "house", nor is it society's "house". Oddly enough, my house is an actual "house". So, I should be able to live in it under my own rules without statists like yourself kicking my door in, demanding I submit to their rules or empty my pockets. Update your drivers then try each card by itself in each slot. So, 2 cards and 2 slots means 4 different tests. If all 4 tests pass then put the cards in at the same time in CrossFireX mode and try playing a game with the load balancing meter on. If the game works then try a different miner. If none of that isolates the problem you might try another set of cards or a new motherboard. Good luck. It becomes a government, or more specifically, a state, when it becomes involuntary, for example, if I don't want to pay for welfare but have no choice in the matter because I'll be thrown in jail or killed if I resist arrest. The majority of northern soldiers fought to preserve the Union due to a sense of duty, honor and patriotism. Do you disagree? If so, why? That ignores the voluntary division of labor. I don't have to make my own shoes but I do have to provide something to someone that does so they will voluntarily make me a pair. If I want cable TV or food, I will pay for it. I don't need the government to provide me those things. If I want fire protection, security, roads or my kids taught, I will pay for it. Again, the government isn't required for any of that. That doesn't contradict anything I've said. However, if you think that the north was invading the south to free slaves rather than to keep the south in the Union, you're wrong.Welcome back to the discussion. Good riddance. Drop all regulations and let competition thrive. Then anyone that tries to charge outrages prices for delivering packets will be routed around. Do you not understand the difference between the abolition of slavery and the non-abolition of slavery?My thesis is that the war was not fought for the abolition of slavery. The fact that the south seceded and then fought to remain independent because they wanted to avoid the abolition of slavery doesn't account for the reason why the north provoked war. The north didn't enter into the war because they wanted to free slaves.Focus your attention on the sentence in bold. That's the only point of contention. If you can prove otherwise, do so. I acknowledged that in my essay.I'm not here to "win", whatever that means. I'm just here to put my beliefs to the test. If they can stand up to scrutiny, then good. If they can't, the sooner I find out the better.
I think we can establish a certain likelihood or probability though. I can't prove that had the south been given modern weapons, tanks, machine guns, grenades, etc, they would have won the war but that seems rather probable.Remember, my thesis is that the war wasn't fought for the abolition of slavery i.e. the north didn't invade the south because they wanted to free slaves. The fact that the south seceded in the first place because of perceived threats to the continuation and expansion of slavery doesn't take away from that fact. I think most people can't see beyond that though and tend to think that if they left the Union for a reason then they were forced back in for the opposite reason. That's common sense but also wrong.It's spelled "secession", by the way.Especially when the things that change weren't the main motivating factors. I'm not denying that it was a motivating factor for some minority of people. When I say it wasn't a reason, I mean that had all other reasons been taken off the table, the war wouldn't have happened because of abolition.In other words, if the south would have seceded and at the same time, freed all slaves, the war still would have happened because it wasn't about freeing slaves. The problem is, values are subjective. I am the only judge of those things as far as how they apply to me. By taking money from me involuntarily and giving it to, say, a hospital, I'm worse off because I would have rather spent the money elsewhere. If I wanted to give money to a hospital, I would have done it.So, the only way for me to agree with you would be to also stipulate that value is objective and then in those cases where I'm wrong about what I value, your correcting me would be a good thing. Since values are subjective, I have to disagree. If you don't like my analogy then all you need to do is explain why. There's no need to make this personal or get nasty. I'm just trying to understand your point.So, the Civil War is complicated, fine. That's not the end of the story, though. My point was that it's still possible to ascertain majority opinions through testimony and actions. Why should we ignore that?I think it's fairly clear that the north didn't invade the south because they thought southerners were possessed by devils, because they wanted to eat them for food, and a myriad of other non-reasons. I'm asserting that another one of those non-reasons was to free black slaves.Life is complicated. You can be confident in that. However, that doesn't mean we can't say anything at all about human motivations. So it's impossible to know that most people walking in a grocery store are there for food rather than lawnmower engines? Of course not. That would be absurd. However, before the war, it wasn't even on the table as to whether or not the current slave states would remain that way. You have to remember that the president doesn't have that kind of authority. It took a constitutional amendment to free the salves (the Emancipation Proclamation didn't free any slaves, even in the slave states that were occupied by federal troops) and before the war, there were an equal number of slave states and free states so something like that simply wouldn't happen. It's odd that you went through all that work but could only be bothered to read the first sentence of my essay. Here's the second sentence:Congratulations, you just proved that the south was fighting for what I said they were fighting for, the continuation of slavery and political independence. Now please provide similar quotes from the northern states that shows they entered into the war to abolish slavery. Otherwise, my point stands.You're agreeing with me. It was the cause for the secession of the southern states. That's what I claimed. However, it was not the cause for the war. The war was completely unnecessary had the north let the south leave peacefully. Before the war, it was extremely unlikely that slavery would have been abolished in the south by force or by constitutional amendment. However, slavery wasn't being allowed to expand. As I've shown, the north didn't want to use violence to end slavery, they wanted to "preserve the Union". You should actually take time to read my essay.If the southern states had abolished slavery while also seceding at the same time, there still would have been a war. Slavery was a political and military propaganda tool used by Lincoln to prevent foreign aide and to hopefully cause slave uprisings in the south. By making the war seemingly about slavery, it made European nations, which had already abolished slavery, unwilling to assist the south. You and many other people have also fallen for the same ploy. Yes but you clearly haven't. If you take the title literally like you are doing, as if it is a question followed by an answer, then you must really think the war was over soldiers, slavery and the civil war. That doesn't make any sense. Try reading the entire book instead of reading the title and trying to base an argument on it. Don't judge a book by its cover, or in this case, its title. The south was fighting to preserve and expand slavery. They felt threatened by Lincoln's rhetoric but the north was fighting to keep the south in the Union, not to end slavery. That would have been done with a constitutional amendment, not by war. You really need to provide some kind of evidence and do some actual research if you want to make an argument.What's your point? What do you think the additional text adds? All it does is strengthen my claim that Lincoln wanted to save the Union at all costs, whatever it meant, whether freeing some slaves, all slaves or none. You've just proven my point for me.If you were right then Lincoln would have said that the slaves will be freed, Union be damned. That's the opposite of what he said though.  $149.99 x 10 You haven't done that though.  How does that prove that the north was fighting for abolitionism rather than preserving the Union? The evidence available to me doesn't support your assertions.After the Emancipation Proclamation there were race riots in New York City in protest. They randomly assaulted and killed any and all black people. Lincoln had to send five regiments of troops to put an end to the riots, done so by shooting somewhere around 500 to 1,000 citizens. The desertion rates skyrocketed, around 200,000 northern troops deserted, 100,000 evaded the draft and another 100,000 fled north to Canada.Several northern officers wrote things like "if emancipation is to be the policy of this war I do not care how quickly the country goes to pot", "if anyone thinks that this army is fighting to free the Negro they are terribly mistaken" and "I don't want to fire another shot for the Negroes and I wish that all abolitionists were in hell".These things taken together makes it fairly clear that the majority opinion was against fighting the war for the abolition of slavery. The American Civil War was fought primarily for two reasons, neither of them being the abolishment of slavery. On the southern side, the war was fought for political independence in order to continue and expand slavery. On the northern side, the war was fought to preserve the union and its power, as well as to preserve the political career of Abraham Lincoln.The expansion of slavery was greatly contested during the Antebellum Era. The issue was hoped to be settled with the Missouri Compromise in 1820, which allowed slavery from the Atlantic Ocean to the Pacific Ocean, south of the 36°30' parallel and in Missouri. However, the compromise ultimately failed in 1857 when the Supreme Court ruled that it was unconstitutional. In the case of Dred Scott v. Sandford it was found that the federal government didnt have the power to abolish slavery in the new territories (Manning, 2007).Another major crisis occurred in 1832 due to South Carolinas Ordinance of Nullification. Prior to that, Congress had passed a protectionist tariff in 1828 which aimed to help the industries in the north. However, the effects of the tariff harmed the southern states by forcing them to pay higher prices for imports to the region, as well reducing the amount of British imports. The reduction in British imports also reduced the amount of southern goods, mainly cotton, that were able to be purchased in return. This combination of higher costs and reduced income prompted South Carolina to declare that the laws were null and void within the state (Henretta & Brody, 2010). This crisis highlighted the antagonism between the sovereignty of the states and the authority of the federal government, as well as the feeling of sectionalism that was starting to grow among the southern states.Eventually, sectional differences between the northern and southern states proved to be intractable. Each states motivation for secession was its own well-being. This well-being was, at the time, perceived to be inextricably tied to slavery. If slavery died, it was thought, so too would the economies of the southern states and, according to pamphlets published during 1860-1861, their very way of life. James De Bow wrote, Without the institution of slavery, the great staple products of the South would cease to be grown, and the immense annual results, which are distributed among every class of the community, and which give life to every branch of industry, would cease. (Wakelyn, 1996)The introduction of new states into the Union further complicated the issue. Since many new states were going to be slavery-free states, the southern states felt their political power would be continuously diminished. The election of Abraham Lincoln as president of the United States of America was the turning point for many states. They believed that Lincoln would follow through with the platform on which he was elected, which among other things, was to prevent the expansion of slavery into any new states as well as support new protectionist tariffs.However, even though slavery was a major issue, the American Civil War was not a war fought to abolish it. The Emancipation Proclamation did not take effect immediately since the president didnt have any such authority, and it only applied to the southern states that were "in rebellion". Lincoln used the Emancipation Proclamation as a military strategy, not for humanitarian purposes. Lincoln was not interested in ending slavery in the southern states and admitted as much when he wrote in a public letter to the editor of the New York Tribune, My paramount object in this struggle is to save the Union, and is not either to save or to destroy slavery. If I could save the Union without freeing any slave I would do it (DiLorenzo, 2002)Instead of the abolition of slavery, the American Civil War was a war for independence for the southern states due to feelings of sectionalism. The difference in political goals between the colonies and Great Britain was drawn as a direct parallel to the difference in political goals between the southern states and the rest of the country. Many southerners argued that just as independence was declared from Great Britain so too could and should independence be declared from the Union. The right of secession was argued to be a foundational right upon which the Union was originally built.According to editorials written in northern papers there was agreement that violent coercion was not a legitimate way in which to respond to the southern states. The editor of the New York Tribune, Horace Greeley, wrote, "If it [the Declaration of Independence] justified the secession from the British Empire of three millions of Colonists in 1776, we do not see why it would not justify the secession of five millions of Southrons [sic] from the Federal Union in 1861." Greeley also wrote, "If the Cotton States can do better out of the Union than in it, we insist on letting them go in peace. The right to secede may be revolutionary, but it exists, nevertheless; and we do not see how one party can have the right to do what another party has a right to prevent... We hope never to live in a Republic where one section is pinned to the residue by bayonets." (Greeley, 1860)Yet, rather than a peaceful secession, the Battle of Fort Sumter was used by Lincoln as an excuse to go to war. Knowing that James Buchanan had made an informal agreement with South Carolina under which Fort Sumter would not be attacked if no attempts were made to reinforce it or resupply it, Lincoln purposely violated that agreement in order to provoke an attack (McQueen, 1861). There could have been no reason for the federal government to maintain control of a fort used to collect taxes in an independent south other than provocation. After South Carolina fired upon the Star of the West for violating this agreement, the American Civil War had officially begun (Manning, 2007).In summary, the American Civil War wasnt fought over slavery. The southern states argued that they possessed the right of secession. The war itself could have been avoided had Lincoln not been determined to preserve the Union at all costs. Even considering the issue of slavery, the war was unnecessary since, in Europe, slavery had already been peacefully abolished. Its likely that the same trend would have eventually followed in the southern states as, more and more, slavery came to be seen as immoral and advances in technology made slavery less economically important. BibliographyDiLorenzo, T. J. (2002). The Real Lincoln: A New Look at Abraham Lincoln, His Agenda, and an Unnecessary War. Roseville: Prima Publishing.Greeley, H. (1860, 9 9). New York Tribune.Henretta, J. A., & Brody, D. (2010). America: A Concise History, Volume 1: To 1877. Boston: Bedford / St. Martin's.Manning, C. (2007). What This Cruel War Was Over: Soldiers, Slavery, and the Civil War. New York: Alfred A. Knopf.McQueen, J. (1861, 1 14). Richmond Daily Dispatch.Wakelyn, J. L. (1996). Southern Pamphlets on Secession, November 1860-April 1861. Chapel Hill: The University of North Carolina Press. You jelly? That's edgy but I was against ideology before it was cool.  I haven't used that word in this thread. It's not ironic. Bush isn't president anymore so he's no longer relevant. Would you like one with Hamilton on there too? How is theft ever fair? How is theft ever necessary unless you're starving? Some of it, perhaps, but all of it? I find that unlikely.
The current system isn't based on homesteading so it can hardly be used as an argument against it. However, assuming you have to go outside of a hundred-mile radius, so what? What's your point? That you shouldn't be inconvenienced?I just said that I could wait until you are asleep. Why are you ignoring that obvious example? Again, I'm certain you could come up with other solutions if you really wanted to. How about spraying some gas in your face that makes you unconscious temporarily or is that somehow causing you physical damage too? Also, I disagree that I can't cause you any pain, only that the pain I cause has to be proportional to the crime you've committed. If you steal my car rather than my coat, why shouldn't I be able to use a TASER on you or shoot you with a blow dart? I certainly shouldn't be able to kill you or break your legs but are you really arguing that I can't even touch you at all? How are you going to end up being killed by non-violently resisting? Going limp or rolling up into a ball? I can just have a few people restrain you. That's not going to kill you.Chopping someone's hand off for theft is never justified. It doesn't matter on whose property you stand. Your argument simply doesn't apply to the system I'm advocating. If you don't like the rules, you leave. You don't get physically harmed. So far you haven't made a cogent argument against Libertarianism, just a bunch of straw man arguments. Check out my website. It's in my signature. No, that's a straw man argument. If the only choice is to kill you or allow you to keep my coat then you will keep my coat. However, life is never black and white like that. There are many other ways that I can get my coat back. I could simply wait until you are asleep and take it then. There are many other ways that don't involve killing you or causing you physical pain. I'm sure you could think of some ideas on your own, if you were so inclined. I find that people usually can't see solutions to problems when their arguments depend on not seeing them.My point was that saying what you can and cannot do on my private property is not the same as saying you have to obey my laws, anywhere you go, even on unowned land. You must understand that, right?It's really absurd to worry about the entire planet being homesteaded and none of that space being up for sale. That's so far from being likely that it's at best a theoretical objection. Of course, by the time we are even close to running out of space, there will be people on their way to the moon or other planets or orbiting space stations. If that's really all you've got, I consider Libertarianism to be on extremely solid ground. That's not how it works.If I own property, I control how it is used. If I let you use my property under certain conditions, you have to adhere to those conditions or go somewhere else. That's got literally nothing to do with "society". If you don't like the rules that exist on my property. Go out and claim your own property. How is that totalitarian? It's not. Responses to crimes have to be proportional. The point of restitution is to make the victim as whole as possible. If you steal my coat, you owe me my coat, the cost of losing my coat for that amount of time, the cost of enforcing justice on you, plus any costs for emotional harm if you scared me or made me depressed because the coat had sentimental value, etc. The point is to make it as if you had never stolen my coat in the first place, insofar as that's possible. No, I can't kill you for a coat. I'm not assuming my conclusion. We are assuming that I own the house prior to renting out a room. Then the question becomes, can I rent out the room and still retain ownership? How is the conclusion of "yes I can" contained within the fact that I already owned the house in the first place. It would seem that the argument is only relevant if I do in fact own the house in the first place. Otherwise, what's the point of contention?Also, how can you know my views on property rights aren't principled when you haven't even investigated them? If you want the principles then just ask, don't assume.My view of property rights rests on the prior-later distinction. If you homestead some unowned property then everyone else that tries to make a claim on it is a latecomer. If that's allowed then there's nothing stopping still another latecomer from making the same argument. In which case, the entire system fails to specify any property rights at all. To claim that some other person has a better claim to some property but no one else afterward presupposes the prior-later distinction. I have provided evidence though. Women receiving government medical care smoke during pregnancy at higher rates. Claiming I'm biased is nothing more than an ad hominem. It doesn't matter why I believe what I believe if I'm right. If I believe that 2+2=4 because I'm biased does that suddenly mean that 2+2=5? No.There's nothing cruel about not wanting to encourage children to be deformed. I would say that's the opposite of cruelty.What else do you call someone that receives stolen money to live off of instead of obtaining money in a legitimate manner?I'm not looking for validation. I'm looking for accuracy. If you've got some rational argument to make then please do so and let's leave the emotionally charged language out of this. You're right that I don't understand what you're saying. It might be because your views are nonsensical. Then again it might not be. That's why I asked you several questions to help clarify your position. Instead, you are choosing to ignore them. Therefore I'm inclined to think your views are nonsensical. If you had some kind of point to make, you'd make it. Yes it does. (I can make baseless assertions too.)You are asserting that it's your coat. Like I said, what if you stole the coat from me? Wouldn't you be the initiator of force?Drag you out of there?You didn't initiate force against me but you did initiate force against my property. Do you really believe that the non-initiation of force only applies to your person? Do you think that I should be free to smash up your car that you left parked on the street or simply drive away in it? The non-initiation of force is inextricably tied to property rights because property rights tells us who owns what and therefore who is initiating force against another person or their property. What question am I dodging? By the way, are you going to answer my question? Can I rent a room in my house while retaining ownership of said room? Do I even own the room even though I never go in there?Adherence to the non-initiation of force requires a theory of property rights. If I take the coat you are wearing, am I initiating force? Well, it depends. Did you steal the coat from me yesterday? If so, then you initiated force and I am just reclaiming my property. You can't ignore property rights to focus purely on the non-initiation of force. So, if I own a house I can't rent a room to someone without that person thereby owning the room? Do you plan on telling me why? I'm not using that link as a source. I was accusing someone else of doing so. They denied it, however. I suggest that you read the thread again since you're taking comments out of context as well as attributing arguments to the wrong parties. So, if I go on vacation or go to work can you claim my house is unused? Do I have to be inside my house 24/7 to prevent you from claiming it's unused? Implicitly, yes. It's important to make it explicit though. I'm sorry to see all this hostility. If anyone is looking for polite and friendly cash-by-mail exchanges please check out my service. I don't know what definition you're using but as a Libertarian qua Libertarian, I have absolutely no opinion about "mobility". I'm just looking for a voluntary system free of coercion. Colors around the edges are a pain if you plan on printing these yourself. I meant the guy looking for an answer doesn't know the answer in advance, unlike you.I agree that people should use the search function but the simple fact that a question has already been answered once doesn't imply (a) it will be easy to find that answer or (b) they haven't already looked.Usually, in the time it takes you to tell people to use the search function you could have just answered their question. If I remember my calculations, they were something like 18 cents each to make, not counting the ink and my time. The backs are blank.
Here's how I did it. I hid random codes under a scratchoff and handed them out.It was for the event mentioned in this http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=6202.msg90943#msg90943 thread. Now consider that you actually knew what you were looking for and you still had to go through all that. #bitcoin-otc There are no chargebacks. Either insist that you receive the goods before sending BTC or use an escrow service if you don't want to expose yourself to that kind of risk.https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Trade I hate to sound like a broken record but again, adding one more method of payment expands your market. I'm not suggesting you forsake all other forms of currency for BTC or even prefer BTC over anything else. I am only suggesting that you should accept BTC as payment because you can stand to make extra revenue that you would not have made before, especially if you have something that appeals to the Bitcoin crowd or isn't currently being offered. Have you tried it?Challenge:Give me a search phrase that can answer this question without browsing beyond the 3rd page of results. That's long term uncertainty. Take payments in BTC, sell the BTC in the short term and make your prices reflect that uncertainty. Then, if/when BTC crashes, it won't matter. It's fairly straightforward. You expand your market by accepting more than one method of payment.Are you actually running a business that this would apply to or are you just looking for a debate? It's better to accept two payment methods rather than one. Some people have gold but no BTC. Some people have BTC but no gold. You expand your potential market by accepting either. My business is based on a niche. It's for people that want to buy/sell BTC with anonymity. Therefore, tracking a package defeats that purpose. If you want security, I would recommend that you use a wire transfer and buy/sell on Mt Gox. It sounds like she's pissing Kool-Aid i.e. she drinks the Kool-Aid so deeply and so frequently that her urine is mostly Kool-Aid. What's your point? That tells me little about how much mining capacity there will be in the future and therefore how much it will cost to disrupt the network. I assume that's right now. Is there any way to extrapolate to when we're at the point that he's talking about, when typical clients can't even be bothered to listen for all transactions or scan the entire block chain? It's decentralized in that there is no single authority determining which transactions are valid or not.In the British Peerage system, not just anyone can declare themselves a "lord". That's the exact opposite of Bitcoin where anyone can become a "lord" by simply downloading the entire block chain.That's not an argument against anonymity. That's an argument against usability which wasn't on his list of things he was going to argue against. I would say he's moving goalposts.Just to keep the system afloat? No, that's a side effect. The reason why honest nodes are consuming resources is so they can make money, either through finding blocks and gaining a bounty or eventually, transaction fees.What deeds? What do you think can be accomplished by controlling the network for a short amount of time? I admit that I don't know but do you? I'm not sure how fearful, uncertain or doubtful I should be without any specifics. Though, I admit "deeds" doesn't sound very pleasant.The key phrase is "sufficiently CPU-rich attacker" which eventually would be infeasible for just a DDoS by a single attacker. Any attack has to include some kind of discussion about incentives. If I can make 2 billion by spending 1 billion then it makes sense. If I can piss the world off by spending 1 billion, there might be better ways to spend that money from the perspective of an attacker. Otherwise, if no profit is being made, we can just wait for the attacker to run out of money and resume business as usual.That's a fairly huge claim with nothing to back it up. Is he saying that the same attacker able to bring down a decentralized system somehow can't bring down a centralized one? That seems implausible especially considering that he can't even audit the code he's depending on for his alleged security. He just has to take someones word for it! Either way, a data center full of GPU miners costs orders of magnitudes higher than a few exploding yellow vans. Also, if he's not paying any fees, who is paying for the infrastructure? Most likely, he is, with his tax money or if the fees are charged to the merchants then he's paying for it through higher prices for goods and services. Few things in this world are free. Of course, "privacy-preserving" has to be false or at least qualified. Privacy from whom? If it's just from the other end of the transaction, I can do that too. I'd like privacy from everyone, including the government and all their contracting middlemen. Is there a specific reason why you want examples? I'm not really interested in calling people out. I don't see how that could be productive. This is just a general plea so people that feel they identify with my description can at least evaluate their behavior and decide how they want to proceed. You are technically right that you are only obligated to buy what you said you would buy but that's not really keeping with the spirit of the wager. This doesn't seem to be a standard situation where exercising an option in the main concern.If the price was $0.93 and you said you would buy 25 BTC at $1.15 then that would be a profit of $5.50 for him. This can still be settled by doing some other trade where you buy BTC at a loss so that he makes $5.50. There's no promise that BTC would have went up so offering to buy 25 BTC at $1.15 right now is a non sequitur, as well as the mention of the time that has elapsed. If anything, that's to your benefit since you had more time to come up with the money. It seems odd to complain about having to pay your debt later rather than sooner. I wish my creditors would treat me like that. The GPL is just another form of intellectual property which is incompatible with Libertarianism. So you're saying that you're an atheist because you've never considered it, just like babies, plants and rocks have never considered it? I don't understand what you're asking. How do I collect data to prove hostility exists? It's subjective. I didn't say there is more hostility than not if that's what you think. Please try to be more detailed with your objections. Then babies, plants and rocks are atheists too. That's not a very informative definition. I think to be an atheist you have to at least believe, either probably or certainly, that there isn't a God.
As I read through the forums, I am dismayed at all of the hostility that exists between members. Why do so many people feel the need to speculate about the mental states of others? Does it really add anything to say "No serious X would do Y." or "That is just silly." or "Your argument is idiotic."? I don't think it does. As a typically impartial reader, I am forced to skim over these kinds of comments because I'm looking only for the meat of the issue, to see who puts forth the best argument based on logic and evidence. I really don't care if X thinks Y is a moron. Also, the fact that X is insulting Y doesn't change the truth of X's position, assuming X is right, or vice versa. However, it does make the entire experience less enjoyable for me.Many people avoid ad hominems but have no problems with outright insults. I think we should avoid both. One is a logical fallacy and the other is just noise. If you need to vent, punch a pillow, scream at a wall, go play a first-person shooter or find some other outlet where hostility is welcomed. If you care about this community then please do us all a favor by sticking to the issues and leaving the other person out of it. Even if someone is making an obvious mistake or is clearly wrong, there's no reason to be nasty about it. Their being wrong isn't a personal attack on you so don't return the favor.*title shamelessly stolen from Norman Swartz This is why I prefer exchanges. There's no temptation on either side to cancel a trade before settlement or take their time with sending to see how the market moves. The trades are only executed when both the BTC and USD are ready to change hands. Otherwise, since either side has such a huge motive to lie, even if you are telling the truth, many people will still have doubts. If there is a God, it will forgive me for not believing in it. You're quite right and in fact, that's one of the most powerful tools consumers have at their disposal. If we all refused to buy from domain squatters then they wouldn't have a market. That's just your opinion. Obviously, there are other people that are willing to pay those higher prices, otherwise squatters wouldn't do what they do. However, it would be interesting to see what the situation would be if TLD's weren't controlled by governments. In the short term, perhaps, but a free money system can affect everyone, sick or healthy. We'll each also be in a better position to help other people when we are all economically free. That's the two biggest selling points for me. I have no problem supporting credit cards, SMS, wire, check, etc. Those are all well provided for by many companies. I've dealt with most of the big names though they all seem to get gobbled up by Digital River at some point (which is why I bought stock in them). There are higher fees with those services than with Bitcoins but I pass that cost on to the customers anyways. I get what I want more or less at the end of the day. My issue is that the money I've earned is stolen from me directly, through taxes, and indirectly, through inflation. I look forward to a system that doesn't have these weaknesses. Bitcoin seems to be it. Which leaves the system open to tyranny of the majority, such as when the majority voted to allow ownership of black people.According to me, you can't. According to you, you can. What are you looking for, some sort of infallible source of laws?I'm not encouraging the commitment of a crime.I think my life is my property. I can give it away, sell it or be forced to forfeit it by taking another person's life.No.No, voluntary manslaughter is not the same as murder.No, it's not a good thing.It was inspired by the "It's because of crazy people like this..." thread. It's only meant to explain that justice could exist under anarchy. It seems you can't make up your mind whether it's just you that gets to make the rules or you and a bunch of people that agree with you.That wouldn't be legitimate in my view.It's not inciting crime to make sure everyone knows that you aren't being provided services by my company.It's not murder if you take a life you own or kill someone in self-defense. Just like it's not destruction of property to smash up my own stereo. Under my previous example, if you kill someone and hand them back the check that means it still wasn't right, otherwise you wouldn't have had to pay back the money. You could murder and not have to pay restitution. In that sense, no, murder is still wrong.That wouldn't be responding in a proportional manner. You don't kill a 5 year old for trespassing because she steps on your lawn to get her ball back.I held that valid contracts should be upheld. Picking up the hand of a comatose person, putting a pen in it and waving it around on a piece of paper to spell out their name isn't a valid contract. The same goes for all other non-fully rational people. I haven't changed my position at all. You're simply misrepresenting it.I'm not interested in converting you or anyone else. I'm simply defending anarchism against straw men. Why is murder wrong other than the fact I said so?That's a form of aggression against my property.Unless, of course, the people running the private security firms are going to want to discourage that by working together to compile lists of unprotected properties. When your name/address doesn't show up on the list, you'll be on the criminals' lists instead.If you take my stereo, you ideally owe me my stereo plus restitution. If you can't give me my stereo back, you owe me a stereo of equal value. If you take my life, you ideally owe me my life plus restitution. Since you can't give me my life back, you owe me a life of equal value. Since all human lives are of equal value and since you can only give me your life, you owe me your life. Since I'm dead, you owe my family your life. How can someone that commits murder protest any of this? If you don't like it, don't murder people. I don't have much sympathy for murderers.Yes, people are allowed to be wrong. That's not enough information. Are they doing it because they are mean bastards or because they are crazy?That depends on how much under the influence. Did they smoke a joint or did they smoke an ounce of PCP?Obviously not, until the temporary mental illness passes.Is this all you've got, a shotgun blast full of questions in the hopes that I can't answer them? If I can't answer every question to the smallest detail then "Aha! Anarchism can't work!"? That would be an argument from ignorance. You can't just ask questions and hope to stump someone. You have to make an actual argument for why it can't work. Following the rules or leaving applies only to homesteaded property.You agree to the rules beyond anything that isn't entailed by non-aggression. If you don't agree, you don't have to follow them. Rape and murder would be prevented under self-defense.It's not a matter of who benefits. It's a matter of who is protected. You can refuse to hire any private police protection and run the risk associated with it.Do you have something against paying restitution to victim's families?If you aren't fully rational, you can't consent therefore you can't enter into any contract. That's completely irrelevant to the point I was making. It's the initiation of violence. Are you now going to ask me who gets to define violence?A few can, most cannot.The only people that can consent on your behalf are people that you have given that authority to, a lawyer or financial adviser for example. However, we can and should treat people how they would want to be treated if they were fully rational. Upon reaching full rationality would she be upset that she hadn't been allowed to get married to that person? If so, she should be allowed to do so. If not, then not. There's nothing special in the case of a child. They are just another person with diminished rationality. It would be no different from stumbling upon a person that's lost a lot of blood lying unconscious in the street. Do they want you to give them a blood transfusion? Probably, unless they are a Jehovah's Witness. In which case, you should stop the bleeding but otherwise let them die if only a blood transfusion can save them. In the former case it would be immoral not to give them blood transfusion. In the latter case it would be immoral to give them one. You treat nonrational people how they would want to be treated if they were rational. Is it a custom for women to get married at the age of 8 and the ones that aren't allowed to, live a life of misery and regret? In that case, let her marry. We need to focus less on forcing our personal opinions on others and more on trying to help them achieve what they would want to achieve.There's no fixed age. Different people mature at different rates. All age based limits are going to be arbitrary.Upon reaching full rationality would the child be thankful for being caged in a crib for months at a time? Probably not. Even if so, that would be the rare case and it's better to err on the side of caution and assume that she won't grow up to and realize she's been a masochist since birth.Without consent and having to assume that she's not a masochist, torturing a child is aggression, just as if you were torturing an adult.They would be forced to pay restitution out of whatever they earned in the future and they would be kept track of until they paid it off. Anyways, this is getting more into implementation which is really an entrepreneurial decision. Imagine if shoes had always been made by the government and I suggested we privatize it. You could fire off a bunch of questions such as:Would everyone make their own shoes?If not who would make the shoes?How many would be made?What colors would they be?What would they be made out of?How much would they cost?......The answers that I could give wouldn't be exact. I could just tell you that like most things, such as computers, tennis rackets and pizza, they could be made better by people that were motivated by profit and loss rather than motivated by special interests and swaying votes. If I were forced to answer all your questions down to every last detail, nothing could be done privately and everything would be the domain of government. Rightly so. That 150 BTC was a small price to pay compared to the goodwill he gained for his enterprise. That's true but also irrelevant. Nobody needs to be responsible, inspired by some moral obligation or even charitable. They just have to be interested in making a profit for themselves. If there are people like that, and I think there are, then those people would be lining up to collect restitution on behalf of the victims of abuse. It's similar to how lawyers take cases on contingency. That's your definition of anarchy. My definition differs from yours. I'd prefer to avoid debates over which definitions are "right" and instead focus on the meaning behind the words. I consider anarchy perfectly capable of having all sorts of elaborate rules and structures, as long as they are all voluntary with violence only ever being used in self-defense.Well, there's your problem! The parents owe restitution to the child for the abuse. Anyone that wants to take part of that restitution for assisting the child would be able to do so.Children aren't the property of their parents. If you live on someone's property, you either follow their rules or you are free to leave. If you have diminished rational capacities, either from age, disease or defect then others can intervene on your behalf. If you are unable to consent then you should be treated the way you would like to be treated, if you were able to consent. Obviously, we can't perfectly predict what people would want if we were them but we can assume they don't want to be tortured or starved, which more than adequately covers your examples. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Non-aggression_principle I wrote an experimental one for college but I could never get anyone to comment on it. If anyone is interested in it, let me know. It's written in Java. Does anarchy mean that you can rape or kill whoever you like and get away with it? No, there will still be justice under anarchy. However, since it will not be supported by tax dollars, it will need to be paid for somehow. Who picks up the bill for justice? That's simple. It will be paid for by those receiving protection and also those that necessitate spending money in the first place i.e. the criminals. If you steal something, you will have to pay restitution, returning or replacing the item you stole, paying the costs of enforcing justice on you and also paying a fine to make it so that the incentive for stealing and risk of not getting caught vs. the risk of cost plus the fine, make it unprofitable, on average, to steal.That's fine so far but it sounds like the rich will get more justice than the poor under such a system. It's a good thing nothing like that happens under our current system! (sarcasm) However, let's say that Bill Gates kills you and then writes a check to your family. Murder is just something else that rich people can buy now, right? Not quite. There's nothing stopping your family from killing Bill Gates and then handing the check back to his family. By killing people and paying for it, you are giving others the financial means to do the same to you!Alright, what about the homeless? Many of them don't have families to pay so it seems like murder is free in that case. If you kill someone, there's still a claim against you and it becomes a sort of abandoned property. Anyone willing to enforce justice on you will be able to receive the payment that the family of the homeless person would have received. Also, if it's clear that you do this kind of thing for fun, there's a case to be made for locking you up so that you won't do it again. Self-defense is justified and imprisoning you would be a form of ongoing self-defense. You don't let up an attacker while he's still armed. The same goes for rich psychopaths.Some might say "But, but, how can we put a price on human life?! I would never do that." Well, it would seem that millions of dollars is better than nothing. Anyways, there are already wrongful death suits. This would just be an extension of that. For the very dangerous, there will be prisons and many people would pay to keep them off the streets.Is it perfect? No. No system is perfect. It's better than the current system, where we inflict evil on each other in the hopes of stopping other evil. Even though there will be problems, we can take comfort in knowing that we are living in a more just society.
There's no difference. The only difference is in the cost between the dummy plugs and the crossfire bridge. We don't need a government for that. There will still be collective self-defense under anarchism. The only difference is that it will be paid for voluntarily and there will be competition among services.Of course, in other cases there will be firms that take cases like this on contingency. They will rescue the child and then demand restitution from the parents for their services. You really need to delve into the literature and start looking for solutions to problems instead of just settling on whatever objections you can come up with. That's exactly why speculators provide a valuable service. They smooth out the market and don't let it drop as low as it would have otherwise. Yes, definitely. The best way is to bookmark your URL so you won't forget it easily. Here's the receipt for the donations.https://i.imgur.com/4uIn0.jpg This is why I redesigned my website as a market. Instead of trying to match buyers and sellers using my own money and running all these extra risks, I just hold on to the money and let the buyers and sellers sort things out. It's much more transparent and leaves everyone more satisfied in the long run. I hope you'll consider using my service if/when you get your issues resolved. He just got done saying that you don't have to send the BTC until after you receive the iPad. Why are you still arguing with him? It doesn't work with or without crossfire. The settings only affect the first GPU. I've submitted a support ticket. You should do the same thing. You're obviously in the minority otherwise women wouldn't keep doing it. Is that a rocket in your pants or are you just happy to see me? Maybe it is. Maybe it isn't.  I should have also specified that I don't want to use a CD-ROM either. For installation, that's fine but I'd like to boot Windows 7 over the network, without needing a CD-ROM or hard disk, at most a USB flash drive. You can already do that: https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Running_Bitcoin Bitcoin is anarchistic. In before kiba moves this thread! That's all I need to read to realize that any further dialog with you would be a waste of my time. Good luck in life. I wish the best for you. They demonstrate that we can have patterns without necessary causation. Do you disagree? If so, why?Exactly right. We both have beliefs about the universe that can't be falsified. I believe it's random and you apparently believe that it's not. Either of our beliefs are completely consistent with every possible observation. Since we can't falsify each others claims, we have to appeal to something else since it's possible that either of us could be right. I appeal to Occam's Razor. We already know that the universe behaves a certain way and I claim that it "just does" without any hidden, unprovable necessary connections. If you think otherwise, you have the burden of believing in something akin to religious faith. Just like I can't prove God doesn't exist but still think there probably isn't a God. I also can't prove necessary connections don't exist but I still think they probably don't. My position is more empirical than yours, if you choose to deny the regularist position.You clearly don't understand my beliefs. Under my view, economic laws are real and every bit as law-like as the laws of nature. I'm downgrading the laws of nature, not economic laws. I posted this link earlier. Please read it before you presume to tell me what my beliefs entail.Here's what I believe:I couldn't ask for a more direct refutation of your argument. No, I'm not! You're the one that's talking about a 300W power supply. I'm talking about 1000W power supply. I have no idea what he's actually using. It was just an example. Calm down. Since power supplies aren't 100% efficient, it actually means more than that if it's maxed out 24/7 which is what I was assuming. That's also irrelevant to my point.Whether it's $500 a year or $250 a year, if you aren't paying for it, someone else is.
So, are you saying that if you don't have white skin you aren't a human? If a job is worth $3 an hour then it's worth $3 an hour. That's a tautology. You'd rather them get nothing? Nevertheless, the question remains, are these women on Medicaid smoking during pregnancy because they are on Medicaid, because they are poor or a mixture of both? If it's a mixture, what's the proportions? You can say what you want about what "everybody knows" but unless you can back it up, it's just idle speculation. Randomness doesn't equate to disorder. Read the rest of my comments for examples.Do you have a point to make? How is some discredited economist relevant to what I said? Please be constructive. That's a red herring. The fact that they don't stop smoking while pregnant can be considered starting smoking or smoking more compared to what the average woman would be doing without Medicaid.If you want to claim that they are smoking more because they are poor rather than because they are on Medicaid. You need to back that up. There's clearly a correlation between Medicaid and smoking during pregnancy. Can you show the same correlation with poverty, with and without Medicaid? That's a relief. Did you want to respond to the rest of my post? If you are skilled laborer then you are an investor. You are investing in yourself. Like all investments, there's a chance it doesn't pay off. If you fix horse carriages for a living but the automobile comes along and you no longer have a job then you need to move to a new career. If you can't find a job with your current skills, get some new skills. It's not my job to subsidize your investment loss. Running a 1000 watt power supply 24/7 will cost $50 a month or more depending on where you live. Most people are going to notice an extra $600 a year but maybe the guy isn't too bright. Let's say that you hire a guy worth $10 an hour at $6 an hour thereby making a profit of $4 an hour. As soon as you do that, someone else is going to offer him $6.50 an hour because they would still be making $3.50 an hour profit. Then yet another person offers him $7 an hour because they can make $3 an hour. Do you see where this is going? The guy's wages will approach what they are worth because competition encourages employers to offer more money because $3 an hour profit is better than nothing, which is what they would get if someone else hired the guy. That's only the partial definition. Here's the complete definition.So, children can also qualify if they are up to 4 pounds 6.5 ounces.The average person also has one testicle and one ovary. While true, it's misleading.I had no problem finding the source with Google. I don't see what the big problem is. Of course, it's still your job to back up your claim with evidence but it's not that hard to find public information. Anyways, here's the only website Google could find that mentions a "4 ounces on average" statistic: http://thefunkymonk.wordpress.com/2009/02/02/the-effect-of-smoking-and-the-birth-weight-of-newborns/Your source is some guy's blog. I don't think that's very credible. So, you'll be paying for it with higher rent when your lease is up or by having to move? It seems that the first page returned by Google is a different one now. Here's what I was trying to point you to: https://www.cms.gov/HealthCareFinancingReview/downloads/04-05winterpg105.pdf"Findings indicate that pregnant women with deliveries paid by Medicaid are more than twice as likely to smoke as privately insured women..."Satisfied? Which I'm more than willing to do. I was just pointing out that it might be quicker for you to use Google yourself instead of waiting for me to do it for you. I don't have some magical access to data that you don't. The burden of proof is on me and I never claimed otherwise.Did you have some objection to the link I provided? Let's try to keep this conversation constructive. Buy new underwear. PLATO bought a tank of gas from my grandmother for 16 BTC. She's like "what the heck do I do with these things?" and I told her to give them to me for my birthday so she is.CHA-CHING!  I'm willing my BTC to my children. What exactly are you questioning? Their intentions? Only those women know their true intentions but it's more likely than not that they are gaming the system. Are you questioning that you get more money for low birth weight babies?http://www.ssa.gov/pubs/10026.htmlPlease be more specific about what you want to know. Also, try looking around the web first since it's probably faster than waiting for me to do it for you. If your labor is worth $3 an hour but the minimum wage is $6 an hour, you don't get the $6 an hour at a $3 an hour loss to the employer. You get nothing because you won't be hired. You're presenting a false dilemma. The choice isn't between $3 an hour and $6 an hour. The choice is between $3 an hour and nothing. Whatever can be said about getting $3 an hour, a lot more can be said about getting nothing. ZOMG PIRACY! https://www.cms.gov/HealthCareFinancingReview/downloads/04-05winterpg105.pdf
How is electricity free? I was recently talking to someone that works for a state Medicaid office and this is what I learned:The way Medicaid works is that you get more money for having low birth weight children and because of that, a lot of women are intentionally smoking during pregnancy to cash in on the system even more so. Also, if you have a special needs child, the government gives you lifetime assistance, not just until the child grows up. So, instead of aborting children that would lead a life of suffering or place too large of a burden on the parents, these people are thinking "cha-ching!" whenever they find out their children could be at risk. We are encouraging deformities.If these parents on welfare were forced to be responsible for their choices, they would think twice about giving birth to a child that's going to be codependent for the rest of his or her life. Instead, they are intentionally putting themselves at risk because not only is it not their burden, they actually benefit from it. There are other scams as well. Instead of getting married, these parasites just cohabitate so the money they receive isn't diminished by income from the spouse.Also, instead of giving parents of special needs children 24/7 assistance, if you don't work and don't go to school, you only get 8 hours a day of assistance, enough to sleep and that's it. So time and time again these parents are complaining that "I got other kids to take care of too" and in most cases these children were born after the special needs child. That means that these people are counting on the government to take care of their children instead of thinking "Hey, this special needs child is going to take a lot of work, we better not have anymore". When the parasites realize that they can actually get more from working or going to school it's like an alien concept to them and they get what one observer calls a "deer in the headlights" look. That's one way of looking at it. Another way would be to think "Wow if people are willing to give away hundreds of BTC then imagine how much they would be willing to spend!" Freedom of speech only applies on your own property. If these forums get too oppressive, we'll just make our own.That being said, I don't really see the point in organizing things too strictly. If I click on a thread entitled "the economics of Bitcoin" then I expect to see some economic discussion. I don't really care if it's in the "Bitcoin Discussion" or the "Economics" section. I doubt anyone is going to feel slighted. Then again, I don't really care about the moves either. I just like arguing.  I think I may have a problem too. My house is full of computers to the point where there is no room for me anymore. I'm living under a stack of empty video card boxes in my backyard. I've tapped into the high voltage lines above my house since I'm only wired for 200 amps but it's only a matter of time before the power company notices my partially melted/exposed wiring. When it rains my fillings tingle. I got rid of my stove and refrigerator to make room for more computers. I eat the animals that die after touching my makeshift power lines but birds and squirrels have become scarce in my area. The ones that still die are usually only partially cooked so I do the rest of my cooking over a set of quad 6990's. I think that the only thing that keeps me going these days is the sight of my BTC balance slowly rising but I only spend money on more computers, video cards and my 4 digit power bill. It's gotten so bad that I recently beat a kid to death for his gaming rig only to discover that it was "Powered by NVIDIA". I cried once I realized the ATI sticker on his case was there since his last upgrade. Now I can't look at an ATI sticker without seeing his cold, lifeless face staring back at me. My soul died that day.just kidding The results of induction are problematic regardless of whether the universe is random or not. As I just explained, even if the universe isn't random, we don't know that the future will resemble the past. Induction never tells us what is certainly true, only what is probably true in relation to our prior knowledge.Let's narrow our focus from all the finite length permutations of T's and H's to just two, both possible with randomness. Instead of writing the strings down on a piece of paper, let's imagine that we are watching the flips occur in real time.1. THTHTHTHTHTHTHTHTHTHTHTHTHTH ... and so on for a really long time2. THTHTHTHTHTHTHTHTHTHTHTHTHTH ... and so on for a really long time and then TTTHTHHTTTTTHTHHHTWe stipulate that the series we are watching is one of these two. In both cases, we will notice a pattern of T's and H's. In both cases, after seeing a T we will predict the next flip will be an H, even though it's random. In the case of (2) our predictions will eventually fail as the alternating T-then-H pattern breaks down. However, in the case of (1) our predictions will never fail. We can't be certain that we are observing (1) rather than (2) beforehand but we can get lucky. Perhaps you don't understand randomness? Most people don't. You probably think that randomness equals uniform distribution but that's wrong. Here's an example. Guess which of these is a series of coin flips and which is me picking the T's and H's.1. TTTTTHTHHHTTTHHT2. THHTHTTHTHHTTHTHMost people would guess that (2) is random but that's the one I made up just to "look" random. It's actually (1) that was taken from a series of coin flips. Most people don't expect to see long runs of T's or H's because they equate randomness with a uniform distribution. However, if I write down all finite length permutations of T's and H's, toss them into a gigantic hat and pull one out, there's a chance that I could pick out the one that spells out, in binary, the King James version of the Bible, "War and Peace" or even the collected works of Douglas Adams. Though unlikely, it's not impossible. All patterns, be they complex or simple, are possible with randomness. Just like it's possible that all the patterns we see in the universe are the products of randomness. Combine that with the fact that our very existence depends on patterns and we wouldn't be around to marvel at the more uniform distribution that could be possible. That's the anthropic principle at work.As for induction, that's a classic problem in philosophy. Induction is based on the belief that the future will resemble the past but there's no guarantee of that. You can say "induction has always worked". Of course it has but that doesn't mean that it will continue to work, unless you assume induction is true thereby begging the question. No, the reason why induction isn't thrown out the window is because, if the future resembles the past, induction is the best method of predicting it. If it doesn't, then induction is no better and no worse than guessing. At least with induction we have a chance of getting things right. Induction is therefore pragmatically vindicated, though not proven. Take it as a "the latter proves nothing about the former". The answer is irrelevant. Your question is a non sequitur. True but I meant that relatively speaking. There's a difference between wandering around Sam's Club trying to find the bottled water section vs. the scenario I've described in my last post. I think that you're on to something. Instead of showing + and - it should just show the net rating which is really what matters*. *not that it actually matters I can make your example workable if you'll allow for a little fanciful imagination. Imagine the world as it is, nothing changed except, let's say that I own a fresh water lake on my fenced in property. There's no question that I own the lake. I fish in it everyday. I've also built a plastic dome over it to make sure that none of it evaporates. Everything is fine so far.Now, let's say that aliens show up, beam away all the water in the world, clouds and all, except for my lake. I now control the world's water supply. Has the legal status changed with regards to my lake? Obviously not. The lake is still legally mine. How about the moral status? That, I'm not sure of because we've created a crisis situation and those should never be used to make general laws from because "hard cases make for hard laws." I don't believe that "excess" has any objective basis. It's an opinion, nothing more. I think people should be able to keep 100% of what they earn but maybe you're speaking from a legal standpoint rather than a moral standpoint. The major roads in England and the early American colonies were privately owned and operated. There are still private roads that exist. You simply have to pay a toll. Many fire departments in rural areas are voluntary. Meaning, if you don't pay, they watch your house burn down. Many private justice systems, aka "arbitration tribunals", exist. The police aka "security guards" in private parks are vastly superior. Don't believe me? Go wave money around Central Park at night and I'll do the same thing at the same time in Disney World and we'll see who ends up on the 11 O'Clock news first.Most people think these things can only be done by the government under threat of violence because that's all they've ever known. The fact that things have been historically done a certain way is never an argument for continuing to do it that way. We used to burn witches for causing disease but we know better now. No but you should start one. It would be an interesting experiment. Even under ideal circumstances, where there is only one account per person, I'm willing to bet that it would be the slowest pool relative to the number of participants, thereby demonstrating yet again how communism disincentivizes productivity. It seems they are non-responsive as of late. Those fields are optional. You can leave them blank. That proposition is self-refuting. You can't steal something unless it's the property of someone else. If you reject the notion of property, the notion of theft goes too. Many people. Besides, getting tested regularly only reduces the risk. There's still a risk.Your claim was that the effects of sexual activities between two consenting adults begin and end in the bedroom but that's false. To be consistent, if you're going to interfere based on the negative consequences that spillover into the rest of society, you'd have to regulate what happens in bedrooms as well as workplaces. Well, you might have trouble walking/working the next day? Also, having unprotected promiscuous sex increases the risk of spreading disease. I'm willing to be there are plenty of other negative externalities too.
In this context, moral rules based on human nature.In the sense that there are laws controlling the universe, many people do but I don't. I think that the universe is completely random. Though, randomness can also allow for patterns, which we observe in hindsight and induce from them universal truths.See: http://www.iep.utm.edu/lawofnat/I'm a regularist.It's not wrong, strictly speaking. It's just not appreciated. Many people, myself included, are of the opinion that the non-aggression principle is preferable in order to avoid violence in our daily lives. In common speech though, I do say things are wrong but I'm not ascribing some objective property to them. I'm just stating a preference. If companies were to take into account the fact that many people are mugged each year and adjusted the average wage accordingly, by his reasoning, mugging people wouldn't theft. There are no natural laws. The is-ought gap in unbridgeable. The are no moral facts, only moral opinions. I apologize if I sounded presumptuous. I was just pointing out that very few things in this world are free. Awesome. I'm glad to have a fellow student on the forums. Welcome aboard! If you would, send me your contact information to sales@bitcoin2cash.com and I'll be in touch as soon as I have more information for you. A couple of days, a week at the most. I'll model the payment system based on PayPal to make it easier for new merchants that already have experience with PayPal's system. I'd love for support as far as writing documentation goes or designing graphics if you have any experience with that. Thanks for that, maybe some other people will find it useful but I've given up trying to get it to work. Even if I could get it to work, I'm not confident enough with the service to use it with my customers. I'm worried that it will only create more trouble than it's worth. Is anyone using this on a daily basis? Can you show me your e-store? I'm just curious as to how many people are actually using it. I feel your pain. I'm a Zend PHP 5 Certified Engineer and if I'm having these kinds of difficulties, I can only imagine what the typical shop owner is going through. Even if I get their system to work, I'm worried about how reliable it will be when I start trying to turn my customers loose on it.If the owners read this, it's cool if you are busy and don't have time for this anymore but please pass the torch on to someone else that does and make a buck or two while you're at it! That's what prompted this thread. There's no email address listed on their website and I'm still waiting for a response for a support question. Yes I did see that, downloaded it and read the README but there's little explanation given so I just thought that was for using a shopping cart, which I don't need. I'll check it out again. Thanks.By the way, do you know if the interface will pass the payment note, etc to the URL? The lack of documentation really makes this a guessing game. I most likely will if my deal isn't accepted and no response is made about plans for improvements. It'd be awesome to start with an established name while improving everyone's current service though. I really like the idea behind the service, enabling merchants to accept Bitcoin payments easily. However, it turns out that it's not all that easy. The documentation is nonexistent and support responses are slow. I understand why. It's free and you usually get what you pay for. With that in mind, I'd like to buy the website and code from the owner. My intention is to keep all the features as they are and also improve upon them, hire a dedicated support team, etc. To pay for this I would eventually start charging a tiny transaction fee for merchants while keeping the rest of the ewallet stuff free. I'd love to negotiate a deal. Please get in touch with me at sales@bitcoin2cash.com if you're interested. Thanks! Alright, after some testing, it turns out that the "Payment Success URL" is really just a URL that the user is redirected to after payment. I thought it was a URL that would be called by the mybitcoin.com server to inform my system of a successful payment. This doesn't work for me since I need a URL to be called that informs me of a successful payment by the mybitcoin.com server so that I can add my customer to the database.Is there any other service that does this? What's to investigate?  I think that Bitcoin is closer related to World of Warcraft gold or Linden Dollars. What are the laws like for people doing business in those digital goods? I disagree. Converting BTC to fiat currency is a crutch, just to get things started. Once you can buy anything in BTC it will be inefficient to convert to other currencies and most of the exchanges will die off. I say this as the owner and operator of an exchange. I look forward to the day when my service is obsolete.  The more dealers there are, the more competition there will be, the lower prices will be. If you want addicts to stop stabbing little old ladies to death for their social security checks then make it as cheap as beer. You don't see alcoholics stabbing people to get their "fix". The dealers that do exist are heroes. We need more of them, not less. You can also tell them that I'll be placing an order with them soon only because they are accepting BTC. Otherwise, I probably would go with Half.com, Amazon or some other megacorp. I guess that's it. I just got the first transaction that was sent like four hours ago. I've got the auto-forwarding feature setup and it shows my two incoming test payments and then two outgoing payments but nothing shows up in blockexplorer or my client. Is there some kind of built-in delay?
I have adopted using Bitcoin to refer to the project itself and BTC to refer to the currency. As soon as someone did that, it would be sued out of existence. Yet another example of intellectual property laws stifling innovation. Third place!  Oh dear. This is going to start yet another "ZOMG PRICE GOUGING!" debate. This guy obviously wanted these domains sooner and more than anyone else, otherwise someone else would be the owner instead of him. He's taking a risk that nobody will want them at any price. It's a voluntary transaction. If you don't want to pay for these domains, don't.Personally, I find these kinds of activities useful, such as ticket scalpers. Recently, I was able to get into a "sold out" concert at the last minute. That wouldn't have been possible otherwise since the demand at the price printed on the tickets was far greater than the supply. The only way I could have gotten into the concert that late is if scalpers were at work. They wait in line so the rest of us with better things to do, don't have to. So, sincerely, thanks a lot!  Even assuming that he's not like every other politician that gets elected on undelivered promises, I wonder what he could actually achieve. He wouldn't be a dictator. He would still have to deal with the other branches of government.Instead of perpetuating an immoral and corrupt system, I think we should just force the government to file for bankruptcy, dismantle it, sell off the pieces to the highest bidders, use the proceeds to pay off its creditors and use the rest as restitution for the victims of eminent domain, drug prisoners, etc. That's a good suggestion but I'd have to put it in an overlay or popup to avoid cluttering up the interface. Some people have been having issues using Google for OpenID. The issue stems from the fact that there are several different OpenID URL's that they provide.https://www.google.com/accounts/o8/idhttps://profiles.google.com/yourgoogleidhere/abouthttps://profiles.google.com/u/0/yourgoogleidhere/about?tab=mhIf you use these different URL's you will end up creating three different accounts. To avoid that, use only one. It doesn't matter which one you use, just make sure that it's the same each time you login.I'm sorry for this but I don't have any way to fix it. I've contacted Google to let them know this is unacceptable. It would help if everyone else did the same thing as well. The problem with that is that now anyone can see the successful payment URL. I know I can block access based on IP but I'm not too crazy about exposing my backend to my customers (that sounded dirty).Thanks for your help though. I'll see if I can make this work. I'm not having much luck using their service. I'm not getting a response to my questions and there's no documentation on using the payment links. I need to have the customer's email address passed along to me with the call to the successful payment URL but I don't see how that can be done. It matters to certain economists and their followers. If you don't care, that's fine. Don't worry about it. I'm trying to remove doubts from other people that do care and do worry about it. They aren't impressed that you can buy pizza & drugs with BTC because they can do the same thing with USD and have the same issues with it, aside from inflation. Likewise, we are all greedy when we buy stuff because we shop for bargains and better quality, forcing merchants to compete with each other in a race to the bottom. Of course, that's a good thing! It's not just foolish but harmful to pay more than you absolutely have to for a product. It promotes waste and poor quality relative to the price. I respect your right to hold that opinion. Do you respect my right to hold the opposite opinion? In other words, if I disagree with you and start claiming property as my own, are you going to use violence against me or my property in order to suppress my opinion? This is the crux of the issue. Anarchism is the only system that can support both of our views. You would be free to live in a communistic society with whoever else wanted to and I would be free to live in a capitalist society with whoever else wanted to.Don't you always have the option to farm, fish, forage or hunt? Unless you plan on eating the money you are paid, there's a more direct way to survive rather than being paid to work some menial job. The right of private property is derived from being the first possessor because everyone else is a latecomer with respect to them. If you ignore the prior-later distinction then how can we have private property at all? Imagine if the second possessor was said to have a better claim to the property then wouldn't the same argument apply to the third possessor and so on?The only way there is no "real" choice is if you are being threatened with violence. Otherwise, there is always a choice though you might not like it and wish to get everything for free. Do you think you don't have a real choice to buy a TV because the only way to get it is to pay money? Are you exploiting TV-sellers because you shop around for the lowest price instead of emptying your wallet to the first seller? Another example is price "gouging". After Hurricane Fran hit in '96 there was no power in Raleigh, NC and everyone suddenly needed ice. Some enterprising fellows filled up a couple of freezer trucks with ice and started selling it at something like $8 a bag. People were lining up to buy the ice, even to the point where the sellers were limiting the number of bags that could be purchased per person. Of course, people complained about the price but they still bought it. Eventually, someone called the police. The police showed up and arrested the men, taking them away in handcuffs for violating anti-price gouging laws. The most bizarre part is that the people in line, who were so willing to wait in a long line to pay four times the usual price for ice they desperately needed, clapped. Alright, sweet. Thanks for this! Will this work without a hard disk and CD-ROM? That's awesome. Will it ever be something that we can manipulate in 3D? Perhaps that could be done with Flash? Well, (2) is immoral if done by force against other people's will and (3) doesn't exist. If your labor is worth $3 an hour but employers are forced to pay you $4 an hour then they would be losing money. Rather than hire you at a loss they would do better to not hire you at all, which is what actually happens. By setting a minimum wage you are making sure that jobs worth less than that don't exist. If (3) actually existed then we should set the minimum wage to $100 an hour and we'd all be rich. The reality is that (3) doesn't raise any wages at all but rather makes sure that certain jobs don't exist. Instead of "minimum wage laws" they should really be called "forced unemployment laws" but nobody would vote for that. I think competition is good. There may be be an possibly unlimited number of cryptocurrencies but how many are actually going to be widely used? The incentive for people to flock to new currencies is small as long as Bitcoin is doing what people want it to do. Some jobs are worth more than nothing but less than minimum wage. These jobs can't exist under current laws. Yet, it seems you would rather pay people to sit at home rather than pay them to do something useful and perhaps actually learn a skill that might eventually be worth more than minimum wage. That would be fine if you were paying people with your own money but you're not. You're forcing other people to pay for these do-nothings through taxation.
How is a voluntary exchange ever taking advantage of someone?If I offer to trade my X for your Y and you agree to the trade then two things must be true:1. I value your Y more than my X.2. You value my X more than your Y.If we weren't each getting something we find more valuable out of the deal then why would we both agree to the trade? We wouldn't. Every voluntary trade results in both parties being better off than they were before. All voluntary trades are beneficial to both parties, be it with labor or goods. Why? Are we ants? Are we bees? I don't understand the mentality behind the belief that we should stomp all over the liberty of individuals for some collectivist notion of "society". A society is nothing more than the individuals that comprise it.Who are you to decide what is fair? Shouldn't it be up to each person to decide what they think is fair? Also, why are you talking about slavery? I'm talking about voluntary actions between two consenting adults. Are you against S&M? Chaining someone up and whipping them is closer to slavery than offering someone a job which they are free to accept or reject.The money saved on paying an employee probably isn't going to be used to light cigars. It's going to be spent on other things which provide just as much market stimulation as overpaying for labor, even more so since inefficiency hurts the market, which is what you're advocating. You either paid for it with your tuition money or some tax payer is paying for it. The only reason why strikes work now is because there is violent coercion on the part of the government and union works. Otherwise, scabs would be all over those jobs. You folks are big on sexual freedom, be it homosexuals, deviants or whatever. I hear the phrase "between two consenting adults" all the time. My question is, why do you people disable your logic circuits as soon as these two consenting adults leave the bedroom? If two consenting adults agree that one will work for the other for less than minimum wage, what business is it of yours? Why is it only sexual acts that get this special treatment?I can already hear the word "exploitation" ringing in my ears but who are you to decide what counts as exploitation? If someone desperately wants to work for $3 an hour then obviously they prefer that situation over the alternative, doing nothing and getting nothing (or getting an equivalent $3 an hour welfare check). Why are you willing to override personal freedom when it comes to work but not sex? Someone please make sense of this for me because all I see is hypocrisy right now.I'm an anarchist, voluntaryist, agorist, whatever term is fashionable these days. I think personal liberty should apply to all spheres of interaction, bedroom, workplace, front lawn, whatever. If you want to run around nude or work for next to nothing then I think you should be free to do so, even though I wouldn't do either of those things personally. All you have to do is require a valid Windows 7 install disk or .iso and you can distribute everything. That's how BartPE works. I've used BartPE before so I understand the process. Are you successfully mining without a disk? Can you give me some more information and perhaps some links?Thanks! Does anyone know how to install/boot Windows 7 without needing a local disk? I know it supports iSCSI but I've never done it before. I'm sure this would be useful to other people starting up a mining farm too. Is there any service that exists that does what PayPal does right i.e. provides a payment API, transaction notifications, cart integration, "buy now" buttons and also keeps the BTC pegged to USD/SEK/whatever at current market prices?I've searched around but I've had no luck. I released a JSON-API here so it should be easy:https://www.bitcoin2cash.com/json/depth.phphttps://www.bitcoin2cash.com/json/trades.php Both or either. Thanks! That's really awesome of you. I spent a week without power and my fence was messed up pretty bad but that's a minor inconvenience compared to some people that lost everything, including their lives. Here's a video that I took a few miles from my house: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I2rkk8ABeeUIt's hard to believe how powerful these storms can be. Do you mean firewall bypassing by injecting into the default browser? I just put in my 3 votes. Good luck! I'm not too crazy about the titles because "applaud" and "smite" don't really suggest intended uses. Perhaps, "helpful" and "unhelpful"? That way it would discourage negative ratings just because of differences of opinion. Well, as I've said before, your definition of anarchism differs greatly from mine. Can anyone with positive/negative experiences using my service rate me accordingly?Thanks! I went through the same thing. I'm a software developer by trade. Piracy hurts my bottom line since I'm selling my software directly to customers. I went into the debate trying reconcile my desire for intellectual property laws with my views on Libertarianism but I couldn't do it while remaining consistent. C'est la vie. To understand why you are wrong, you need to understand the genesis behind the idea of Bitcoin. Interestingly enough, it started with the goal of stopping bulk spam. The reason why there aren't dump trucks backing up to your mailbox each morning to unload massive amounts of spam is because there is a larger cost associated with sending postal mail versus email. There's the cost of the ink, paper, envelope and stamp. This means that any spam that can't recoup those costs simply doesn't get sent. Contrast that with email which is orders of magnitudes cheaper, the price being whatever it costs to send a few bytes over an Internet connection. So, the idea was to attach a higher cost to emails in much the same way that postal mail has a higher cost. There are several schemes. One of these is run by a company called "GoodMail". They convinced a bunch of email providers to give certain emails a special icon in your inbox. These icons only display if you pay an extra fee to send the email. This prevents spammers from having such a huge economic incentive for sending spam, if they want the special icon. The service still exists but it really hasn't caught on. However, a precursor to this idea was called "HashCash". Instead of charging money outright, it is based on a proof-of-work system. Under this system, you run a program and it starts generating tokens by using CPU resources. You attach a token to each email you send and the recipient can verify your token for relatively no cost. This makes it easy for the typical user to send and receive emails while making bulk spam prohibitively expensive. After this system was proposed, someone came to the natural conclusion that there would be individuals that wouldnt want to run the program but instead would rather buy the tokens outright. This gave rise to the idea of an entire market based on buying and selling tokens. Fast forward over a decade later and the creator of Bitcoin says, Hey, who cares about email? Lets use this stuff for money! The rest is history. So, what's my point? My point is that Bitcoin is a proof-of-work system which has value as a good because people, even if not used as money, would still want to use Bitcoins to prevent bulk spam. I imagine that if/when Bitcoin becomes widespread, we will see an actual implementation of this where sending an email costs a tiny fraction of a BTC. I really hope this will put to rest the myth that Bitcoin has no possible use aside from being a medium of exchange. RuneScape? How about a Tibia account? 
Go forth and multiply.  Your progress doesn't get lost. I was just referring to the psychological aspects. If you mine with a pool, you get something sooner rather than later. I think most people prefer instant gratification.   I believe you mean watermarking but point taken. Though even in the cases of screeners released for Academy Award consideration, the number of people that are receiving copies is still only a few thousand and perhaps only a handful are interested in leaking the films, without collusion. In the case of wide distribution it becomes easier to defeat digital watermarks by combing multiple sources, comparing the differences and removing them or making them unidentifiable. That's just a technical issue though. In theory, it could work. I doubt anyone would agree to those terms since there's always the small chance that Bob could be the victim of theft or fraud. The only way it would work is if you included a clause that it must be intentional. Proving intent would be pretty difficult.Then there's the loss of goodwill towards doing business with someone that reserves the right to torture/execute you. Who writes a book that is that good?Also, if Bob is the only buyer of Alice's book, it's fairly obvious who leaked it. When Alice sells millions of copies, which is the point of copyright after all, it becomes a lot harder. What if the copy isn't a hard copy but rather a PDF? The PDF never changes hands. There is a PDF on Bob's computer and then a PDF is created on Carol's. Even if we can agree that Alice owns Bob's PDF, why should she own Carol's? Let's assume that Alice writes the contract as follows: "Bob owns the book as long as he doesn't make a copy. If he makes a copy, he has to return the book and destroy any copies he makes."However, if he sends a copy to Carol, she isn't bound by the contract and Bob has no legal right to force Carol to destroy her copies even though Alice does have the legal right to force Bob to destroy his copies.If you have a better way of wording the contract, let me know. I'd hate to attack a straw man argument. I think that pool mining is more psychologically gratifying, especially if you can't mine 24/7/365. It really sucks to mine for a few days straight, get nothing, and then have to stop for whatever reason, to play a game, etc. When you turn off the layer and almost all the typed text disappears﻿ but﻿ the signatures don't is pretty telling. The OCR didn't recognize the handwriting. End of story.  You can only steal property but if you're treating ideas as property then that obviates the need for a contract in the first place. If Carol steals Alice's money with the aide of Bob then he's an accessory to the crime, no contracts need be involved. The entire point in involving a contract is to go above and beyond what property rights already allow for. Don't put all your eggs in one basket. I would assume wherever the operator is located, the site is hosted and the DNS is registered, which could be up to three different countries. That's incorrect. If Alice and Bob have a contract between them whereby Bob agrees not to make copies of Alice's work but Bob breaches that contract anyways and sends a copy to Carol, Bob has violated that contract and legal recourse may be taken against Bob. However, Carol now has a copy of that work, isn't bound by any contract and can do whatever she pleases with it, including sending a copy to anyone she wishes.In other words, a contract between two parties isn't automatically binding on a third party. Once the cat is out of the bag, there is no putting it back in. Plenty of things are morally wrong but still legal and rightfully so, such as cheating on your partner. I personally think it's morally wrong to obtain value from creative works without contributing some of that value in the form of many back to the creator. However, that's irrelevant because it still shouldn't be illegal. I'm still waiting for him to mention the holographic principle. Anyways, the distinction isn't between physical and nonphysical but rather concrete and abstract. You can't own abstract objects only concrete objects. Good night. Most people call it real estate, but sure. Yes you can own real estate. So can I and I do.I claim that if you abandon property, it becomes unowned and I can claim it. Leaving your bike on my lawn overnight probably isn't abandoning it but leaving it there for year definitely is. I can't draw an exact time distinction between the two but there certainly is a difference. You own the energy, not the pattern. Also, once you release energy back into the environment it becomes unowned abandoned property. Do you think you can leave your bike on my property forever and I shouldn't be able to claim it? If you don't know that electromagnetism is one of the four fundamental physical forces found in nature then...   A design in your brain is simply a configuration of neurons in your brain. You own your neurons and your brain. I own my neurons and my brain therefore I can put them into any configuration I want even if it's functionally identical to yours. If I was extracting your gray matter with a cerebral bore then you'd have a grievance. As things stand, you're trying to control what I can and cannot do with my own brain.  Yes. Don't take my word for it. Look it up.Am I sucking energy from your brain like some sort of psychic vampire? No. I get energy from the food I eat. I'm not sure what you're driving at.
Energy is physical. Basic science isn't serious enough for you? I'm going to Amsterdam in a few weeks. Maybe I can strike a deal. Since you own yourself, you have every right to sell yourself into slavery, if that's what you choose to do voluntarily. To say otherwise is to attempt to control what other people can and cannot do with their own bodies, which is involuntary slavery. What goes on between consenting adults is their business and no one else, be it sexual acts or even voluntary slavery. A contract is a contract. If you don't want to sell yourself into slavery, don't. Electrons are physical. Mass and energy are equivalent. Your argument fails. No, as has been explained to you many times, for something to be scarce it has to be the case that only one person can possibly control its usage at a time. Are you saying that it's the case that only a single person at a time can possibly use the information contained on a set of blueprints? I hope not because that's obviously not true.So you admit then that just because a law is on the books doesn't make it justified? Good, now we are back to square one, providing a justification of intellectual property laws. According to Libertarianism, no. According to the current laws, yes. The law used to be that you could own black people. I guess you would have supported that back then too, huh? Yet, once it does exist, it's no longer scarce. Unfortunately, you can't own something that doesn't exist yet so that doesn't help you at all. The paper the blueprints are printed on would still be scarce but not the content therein. This seems pretty simple so maybe you are trying very hard not to understand? If you don't condone killing then your threats have no teeth. Good luck collecting your fines. I will be balling them up in the trash or using them to light my grill. BTC can't buy you happiness? Correct, but it's the fact that I can't possibly use it, even if I don't want to. That's what makes it scarce. That's what makes it ownable. Once I own it, I get to control the use of it, even if I'm not using it all the time. Of course, this assumes that things have objectively defined uses, which is false. Maybe I collect beds. Maybe I derive joy from knowing I have a clean bed with pristine sheets on it. In that sense, I'm always using it and you would be depriving me of something just by laying on it. However, as mentioned already, that's irrelevant.  I mentioned this to PLATO while we were hanging out during his visit but part of the costs associated with harvesting energy are running transmission lines and all the costs and losses associated with transmitting power over long distances. With Bitcoin, you can harvest energy anywhere, consume it on the spot, generate BTC to turn a profit and all of that at a fraction of the cost compared to transmitting it for typical consumption. Just something to think about for the future. Since your creditors have credited you money, I think it's the other way around. Intellectual property laws are incompatible with Libertarian philosophy. If you're not a Libertarian, the first part of this argument will do little to persuade you since you must first accept the two foundational beliefs of Libertarianism, the non-aggression principle and the legitimate assignment of property rights. Just a reminder of what these two beliefs entail:1. The non-aggression principle is the position that violence cannot be used against property you don't own unless in self-defense of your own property.2. The legitimate assignment of property rights is the position that everyone owns themselves, unowned property that they homestead and any property that is obtained through voluntary title transfers, valid contracts, gifts, gambling, etc.Holding these two principles, it logically follows that intellectual property is illegitimate. If I own ink and paper, I get to do whatever I want with it as long as it doesn't violate your property rights or the non-aggression principle. That includes copying a novel you wrote, word for word and selling it, either with proper attribution or with no attribution at all. False attribution would be an act of fraud which invalidates a contract but that is a wrong committed towards the buyer, not the original author.Some people might object that using my ink and paper to copy a novel is theft of your novel and therefore does violate someone's property rights. This mistaken assumption that one can own ideas stems from the belief that a person necessarily owns the product of his or her labor. That is false. If I own some wood and you steal it to make a chair, you don't own the chair. I own the chair and you owe me for damages to my wood. The only way labor brings about ownership is when mixing labor with unowned resources, land, things found in nature, etc. You can pen a novel, but you must already own the ink and paper. A cake pan can only be used by one person at a time. A cake recipe can be used by many people at the same time. Ideas, such as cake recipes, aren't scarce and therefore are not subject to property rights.Telling me what I can and cannot do with my ink and paper, which is scarce, is claiming ownership of my property, which is theft because it wasn't done voluntarily but rather through the threat of violence or imprisonment.Anyone that says this is all well and good but wishes to abandon Libertarianism for special cases where it would benefit every individual has a burden of proof. While it seems obvious that without intellectual property laws, people would be harmed through the loss of created work, what goes unnoticed are the people that are currently harmed by the very laws meant to protect others. There are cases of people wanting to make derivative works but cannot do so or will not do so for fear of legal repercussions. Such examples include books written from different points of view, such as the slaves from Gone With The Wind, video games that have been abandoned or not developed often enough, such as Chrono Trigger and Lemmings, music such as covers of Michael Jackson and Lady Gaga songs, and so on. We know that people will be harmed if intellectual property laws are repealed just as we know people are currently harmed by their very existence. The only question for those that want to abandon Libertarianism is, which outweighs which? Nobody can give a definitive answer and therefore it's irresponsible to support such laws, even on non-Libertarian utilitarian grounds, which aren't proven to be beneficial to more individuals than they are harmful. It doesn't make sense to say that the majority of people are using a word incorrectly because usage defines meaning. "Credit" means "to add money to an account" and "debit" means "to take money from an account". Why? Because that's how the majority of people use the words. Let's stop fighting naturally evolving language and get on with our lives. For hundreds of years, religious adherents have been finding ways to reinterpret their ancient doctrines to fit with modern moral thinking and Islam is no different. It's not Islam itself that is the threat but the actual people that refuse to reexamine their dogmas in light of humanistic advancements. If Islam is a threat then so is every other religion that once preached death to certain groups. Most Christians have found ways to disregard the violent aspects of their religion and so can Muslims. Hooray, we killed some old man that wasn't an immediate threat to any of us. I can sleep better at night. You don't necessarily own the products of your labor. If you steal wood from me and make a chair, you don't own the chair. I own the chair and you owe me for damages to my wood.By telling me what I can and can't do with my ink and paper, you are claiming ownership of my property, which is theft since it wasn't given to you voluntarily but rather under threat of violence or imprisonment. I still haven't gotten an answer to this question: is it legal to share the information? If so, what is the wiki for if not to share legal information? Assuming the information is legal to share, I think the wiki should be as neutral as possible. Filtering out information because it might interfere with some agenda seems like anything but. Of course, if sharing the information is illegal then definitely no.Again, assuming it's legal to share the information, we should probably start a new wiki that isn't controlled by a single personal agenda and simply make available all the information that is within the legal limits. My exchange is cash only by mail. It might be what you are looking for. That is simply false. There is still the incentive for the enjoyment of creating, becoming famous from creating, selling live performances, donations, etc. There are people that wish to create but can't because you can't use characters from existing works for fear of lawsuits. So it seems to me that even though there will be some discouragement to some people there will be encouragement to others. Which outweighs which? Do you have anything to offer aside from your gut feelings?
I'm not sure how long it takes from Canada. I wouldn't think it would be that long though. Please send me an email at sales@bitcoin2cash.com and I'll see what information I can find out for you. I had to edit out the Q&A at the end because the audio started going weird, you can hear some hissing but at the end it made it inaudible.The Q&A's were mostly technically related. One person pointed out that transaction fees will eventually exist in a few decades since that will be the only way for miners to make money. However, the response to that is that even though transaction fees will exist, they will be highly competitive and still better than anything VISA or PayPal is offering.Another person asked what PLATO had actually bought with Bitcoins other than food and gas and he mentioned a METRO card pass and some other stuff.One guy really understood the mathematics behind Bitcoin, especially how the 21 million limit is approached asymptotically-like and asked some really technical questions. I hope some of my fellow students will be joining the forums since I think they could really contribute to the community.The best "question" was from a female teacher at the back of the audience who was generally dismayed at how all us "kids" were probably pissing off the federal government and she wanted us to know that we probably weren't as clever as we thought we were.There was also a mixed reaction to Bitcoin while we were handing out flyers. One guy took a flyer, read it and balled it up in my friend's face but my friend just laughed. One guy didn't like how Bitcoin could be used to evade taxes because "you gotta pay taxes". It seemed that the younger audience got it but the older crowd was fairly hostile which isn't too surprising. Some people think initiating violence is acceptable as long as there is a net benefit to society. I disagree with that but I would also like to point out that it hasn't even been established that there is a net benefit to society as far as intellectual property laws are concerned. Here's a video I took a few miles from my house: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I2rkk8ABeeUI consider myself extremely lucky not to be sifting through a pile of rubble right now. I've got solar panels charging a portable Duracell backup battery by day and running a generator by night. The mail is still running at my P.O. box so deposits shouldn't be affected. Yes, I will be going ahead with my sale as usual. I see a lot of people bidding exactly $0.40 but I hope people realize that if someone bids $0.41 they will get their orders filled first. The point was only that some things can harm some people while helping others. That should be fairly uncontroversial. If you don't like the lemonade stand analogy then I'm sure you can tweak it a little so that it fits, instead of giving it away, selling it at a lower price or even the same price. I'm still hurting your business by not giving you the entire market to yourself. I'm sure you could come up with your own example if you gave it enough thought.This leaves us with the real question regarding IP laws: are they a net benefit or a net harm to society? If you don't know one way or the other and can't provide evidence to backup your assertion then you have no business advocating the existence of such laws. One assumes that the state of nature is the default and that we don't keep laws on the books without good reason. I personally think that IP laws are a net harm because it stifles innovation, i.e. nobody can use the likeness of existing fictional characters to reinterpret them into new contexts and stories. If you own a lemonade stand and I start giving out free lemonade while standing next to it, I'm harming you but I'm also helping other people by giving out free lemonade. The question is a matter of whether or not there is a net benefit to society by IP laws. Just because the lack of IP laws may hurt the author of a book doesn't mean it can't help others. You should understand that when I quote prices they can change a lot in two hours and I have no control over that. It's probably a fluke that the $1.72 ask is still there at all.The prices are based on the market. You should put a bid in at whatever price you are looking for and it might encourage someone to sell them at that price. You shouldn't wait for a price to be at what you want before you place a bid. As for how the system works, it's fairly simple, you deposit money into your account, place a bid for X number of bitcoins at a certain price and then wait for someone to match that price and the system will perform the trade. Once you have purchased bitcoins you can have them sent to any address you want or relist them at a higher price.The market is moving pretty fast right now and I seriously doubt you will find anyone willing to sell that far below market price unless they are doing so to draw traffic to their exchange, like I've done in the past. Harm to you personally or society as a whole? If it's the latter then I'd really love to see some kind of argument for that. The burden of proof is on you. Here's a video of PLATO's presentation... Part 1: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JB1dNmphRJQPart 2: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UuRys98OzlI I just did. Thanks for the suggestion. If you are still looking to buy Bitcoins, check out my website at https://www.bitcoin2cash.com which does not charge any fees to purchase BTC. It's cash by mail only and the prices are currently around $1.72. Good luck and welcome to the community. For some reason, the RPC server was locked up. I restarted it and everything is running normally again. Nothing was lost, just a pause in service. All the Bitcoins listed on the market were sold. Now there's several buyers but no sellers.https://www.bitcoin2cash.com/orders.phpIf the prices people are bidding are too low for your tastes, please list your BTC for sale at the appropriate price so we can attract new buyers. Bitcoins themselves have value since they can be used to slow spammers down.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Proof-of-work_system I added a picture to the first post of the vouchers we'll be giving away. Personal gratification. I'm still looking for partners. If you can't find anyone to do it in person, I'm selling through the mail. I was joking.
I remember when video games were played for fun. Get off my lawn. Likewise, you're not actually smart enough to understand that, for some people, revenge/spite has a nonzero utility.Some of us are just in it for the lulz. Well, it is kind of idiotic to render services before the other person agrees to pay you for said services. Anyone would, under the right circumstances. Anyone that denies that is lying. I could do this pretty easily if I just made it play a sound file when your balance increases. It's one thing to give your own money away voluntarily. It's another thing to force everyone else to do the same thing. Check out my website. If you are in the USA, sending cash by mail is pretty fast. As the first person, the money isn't even remotely yours until the second person accepts the offer, of which there is no guarantee. You've clearly already made up your mind and are now grasping at straws to justify your conclusion. Rational thinking is more effective when the conclusion comes at the end of debate, rather than at the beginning. I think we should all quit making this personal. It's a sign of weak character. (irony) Wrong again. I get to decide how much the other person gets, nothing or whatever they suggested. They are merely narrowing down the options. I'm the one that makes the actual decision. Of course it's not my money. It's our money, if and only if we can settle on how to distribute it. I think I just said that. Of course, it's not your money either. You're mistakenly considering that the money is already yours but if it were then you wouldn't need me to approve of the distribution. You could keep it no matter what. That's not the case. Therefore, it's not charity on your part anymore than it's charity on my part.Read the first post again.Emphasis mine. Until we agree on how to split it up, the money still belongs to her. You're wrong. Just admit it so we can get on with our lives. It's our money, if and only if we can settle on how to distribute it. Who said anything about it being wrong? I said there's a difference between that and charity. You do understand the difference, right? All human emotions are nonrational, not irrational. If I tried to spite you by burning my house down and leaving yours completely unharmed, that would be irrational. Anyways, the difference between outright charity and taking advantage of a position of power has been explained to you. I'm sorry if you can't/won't see it. If you perceive society as parasitic and coercive, you're going to be less inclined to feel generous towards it. That seems fairly uncontroversial to me. It's irrational to think that will have no effect whatsoever. There's also the matter of simply having less money to give to charity. What you make on your own doesn't concern me. What we are both offered and you get to distribute is a different story. They are only analogous if all you look at is the money. I'm sorry you don't like my values but there's nothing objectively superior about yours. It's purely subjective.You should accept $0.01 only if you value revenge less than that. I don't. Thanks for your opinion, duly ignored. As you currently pose the scenario, I would derive more pleasure from watching the other person get nothing if they offered me less than somewhere around 40%. I expect exactly half but I will settle for slightly less in this case. My percentage changes depending on how much money is involved too. The lower the amount, the closer to exactly half I will demand. The higher the amount, the less I will demand. After all, 1% of a trillion dollars is still 10 billion dollars. I first heard this question posed at $100, in which case I want half or I can lose $50 to watch you do the same. If you are making the offer, it's wise to always offer half since that gives you the best chance to profit.Anyone that says it's always rational to accept any offer is making the mistake of thinking that money is the only thing of human value. That's false. Money is a means to an end.Yes, I would gladly spend $10 to watch a bastard squirm. Got a problem with that? That's funny since we will be/are switching protocols, from TCP/IPv4 to TCP/IPv6.  Unfortunately, USD has the nasty habit of losing its purchasing power whenever politicians get the urge to "stimulate" the economy by printing more monopoly money. It's bound to be replaced by something superior, just like IPv4 will/has.Assuming, by TCP/IP, we are referring to the actual protocols and not the protocol suite, which is a moving target and would render the analogy nonsensical anyways. I'll be doing something like that for the event I'm planning next week (See: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=6202.0)
I never claimed otherwise.No, that wasn't my point.You clearly weren't following the discussion. Before you make anymore snide comments, go back and read the thread a little more so you know what you're talking about. That was my point. Even while being robbed at gunpoint, they are generous enough to give away their money. How many more billionaires would feel generous if they weren't already being forced to give away their money? We will probably never find out. No, I haven't. What do you suggest? I'm organizing a Bitcoin event at my university, http://uah.edu where forum member PLATO will be stopping by along his coast-to-coast journey, which you can read about on his website http://therealplato.com/ if you haven't heard about it. I'm hoping to get several hundred people to attend. Giving away free money seems like a pretty good way to encourage that. I'll be setting up a system where one-time-passwords are handed out at the event that can be redeemed for 1 BTC. I'm using my own money to pay for flyers, refreshments, room and board for the speaker as well as the printed cards and bitcoins. If any of you want to donate to help spread the word about Bitcoin, please send as much BTC to 1HXD5xHpz6cxbrqNekzGFTow6gjeuTNR4j as you can spare. I'm going to be trying to attract not only computer science majors but political science and finance majors to the event as well. Here's some information about UAH so you can understand exactly how beneficial it could be to get these students and faculty interested in Bitcoin.If you are in the Huntsville, AL area please attend the event. I'll post the exact time and date as soon as I know but we are aiming for next week, between April 25th and April 29th. Thanks for reading! Run the installer with the "/u" switch and then delete the installation folder. People like Bill Gates and Warren Buffet, when allowed to spend their money as they please, do engage philanthropy. Who knows how many billionaires would feel more generous towards society if they weren't being robbed at gunpoint. It's up to each person to decide how to best use their resources. In my case, it was CPU mining or nothing. If I get enough donations based on demand for a GPU version, I'll do it. Are you a lawyer? I'm not being facetious or anything. I'm just curious. I've only tested it on Windows 7 32-bit and Windows XP. I'll install 64-bit on VMware and see what the problem is. If you can figure out exactly what parts aren't working, please let me know. Does it create the installation folder? Did you run it as administrator? Etc...Thanks! There are some good economists out there. Walter Block is my hero. There are no transaction fees. Trading is free. Depositing cash is free. There is only a withdrawal fee for me sending you cash by mail of $5, to cover shipping and handling. Is that what you meant? His analysis was laughter inducing. I think it's easier for computer scientists to understand economics than it is for economists to understand computer science. I appreciate the offer but I already have other businesses that support Credit Cards, PayPal, SMS etc. I want this business to be 100% cash only.Do you live near Huntsville, AL? If so then definitely. As long as the government isn't using my money to run this project, they are just another miner. I don't care who is generating the BTC. They won't be taxing me anymore than all the other miners are taxing me. No minimums and no transaction fees here.   The point is, it's still a gamble, one that not everyone is willing to take. Therefore, it has a chilling effect, as evidenced by my example, of which there are numerous others in other industries. There's a loss for society, plain and simple. The only question that remains is whether the net is a gain or loss.I'm not interested in clubbing you over the head with anymore examples. Either demonstrate it's a net gain, net loss or admit you don't know which it is. Right, after wasting years of his life in a legal battle, spending all his money on lawyer fees, fighting a company with comparatively bottomless legal funds and of course, we all know that juries never make mistakes, especially when dealing with highly technical issues. He's a fool for giving up so easily! No, I'm against it on principle. I'm just also calling the bluff on the utilitarian argument.Even if there was a net gain for society, I'd be opposed to it on principle alone. That's irrelevant. The point is, copyright laws have a chilling effect on the creation of derivative works. That's a loss for society any way you care to slice it. The only question that remains, which outweighs which, the losses or gains? http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chrono_ResurrectionHere's just one example.
I see this as such a popular request that I'm eventually going to be adding this to my service. A lack of copyright laws would allow for a greater level of piracy (loss) but it would also allow for developers to remake technologically outdated or abandoned games (gain). You're focusing only on the losses while ignoring (or are simply unaware of) the gains. The real question is, which outweighs which? Would it be a net gain or a net loss? If you don't know then it's irresponsible to advocate such laws. Can you demonstrate there would be a net loss for society? The burden of proof is on you. I think it should be legal, yes, if that's all you mean by condoning. Nobody should use force or coercion to stop me. You're still free to socially stigmatize me. I think cheating on your spouse shouldn't be criminal but it's still immoral and unethical. I hope you understand now.If you were under any other impression, it was a mistake on your part, one that I've corrected for you. What do you mean by condone? I think it's immoral and unethical to derive enjoyment from someone's artwork without paying them what they ask, assuming you knew they were asking for a fee before you enjoyed said artwork. I just don't think it should be criminal. Intellectual property laws are incompatible with Libertarianism. That's my only claim.Utter nonsense. That's so wrong that I don't even know where to start. Try again. Immoral? Yes. Unethical? Yes. Criminal? No.Can you demonstrate there would be a net loss to society? Where's your evidence? You own the paper it's made of, regardless of what's written on it.You own the medium that it's recorded on, regardless if that medium has any data on it.You own the paper it's made of, regardless of what's written on it. I think you're under the mistaken assumption that producing X entitles you to own X but let's say you break into my shop, steal a bunch of my wood and then build a chair out of it. Do you own the chair because you produced it? No, it's my chair plus you owe me for damages to my wood. I collect wood, you see, and I wanted it kept in pristine condition. Right, because nobody would ever donate money to find cures for diseases like cancer, HIV, Alzheimer's, diabetes, etc. I recognize tangible property. I don't recognize imaginary property.The fallacy is assuming that you are required to be successful in your attempts to use said property. You might have x-ray goggles but if I have lead-lined walls, you will fail in your usage. If you let photons bounce off your object and those photons leave your property and strike my retinas, again, all bets are off. Keep your photons to yourself if you don't want me making use of the information they carry.Whether or not you can successfully make use of your idea isn't my concern, you're still free to try which is what matters.No, it's not. You're mistaken. I never advocated that. You have the right to keep whatever you like on your private property and I won't make any illegitimate attempts to obtain it. However, the minute you release it to the public, all bets are off.Forcing you to do labor or depriving you of the fruits of it, when it is tangible, is depriving you of something. If I copy your idea, you still get to keep the idea and use it yourself. Like I said, you are only being deprived of the ability to profit, which isn't a right that I recognize. Utter garbage. That's an ad hominem. I'm either right or wrong based on the merits of my arguments, not on my motivation for putting them forth. However, just so you know, I've made over a million dollars as a computer programmer selling software directly to customers. I've sold over 100,000 copies of a certain piece of software. Piracy has always been a concern for me. I was a Libertarian long before I even considered intellectual property laws. I went into the debate wanting to find support for them, biased as I was. However, I had to be intellectually honest with myself and admit that intellectual property laws are incompatible with Libertarianism. Being that as it may, I abandoned my support of the former rather than the latter, even if it means giving up all those juicy profits.The property in question is your body, which you own. Slavery is just stealing ownership of it from you. It's not charity because I'm not taking any property from you. I'm depriving you of the ability to profit, a right which you were never guaranteed in the first place.argumentum ad consequentiam Great works of art existed long before copyrights. There are ways to make money while giving away content. Just ask Google or the developers of "Angry Birds". Yes. If you disagree, please tell me where you live and I'll be by with a truck, ASAP.It was a question. That's not putting words in your mouth.I'm against all forms of intellectual property laws. http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=5882.0Check me out. I'll add my key soon. It's also available on my website.https://www.bitcoin2cash.com/public.gpg How do you think intellectual property laws are enforced? Harsh language?That's begging the question. We haven't established that it is or isn't theft. I claim it isn't. In any case, even the courts don't consider copyright infringement to be theft.What about if I make a better machine than yours? I'm also hurting your ability to profit. Is that OK? Did the the automobile industry damage the horse and buggy industry? You betcha'. I don't see the problem. Maybe you want to outlaw competition? Some people do.If you can't understand the difference between making an exact duplicate of X and stealing X then I really don't know what to say. I think even children understand that. Well, I have to admit, that is a catchier name.No! Please don't! Stop!
Yawn. So be it but don't blame me for your intellectual laziness. You aren't even trying to make an argument. You're just presenting your conclusions as fact and hurling thinly veiled insults.That's not my problem any more than if you were to invest in a business based on a dying market. So you started a buggy whip company and now you need to recoup those expenses plus make some profit. Good luck with that. I guess you want to enforce that with guns too? Yes. Why not? If you steal my bicycle, I can't use it anymore. If I steal your idea, you can still use the idea. Only one of us can use the same oven to bake a cake but an infinite number of people can use the same cake recipe.If that were the case, the last 200 years would look extremely different. Economics is not common sense precisely because people tend to consider only the things they can see but fail to take into account the things they don't see because their idiotic economic polices prevent those things from coming into existence.There's nothing I can say to that. It's like saying that I beat my wife but of course I will deny it because that's what wife-beaters do. It's not a fair argument. Maybe I am delusional, brainwashed or simply mistaken but asserting that it is the case won't convince me of it. You'll have to dig deeper. Yes, it's incompatible with Libertarianism. Why? Because it makes you a partial owner of my property against my will. That's theft, if only partial theft.I own paper. I own a printer. I should be able to do whatever I want with them, including printing out copies of the latest bestseller and hocking them on the street. That's perfectly fine. It's not a crime to remain ignorant of economics. However, these people that can't be bothered to educate themselves have no business opining on economic issues. They can't have it both ways. "I'm too busy to read but here's my stupid uneducated opinion." I disagree. Most people understand the broken window fallacy. This book shows them how that same reasoning applies to other things like price controls, protective tariffs, minimum wage laws, rent control, etc. If you understand the broken window fallacy, you'll be forced to agree with the other arguments presented. It's taking something that people implicitly believe and making it explicit. That's the most powerful educational tool there is.Of course, that requires intellectual honesty. If people are just being closed-minded then your analysis holds. Intellectual property laws are incompatible with Libertarianism.Maybe this is more your speed.   Holy fuck. I've seen scientistic reductionism before but you've made it into an art form. Unfortunately, it's refrigerator art.It's sad that we've got so many crackpots/trolls on these forums but I guess that's what happens when you live on the fringes of society. Welcome to ignoreland, population you. You can't make confirmations go any faster than the speed at which blocks are being added to the block chain. Fiat currency can be printed like monopoly money. Bitcoins can't.What are your goals and what do you think is being lost with the scheme I've described? The solution is to have a trusted third party act as a middle man. You keep a balance with the trusted third party and then when you want to buy something, you instruct the third party to transfer the BTC to the seller. The seller doesn't have to wait for confirmations since they are relying on the trust of the third party. Yeah, baby! Robot slaves. You can also get a QR code this way:http://chart.apis.google.com/chart?cht=qr&chs=150x150&chl=youraddressgoeshereJust replace "youraddressgoeshere" with your actual bitcoin address. It won't start generating until it has all the blocks downloaded. There are currently 118935 in total. If you can mail a letter then you can use my service. It's pretty simple and I'll walk you through it by email if you still can't figure it out.Welcome to the community. I've just updated the front page with some W3C badges and a nice little dynamic chart of recent trade prices. Please don't use this for nefarious purposes.  My email address is in my profile. I'm sure people will be lining up for your eugenic sterilization program. Sieg Heil! Economics in One Lesson: http://www.hacer.org/pdf/Hazlitt00.pdfIt's a great read. It's brief. It doesn't go into a lot of technical detail but it does illustrate a central fallacy that many people, even some economists, make when thinking about economics. If you haven't read this book, I'm going to assume you're ignorant about economics until proven otherwise.
Yes, that's why I named the project Stealthcoin. If someone sees 100% usage, which isn't a typical thing people see, they are going think something is going wrong and start bugging the administrator. Also, he wouldn't let me install a rootkit.  It matters because your rules only apply to the usage of your property. You don't get to tell me how I use my own property. That's the entire point of it being my property. I get to control it. If you own a gated community. Fine, make whatever rules you like. However, unowned or other people's property isn't subject to your rules. Running the Bitcoind process at the lowest priority will make the system more responsive because the shell gets priority use of the CPU. However, if you look at the Windows Task Manager, it will still show the CPU being maxed out which is what I'm trying to avoid. I have a friend that runs a computer lab of about 200+ computers for training purposes and he doesn't care if I use up his electricity but he had a few objections to letting me generate bitcoins on his computers.can't have CPU usage pegged at 100% because users might bug him about itcan't be bothered to install anything himself unless it's a single executable he can push to all his computerscan't be bothered to check the balances and send bitcoins when generatedWith this in mind, I created Stealthcoin. It uses a modified version of the vanilla Bitcoind with an added sleep() call so that CPU usage isn't maxed out while generating. Obviously, it generates slower, about half the speed, but half is better than nothing in my case. I also wanted to gain experience with compiling/developing Bitcoin, as well as using Github, so I can start contributing to the project. If you have barely-computer-literate friends that don't mind letting you use their electricity, this should help you out a bit as well.https://github.com/bitcoin2cash/StealthcoinIf this project is useful to you please send donations to 1HXD5xHpz6cxbrqNekzGFTow6gjeuTNR4j in order to encourage me to keep developing this. I LOL'D. *golfclap* If I'm in charge, it's the gas chamber for the lot of you. It's a good thing I don't want me or anyone else to be in charge!   Rule #30: There are NO girls on the Internet. It will be reached by fulfilling all of our goals until we are so far down on our lists that "being a good neighbor" or "running around the Star Trek Enterprise in a unitard" is near the top of the list. Right now most people's lists are occupied with survival and basic pleasures. It's not a matter of how things should be. I have no opinion on that. It's a matter of how economics works which is a natural outcome of rational human nature. You're not going to overcome that through voluntary means, only by aggression. Humans have importance scales of goals and each loaf of bread we want to get occupies a place on that scale. If we limit the scope to talking about only loaves of bread and diamonds, my scale might look like this:get 1st loaf of breadget 2nd loaf of breadget 3rd loaf of breadget 4th loaf of breadget 5th loaf of breadget 1st diamondget 6th loaf of breadget 2nd diamondget 7th loaf of bread...This scale represents how I rank each of these goals in importance from highest to lowest. The next goal I wish to achieve depends on how many of these goals I have already achieved. If I have 0 loaves of bread and I am offered the choice between a loaf of bread or a diamond then I will choose the loaf of bread. If I have 4 loaves of bread and offered the choice, I will still choose the bread. However, what happens when I have 5 loaves of bread? Well, according to my scale, the next most important goal I would like to achieve is to have a 1st diamond rather than a 6th loaf of bread. Therefore, I will choose the diamond. This is just basic rational human nature.Now, let's say I have accomplished all these goals and I am forced to give up a loaf of bread or a diamond, which will I choose? Obviously, I'm going to give up the least important goal on this list, which is a 7th loaf of bread. Let's say I am forced to give up 2 of these things, this time I'll give up a 7th loaf of bread and a 2nd diamond. Again, this is just how basic rational human nature works, albeit extremely simplified, but it's still qualitatively the same.If you can find a way to short circuit these value scales that we all have (without sticking a gun in their face or threatening to imprison them) then you can make people rather give up a doctor than a janitor. Rather than doing that, it's easier to just allow people to fulfill as many goals as they can and eventually we will start concerning ourselves with the least important goals, like caring about janitors. Here's a brief summary:I would recommend my service if you're willing to wait on the mail. Follow the link in my signature. Did you try silkroad? Haha, I kid. +1 for demonofelru and his steam game buying service, it was like butter Thanks as well. You're fast! Yes, please. What address should I send the BTC to? All of the land in the USA hasn't been homesteaded. However, let's just say that for the sake of argument that the entire USA has been homesteaded and then all those people voluntarily pooled their ownership of their property together to create the government. Then I would have absolutely no problem with being deported, by force if necessary. You don't even need to put me on a boat. Just boot my ass into the ocean and tell me to sink or swim. I must admit, I'm shocked that you agree with me but how is the question in your example any different? Is it because there are several partial owners instead of a single complete owner? What complications am I missing? What questions haven't I answered? If you come onto my property and refuse to leave when asked, you're the one committing aggression, not me. I'm justified in evicting you, by force if necessary. Why is this so difficult for you to understand? I don't think it's really useful to treat all Facebook accounts as equal. There's a difference between having a profile set to "friends only" with only your family and a few close friends able to view it and a profile with everything public or having 1,000 strangers added as friends or letting every fly-by-night game company have full access. Having a Facebook account tells you almost nothing about how much privacy is being lost or what kind of person someone is. As with most things in life, it's a subtle issue and your poll doesn't reflect that very well. You're talking about options which are usually bought. Are you offering to pay something for this? Yes, especially since they aren't all children. I didn't know we were adopting adults too.
There's a difference between a computer being powered on with its CPU idle and a computer powered on with its CPU at 100% usage. It's wise not to be a dickhead when it's you that has an issue with reading comprehension. So, you're just going ignore the part where I said that millions of childless couples would likely do the same? Are you so hysterical that all you can think about are extreme cases? I would personally volunteer to take in a single child and care for him or her if someone abandons them on a mountaintop. I'm sure millions of childless couples would do the same. The point is, such choices regarding charity should be voluntary and not done at gun point or with threats of imprisonment.I just got done explaining to you that jobs are created by human desires. Who the fuck desires a hole to be dug up and then refilled? Nobody, except maybe government agencies trying to create "job programs". The things you're saying are becoming more idiotic with every post. If you don't smarten up, I'm just going to ignore you. The only way anyone is ever forced to work is by threat of violence. Simply saying, "I won't feed your lazy ass for nothing." isn't slavery. It's time for the children of the world to grow up and learn to take care of themselves. Mommy and daddy aren't always going to be around to feed you and wipe your ass."There is as much work to be done as there are unfulfilled desires. Since human desires are, for all practical purposes, limitless, the amount of work to be done is also limitless. Therefore, no matter how much work the eager young man completes, he cannot possibly exhaust or even make an appreciable dent in the amount of work to be done.To assume that human desires can be fully and finally satisfied is to assume that we can reach a point at which human perfection  material, intellectual, and aesthetic  has been fully realized. Paradise? Perhaps. If it were somehow achieved, then certainly there would be no "unemployment" problem  for who would need a job?" --BlockIn other words, the only way that there could be no jobs is if all human desires are satisfied, in which case, nobody needs a job. I'm not saying it will never happen but it's unlikely to be an issue for a very long time.Physics? History? How about learning some economics since you seem to be fairly ignorant of that. You're welcome. The problem was that you were trying to pass $amount as a string. I enjoyed our exchange last time for Crysis 2. Is it possible to buy Portal 2 as a preorder gift? If so, I'd like to buy it from you. Please tell me the price. I can send first now that I trust you. Is it homesteaded? No? Then it's not owned. Chattel slavery was also once legal. So, it seems to me whether or not something is legal is a fairly worthless concept.Yes. It's unwise to force people to be responsible for children they don't want. It's better for a child to be with a family that will love and care for them.My backyard is already homesteaded. You can only homestead unowned property. If you took the time to educate yourself on homesteading then we could avoid wasting time with pointless questions like this.That's not slavery. Also, nobody is likely to be forced to go to the moon. People could buy a condo in a skyscraper and get an ordinary job. As long as humans have desires, there will be jobs. The problem is, you're not actually looking for solutions. You're just looking for objections, even if they are ridiculous and take only a few seconds to come up with a reasonable answer.Are you related to JA37? Oh, the irony. By the way, care to respond to my post?http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=5884.msg86538#msg86538 I just put 1,000 BTC up for sell on my website at $1 USD each and I won't be changing that price. If the spot price goes up on BTC because of the increased exposure, somebody better take advantage! Cirque du Soleil is a crime? Damn, you must hate anything cultural. What the hell does that have to do with slavery though? Like I said, put down the crack pipe. Also, please stop pretending that Las Vegas is the model for all desert cities that are flourishing. It was a just a single example.I'm a computer programmer. I can work from anywhere. There are lots of ways to work from home. There's also the possibility of commuting. Of course, how you survive isn't my concern. You're a big boy. You figure it out. What's the alternative? Do you think I should provide you a way to survive?Go read up on homesteading. Simply saying "I own sea to shining sea" isn't enough to homestead it. I'm willing to bet that the majority of land hasn't been homesteaded. I don't actually know that though since I haven't done the research. I'm betting you haven't either. Let me know if you have then you can make some meaningful claim.Eventually.Of course it applies. Nobody is forced to care for their children, even with our current system. I've just listed 1,000 BTC for sale at $1.00 USD each, which will stay at that price until someone buys them all, no matter how high the market price gets. http://blockexplorer.com/address/1EDMf3UATY1HMwfAHAvgRGCUcpFxtSVfhaThanks! What the fuck are you talking about? Slavery? Sex slavery? I think you've gotten me confused with someone else. Put down the crack pipe and talk to me when you're sober. There's something like 7 billion acres of land that can be used for growing crops on the planet. That's a little over an acre of arable land per person. However, to answer your question, assuming all that land is owned, yes. Of course, Las Vegas was built in the middle of a desert. So, it's really all about how you put the land to use. It doesn't really matter since the entire country hasn't been homesteaded therefore it isn't owned, collectively or otherwise. Not all businesses are large corporations. I'm sure you only shop at local stores and pay double what they ask, right? True but unfortunately the message doesn't make it through and it's the liberals trying to create a permenant welfare state that really need to understand Atlas Shrugged.I forgot to mention that the average age was about 60 at the theater I was at. Though, it was a matinée. You're just repeating what you've been told and haven't actually done any research. You won't get anywhere near the retail price you paid but they are certainly not almost worthless. I just got back. This movie was part 1 of 2 so they didn't get that far. It got up to the point where they found the advanced engine and started looking for who made it. There weren't that many shots of trains in it.Now, on to the review...The pacing was way too fast. The characters weren't developed enough. The main protagonists weren't sympathetic. The politicians weren't slimy enough. The acting was good except for two scenes, one is shown in the trailer where the guy is yelling, a slight case of overacting. The production values were good. It didn't have that made-for-tv feel that some people were complaining about. Overall, I would recommend it as entertainment but it's pretty much devoid of any deep message.By the way, if you want to get the same message as Atlas Shrugged in less than 50 pages then just read this book.If you're too lazy to do so, here's an old lady that will read it to you: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Pj_0k2QqRNA Agreed.
The sooner people exploit an insecure system, the sooner the people that made it will fix it. You have my gratitude, dishwara. Nothing motivates human action like losing money.I'm sure my opinion will be immensely unpopular.  I don't expect everyone to be peaceful, just most people. If most people aren't peaceful then we're all fucked no matter what ideology we cling to. Your way of thinking scares me. Which is more important for human survival, bread or diamonds? Hmm, then I wonder why diamonds cost a lot more than bread. It might have something to do with economics. It is true that bread is more important in general than diamonds but we have plenty of bread and fewer diamonds so any individual loaf of bread isn't important.Almost anyone can pick up a broom and sweep. A lot fewer people can slice open a human skull without puking into it or making the person worse off than before. Therefore, even though janitors are important in general, no individual janitor is important because they are so plentiful. Then obviously that's not an abusive monopoly since the only way to do that will be to charge the going rate of return which is between 5% and 10%. Also, you keep talking about economies of scale as if that doesn't apply to anyone else. It's just as easy for someone to get investors to raise the funds to do the same thing. Can you give me an example where that's impossible? You're going so far off the deep end that even if you are right, which hasn't been demonstrated yet, that it would at most apply to one or two markets which are likely to have substitutes. Oh no, someone has cornered the grape soda market! I guess I'll just drink orange soda. That's hardly something worthy of immoral practices such as taxation, coercive laws, etc.So what? A small town may have only one drug store but unless they're charging $100 per aspirin then who cares? If they do that then it will make sense to open a second drug store. You keep switching back and forth between monopolies (who cares?) and abusive monopolies (can't exist in a free market) just like you keep switching between violence (again, violence self-defense is fine) and aggression (not cool). Please stick to the real issues. I'm glad you can read a dictionary but a single seller is not necessarily a problem. Then what's the incentive to do anything unpleasant? The world needs ditch diggers too. Is anyone really surprised that a janitor makes less money than a brain surgeon? The more ridiculous the amounts are, the more likely that will happen.I'm still waiting to see:6.664.208.675309... Code:$result2 = $rpc->sendfrom($fromAccount, $toAccount, (float) $amount);See if this works. So, I'm going to see Atlas Shrugged Part 1 in a few hours. I'm bracing myself for the inevitable shitstorm of "the book was better" comments and the backlash from the all randroids that forbid any questioning of their demigod. I love breaking the balls of anyone that follows people rather than ideas. It's the same criticism I have of the paulheads but I digress. I'll post a review of the movie production (rather than the ideas contained therein) when I return. I don't care if it's absolute garbage as long as it exposes more people to ideas of economic liberty. A few people have recently contacted me asking if I am willing to do PHP coding for hire, if I built my website, etc. The answer is an emphatic yes to all of these questions.I am a Zend PHP 5 Certified Engineer and have developed numerous websites, the most recent website being the one in my signature. Here's my Zend profile and you're welcome to send me an email through the Zend website to verify that's me. I'm familiar with all aspects of PHP 5, including the new class model, MySQL, etc. I'm interested in all sizes of projects and I don't expect to be paid anything until after I deliver the code to your satisfaction. I will bid a flat rate in BTC for any project. Send me a PM or email if you're interested.Thanks for reading. From: http://www.nathanielbranden.com/catalog/articles_essays/question_of_monopolies.htmlIn other words, it will never happen. I appreciate your time and effort but my purpose for building from source is so that I can audit the code which produces the binaries. I'm also wary of ignoring malware warnings unless it's from trusted source.I've offered a bounty of 100 BTC to anyone that can help me compile everything from source if you're interested: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=5851.0 Considering the website we're on, what am I supposed to make of someone that claims fiat currency is the only possible way for currency to exist? Now you're just being intellectually dishonest. If a market is cornered then you can charge ridiculous prices. Why else would we give a shit? If there is only one brand of shoes but everyone is happy with that, why are you complaining? You're so desperate to be right about something, anything, that you resort to childish word games.So, to keep you honest, let me rephrase. It is impossible to create an abusive monopoly through competition, which is what the issue really is. Now, argue against that instead of going off on irrelevant tangents. I just did what I promised and sold 100 BTC at $0.20 each. Most of the bids were way over that but 2 lucky people bid exactly that amount and made off quite well. I will do the same thing with 1000 BTC at $0.40 on May, 1st.You can see the list of trades here: https://www.bitcoin2cash.com/json/trades.php Then why did you bring it up as an example? You're trying to be smug but it just shows that you have no plan of attack and are pulling arguments out of your ass.It's called FUD. While you're educating yourself on Wikipedia, look that up too. That will ensure only that they are in the market. It doesn't ensure that they will be able to charge whatever they want and start a private army. It doesn't even ensure they will remain the dominate player. Did the moonshine makers dominate the market after prohibition ended? No. Is the mob still selling us liquor? No. Illegal rackets are so profitable because they are illegal. Take that away and it's just another industry charging market prices.No, they are making profits that represent the potential risks of death, incarceration, etc.The response is just to raise taxes so they can stay in business. There's no incentive to improve. The government can do as shitty job as they want and nothing happens. Oh, well you get to vote in another four years which changes little to nothing.If I'm benefiting, it's against my will. That's like shoving an ice cream sundae down my throat and saying I'm benefiting. Thanks but no thanks.If I own property, you have to follow my rules or leave. Am I required to let people live in my house? Why should I be required to let them live in my gated community? I'm running Windows XP on VMWare with a clean install. I need a complete step-by-step guide for what I need to download, what commands I need to run, etc. I've tried it myself and read all the directions but I keep getting errors and a Google search doesn't tell me how to fix it. I'll pay 100 BTC to whoever enables me to build a working bitcoind binary from source. No, it wouldn't. What's hell is when the government sticks a gun in your ribs and forces you to empty your pockets or give up your land against your will. Free meat.
4/14/2011 8:26:05 PM Detected Virus HEUR:Trojan.Win32.Generic C:\bitcoin\openssl-1.0.0c-mgw\test\dhtest.exeProbably a false alarm but still it's better if you don't include any binaries to avoid stuff like this. If you're in the US it would be slightly faster to use my service. See my signature. I also don't charge anything to buy BTC so you'll save money. Then why doesn't Microsoft charge $10,000 or $100,000 for their operating system? If they truly have the market cornered then they could do that and they would do that. Obviously, they don't. The fact is, if they were to start charging absorbent prices people would switch to Apple or Linux. Just because everyone likes a certain brand at a certain price doesn't mean they have a monopoly. A monopoly implies you can charge whatever you like and people will pay it. Even though Microsoft dominates the desktop market the mere threat of competition is enough to keep them in line. They want to keep their dominant position and part of doing that is not charging ridiculous prices. You really need to read more about economics since it's clear that you're just regurgitating misinformation.That's an argument from ignorance.Again, where does their money come from? Drugs? Prostitution? Gambling? Please explain to me how they are going to keep making lots of money when all that will be legal?Yes really. Anyone that charges substantially more than it costs to produce drugs is inviting competition to undercut them. If someone sells crack for $100 a unit and it only costs $10 to make, someone else can sell it for $90, attract away their business and still make a tidy profit. The same argument then applies to the person selling for $90 which encourages someone to sell it for $80 and so on. The price will tend to shift towards cost plus a small profit. The larger the profit, the more incentive there is for others to enter the market. This is basic economics of which you are clearly ignorant."It is no crime to be ignorant of economics, which is, after all, a specialized discipline and one that most people consider to be a 'dismal science.' But it is totally irresponsible to have a loud and vociferous opinion on economic subjects while remaining in this state of ignorance." -RothbardLost taxes aren't immediately felt and can't be directly attributed to that. That's no feedback mechanism. If private firms manage the roads and do poorly, they lose money and eventually go out of business. The firms that remain are necessarily doing a better job. I covered this in my first post so there's little point in repeating it here. Markets weed out incompetence. Governments aren't subject to market forces.I see it as unethical to force me to pay for a service that I neither requested nor desire.Stop confusing violence with aggression. There's nothing wrong with violently defending yourself against a mugger or rapist. If you're against violence then you might as well lay down and die. I'm against aggression and private property is the central issue of what constitutes aggression. If I take the shirt off your back, it's not instantly clear that it's an act of aggression. After all, what if you stole the shirt from me yesterday and I'm just reclaiming my property? In that case, you're the aggressor, for stealing my property, not me. That's up for each person to decide what's in their best interest though, not forced at gunpoint. Going to work is still voluntary, taxation is not.No, that wouldn't be legal. It also wouldn't make enough money to build an army.You can't corner markets through competition. You can only do that with the use of laws, which requires an existing army. It would therefore be impossible to build an army to accomplish that.What areas? You're being vague. Don't pretend like you can make a point without actually being specific.While you're wasting money trying to strong-arm customers, other firms will be more profitable because they won't have that extra expense plus people will be flocking to those firms seeking protection from your small band of thugs.If all drugs are legal, all drugs will be cheap. Do you see alcoholics stabbing old ladies for their next shot of whiskey? No, because alcohol is dirt cheap compared to illegal drugs. As for driving under the influence, again that's yet another problem with our government. They have absolutely no incentive to find a solution to drunk drivers because no matter how many people die on the roads a year, they get to keep managing the roads without going out of business.No, you don't own it. All the land hasn't been homesteaded. There are huge swaths of land with nobody living on it.Taxation is unethical and as you just admitted, practicality is no reason to do unethical things. Private property. The trades are executed every 5 minutes. Does your job seize your property or lock you in prison if you don't do your job? The government does which is why it's coercion.Criminals have a focus of making profit. Average people have the focus of defending their lives and property. Which do you think is more motivating? The thing you are forgetting is that most criminal organizations are committing crimes that simply wouldn't exist if it weren't for the state. Do you see people shooting each other in the street over alcohol? No. You wouldn't see that over drugs either if they weren't illegal. So, take away all the money from drugs, prostitution, etc and what exactly are you left with? Theft, extortion and murder. Please show me a single criminal organization that makes massive amounts of profits off of those things, enough to fight millions of people.If you're on my property and refuse to leave after being asked, you're trespassing. You're the aggressor, not me.I can be evicted by the owner of any owned property. Fortunately for me there is still plenty of unowned land in this country. Go read up on homesteading if you wish to argue effectively with me. Just like you exploit stores by shopping around for the lowest price thereby forcing them to compete with each other? No, you wouldn't do that. You pay above the asking price for everything just so you aren't exploitative. What do you think about universities that treat students like babies and make class attendance mandatory? I'm not talking about labs or group projects. I'm talking about mandatory attendance of lectures where the professor drones out examples or stories that are already in the textbook. Also, before anyone makes any boneheaded workplace analogies, I don't pay to work, they pay me. Don't even go there. I'm actually with you on this to the extent that there are no moral facts, only moral opinions. I'm even willing to begrudge you your opinion even if it's incompatible with mine, for example, you think murder is a fine hobby and I think it's an abomination. However, as soon as you initiate violence, all discourse ceases and we are at a state of war. So, to argue for the legitimacy of the initiation of violence is pointless. Just shoot me in the head and demonstrate exactly what you're all about, if that's your will. Since we're being silly, this is how I see myself in my ideal future.I want to be badass metal skeleton. Fucking hardcore.  You have the option of not doing your job and finding some alternative way to support yourself. It's not analogous to taxation at all. If it were, I'd be able to refuse to pay taxes and find some other way of obtaining those services.Criminals have a lot of wealth to spend but not as much as productive peaceful people, aka, the average person.You agree to the rules by moving in, not by being born. If you refuse to follow the rules set forth by the property owner, you can be evicted. Simply remaining there isn't an act of consent though. I'm glad that you willingly pay your taxes but what does that have to do with the rest of us that are unwilling? Also, you seem to be confusing hypothetical with metaphorical. Nobody ever implied it would be a literal sword. Your attempt at sarcasm fails.How about Average Peaceful Citizen Security Inc? That's most likely going to be the largest firm since all those other groups you mention are just as minor as they are extreme.The difference is that the gated community is private property. The entire United States of America is not. I think you should read up on homesteading. Well, at least you're being consistent enough to fall on your own sword. Of course, it's easy to do that when it's just a hypothetical sword. That's good enough for me, though, since now everyone else can see what your position entails.ZING! Unfortunately, that's not true. The more money you make, the more percentage of your income is taken. There are different laws for different groups.Also, even if everyone paid the same percentage of their income, it's still unfair (not to mention stealing) because 10% of nothing is nothing but 10% of a billion dollars is quite a bit. We should all pay the same amount of money, say $50, assuming we agree to pay taxes in the first place, which I do not. You're missing the point. If the strong decide to dominate the weak, it will happen. There's no illusion about that. However, your system not only allows for it but it also says that it's LEGITIMATE. That's the key difference. That's nonsense. Being born doesn't imply consent. You yourself said that it's only after we are born that we are given the real chance to opt out, by leaving the country. So I am posing it to you in the same way but you reject it. You're being inconsistent.The law applies to only you and 99 other people, no matter what house you buy. If you don't like it, don't buy a house. You claimed that after birth I had a period of time to decide if I wanted to be a victim of taxation and if I didn't like it I'm free to leave the country. Now I'm claiming that after you move into your house you have a period of time to decide if you want to be a victim of house waving service and if you don't like it you're free to leave the country. Where's the difference? What if taxes are voluntary? Great. I'm all for it. By the way, that land that those roads occupy that you're driving on, doesn't belong to the state. That land was stolen through a form of justification known as eminent domain. That's got to go too. Of course, the same argument goes for everything bought with stolen money so really the government owns nothing. Dismantle the state, refund everyone's money or where not possible give them shares in whatever was bought, hospitals or whatever and rebuild it on a voluntary basis. Oh wait that's anarchism. That's exactly what I've been arguing for. I'm glad you have a different label for mob rule. That makes it completely different! Though, beats it out how? It clearly isn't more moral. Maybe you mean that it's more practical? Ah, but slavery was practical too so practicality is not an argument for doing anything.Oh no, you almost made the mistake of following your logic to its absurd conclusion. Don't do that!If everyone votes that my house waving service is legitimate then guess what, you're screwed. If you don't like it, move. By the way, it applies to just your type of house, which only a minority of people own, just like certain higher tax rates only apply to a certain minority of people.It is silly but it's YOUR logic, not mine. That means your reasoning is silly.How can you be so completely ignorant of anarchist philosophy? I'm against the initiation of violence (that's called aggression) which is why I'm against statism. Taxation is aggression. I'm against it. So, obviously I don't think anyone at all should be allowed to initiate violence. I believe only in violence as self-defense. Exactly. If we concentrate all the authority into the hands of a few people it makes it easier for the sociopaths to gain control of it and do that much more damage. Whereas, under anarchism, they would be limited in the amount of damage they could do by using their own resources or those they could grab from others.
Collective self-defense is not the same as a state. You clearly don't understand anarchism. You think it amounts to pacificism. It does not. What could be more arbitrary than mob rule? By the way, you keep ignoring my bill for services rendered of my "house waving service". I've been by your house several times and waved at it therefore you owe me a million dollars. You've had plenty of time to move so you obviously want my services according to your logic. What gives? Please show me how you intend to weasel out of this bill.If you don't like my house waving service, stop using it. Oh that's right, I don't allow you to cancel my services, too bad.Brinks. ADT. Any number of private security firms. Do our politicians have dissociative identity disorder or is robbing people at gunpoint not a lucrative enough enterprise? Ah, good ole' Jacque Fresco. I watched a documentary on him years ago and I almost bought into it. His logic is the same logic that used to make me wonder why people go hungry while food sits on the shelves in grocery stores collecting dust. Then I learned economics. He's a great engineer which is why he thinks like one rather than an economist. All he sees is that we need X tons of resources to have futuristic cities and also that we have X tons of resources in the ground. It seems like all we need to do is get from A to B, problem solved. Getting from A to B is the hardest part though. Who's going to be in charge? Who's going to do the work, when and how much of it? Those are questions that simply cannot be centrally planned as long as we have scarcity of labor and people with bizarre notions of being individuals. When we have robot slaves, he's going to be all set. Until then, stick to the engineering Jacque.That being said, I definitely want a house that's been extruded, has no crevices or seams, that's positively pressurized and can be hosed out when dirty. Why not? You are agreeing to put theft to a vote. Please come up with some sort of principled argument instead of ad hoc assertions. Why is one immoral act up for vote but not another? Never underestimate the destructive power of well-intentioned idiots. I know nothing about programming with Qt but I'm willing to learn if nobody else takes you up on this. Good luck! Also, I forgot to mention that if you use Google's version of OpenID with your Google account you can have two-factor authentication which makes this the most secure exchange at the moment, unless someone else has two-factor authentication or is also using OpenID.Read more about it: http://googleblog.blogspot.com/2011/02/advanced-sign-in-security-for-your.htmlAlso, Google provides the ability to use one-time-passwords which is useful if you need to use an insecure network or a limited browser. Ding, ding. We have a winner.Competition good! Monopolies bad!That's just my unfrozen caveman lawyer interpretation of it though. Where would you rather spend the night, in a public park or Disney World? In a public park you are protected by the police but at Disney World you are protected by security guards. Somehow, I think I would feel safer at Disney World, especially once it gets dark. Then why would anybody bother to work when people like you will clothe and feed them? I'm sorry but I don't owe anyone anything like that. If you want to survive, do it yourself.Ignore them? Jump in the ocean and drown? By the way, my bill to you is in the mail. If you keep living in your house then I'll assume you agree that it's legitimate. I'm 99.999% sure that keefe is going to take me up on this. I'll update this thread once everything is finalized. Thanks for the replies everyone! So, you're saying that it's alright if I let him and his family starve but it's not alright to make him an offer whereby he is able to save his family? That really makes no sense to me.I don't see how this is analogous to my situation. Are you saying that before I exited my mother's birth canal I knew that I was going to be subject to taxes and therefore I shouldn't have been born if I didn't agree to it? That's plainly false. I'm not some guy moving into a house. I'm a guy kidnapped and taken on board a ship while asleep. If he is then I'll be sending him my bill for "B2C's house waving service" whereby I drive by his house, wave at it and he owes me a million dollars. Yes, I think it should be honored. There's a difference between going on board a ship voluntarily and being kidnapped and carried on board, just like there is a difference between voluntarily immigrating to a country and being born there. The former implies consent to the laws of the land while the latter does not, even if you remain there instead of moving. That's the extent to which that analogy is relevant. Don't read more into it than that.If I don't offer the guy the deal, his family starves anyways. Somehow by giving him the means to save them I'm harming him?So, if the cable company starts sending you a bill even though you didn't request their services and don't intend to use them, you're going to pay it? Also, money can exist privately without government. Gold has been used as a medium of exchange and stored value longer than fiat currency. I feel sorry for people that can't even conceive of a system not based on aggression and coercion. The fact we're on the Bitcoin forums where you make the claim that money only has value because of the government is very ironic. Of course it's valid. All voluntary agreements are valid.Here's what David Hume thinks of such an assertion:Then that's extortion and society will defend itself from that. You're saying that we need to let the government extort from us money or else the "real" criminals will. That's absurd. No, they just shoot you in the head or lock you in a rape dungeon. That's much better!By the way, when you go to a loan shark they are up front with you. They say, "We'll loan you this money but if you don't pay up then we'll break your thumbs." If you don't like that deal, don't take it! Are you seriously expecting me to feel sorry for someone that voluntarily enters into an agreement and then is surprised when the other party keeps their word?Again, at least with a loan shark you can agree to their terms or walk away. With the government there is no option. Pay up or we'll take your stuff. If you try to defend yourself, we'll kill you or beat you into submission and lock you in a rape dungeon. That's somehow better?I can't tell if you're serious or not. If drugs were legal, they'd be cheap and nobody would be killing each other over them. Do you see people shooting each other in the streets over alcohol? Not anymore but during prohibition they were. Of course, let's not do anything intelligent like drawing a lesson from that. Then your argument is reduced to absurdity. It doesn't matter if there will always be rapists, we should still strive towards a maximally rape-free society, just like we should strive towards a maximally aggression-free society. The fact that neither will ever exist completely is absolutely irrelevant.By the way, where do you get the idea that anarchists are pacifists? That would imply that we don't see self-defense as legitimate and I haven't met one yet that believes that. We're against aggression, not violence. Our society is already full of thugs and gangs, the police and politicians. Go ask some poor bastard sitting in prison being tortured, locked away from his family, his livelihood taken away from him because he refused to pay taxes or had the audacity to smoke a joint. The difference is that our current system necessarily promotes abuse and injustice. At least we have a fighting chance with anarchism. Isn't that like saying we should allow rape because there will always be rapists and therefore a rape-free society is impossible?All states employ taxation which is immoral. All states outlaw some form of drug use which is immoral. Therefore, your system of right and wrong is already broken.
If you obtain my property by fraud, the contract is invalid so it's still my property and I can reobtain it, by force if necessary just as if you stole it outright. Who will use that force? Either me or my agents acting on my behalf.Let me guess, you think that in order to crack skulls of the guilty we need the state to exist so it can crack skulls of the innocent as well? No, fraud is still unacceptable.I agree, that's a good thing. However, even if you want to help other people, you're still doing that based on your own value scale. You're still trying to achieve your highest goal, even if that goal is helping your neighbor. In that sense we are all selfish. I donated 5 BTC just because I've always been into XKCD but am not interested in crappy swag.Looking on the XKCD forums, the first reply to the bitcoin thread made me chuckle.I agree that someone doesn't understand what a central bank does but it isn't the creator of bitcoin. A central bank counterfeits money, which is a form of theft since it's making the dollars in our pockets worth less which hurts the poorest worst of all. It's just plain evil. As for bank loans, no, fractional reserve banking is a form of fraud. It says that two people own the same money which isn't possible though it works as long as nobody wants their money at the same time. As soon as a bank run occurs though, you're screwed. Of course, the answer to that is to just print more monopoly money, which of course is the exact same thing as taking money from out of our pockets. Let's not even get started on the constant bubbles being created thanks to distorting the markets through artificially low interest rates. Who would have thought that interest rates aren't arbitrary and actually have some sort of role to play and that you can't just force them to remain low without consequences, much like minimum wage laws have consequences for forcing wages to remain artificially high, namely, more unemployment for unskilled laborers. I'm looking for third party payment processors that will take in payments and send me cash by mail. If you're interested send me a PM. Thanks! Are you asking me? If so, it's because they don't accept BTC. I could always sell the BTC and buy it myself but where's the fun in that? Anyone asking how things get their prices is pretty much asking a question with a known answer. It's not how much it costs to produce or obtain X. It's not how important X is to general human welfare. It's based on marginal utility. Let's say you have 3 loaves of bread and you have different goals you'd like to accomplish with that bread in order of importance to you. Maybe you want to eat the first one, give the second one to your family and sell the third. If you're forced to give up a loaf of bread, you're going to have to give up one of your goals. Which goal? The least important goal. The value you place on achieving that last goal is the value you place on a loaf of bread. As you have fewer loaves of bread, you can achieve fewer goals and the value increases on the remaining loaves. Nothing has intrinsic value. All values are subjective but are reflected in prices which are objective, we can observe prices, not values. I would recommend my service since buying BTC for USD in the mail is free using my service. I don't charge any transaction fees or deposit fees. There is only a $5 shipping fee if you want me to send you cash by mail which only applies to people selling BTC. The prices are also based on current market prices rather than a spread. See the link in my signature.If you're interested, I'm looking for third party payment processors to take different forms of payments and send me cash by mail and vice versa. I'm also open to offers up to 10% above the purchase price. Selfish meaning they care about themselves first and others second. Who would deny that? If every US citizen were to die, there would be no more USA. Therefore, the USA is nothing above and beyond the people that it is comprised of. Sounds good. I'll be sending you both a PM soon. Also, don't anyone be afraid to overlap. The more choices the better. Either in person in Huntsville, AL, Birmingham, AL or Nashville, TN or you send first by UPS/FedEx.2000 BTC + shipping or best offer I didn't say they are purely selfish. Huh, are you just talking about worn out bills or what?The Federal Reserve Bank also "prints money" aka counterfeiting but that doesn't really result in any extra currency in circulation they just add some digits to reserve accounts which banks keep. The amount of currency in circulation rises pretty steadily no matter how much the Fed is stealing from us. Banks exchange old currency for new currency and the old currency gets shredded or recycled. There's no shortage of people that want to take in an abandoned baby.You do whatever it takes to survive. On your own you can hunt, farm, fish or forage. Nobody owes you anything. However, someone might offer you some food that they have in exchange for something. If you don't like their offer you don't have to take it. You then go back to the original state of affairs, doing what it takes to survive. Again, nobody owes you anything.A right to life implies a positive obligation. Some socialists are saying they have a right to health care. That again implies a positive obligation. Nobody owes you that. They owe you negatives, inaction, not action; not murdering you, not raping you, not robbing you. It's these kinds of interactions that give me hope for humanity. Bravo. *slow clap* I'm only going to respond to your sensible comments. If you want me to address something I've ignored don't just whine that I've ignored it, elaborate on it so that I understand that you actually have some sort of cogent point to make.So you don't consider hunting, farming, fishing or foraging to be work? Well, I do but instead of playing semantic games why don't we just say that you have to "take action" in order to survive because food isn't going to hop onto your plate?If you have a right to life then I would be obligated to save you if you were drowning. No, you have a right to not be murdered. All negative rights must contain some sort of negation if they are to be negative.No but they also aren't required to provide me a living. They can drop me off at any hospital (well it's too late now since I'm college, but they had their chance to give me up for adoption). I don't follow you, sorry. Do you think that it's not extremely well-evidenced? How do you differ? We know that the theory of evolution is proven extremely well-evidenced.
Actually, that is one of my goals. I used to completely lose it when dealing with intellectually dishonest people or just plain idiots. Then I moved on to typing scathing replies, reading them and then backspacing over them without posting, out of guilt. Now, it's very rare that my temper flares up and when it does I am able to just take a few breaths and let it pass. By the time I'm in my 30's I hope to be some sort of zen master at dealing with fools. Recently, I've had people applaud my patience so I think I'm making progress. To each his own though. I've always been an argumentative person. The problem is that unless people are forced to point the gun themselves they don't actually think they are using violence. They just get to vote for whatever laws they want and blue uniformed thugs do the actual dirty work. Also, I'm interested in getting my ideas tested rather than just proselytizing.However, you're right and it's always funny when people try to argue their way towards legitimizing aggression since violence is the interruption of discussion not the conclusion thereof. If they really thought violence was the answer then they would just shoot me in head and be done with it instead of engaging me in discussion. By engaging me in discussion you are already presupposing that your view of aggression as legitimate is wrong and that discourse is the proper mode of settling disagreements. No, it's Utopian to think that you can have a monopoly on legitimate violence and that it won't lead to abuses.You talk about me being oblivious to the real world when you're talking about replicators from Stargate SG-1? If your replicators only used unowned resources then why would I care? Until you damage me or my property, I have no concern. Of course, if I see your replicators running wild I'm not going to sit on my thumbs until everything is used up. I will start to claim more resources for myself so that I don't run out. I see no problems other than the absurdity of your question. By the way, if we can make Stargate SG-1 replicators then I want my Star Trek food computer that produces Earl Grey tea on voice command.I didn't say I own all the air. Don't make straw man arguments. I own some air though. Do you have an issue with that? What's the argument that you can own land but not air? Land moves too. See: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Plate_tectonicsI'm under no delusions that I'll convert anyone here. I'm just trying to refine my views through trial-by-fire. You'll never know if you're wrong unless you put your views to the test. You have the right to use your property as you see fit but not if it involves damaging my property, which includes the air. If you can somehow keep all your pollution in your airspace why would I care? I only care when it starts to affect me and my property. There's little difference between polluting my air and dumping raw sewage on my property.Also, don't you feel a bit silly engaging in these extreme cases? We don't base general principles on extreme cases and for good reason. They aren't reflective of typical situations. You are delusional. You and BCEmporium are lost causes so I won't be engaging in conversation with either of you again. Sorry but I have better things to do, like bashing my head against a wall. That's ignorant and prejudiced. First of all, we have to acknowledge that most people don't want constant violence in their daily lives and that most people are basically decent. If that isn't the case then humanity is already fucked and no form of ideology is going to save us. Assuming there are no objections to that, let's say that 90% of humans just want to live in peace and the other 10% want to use aggression to accomplish their goals. So, the argument is that the 90% should concentrate all their force into the hands of a single group of people to protect us from the other 10%. The flaw in this is that, what's to stop the 10% from taking control of this concentration of power? It seems only natural that the bad 10% of people would seek to control it. You're only making things easier for them that way. At least in a stateless society we have a fighting chance and of course the 90% can overpower the other 10% and defend themselves. At some point it comes down to sheer numbers rather than who has the most gold. Yeah baby! Harming me by radiation poisoning or smoke inhalation is no different from throwing a rock and hitting me in the head with it. So, obviously that's not legitimate unless I agree to let you do those things to me. Of course, if you do throw a rock at me, it's not the fault of the guy that gave you the rock.There will always be people that want to use aggression to accomplish their goals. The only difference is that in a stateless society we can have our own private army to pay to defend us against aggressors. Remember, businesses have to make money, governments don't. Few people are going to patronize or invest in a business that engages in costly wars. Besides, do you really think Google or Microsoft is suddenly going to start buying tanks? There's a difference between grabbing a loaded gun that's already in play vs. having to build one, load it yourself, aim it and pull the trigger. I stopped reading there since everything that follows is going to be immoral. What if the government reinstated slavery? Well, that would be wrong, just like whatever it is you're suggesting. Define harm. If I open a lemonade stand next to yours with lower prices then I'm harming your business but that's entirely ethical. Do you have any examples?Right and the problem is the state which is necessarily violent and coercive.Why? Do you have any kind of reasoning or argument to go along with your assertion or are we expected to take you on your word alone? Another example is during the Hurricane Katrina crisis, some guy brought down a truckload of bottled water and was selling it for something like $25 a gallon. There was a line of people buying it and someone in line called the cops. When the cops showed up and forced him to stop selling water, all the people in the line started clapping. That was a real "WTF" moment for humanity. It shows that most people are just plain stupid. If you want the water and are willing to stand in line and pay high prices for it why are you happy to see the supply being cut off?! Didn't you really want that water? If not, why were you paying so much for it? It boggles the mind.What most people don't understand is that price gouging serves two purposes, one is rationing and the other is increasing the supply. If there is a disaster and you go to the grocery store and the prices are the typical prices for milk, orange juice, flashlight batteries, etc, the first guy in line is going to load up his cart and buy the place out because he knows he might need it. If the price for a gallon of milk is $25 though, he's probably going to buy just one or two and leave some for the rest of the people in line. Also, since the prices go up, all the suppliers start bringing in more supplies to make a profit which helps to satisfy the increased demand. It's like a cry for help that says, "Hey we need milk over here so bad that we are paying $25 a gallon! Send more milk!" If you artificially force the prices to remain low it's limiting how loud you can cry for help. I didn't say anything about pacifists. I think that's suicide. However, there is a difference between aggression and self-defense. That's theft which has nothing to do with trading, free or otherwise. If you hold a gun to my head and force me to take one penny for my house that's at least an actual trade, though not a free one. That's still got nothing to do with regulations. I guess I should officially announce http://www.bitcoin2cash.com here as well.I'm also looking for third party payment processors that want to take different forms of payments from customers and send me cash by mail and vice versa. Contact me by email if interested. Well, "unregulated free market" is redundant and "regulated free market" is an oxymoron. If it's regulated then it's not free because regulations are limits on freedom.Let's say that I don't have the key because I don't know who built the bomb but I do have the knowledge to disarm it. Am I somehow obligated to disarm it? If so, why? Yes, there will always be peaceful people that are attacked by others that are violent and coercive. That applies to any system. You are right about anarchy already existing at a global level otherwise there would be one world government. I'm not sure what your point is since all that does is show that anarchy can and does exist.So, you want to pretend that I'm the only peaceful anarchist? If anarchy was some kind of fundamentalist individualist philosophy then we'd be opposed to voluntary socialism and even team sports, clubs, etc. I've got no problem with voluntary things like that. In fact, I don't even demand that you embrace capitalism. Anarchy is the only ideology that can accommodate capitalism, socialism, communism, syndicalism, etc, all at once. If you want to go live in a hippie commune, have at it. I'm against aggression, not collectivism. You're welcome to think of yourself as some kind of worker bee or ant. I won't be joining you though. Either you accept my wishes peacefully or you're going to use coercion to bend me to your will. That's all it comes down to, peace or war. It's your choice. The mere mention of Hitler isn't a violation of Godwin's law since facism is directly related to the issue at hand. Godwin's law was meant to illustrate how silly it is to compare minor offenses to genocide which trivializes it. That's not the case here. As for the logical fallacy, I'm not saying I didn't make any. After all, I'm only human and I make mistakes but I can't correct those mistakes if you refuse to point them out. What logical fallacy do you think I'm committing? It's more like..."Give me your bike you earned through your work or I shoot you"vs."Give me your work or I won't feed you"Nobody has positive rights, only negative rights. In other words, I don't owe you any action but rather I owe you inaction i.e. not murdering you, not raping you, not robbing you. I don't owe you food in your stomach or clothes on your back. Why would I unless I'm your slave? Only a slave owes his master labor and the fruits thereof. I'm not your slave.
Let me begin by explaining what capitalism is and isn't, first, what it isn't. Capitalism isn't big business getting favors from the government. That's facism. When Hitler came to power in a democratic election (so much for democracy), rather than put all the businesses such as BMW under government ownership, which would be socialism, he simply told businesses what to do. He controlled them through regulations even though they were still left in the hands of private ownership. I'm definitely against facism, unlike most US presidents.So if it's not facism or socialism, what is capitalism? Well, first let me digress. Let's say that our dear friend Doood has a shiny new bicycle and I want it. There are two ways I can obtain it. One is, I can make him an offer. I could say, "I'll give you $500 for it." I could say, "I'll walk your dogs for the next 4 years." However, if Doood doesn't like any of my offers, he keeps the bicycle. That's the free market way. The other way I could obtain it is if I point a gun at him and say, "Give me your bicycle or I'll shoot you in the face." In the same manner, I could get a bunch of my friends together and we can all vote that I should have his bicycle because I need it more or I look better riding it or whatever and then we all point our guns at him and make the same threat, "Your bicycle or your life." That's not the free market way. That's theft.So, what is capitalism? Capitalism is the free market and the free market is simply the aggregation of all voluntary trades. If I make you an offer and you accept it voluntarily, that's part of the free market. If I mug you at gun point, that's not part of the free market. If capitalism is the free market which is nothing but voluntary trading, why would anyone object to it? Well, there are still a few objections which I'd like to address.Objection 1: Capitalism is exploitative.If capitalism is simply the free market which is simply voluntarily trading then that means voluntarily trading has to be exploitative. How could that be? If we're both self-interested rational creatures and if I offer you my X for your Y and you accept the trade then, necessarily, I value your Y more than my X and you value my X more than your Y. By voluntarily trading we each come away with something we find more valuable, at that time, than what we originally had. We are both better off. That's not exploitative. That's cooperative.Objection 2: But, but wage slavery!If you want to live then you have to work. That's nature's fault (or God's fault if you're a Christian). Either way, you have to work to survive. Nobody is obligated to keep you alive. You have the right not to be murdered, you don't have the right to live. So, if I offer you a job, that's still a voluntary trade, my resources for your labor. If you don't like the trade then you can reject it and go survive through your own means or simply lay down and die. It's harsh but fair. Otherwise, I'd have to take care of myself and everyone else which is unfair. Requiring me to provide you a living is actual slavery, much worse than nonexistent wage slavery.Objection 3: The rich get richer and the poor get poorer.Historically speaking, this is nonsense. For the last 800 or so years, there has been a steady increase in the quality of life for everyone, not just the rich. What's more, the rich get rich by making the poor better off. People like Bill Gates, Steve Jobs, etc, make their money by giving us awesome services and technology. My family has lived in Alabama for generations, not exactly a cultural nexus, and my ancestors were indentured servants. Yet, I've been able to fly first class all over the country, eat all kinds of exotic foods, been to concerts, plays and all kinds of shows. I have a wardrobe full of clothes, all kinds of electronic gadgets, two cars, etc. My parents and grandparents weren't able to do that. I'm better off not worse. If I were living 200 years ago I wouldn't have any of that. I'd probably have a single set of clothes and little else. The life expectancy at the dawn of man was 18 years at birth and by the dawn of the USA it was at around 45. Now in capitalistic countries it's closer to 70 and some of us can expect to live as long as 100 years. The rich get richer and the poor get richer. We are all better off. We live longer and healthier.Objection 4: Free markets are oppressive, racist, sexist, etc.Actually, free markets force those kinds of behaviors to come at a cost. If a black woman's labor is worth $8 an hour but because I'm a racist, sexist, pig I only pay her $6 an hour thereby making $2.00 profit for myself, I run the risk of some other greedy capitalist pig to offer the same black woman $6.01 an hour to undercut me and make $1.99 profit. This same kind of greedy profit-driven behavior will continue until the black woman's wages approach what the market value is, $8 an hour. There is no place in the market for anything other than profit seeking and that will require greedy capitalist pigs to ignore their personal feelings of racism or sexism unless they want to be put out of business.Objection 5: Free markets don't care about the environment.As long as humans value clean water, clean air, pristine land and so on and as long as said land is privately owned and doesn't become a victim of the tragedy of the commons, there will always be a cost to pollution and the market will punish it accordingly. If you dump toxic waste in my river, you owe me money, either in damages if it was without my permission or as payment to offset the value of the environment that you're destroying. Companies that find ways to avoid pollution won't have to pay these extra costs and therefore will make more profits. Companies that can't work around pollution while eventually be driven out of business by companies that can.Objection 6: Free markets destroy art and culture by making people more materialistic.Again, historically speaking, this simply isn't true. In the Baroque period of music, when most composers were employed by a king, church or some form of government, they were greatly censored and limited in the ways they could express themselves. It was only later when composers such as Mozart could work independently in a free market that they found greater freedom. The Romantic period owes a debt to the free market for making this happen. Also, capitalism has contributed to the emergence of entire new genres of art such as interactive video, video games, etc. I have an entire recording studio in a single machine that can sit on my desk. These days anyone can express themselves through art. Art and culture has expanded, not shrunken. Of course, some philistines might sneer at YouTube videos being considered a form of art but that's their problem not mine. Anyone that can watch this video http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MuU00Q3RhDg and claim that it's not art, has no humanity. This video is a product of a free market composer being reinterpreted using commodity audio/video equipment, computers, editing software and a service making it available to millions. This is capitalism and art at work.Objection 7: Monopolies!Abusive monopolies don't arise in free markets. There is only one way to bar new entries into the market and that's by law. The abusive monopolies that exist are products of government interventionism. Even if there is only a single company providing a good or service the mere potentiality that someone could enter the market is enough to keep them in line. If they were to start charging absorbent prices it would provide incentive to new companies to enter the market and undercut them. Even if they started buying up companies they would have to do so at a loss and it would only provide even more incentive for new companies to enter the markets. All abusive monopolies are the result of laws, not markets. You can't corner the market in anything and charge whatever you want. All attempts to do so have failed.Objection 8: Let's talk about the poor again! Nobody would feed them.So the argument is that unless we have laws that enable us to point guns at people and force them to empty their pockets for the poor, nobody would ever help the poor. The question you need to ask is, if that were true, how could any such laws get established in the first place? Why would anyone vote to have a gun pointed at them if they weren't also willing to do it without the gun? The mere existence of laws designed to help the poor is direct evidence that people want to help the poor! Charity is part of the free market. It's simply a free trade where one party asks for nothing in return. It's moral, ethical and would still exist in pure capitalism. In fact, it would exist better in pure capitalism because people would be able to direct their funds to the poor better. They would have a choice of charities and if some charities did a terrible job, nobody would donate to them and they'd go out of business. In the end, the best charities would remain and that would in turn help the poor more efficiently.Objection 9: Some things are too important to leave to the free market.On the contrary, the free market punishes poor performance. As a business, if you sell pizza that kills thousands of people a year, you lose money and eventually go out of business. As a government agency, if you kill thousands of people, you lose nothing and you get to keep doing a terrible job. The free market punishes bad behavior and weeds out incompetence. Not so with the government. You might say that you can vote people out of office but it's really hard to vote on specific issues. If there are two candidates and you like half of one person's policies and half of the other person's policies, there's no way to vote for just the policies that you like. You have to take the good with the bad, whereas the free market allows for fine grained control. If you want only 10-speed bicycles then you only buy 10-speed bicycles and the market responds. If the government builds roads and manages them poorly, nothing happens. If free market companies build roads and manages them poorly, they go out of business and the businesses that remain are necessarily doing a better job than the ones that went out of business. The market again acts to weed out incompetence. Central planning, be it facism, socialism or communism, doesn't have this mechanism.Objection 10: Capitalism promotes greed and all we'll end up with are greedy corporations.This is scraping the bottom of the barrel. All humans are greedy. When you go to the grocery store or shop for a new TV do you pick the TV that is the cheapest for a specific quality level or are you generous enough to pay extra to the seller? Of course you try to get the best deal. That doesn't make you a greedy asshole. It just makes you intelligent. It's just plain stupid to pay more than you have to for anything and it cuts both ways, as a producer and a consumer. Greed is good, when it's done intelligently.So, in summary, capitalism is the only moral system since it's based on voluntary actions rather than violent or coercive ones (yes even if everyone votes to rob one guy democratically that's still violent and coercive). Even if moral considerations aren't enough, for instance you're some kind of inhuman utilitarian, then the efficiency of free markets should convince you. Central planning simply can't respond to human desires the same way that free markets can. If the central planners decide to make 100 bicycles and 200 sneakers and it turns out that people wanted 200 bicycles and 100 sneakers, that's just too damn bad. There's no way to signal that to the planners that's as efficient. I say efficient to acknowledge that syndicalism (if it could work) could respond to human desires but only at the cost of massive inefficient bureaucracies. Capitalism, the free market, voluntary trade, is still the best option and the only moral one. "No true Scotsman" fallacy. There is no such thing as need vs. want. All human desires are wants. I want to live. I want to eat. I want to be happy. Etc. There is no need to live or anything else. Needs are just fudge words used in an attempt to make certain desires seem more important.If you are alone on this Earth, you have to hunt, fish, farm or forage to survive. If you don't, you will die. Is nature somehow forcing you to do any of that stuff against your will? No, that's absurd, you want to live so therefore you do what it takes to survive.So why is it that when we add other people to this equation, suddenly you start making demands on them? They don't owe you anything. If they offer you some food to do some work, they are only increasing the number of opportunities you have. You could still go hunt, fish, farm or forage to survive, or just lay down and die. The choice is yours and it's all completely voluntary. The world does not owe you a living. I'm sorry. Alright, since you don't care about anonymity, you would need to go to some place like mtgox.com and deposit your Bitcoins there. After they are deposited, list them for sale at the current bid price so you can sell them instantly. After you sell them, you will have USD in your account and you can withdraw it from there. Once you have USD you can convert them to whatever local currency you need. It would work the same as changing any currency into any other currency. You need to work with a currency exchange. If you're looking for anonymity there are several cash-by-mail services such as mine, bitcoin2cash.com. If you're looking for convenience there other others that will send you USD or Euros by wire transfer, or other forms of payments. Look at the trade wiki for the different exchanges being operated. Oh, well there's no need. OpenID is still not that popular even though lots of big names are backing it. It's no surprise that a lot of people aren't used to it. What's wrong? No, you put in https://www.google.com/accounts/o8/id because we will never know your email address, only a random string that Google sends back after you login. I'm not sure if I'm too far off of your route to be useful but I have two houses in two different cities so I put two pins on the map, one in Montgomery, AL and the other in Huntsville, AL. I'll sell you gas for really cheap. I'll charge just enough so you can say you paid for your gas with BTC. Good luck! I think you mean the War of Northern Aggression.  Don't care. Didn't read it. Now ignoring you. Bye. Unfortunately, doing this entirely in PHP would be a nightmare. You could do it easily if you were allowed to run LAME from the command line but you mentioned 1btchost which I don't think will allow you to upload and run arbitrary executables. If you could write up a specification of how everything should work and what features it should have that would be great. The more descriptive you are the more I can focus on just the programming. Then you don't understand anarchism. If you want to know what anarchism is about, ask an anarchist. Here comes one now...Try attacking anarchism as we actually define it instead of your straw man version. As long as you persist in denying our definition, your not really attacking anarchism. The choice is yours.*facepalm* I'd be interested in making that program for you, no charge. In which case attackers will just keep passing the same 0.06 back and forth. Since they are never losing any BTC, the attacks can be performed with any denomination. It just requires them to have a larger bankroll to begin. Bitcoins can be lost forever, yes. In that case, all the other Bitcoins in existence go up in value. Since Bitcoins can be divided into .00000001 increments (technically, not currently in the mainstream client), we won't have to worry about running out for a while.You have to open a client with the bank wallet at least once to create it and get an address. After that, you don't have to keep the client running to receive incoming transactions. You can shut it down and back up that wallet. Then later, when you run the client again with the bank wallet, the transactions will all show up all at once* when you open the client.*After downloading all the blocks. So because a minority of black people steal, all black people steal? Because a minority of Christians blow up abortion clinics, all Christians are terrorists? That's just absurd. Read my 2 rules above. Smashing the property of others violates rule number 1. They aren't very good anarchists if they are doing that.I think you just have an axe to grind and don't want to learn why you're wrong. That link makes my head want to explode! Socialism is fine as long as it's voluntary. You're free to go live in a monastery, hippie commune or what have you, but as soon as you start redistributing property by force, you're being immoral. I also find it hard to fathom how anyone could think that voluntary trade is ever exploitative. If I trade you a loaf of bread for a fish, obviously you value the bread more than the fish and I value the fish more than the bread. If not, why would we voluntarily trade? By trading, we each come away with something we find more valuable than we had originally. We are both better off. How is that exploitative? It's not. That's chaos, not anarchy. Anarchy means that there are no arbitrary rulers.There are actually two very important rules in anarchy.1. Don't use aggression against other people or their property. (self-defense is fine, we aren't pacifists)2. The only legitimate way of obtaining property is by homesteading unowned property or legitimate title transfer i.e. trading, gifting, gambling, etc. (no stealing or fraud)That's it. If you stick to these two rules, you cannot have any form of state since states collect taxes which is theft. By the way, these aren't rules that anarchists idealistically expect everyone to follow. On the contrary, we acknowledge that there will always be people that violate these rules. In response to these rule breakers, we each will use force to protect ourselves and our property.
Right, as Bitcoins are lost, the rest of them will gain in value and therefore can be divided in smaller and smaller increments.It's limited in the client but not the protocol itself.The number of confirmations simply represents the number of blocks that have been generated since it occured. It's not some kind of process that's being repeated over and over again. There is no cost for extra confirmations. I run www.bitcoin2cash.com and I only accept cash-by-mail. I'm looking for someone that wants to process different forms of payments and send me the cash. This will enable my service to support multiple forms of payments and allow you to make a profit by charging a transaction fee. I will link to your service from my website so my customers will know that we have a relationship. Please let me know what kind of payments you can accept; credit card, paypal, wire transfer, check-by-mail, etc. Oops, that's the testing account! I had it set in testing mode but didn't put it offline. Log in again and you'll get a real account.There are 6 slots left now. Runescape? Nah, Tibia is where it's at!   I have no opinion on whether dark pools are "good" or "bad", whatever that means, but as the operator of a market, my number one goal is transparency. When people place an ask or bid, I want them to be confident that they have all the information that is currently available. Whatever asks or bids are placed later are a different story. I can't control that. The bots are welcome to do their thing but out in the open. Alright, I've fixed the problem. It shouldn't do that anymore. Login again several times and verify it please. The name of my business is bitcoin2cash... bitcoin to cash... you turn bitcoins into cash... you give me bitcoins, I give you cash... by mail.Here's the google cache as evidence: http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:f00HWY8tmVAJ:bitcoin2cash.comIf you don't know what you're talking about then don't make wild assertions. It only makes you look ignorant. How about, doing a trade? I didn't say you were a charlatan. I just said you're taking an unnecessary risk and that's not the kind of thing an entrepreneur should be doing. I'm glad you've studied law. Next, you should study business.So because I may or may not voluntarily spend my personal assets therefore I should open myself up to involuntarily losing my personal assets? That's ridiculous. The point is to mitigate or mimimize risk. As an individual, I would be forced to fight a legal battle with my personal assets or get a default judgment and lose my personal assets. As an LLC, I could opt for the default judgment, close the business down permanently and still keep my personal assets.The longer you talk to me the more it's obvious that your advice is worthless at best and harmful at worst. Please, just stop talking to me. You're advice is unwanted and unneeded. Thanks. Not really since all of my trades except for a few people testing the waters were over hundreds of dollars and took place about every other week, the maximum being $1000 at once. This is going to be more of a high volume service (hopefully). However, now that I see that the weak point in my business is the fee, I'll lower it for promotional purposes to $5 (which means people that got $5 in the other promotion will get one cash withdrawal for free), possibly lose some money for a little while but then change it from there once I figure out something that isn't losing me money.Thank you and thanks to everyone else that's given me constructive input and been humble about it rather than kicking sand in my face. Sent.http://blockexplorer.com/address/12q9s9TUtp5oacgLnekWWhZ45of8Z5BimQThanks a lot! Well, I only have 10 slots left so it's probably not worth the bother at this point. +1 demonofelru (bought a game on steam from him, went smooth as silk) I received it. I am downloading it now. I think it automatically added us as friends. I didn't know it would do that but that's cool.Please give me your address, thanks. I will leave feedback as well. Yes, sir. Let's do it by email address rather than steam ID please. My email is already public knowledge. If you've been registered on these forums longer than I have, I'll send first, assuming you have a decent posting history and aren't using some newly resurrected account. I'll also buy it for 90 BTC if you send first. The funniest part is that I've already been in business since July of 2010. This is just a site redesign. It's not really a new service other than the automation. I've been sending/receiving cash for quite a while now.Here's proof: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1303.msg17158#msg17158Maybe I shouldn't have said anything but I can't, in good conscience, let you take nanaimogold's money like that. Unless of course, it's me doing it.   You meant 5000 BTC, not 50 BTC right? *cough*Igotyoucovered*cough* First-mover advantage.
In your opinion, what would be a more reasonable fee? You said "anyone". Be more careful with your wording next time.I think you will need to clarify what you mean by "in business" before anyone will take you seriously. I'll bet you 5000 BTC. Care to put your money where your mouth is?Oh... he left. Well, if anyone would care to pass the message along to him. I'd like to make some easy money. When you request a withdrawal you have to agree to terms of service that says exactly that. We aren't responsible for lost mail.I've already addressed this. Profit is only one possible motive. The satisfaction of acting superior is another possibility. It's a fallacious reasoning to assume that just because there are little profits to be made that people won't be vindictive for other reasons. Some people just like acting like they are king of the hill.That price will definitely go down. I figured that it would be better for me to charge more rather than less until I figure out exactly how much gas/time/effort etc is going to be required to keep this up. It's also to cover possible international mail costs too. Eventually I'll have separate rates depending on the country.Thanks for your comments. It should mean that you tried to place a bid that would require more than 5 dollars. What was the price and amount you used? Who said that it would? Nobody. That's a straw man argument. It protects my personal assets from civil lawsuits and business debts, which is the point. Also, before you ask "what possible lawsuits or debts", that's the point. I don't know. If I could predict the future then I wouldn't need to worry.Then you have no business giving anyone advice on how to run a business. That's an unnecessary risk which is not the kind of thing an entrepreneur should be doing.It's only unnecessary if I don't mind putting my personal assets at risk for lawsuits or debts, which I do. Sweet! Good luck with your business.  That's your opinion and you're entitled to it. However, I think that if we took a vote from people that weren't biased, they would agree with me. This is also not representative of my business disputes. He's not a client and there has been no business done here. That's hardly a fair metric. It would be wiser to see how my actual business dealings turn out. It's hard to see how a dispute like this could arise. Things are a lot more clear cut with the actual business. Either you sent money or you didn't. Either I sent Bitcoins or I didn't. Where's the need for reasoning?I'm not angry at you. I don't trust you. I think you're intellectually dishonest. Other than that, I feel nothing. I guess it's easier for you to convince yourself that I'm just a "hater" rather than someone that sees through your bullshit. The worst part is that even if you weren't really making that claim, you won't admit that at the very least it was poor wording. No, I'm just a nitpicker because I want to be angry. That's logical. I'm not here to make friends. I'm here to be trusted as a business. If you won't do business with me because you don't like me personally, that's a bit silly but it's your prerogative.Oh, I didn't say I'm letting you off the hook. I just pointed out that you're not really gaining anything by weaseling out of your statement. There's no way that your statement makes sense except interpreted in one way. Nobody is keeping you here though. You're free to leave if you don't want to debate anymore. Why do trolls say half of the idiotic things they say?You said that people with 5 posts would be an obvious "joe job" but then went on to say that "the real problem" is if I have "established/trusted members of the forum complaining". So, even if I give you the benefit of the doubt that you didn't mean what you said, it's still hardly a nitpick because those sentences look pretty darn related. It was at the very least extremely poor wording on your part.Besides, even if I let you off the hook, you still lost that point of the argument since you're now forced to admit that the only fake complaints will be from obvious trolls. Either way, you lose. *shrug* I don't believe that for a single minute. The second sentence is a direct continuation of the first. You know it, I know it and anyone that can read English knows it. That's demonstrably false. Here's the exact quote:The quote you were responding to begins with "as for fake complaints" and you used the phrase "joe job", so how can you claim that you were talking about *real* complaints? I've been a member of these forums slightly longer than you have so I'm more than aware of people's reputations. The fact that he's a competitor and being so critical was the first red flag. The second red flag was coming up with ridiculous theories like, "The real problem is when you have established/trusted members of the forum [falsely] complaining, your reputation is toast." which makes absolutely no sense and seems like a very trollish thing to say. First of all, why would trusted forum members do that? Conspiracy? Second of all, that applies to any business. A bunch of trusted members could start claiming that Mt Gox ripped them off. It's completely irrelevant and doesn't belong in a serious discussion. He's either making a fallacious argument because he doesn't know any better or because he's trolling. I'm not frowning on his experience. I'm frowning on his conduct, making inappropriate comments like above, being condescending and sarcastic when I've been nothing but straightforward. So, yes, if you can't see that then you may be biased. If he had contacted me in private first or made a thread without criticizing me personally (the amateur remark definitely crosses the line) then I would have nothing but thanks for him. I'm sorry if I take my reputation a little too seriously but that's all I have to go on and when people start making long rants that could be interpreted poorly by potential clients, I feel the need to respond. Good. I don't need "help" that's dripping with sarcasm and presumptions. Thanks, that will work. Profit isn't the only possible motive. Pride, arrogance, pedantry, etc are just as motivating. Anyways, if you really want to know how you can help me then you can stop trolling my threads. If you want to warn people of something, start your own thread and leave my business out of it. If you can prove that you have access to that website, placing a text file that says "bitcoin2cash", sending me an email from that domain or something like that then I'll allow it. Otherwise, it will just encourage people to look for other people to create accounts for. I appreciate that but unfortunately I also have no way of verifying it. It should be fixed now. Remember, if you didn't create your forum account before the time this thread was created then you aren't eligible. I'm sorry but I have to do this to deter the same people from creating multiple accounts.
That's not concern for my safety. That's concern for the safety of your assets.It's also a valid question. TheMadHatter is getting personal, telling me not to keep drugs in my house, calling me an amateur, telling me that my business is doomed to fail because of fake complaints, etc. That kind of stuff has no business being said publicly if done out of genuine concern. Otherwise, it's just pot-stirring. I can take criticism but I take issue with TheMadHatter trying to act as if he isn't motivated by his own personal agenda.But to answer your question, yes. If I'm imprisoned/killed, my partner will take over. If we are both are out of commission then my lawyers will be able to shut down the business and settle all current debts. Even better, why not send me your concerns for my safety in private? What's your desire to criticize me publicly if you're not trying to shake confidence in my business? I just find it odd that the only other cash-by-mail Bitcoin exchange has such a keen interest in my safety while nobody else does. Maybe it's because you have a unique perspective but by making it public, it looks more like professional jealousy. Because it's a new feature and is still being tested.There was an error with your bid, either you didn't have enough funds to cover it or you formatted it wrong.Those pages don't have any content yet. I'm still working on it. I haven't received any funds since the new website was launched but back before it was automated the largest transaction was $1,000 in $100 bills. It's best to use security envelopes with the cash wrapped in something like magazine pages. Also, please don't put our business name on the envelopes. Again, what's to stop them from doing the same to you or any other business? Nothing. I'm not unique.I should have been more specific. There are no extra relevant laws other than filing fees, etc. Can you show me how any of those laws matter other than worrying about filing fees, etc? Please provide a single example of a law (please provide a link as well) that would convince me that it would be better not to be an LLC. Right now, you're just being too vague.That's not what he was arrested for. He was arrested for circulating metal coins as currency which is a federal crime. He was not arrested for undermining fiat currency even if that's why the politicians were up in arms. The law is what matters.That's because I don't do illicit drugs.How are they going to stop Blizzard or any other MMORPG from having scarce items, which create value, without ruining the game itself? It's not possible. You should also look into "Linden Dollars" which is actually given an exchange rate by the company that runs the game Second Life.Yes I have. Like I said, I've talked to a lawyer and was advised that my business is legal.In which case, I will immediately shut down my business since I'm not about to break any laws. However, it's currently legal and that's what matters.What do you mean, "as far as I can tell"? Either you know or you don't know. What laws can you cite?Businesses have the same legal rights as people in the United States.Anyways, this is getting stale and isn't very productive. Please don't worry about me anymore. I'm not really interested in this debate. Assuming there are no fake complaints, the percentage of accidental losses in the mail will be very small, not enough for me to get a bad reputation. If there is active theft on the part of the postal employees, I'll be aware of it and will be able to take action. As for fake complaints, I don't think many people have much of a reason to do that but that's really just a risk that any business faces, even yours.There are no more laws that I have to follow as an LLC than as a private individual. It actually offers me protection from being sued personally for my assets.The same can be said for any form of payment. As long as I'm not actively encouraging illegal activity and had no prior knowledge of it, I'm in the clear.I've read up on it extensively. The laws he violated only apply to metal coins. Otherwise, people would be getting arrested for WoW gold since it has value, can be used for drug deals, to undermine fiat currency, etc.I'm more worried about my freedom than you are. Thanks for your concern but I've got things under control. I hope you'll consider adding our market to your stats. What kind of API do you require to do that? I would suggest Dropbox as others have. However, if you're looking for a website to store your coins on, our website bitcoin2cash.com uses encrypted backups to multiple cloud services. With any website though, you are putting your trust into them. This probably isn't the best place for this discussion. I've started a thread prior to this one that introduced the service which probably would be a better place. However, since you've posted here, I'll respond here. You're welcome to repost in the other thread and I'll repost my response too.It's just as easy to claim that you never received cash even though you did as it is to claim you sent cash even though you didn't. I'm also assuming that the people that are using my service are interested in the greater anonymity that cash provides and therefore understand the risks and accept them. Otherwise, they would just use some other exchange that is more convenient. I'm trying to fill a niche.I told everyone not to put our business name on the envelopes for two reasons, one, obviously, "cash" on the front of an envelope is going to draw eyeballs. Secondly, however, the P.O. box isn't registered under the business name, so the employees don't see the word "cash" either, which means there's a strong chance that the mail will get returned if you put the name on there. Some people didn't follow directions and therefore it seems unfair to blame me. I've put instructions on the website so hopefully it will be more clear to everyone.You can definitely be sure of that. The same problem goes with sending mail too if you're using the same outgoing mailbox repeatedly.I've already talked to a lawyer. I'm an LLC because there is no use trying to hide from the government, especially since I'm not breaking any laws. Also, an LLC gives people more reason to trust me. For legal purposes the business is an online seller of digital goods. Just like selling WoW gold isn't illegal, neither is selling Bitcoins.Of course, there are legal risks since no real precedent has been set but that's a risk I'm willing to take. I'm prepared to fight for my rights. If anyone wants to support me please send a donation to my Bitcoin address in case of needed future legal defense. Good luck finding work. I think the bitcoin labor market is saturated with us kind of people right now. There are no commission fees at bitcoin2cash.com. There are only shipping and handling fees if you request to have cash mailed to you. So, buying Bitcoins with cash is completely free. Who is more likely to be mistaken, some guy that hasn't been studying Bitcoin for very long and came up with some objections off the top of his head or the entire Bitcoin community that has been debating the merits of the system for over a year? I think you should do some more research before making wild accusations. I have 5000 BTC that I will sell but only on bitcoin2cash.com marketplace. Intellectual property is partial theft of real property. Nobody owns information. No, he's just lamenting over the fact that he joined after this thread was created and is therefore ineligible. Unfortunately, I have to do that to prevent the same people from repeatedly creating new accounts. Which would create another gold rush as mining has just become even more valuable. Driving up demand is probably the worst way to shut down a market since it only encourages new suppliers to enter the market. Here's the current work-in-progress order book -> https://www.bitcoin2cash.com/orders.php Well, I'm not sure exactly how those two URL's differ or why that's even possible but as things are, I create a salted hash of the URL to identify you when you login.However, you can easily withdraw your BTC from your account directly to the other account to consolidate things. The addresses don't change. They are reused. The only way you could get two different addresses is if you ended up with two different accounts and the only way that could happen is if you logged in with two different OpenID URL's, such as using HTTP instead of HTTPS or vice versa or appending extra data to the string. Case doesn't matter though and neither should the trailing backslash i.e. aol.com and aol.com/ are equivalent. If you can figure out what you changed then you should be able to log in to the other account and recover your funds. Let me know if you can't figure it out and we'll escalate things until the problem is resolved. It should only take one confirmation. Let me get to the bottom of it for you. Sorry for the inconvenience.EDIT: According to http://blockexplorer.com/address/1AJ2v6cRtewhGwR6MfNNDhSjGQc45eZhbv there hasn't been anything sent to your address. What address did you send to?
That's intentional.You can't sell 0.01 BTC at $0.75 because that would require a dollar amount of $0.075. If you try to make a trade that requires fractions of 0.01 BTC or USD it currently rounds your trade up. The alternative would be not to round anything and simply reject the trade but that would force people to do a little more math. You can also login again and it will redirect you. I'm writing all these suggestions down. Thanks for the feedback! There was probably an error with your request but I don't have them displayed yet. I'm still working on that with the web designer. I agree it's not a good selling point for the general public but I disagree that it's going to be the downfall of Bitcoin. If you have a trade waiting to be executed it will be listed under current holds. You will have a check box next to it that you can tick and then click remove. I don't know about that. The RIAA, MPAA and rest of the pro-IP crowd probably have more lobbyists and therefore more political influence than the anti-drug crowd. Napster is a poor example. A better example is BitTorrent which isn't going anywhere even though my gut feeling tells me that most torrent traffic is some form of copyright infringement. Not currently but it will be added soon.Trades are currently executed every 5 minutes. If more people prefer it another way, I'm open to suggestions. Just make a bid for $5 worth of bitcoins. You can buy 5 BTC at 1 USD or 10 BTC at 0.50 USD. I was told that the average is about 10 minutes but it can take longer depending on how soon the next block is solved in the chain. It takes a few minutes for the transaction to be confirmed. Check out http://openid.anonymity.com/It can be as anonymous as any other form of ID. There's no content for those pages yet. I'm still waiting to see what the FAQ are.To buy bitcoins you place a bid. In the amount you put how many bitcoins you want to buy and the price you put what you are willing to pay per BTC. So to spend 5 USD you could buy 5 BTC at 1.00 each or 50 at 0.10 each or whatever.Also, there aren't any error messages yet so if you do something wrong it will just redirect you to the account page instead of explaining what you did wrong. I'm working on that currently. That sounds like me minus the religious views and the NWO conspiracy stuff. I'm not saying there is no NWO but I haven't seen any credible evidence. No, I'm not interested in arguing about it either. I'll just have to keep waiting for someone to make a reasonable case and hope that I'm right until then. I'm also running a Bitcoin exchange now exactly because Bitcoin promotes liberty. So, if anyone wants to donate to me in case I need legal defense, please do so. My address is in my signature and I will not spend any of the donations unless I get arrested. The service aims to be as anonymous as possible so I'm not sure how that could fit in with our goal. We don't want to do anything that is going to leave a paper trail. Thanks for the report. I'll pass that on to the designer.That will definitely happen.Alright, I'll put that on the todo list. It's coercion. Why do you keep bringing up arguments that have already been refuted? Bread isn't art. Neither is any of that other crap you've mention. Your analogies fail. Many classical and romantic artists didn't live under nobility. Mozart was an independent musician yet he's arguably still one of the greatest composers of all time, without the need for copyrights. Of course, you tellingly ignored the examples of Plato, Aristotle and others so you can cherry-pick your argument. OFFER EXPIRED Yes, it's a good thing we had strong copyright laws back in the day to protect Bach, Beethoven, Plato, Aristotle, Chaucer, etc, or we'd be in such trouble.If you're making art just for the money, you probably suck anyways.
Have you never heard of data mining? It's a branch of computer science. Property rights aren't based on materialism. Property rights are based on the fact that certain things are rivalrous. As I've explained several times already, property rights arise because certain things can only be controlled by one or a few people at a time thereby causing the need to exclude others. If I have a cooking spoon and I want to use it at the same time that you do, we have a problem. How do we settle it? Well, that's why we have property rights. The only question left to decide is how are property rights assigned, flip a coin, whoever is stronger, etc. What sets Libertarianism apart is the rules on the assignment of property rights. We believe in homesteading which means that the first user has a better claim than any latecomers. If you are a latecomer with respect to me and you argue that you have a better claim then there's nothing stopping yet another latecomer from making the same argument against you. Therefore, the prior-later distinction is presupposed by anyone claiming they own property otherwise you would let anyone come along and take it.This is demonstrably false. If you steal my marble and make a statue of it, you don't own the statue. You owe me for damages to my marble. You own your body which means you control what labor it does but you don't necessarily control the products of that labor. You have to own the raw materials to also own the product.Why is your intellectual work a part of you? If you look at how slavery ended in Europe, it was done peacefully. As more and more people saw that slavery was immoral, eventually there was critical mass to make the change. I see anarchism happening over generations as old ideologies die out and Libertarianism becomes more and more popular. Once we have enough people, we withdraw our consent from the state and defend ourselves against any aggression, which hopefully won't come, just as with abolition in Europe.Also, don't make the mistake of saying "anarchism is a great idea but it won't work" since imagine hearing something like "freeing the slaves is a good idea but it won't work". Even if that were true, it doesn't matter, slavery is immoral and we don't acquiesce just because it's impractical.Thank you very much, kind sir! No, YOU are claiming that physical property should be considered as legitimate property.[/quote]Even you will admit that physical property should be considered legitimate. If you disagree then please tell me where you live so I can collect your things. However, since you aren't claiming IP as legitimate then this discussion is over since there's nothing for me to argue against.  That's just one long assertion. Why should you own the ideas that you think up?Why does anyone owe your intellectual work protection? I think a better one is excludability because it gets at the heart of the matter and is covered quite a bit in Libertarian literature. I can try to help you out if you still need it. No, that just means that energy and time are scarce. If energy and time weren't scarce we could copy the same information infinitely. Whoever makes a claim has the burden of proof. You're claiming that intellectual property should be considered as legitimate property. Are you not? If so, where's your argument for that? All I see you doing is loudly declaring that you should be able to make money by owning information. Why?Why is it relevant that you are conflating two things? Because it's fallacious reasoning, that's why. What about that is confusing to you?Also, you keep skipping over my previous posts and claiming I haven't answered you. Please make sure you read everything before making such claims. The forum software notifies you if new replies have been posted while you were typing so you really have no excuse. That's probably not true but even if there were an infinite number of atoms in the universe, an atom of gold on Earth is worth more than two atoms of gold in another galaxy. Practical availability is key. Plus there's the whole problem with needing these atoms to be in a certain configuration, namely a hand, arm or whatever to replace my body, rather than just a lump of matter on a table. If you chop my arm off and give me the equivalent amount of atoms by mass, I'm afraid that's not good enough. No, the question is, why should patterns by regarded as property? The burden of proof is on you as well. You can't keep demanding that we prove you wrong while refusing to prove yourself right.I did also answer your question here: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=5256.msg78334#msg78334 but you failed to respond.You're conflating the life of a person with their body. Even if I live forever I still only have one body so it's a scarce resource. Therefore, your argument fails. My sarcasm detector is broken so I might be missing the joke but just in case you're serious, I've added my bitcoin address to my signature.  I've had this question asked a few times and I always find it an extremely uncomfortable topic. First of all, I think that all self-defense should be carried out by persons against other persons. I also think that self-defense should be limited to imminent threats. Therefore, attacking the state fails on both counts since you aren't defending yourself from any particular person and also you aren't under an imminent threat. However, if you were to refuse to pay your taxes and refuse to be evicted from your home then, even though you would likely most either be killed or captured, you would be justified in resisting.Capitalists don't force people to work. Nature takes care of that.If you were the only person on the planet, you would have to either farm, hunt, fish or forage. You would have to either work or starve. Simply adding a few billion people to the equation doesn't change anything. They don't owe you a living. You still must either work or starve. If I offer you a job then I'm just adding to your opportunities. I'm not forcing you to work. You have to do that anyways. I'm a software developer. I've made over a million dollars in the last three years by selling my software online. When I originally started to question the legitimacy of intellectual property, I was biased in favor of it. I was wishful in thinking that a case could be made for it. Unfortunately, I couldn't accomplish that. I had to follow reason wherever it took me and the conclusion was, intellectual property is partial theft of tangible property. If I own a piece of paper, I get to control it, that's what ownership is. To make a claim against what I can or cannot do with my piece of paper is to assert partial ownership over it, which is theft. I do have an incentive to maximize my profits, i.e. I wish intellectual property was legitimate, but not at the cost of sacrificing my ethics. Maybe now you can drop the ad hominems against intellectual property opponents by insinuating that we are all thieves trying to justify our actions, as if that somehow affected to truth of our arguments. The real question is, why do I owe you anything other than to not physically harm you and your property unless in self-defense, or coerce you? Do I also owe it to you to not hurt your feelings? It's coercion.When people die their are atoms abandoned and become unowned. As soon as my body goes from a lump of matter to "me", I am in possession of my body. My parents are still latecomers, even if late means only a split second later.Information isn't property because it isn't scare or rivalrous. If you have a car and I take that car from you then I've deprived you that car. If I make an exact copy of that car then you can still drive the car. The only reason why we have property rights is because when disputes arise and we need some objective way of deciding who owns what. If anyone could have as much of anything they wanted, a mansion, a yacht, a space ship, a house on mars, whatever, it wouldn't make any sense to have property rights. I could never deprive you of those things because they are unlimited.See above. Anyways, I've successfully shown that mixing your labor with something doesn't make it yours. If you steal my marble and make a statue, you don't own the statue. You owe me for damages to my marble. If you disagree then you can give me a counterexample where mixing your labor with something thereby makes it yours but simply claiming it as yours won't do. Of course, trying to offer a novel you wrote as an example would only beg the question since that's the issue we're arguing over. Because murder is a form of aggression and copying information isn't.I have the best claim to my body. Everyone else is a latecomer with respect to me and my body.No, I'm not. I'm denying that it's a form of property. If you write in a book you own, you still own the book and the writings, the physical copy itself, not the information contained therein. Murder is covered under the non-aggression principle. There are no contracts needed for that.There are only two legitimate ways to obtain property, by claiming unowned property or by buying it from the current owner. A person that receives stolen property from a third party has done neither so they don't legitimately own it.The argument against stolen property applies to slavery. I own myself and therefore only I can legitimately sell myself into slavery, which I see no problem with. If someone wants to sell theirself into slavery, have at it.Let's recap, shall we. You think that you own something because you mix your labor with it. I said that's false and I provided an example illustrating why. Then you said (I think) that you can mix your labor with a book and thereby own the book. No, either you already owned the book and writing in it is just doing whatever you want with your property or someone else owns the book and you just defaced their property. Writing in a book has nothing to do with owning the book. Of course, what exactly that has to do with owning what's written in the book is beyond me but it sounds like question-begging thus far. It's a shame that the name is going to lead people into thinking it's somehow related to or modeled after the free state project. I hope nobody has any regrets after donating and then seeing what kind of ideology this guy is pushing. A person binds themselves to the terms of a contract voluntarily. That isn't the case with intellectual property. Even if you make everyone you sell a CD to sign a contract that says "I will not redistribute the contents of this CD", you still haven't recreated intellectual property because there is nothing stopping a third party that didn't sign that contract from doing so. A contract is binding because it's voluntarily agreed to. You can't automatically bind third parties which is why intellectual property isn't legitimate.That's because you've been deluded into thinking that you own the products of your work. That's false though. If you steal from me a slab of marble and then chisel a statue out of it, do you own the statue now? No, the statue is mine and I also claim that you've destroyed my slab of marble and owe me for damages. Once you empty your head of that delusion, you will stop feeling entitled to own an idea just because you thought it up. It's funny that you make a claim and then say it's not enough to do that but one must also provide an argument while simultaneously failing to do exactly that. Piracy is coercion how? It's not because I'm not initiating violence or making threats on your property. That's the argument.You're not making any sense. Making a threat doesn't require that you are currently causing me physical harm, it's the promise of FUTURE physical harm. That's what a threat is. Please take your time and try to make more coherent responses. This is bordering on absurd. So even though they aren't citizens you're going to govern them by denying the right to own guns? Again, how is this any different from the USA where I'm born into a system and then forced to bend to the will of others?Murder, rape, assault and theft are violence. Threats are coercion. It's nonsense to group them together with piracy which is neither.Again, threats are coercion, a form of aggression, which is what I'm against. Your argument fails.See above.
You are confusing violence with aggression. I'm against aggression, not violence. Aggression is the initiation of violence. I'm against the initiation of violence. I see nothing wrong with responding to aggression with violence.In other words, "he started it!" Aggression is the initiation of force. To say "the initiation of aggression" is to say something redundant. If you are the aggressor and I respond with violence, that's self-defense, not aggression on my part. You obviously didn't bother to read my entire post since I anticipated such an objection and have already refuted it before you even posted it.Clearly, I don't believe we can "think" away aggression since I just admitted as much and explained why that's not a problem for anarchism. I find it hard to believe that you've actually thought about this deeply because that will only last for a generation. After that, the children born into that system will be there but it won't be because they voluntarily moved there. You're doing nothing but creating yet another state. I'm sure in true statist form you'll respond with "love it or leave it". Which of course was already refuted by Hume with his ship analogy. Saying that I'm free to move even though I have no way to do so or survive after having done so is akin to saying that a man kidnapped and taken on aboard a ship is later free to leave that ship when it's at sea by jumping in the ocean to drown, and by not drowning he is thereby consenting to the laws on board that ship. Hogwash!Your idea, in its current form, is doomed.Right, I think I called it. This is just yet another state. To call it a "free state" is disingenuous at best and a fraud at worse since you're taking in money for it.If I own a stack of paper then I can do whatever I want with it, including writing a Harry Potter novel on it and then selling the paper. To limit what I can do with my paper amounts to partial theft since you are taking from me the use of my paper.What exactly makes you think you are justified in claiming partial ownership of my paper and dictating what I can and cannot do with it? I think you're over-complicating things. To draw an analogy. The strict technical meaning of the word atheist literally means someone that lacks a belief in God. However, this strict definition would also include babies, the mentally ill, etc. In practice, an atheist isn't just someone that lacks belief. It's someone that has considered the evidence and found it lacking. In otherwords, they actively disbelieve (note: I'm not claiming atheists are certain or that they are making a knowledge claim, they are just being skeptical) Likewise, just as the strict definition of an anarchist is someone that doesn't approve of rulers, in practice there is something more to it than that. There is a rationalization for WHY rulers are illigetimate.So far, Stephan Kinsella has put it best for me:The reason why you can't justify aggression is because by entering into a rational argument you are already presupposing that violence isn't the better way to settle that particular disagreement. Otherwise, why are you bothering with discussion instead of putting a bullet in my head? Aggression ends discussion rather than being an outcome of it.The rest of anarcho-capitalism and Libertarianism can be condensed into the single idea of the assignment of property rights. Namely, the first person to make a claim on X has the better claim on X because everyone else is a latecomer. This, of course, includes my own body. If some latecomer comes along and says that they have a better claim to my property then what's to stop yet another latecomer from coming along and making the same argument against them? Therefore, anyone that advocates property rights, to be consistent, has to recognize the prior-later distinction. Since the first person to claim X owns X, they can also contractually transfer ownership to another party. So the only two legitimate ways of owning property are homesteading and free trade.Of course, anarchism is not a Utopian ideal. There will always be people that wish to use aggression to accomplish their goals. The point of anarchism is to make these people diffuse their power across everyone instead of concentrating it into the hands a single asshole, or a group of them. In fact, the real Utopians are the ones that think they can use aggression to accomplish their goals without it leading to corruption and abuse. Also, just because we have a system of property rights doesn't mean we expect everyone will follow them. I have no doubt that there will always be thieves but that's an issue to be dealt with technologically, better theft prevention, etc. Anarchism makes sense exactly BECAUSE Utopian ideals are nothing but fantasy. Zend Server 5.0 - Development License - Basic - Perpetual license w/web-based supportZend Studio 8.0 - Perpetual License w/web-based supporthttp://shop.zend.com/en/zend-developer-solution.htmlThese are just the license keys. You have to download the software and register it yourself. The price is $799 on their website but I'll let them both go for 400 BTC. It makes things easier for me. I don't need to worry about managing passwords, verifying email addresses, recovering lost passwords, etc. I've just launched the new design of the website which now features an automated system.https://www.bitcoin2cash.com/You can open an account by logging in with any valid OpenID login. Once logged in, you can fund your account with BTC by sending to an address tied with your account or with USD by sending cash by mail (no change!) to our business address. Once your account is funded, you can sell BTC by setting an ask amount/price or you can buy BTC by setting a bid amount/price. Trades are performed every 5 minutes. The only fee is a shipping and handling fee when you request a cash withdrawal, which is currently $5.00 but will change as soon I get things running smoothly and figure out a fair price.So, to start things rolling and generate some interest, I've just opened my own account, deposited 10 BTC and set an ask price for $0.10 for them. The first person that gets a dollar in their account and bids on them will win. On April 15th, I will do the same thing with 100 BTC at a price of $0.20. On May 1st, I will do this yet again with 1000 BTC at a price of $0.40. (assuming BTC prices don't drop drastically, in which case I will lower the price so that it is still far below market price)The site is brand new and although I've tested it extensively, it's possible that some bugs remain so please be advised.Also, even if you aren't interested in cash trades, you can still open an account and use it as a safety deposit box for your BTC without worrying about running the Bitcoin client yourself. You also get to take advantage of our automated encrypted backups that are stored on redundant cloud storage services.Thanks for reading! Yes, entering my house without my permission is an act of violence.Why not? I usually confine myself to places where I'm welcome, shopping centers, restaurants, bars, movie theaters, etc. When I visit someplace, I'm not in the habit of climbing through open windows or kicking down doors. If I supported initiating violence to achieve my goals, I'd be pro-government.  If anyone needs math tutoring or homework help with any math up to first year calculus I'm available at 5 BTC an hour. I'll probably be sending you my history paper on "Why was the American Civil War fought?" after I get it graded. I'm definitely interested in developing donation funded open source applications that are of value to the Bitcoin community. I just need to find something that's got enough demand behind it. Alright, everyone's been paid. Thanks again and an extra thanks to everyone that was patient. It says ineligible. I am also willing to bid by the project instead of hourly if your budget is really tight and the project isn't too complicated. For example, back-end services that need to periodically perform actions, such as backing up your wallet to some cloud service, etc. Wow. Some people are really impatient. I haven't been at my computer since the last batch of like 10 people that I paid. I'll take care if it as soon as I'm home. I'll also make sure I pay Ownski last.   Awesome! Thanks everyone. I've sent Bitcoins to most of you now. There are three people that joined but haven't completed the steps to get the extra space. There is also one person that was ineligible. Sorry but I'm not sure what that's about. I assume you've already done this once or something? Offer completed. Everyone was paid.Thanks!
My rates are typical for a freelance programmer with my experience. I have 12+ years of experience with Delphi. I can code just about any kind of desktop application, client-server application, database application, etc. Please tell me about your project and I'll try to quote you an approximate number of hours it would take to complete. My current rate is 93.75 BTC per hour. I use timekeeping software so everything billed is accounted for and justified. My email address is sales@bitcoin2cash.com if you'd prefer to contact me that way. I'm willing to negotiate on the price. It needs to be 100 pages. References would be nice but either way I need to see some kind of sample of a few pages before any agreements can be made. The film is about a teenager and his friends getting into lots of bizarre criminal situations. I have descriptions of the key events. I just need someone to tie it all together and flesh it out with dialog. I need it to be written using "Final Draft", preferably version 8. My business is done in cash only.I have also reserved all 15,000 for a buyer. Unless he doesn't send the cash, consider these sold.Thanks! No, sorry. Please send me your address again.Also, I have 15,000 BTC left that I'm selling for cash by mail at $0.20 USD per BTC.Please email me first to confirm the trade so I can reserve your bitcoins. You didn't contact me before sending the money so I didn't have the BTC reserved for you. I will be sending your $1 back. Of course I'm still here. So far all my transactions have been with a single person and he hasn't volunteered to offer any feedback. Please do so if you're reading this.Please be patient. You're getting ahead of yourself and no one has even lodged a complaint, which I'm sure no one will. Yes. No, I deal with USD cash only.I also have everything reserved so I have no more bitcoins to sell right now.I'm going to be restructuring the website soon to be more of a cash-only market with fixed transaction fees with us acting as a trusted middle party.I'll post more news in a new thread once that's finished. I just sold $800 worth. I have around 28,000 left for sale. Obviously, but since the post office box isn't registered to either of those then why would they allow one but reject the other? If they only allow names that were registered with the post office box then both would have been rejected. Do you have any kind of documentation from the USPS to back this up or are you just pulling this out of thin air? Also, can you explain why have I received mail addressed to "B2C, LLC" already?Either way, I would suggest leaving the name off entirely as I've been told that it's not required. That's very strange. I've already received something from someone at that address. I've even been receiving mail from previous owners of the post office box as well so they seem to have no problem delivering mail. If you want to try again you are welcome to. Perhaps put a name on there, "B2C, LLC", if that was the problem even though I've confirmed with the local post master that a name isn't required. I just checked the post office today. There wasn't anything there. I'll notify you as soon as I receive it as well as send the bitcoins. I thought it was common knowledge that you don't have to write a name on a letter at all, just the address. That's how I do the return address as well. The name isn't required. I've updated the website to make it clearer. I just sold $80 worth. There's 48,000 left with about 12,000 reserved. Also, make a note that I posted that same address on these forums on July 13th so unless those transfers were before then, it's safe to say that I'm actually the owner of that address. So, can you verify the time frame that the transfers were sent? The cost of a few extra stamps is outweighed by the risk associated with sending large amounts of cash in the mail.Nobody is forcing you to read my posts. If I'm bothering you then stop reading.
No but you are welcome to buy $1.00 at a time until you are comfortable with $5.00 at a time and so on. First of all, I wouldn't allow you to send me that much cash in one transaction. I would insist that we trade in smaller denominations. Why aren't you willing to make smaller trades at first and go up from there once we have established a relationship? I noticed that you didn't acknowledge this gaping hole in your argument which leads me to believe that I was right about you, that you're only interested in defaming me. If you were being honorable you would acknowledge how unlikely your scenario is in light of this new information. Why ignore the evidence? Your warning isn't based on anything of merit. I obviously disagree. I have no problem addressing honest criticism but you seem more interested in defaming me than anything else. Also, these are internet forums so it's rather naive to expect the same kind of atmosphere as your local restaurant. I'm going to point out trollish comments when I see fit. If you don't like it then I suggest you take your business elsewhere. I guess I also have the ability to time travel since I published that address on this website on July 13th back when I had about 100 BTC and was only buying BTC, and not selling them?http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=30.msg2452#msg2452One of the links goes to some Russian website where someone was discussing my offer. The rest of the links go to these forums and my URL where I originally posted this address.Stop trolling.You haven't given any legitimate feedback because you're not a customer. Do business with me and then I'll take your feedback seriously. Otherwise, you're just looking to make trouble for me as far as I can tell. Please stop derailing the thread. If that's the case then you should already be able to see the number of bitcoins sent to my address which is 1CRZpkKKAt7G5uiK4JPBjBJGnozgiatFAs. I'm not jumping through hoops. Either you do business with me on my terms or not at all. If you don't trust me and can't risk losing any money then don't take the risk. In a year or two after I'm well established in the business things will be different. I'm trying to get in on the ground floor as a trusted cash exchanger which will be a lot more valuable and legal than a few quick bucks committing a federal crime.Please stop derailing this thread. The only proof you will have that I'm honest will be once you have the cash or bitcoins in your possession. I'm not meeting someone off the internet and I'm not trusting my bitcoins to another website. I'm not sure how mtgox works but I assume I would have to transfer them to mtgox in order for mtgox to verify I actually have that much.If you are serious about buying from me then make a small purchase first, whatever you feel you can risk and we can go up from there. If I were committing mail fraud, you have my post office box address and the authorities would easily be able to locate me.http://uscode.house.gov/download/pls/18C63.txt Please stop trolling. Please contact me by email and let me know how much you are sending so I can reserve the appropriate number of bitcoins for you. No, I accept USD only. You can convert your currency to USD at most banks or airports. I've already addressed this: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1303.msg14437#msg14437 That's libelous. Watch your wording since it sounds more like a claim of what will happen rather than hypothetical scenario. This is exactly the kind of thing that can damage my business. I only send cash/bitcoins upon receipt. This is why I'm trying to establish a reputation. I'm hoping people will take the risk with smaller sums first and then move up from there. I only accept cash by mail. I'm running a business and trying to establish a reputation for safe cash transactions. All my information is at my URL in the first post. Feel free to contact me by email if you require more information. How do you think I got 50,000+ BTC in the first place?  We have 15,000 BTC for sale at $0.20 per BTC (below market price). We only accept cash by mail.http://www.bitcoin2cash.com/
