Still available. Nothing really, it's quite similar to what is used with MS and Grammarly. I just scan pages to see if there's errors.Most people that build projects overlook their spelling mistakes because they want to scam members. 9.5/10 projects have errors within the website or White Paper. Maybe they will stick to a project longer if they had interest in fixing their mistakes because they will spend more time working on their project. So far ~84.89% of BC is circulated in Cyberspace.Also, the Blocks Size sharply went up for a little while this month.Bitcoin isn't done yet. There are many spelling errors on your website, you should look at fixing those before having people somewhat interested in your company.You've misspelled:-useful-together-typical-inspiredand many other errors was found on the Homepage alone.  On the BLVD Map Styles section of the website you have a spelling error, the correct phrase you should put on there is (experience).You may want to check your website to go and fix there error that is on it. Your English White Paper was kind of tough to read because of the poor spacing format within it. I suggest that you fix those errors if you want your company to look more professional. Hi,it's been a while since I've posted on BitcoinTalk.I am testing my Proof-reading bot, it quickly scans a webpage or White Paper to see if there's any errors within them.So far I've scanned about a dozen or so webpages and Papers and found many errors.I figure that if you want to have a more professional looking website then you could send me a PM so I could check it out.I usually go around the token board to see if there's any errors and notify the developers so they could fix their website. This is basically a free public service but if you want to speed things up then you could just notify me via PM.Thanks for your interest. Sorry, I should have mentioned more clearly that I am running AMD64. I was trying to compile with 0.2.0 so that would explain a lot of my issues. I *would* like to have a native 64 bit binary but it sounds like that isn't going to happen right now. I have ia32-lib already, I'll try running what you've supplied and failing that Wine might be an option. Thanks for the help. I don't remember coming across SVN links on the download page but once you get up to wxWidgets2.9 I may try again. I could *not* get 2.8.10 to compile for me....I'm sure I probably was overlooking something but it sounds like 2.9 at least resolves the utf-8/ansi issue.  I am having 0 luck attempting to compile w/wxWidgets. Trying to compile wx from source was a no-go (various syntax errors I didn't really delve into), downloaded latest precompiled wx packages for ubuntu karmic but they do not match up to your static links far as I can tell. I guess what I'm getting at is rather than try to sort out these issues, I'd really love a .deb <.< I'd like to participate - as an agorist and a fan of cryptoanarchic theory this is sort of a fantasy of mine but there is frankly no way I will dual boot windows or run this in as insecure an environment as a VM. DEB isn't a bad route, you'll hit the vast majority of desktop linux users -most of whom won't be buggered to try compiling in the first place so I don't think it's entirely unreasonable. Alternatively if you are interested in helping me work out compilation issues I would be happy to provide x86_64 binaries for ubuntu as long as I am compiling them. I haven't done .debs before but I am sure I can figure that out. Let me know. 
