rweRQCDfqKRENJYFZcjnknfH8UveHSg67E You guys are kidding, right?  They weren't hacked, this experience will make them change and improve their security procedures for DBAs, and they've been hard at work since the event happened to improve security and bring everything back up for everyone.  What would you have preferred they do?  In my opinion, they've demonstrated professionalism, and I look forward to the improvements which the problem will engender.  We can't expect them to identify security holes on a contractor's computer, and its unrealistic to think they'd be invulnerable to attack, especially considering the massive amount of money that flows through there each day.  They're not prophets or fortune tellers, they're regular people, and they've reacted to this situation as well as any person could.  I'm getting emails from the operator of TradeHill trying to exploit the situation...glhf faring any better in security when all eyes are on you. I was referring to GPUs, as that appears to be the majority technology for hashing at the moment.  The FPGA idea is fantastic, but I don't have the capital to purchase one at the moment. Has anyone done a comparison of recent revisions of the various miners on the same hardware?  Implementation efficiency is a big deal when it comes to squeezing execution iterations out of a program, and I can't help but suspect that I could squeeze a few more hashes out of my machine by using the most skillfully-written miner... Thanks!  The next issue seems to be wxWidgets.  The revision calls for 2.9.0, but I can only find 2.9.1 now, which doesn't appear to work.  Anyone know where I can get 2.9.0?  Or, does 2.9.1 indeed work, and I'm just doing something wrong?  Sorry for the dearth of questions... Great to know that it will work on my card.  I've gotten PyOpenCL installed, but I've hit an impasse patching Satoshi's mainline client.  I'm running Linux, and the standard "patch" command responds that the input is garbage, while copying the patch files on top of the mainline ones won't compile by a long shot.  Could someone clue me in to what I'm supposed to be doing here? I see all kinds of discussion regarding AMD/ATI drivers here...does this work on nVidia cards which support OpenCL?  Mine is on the list at the beginning of the thread, but I think I may be missing/skipping something, or misinterpreting whether my card is supported by this fork at all.  Thanks to everyone in advance. It looks as if the two main markets, bitcoinmarket and mtgox, are stabilizing around 5.5-6.5 USC/BTC.  The outliers and quartiles have been tightening for days now, and now the values are centering in that range.  Thoughts?  Could it be that we've established a market value?  That would be a major step toward currency confidence and widespread public use. Are we creating a new currency or competing with PayPal and the like as a payment service?  The two are very, very different...and we're back here again... I've seen two recent releases, .36 and .38, mention faster hashing.  Why is this advantageous?  Won't faster hashing simply cause the difficulty to increase, and place us precisely back where we were before the "speed" increase, only with a higher difficulty number? I noticed that 0.3.7 is released on the website, but after searching the forums I can't find any information on what the changes are.  Never mind that the changes from version to version should be packaged with the download....anyone care to clue me in on this one? Just want to voice my approval for any potential option of supporting Kiva.  I know that the idea was abstract, but that charity is phenomenal in my opinion. Hmm.  You're quite correct...then is my (partial) explanation for the Euro situation in Greece wrong?  If so, then by what means?  I think that the "variation in cost of living" approach can only stretch so far, perhaps  Ie, there's FAR more difference in the COL between New York and the outskirts of Bangalore than New York and Oklahoma.  The COL approach works in the NY/OK case, but not with a cost of living variation as extreme as the first scenario.  Then again...I'm not exactly sure. I agree that physically disparate but quantum-entangled processing units would mimic a single, spatially-local block of logic gates...but I still fail to see what Moore's Law has to do with the distance over which data may be transmitted by quantum entanglement. I really question how many btc users are going to be selling more than $600 of goods in btc....  Besides, this new requirement doesn't trouble gold dealers because of goods transferred *in gold* (though perhaps it should).  The problem is that any Joe or Shirley who sells gold probably sells more than $600 (About .52 troy oz at current rates).  Thus, if they do business with ten people a day, thats 3,650 forms to fill out.  (Neglecting deductions for weekends and holidays).  Yay, bureaucratic paperwork! I don't understand the hideous threat in this new requirement.  If a business purchases $600 or more in product from a supplier, it must fill out a form to verify that the supplier is reporting these sales (which they should be reporting anyway) to be taxed.I'm very much in disapproval of the current American administration and its policies, and very much a free-market libertarian.  However, this does not impose any new tax or tax requirement - they're just double-checking to make sure that all goods *already* taxed are reported.  Said taxes might need to be eliminated, but at least this only imposes a reporting requirement, not a new tax.  Pain in the rear?  Yes.  Huge change of policy?  No. I'm sure everybody is fairly familiar with what is going on in Greece.  For those who don't know, a (very) simplified description is the following.Greece, like the rest of the EU bloc, is under the Euro.  The Euro is a unified currency which spans over twenty nations.  Some of these nations are more economically prosperous than others.  Germany, for instance, can produce more value into the global economy than Greece.  In a multi-currency situation, this would lead to a devaluation of the Greek currency so that its goods could be purchased cheaply by the Germans and others with more economic power.  While the situation is not as good for the Greeks as if they were able to compete evenly, they can't compete evenly anyway, so at least this way they can sell something at some price.  However, the country is locked into the Euro.  Therefore, it is locked into a 1:1 exchange rate with all Euro countries (France, Germany, etc.)  Thus, it cannot offset its economic weakness with a devalued currency, so it must compete on even footing with other Euro countries, which it cannot do, as it is less economically and technologically developed.  Thus, we have a crash.On the another stage, the US buys things from India because the RUP is devalued relative to the USD.  This works out well for both countries, as it enables the US to get cheap goods, and India to sell goods which couldn't compete with the goods of more prosperous and developed nations on even footing.  (Opportunity cost is at the root of this).  However, if the US and India were locked into an identical currency, the economic weakness of India today would look like a paradise relative to what we would see then.The parallels between the Bitcoin and the Euro are obvious.    Say the BTC becomes a global currency.  How do we deal with the issue of necessary currency value differentials to accommodate the differing capabilities of disparate geographical locations?  Obviously, if we can't, then the BTC is worthless in all but the economic top-tier countries, because it cannot be used save on an equal footing with such countries. Moore's Law: The number of transistors on a microprocessor doubles every eighteen months.What does this have to do with this?  Transistors on a chip != quantum entanglement distance. Please explain. I'm quite aware that "coins" are not coins, but validations for a magnitude of transaction.So wallet==keyfile, and nothing else?  Good, that's appropriate.
Yes.randomFractionFactor=.001.  This isn't .001 necessarily, but just a factor to scale the change to a certain percentage of current difficulty. Why is 80 not forwarded to 443? While this is true, the fact remains that the coins cannot be made "dirty money" without ripping someone off.  Take the following chain of events:Scammed Person ----->Scammer ----->New AccountNow, it could be that the scammer made a new bitcoin address and moved the "dirty" coins there.  Or, it could be that he paid someone for a service using the "dirty" cash.  If we take the cash from "New Account," we risk ripping off an honest businessman and damaging the reputation of the bitcoin system.Thus, unless the money is sitting in the account paid by "Scammed," (which makes the scammer an idiot), there's nothing we can do without undermining Bitcoin. You should really add a "buyer's price" indicator to your selling form.  For instance, what if I see that the current low price is $.05/BTC.  I go, "If I beat that, then my offer will be the lowest and someone will take it!"  So, I enter a price of $.0495/BTC.  .0495*1.02=.05049.  So, my price isn't the lowest, and my offer will not be taken up.  If the form informed me of how much I get as well as how much a buyer paid, then I could tailor my offer to beat the current ones and still know how much I'd be making. You don't have to accept the balance of any little bank out there.  You *do* have to accept bank balance of the US Fed.  Dollars are, by definition, US Fed Bank balance, and you must accept them.  What form they take - credit card, check, cash, money order - doesn't matter.Is computerized loan-giving different from printing money?  Yes, in that people can't put it in their wallets.  However, it has an *identical* effect on the economy as a whole, because it inflates the amount of liquidity in play.  This liquidity is in play whether or not it is actually printed.  Could all privately-owned businesses refuse to accept anything but cash?  Sure.  If we boycott the banks entirely by using only cash, we eliminate their ability to inflate the economy.  However, as long as banks are in play at all, the giving of loans is identical in its effect on the economy as the printing of money.  Also, we *cannot* legally boycott the Fed Bank.  So, we could eliminate the power of all banks except the Fed to inflate the economy, but we can't boycott *all* the banks. I agree.  However, you are once again mistaking credit for "credit card."  Printed US money - cash - is Fed credit.  You must accept it.  Knowing that cash is credit and is backless, you might demand gold, silver, bitcoins, or oil, for your hot dogs.  You are not permitted to do this.  You *must* accept Fed bank balance - cash. (Note that you officially must accept *something* denominated in Fed Bank Balance Dollars.  So, a business may refuse cash, or credit cards, or checks, as long as they take *some* form of dollars, *all* of which are equally US Fed Bank Credit).Think of it this way.You own a hot dog stand that takes Bitcoins. You carry on for a few years, everything is fine.  The government passes a law which says "You must accept our electronic Bitcoin-Account-Denominated coins (BADcoins) as if they were BTC.  We can't print more Bitcoins, so these BADcoins are not backed by anything.  However, you must accept them.  We're digitally creating 1 bilion bitcoins worth of this stuff tomorrow morning."  Suddenly, the government might as well be able to print as many bitcoins as it wants, because it can print BADcoins, which you are forced to accept.  Also, it authorizes any bank to digitally create BADcoins if that bank can attract customers.  If a private bank can't attract customers - which you're describing - then that bank can't inflate the economy, no.  But the Legal Tender Reserve Bank - be it the Fed or the BADBitCoinBank or whatever, can, and will.That is the current system, and why Bitcoins are not inflation-proof. You raise a very good point.  My inclination is to say that no, you're not permitted to enter into a contract in which legal tender is not *an* (not necessarily the only) accepted modicum of exchange.  Just like you're not allowed to enter into a contract as a landlord that says you can evict a person on zero notice - the tenant is protected by legal proceedings and warnings, etc, and you cannot enter into a contract which breaks these laws.  However, this does seem to be rather counterintuitive....I will do some research on legal tender laws and see how the law stands in the US. Ah, I read, and see about the scam.  However, isn't a good portion of the point of bitcoins anonymity?  I mean, he could create a new wallet, transfer the coins there, then they're scott free.If we begin tracking coins through the network, that utterly destroys any anonymity.  My guess is that it would also have significant scamming implications in and of itself.So...someone scams you - if you fall for the scam, tough luck, no redress.  Unless the system isn't nearly so anonymous as people claim. As far as arbitrary precision goes, I just see an inherent unattractiveness in having to type .0000000000237 and the like for everyday transaction values.  From an HCI standpoint, not only is this clunky, but it is well known that the probability of data entry errors increases as the square of the length of the string being entered.  Thus, a conversion to a new unit would be more favorable.  As for "change the name or leave it," I think one previous poster made that point perfectly.  The new name would just be the same thing - a bitcoin - with values multiplied or divided.  However, the name change is necessary so as to avoid confusion in the using public.  It could be as simple as "Bitcoin" and "New Bitcoin," etc, but calling both by an identical name is inherently confusing. Final post here for now:I assume that on the "Withdraw Funds" page we don't need to fill in more form elements than necessary?Ie, if we want bitcoins back, we just give our BTC address.  If we want a check, we give our mailing address, if we want paypal, we give our email address, but there's no need to give a mailing address or email address to get bitcoins back, right?It would be great if the form changed per our selections - ie, if you wanted bitcoins, you wouldn't see anything for the USD withdraw options.  If you wanted a check, you wouldn't see the request for paypal email or bitcoin address, etc.  JQuery is nice, or any AJAX tool.The same goes for the deposit forms.Also, the site mentions that USD withdrawals are manual.  Are bitcoin withdrawals automated?  What about deposits (of both kinds)? Solution:1)Use a unique password.2)Only put funds in the account which are immediately to be used for trade3)Don't trade at one time amounts larger than you don't mind losing.Then, even if they get your password, what do they do - steal five dollars? I see nothing about associated brokerage fees, etc, on the site.  Care to fill us in?  What's your take? I really love the idea behind BitcoinMarket, being an active commodity investor myself.  However, the site seems to be always, or nearly so, unreachable.  I seem to recall a post stating that it was on someone's home machine (and thus probably piped through a residential line)...could this be the source of the issues?  Whoever runs the site, I would be glad to collaborate with you (Computer Science researcher here, so I can at least know what I'm talking about) if you would like some assistance devising ways to increase uptime, reachability, or system automation. If I understand the thread correctly, it all depends on which coins the client chooses to send, and whether the transmission of these coins requires the addition of more than 6 (or was it 60) kb of data.  So, no, after being transmitted, all the "bitCents" are in a bundle again, and can be transmitted without charge.  Could be wrong here, though.Here's a thought - to Satoshi, or one of the other high-order devs:Does the client choose which of your cash to send to as to minimize transaction fees for the transaction at hand?  It really should. The Zimbabwe case is different from the present US case.  Was the money printed, causing inflation, or did the money get created by loans, and then get printed so that people could take the loans in cash?  The order does not matter.  In Zimbabwe, it was the first order.  In the US, it is the second.  Money is not printed to finance anything - its printed so that already-created liquidity from "magic loans" can be taken in the form of wallet-stuffing.  In original fractional reserve banking, loans were only a fixed portion of the actual, printed money supply, which was limited only because the Treasury turned off the presses.  You're right about that.  That rate fell and fell, though, until it was last seen at 9% or so.  At that point, as far as I know, the fractional reserve requirement rate was eliminated, at least for most kinds of organizational and government loans.  Yes, your local bank that gives you a car loan is limited by law in how many car or house loans they can give, but the issuance of government bonds, the main driving force of inflation, is not.  The money is printed only to supply people with technology-free access to the already-created liquidity.  It does indeed inflate the economy, and in Zimbabwe it was the primary cause.  In the US it is secondary to Fed loans which are "paper-ized" only later, when they are needed in wallets.  Again, do you think that the loans given to F&F were all printed?  They money didn't exist in paper form, yet the banks were still "propped up."  Most of it has yet to be manifest in paper.  Of course, this paper does inflate the economy - a digital loan is not "converted" to paper, simply, more paper, which is liquidity in its own right, is printed so that Joe Schmoe can take the dollar bills he wants.  Still, though, non-cash inflation is a far larger problem in the developed world than paper inflation.Regardless, this does not address the legal tender issue.  If Q-BTC were legal tender, then the inflation-proof nature of BTC based on the limited ability to generate coins would be moot. I question how totalitarian it would have to be.  Yes, it would be more difficult than controlling dollars...but there certainly would be ways, given social engineering, malware, whatever, to de-anonymize the swarm and track the motion of its funds.Sarcasm about how terrible such a theoretical country is gets us nowhere.Its the USA, Great Britain, France, and every other nation, my friend.  Go, sell your car.  When you agree on the price in dollars and he pulls out the bills, say "I'll take that in silver bullion only."  Under the law, because you are refusing legal tender payment, the debt owed to you is void.  Would the buyer know this?  Probably not...but if he did, he could sue you for the car and win.Evasion of the law is not the same as a sound system operating within the law, and I would hate to think that for Bitcoins to operate well, we'd all have to be criminals. Thanks for the clarification - far better way of handling it than I originally assumed. This is precisely what I was saying could be a solution.  In fact, I was taking Brazil and several other nations as template.  What I was saying was that you couldn't chop off the leading zeros and still call it the "Bitcoin," which seemed to be what another poster was advocating.  If you did this, you'd have no way to distinguish between pre-conversion and post-conversion Bitcoins.  I suggested a revaluation with a name change - The basic unit would go from one Bitcoin to one BitcoinMillionth, where 1BTCm = .000001BTC.  The client, whenever faced with an old Bitcoin wallet, would convert it to a BitcoinMillionth wallet.  Since this (in reverse, for inflation rather than deflation) has been done successfully numerous times with various currencies, I figured it would be a decent solution to having .0000001BTC=100USD exchange rates and the requisite need for more precision and less leading zeros from a human error standpoint. My argument is based on government force, yes, in the form of legal tender laws.  This is because although bitcoins are a free market now, if they become anywhere near popular enough to make a dent in the dollar, there will be government force in play.  My initial claim was that plucking out dollars from the economy and dropping in bitcoins would be just as inflation-riddled as today.  This is because the government force which causes dollars to be inflationary is still in play under a bitcoin system - I.e. nothing about using bitcoins eliminates the government's ability to make legal tender laws for fake-bitcoin notes (digital or otherwise).  To claim that bitcoins, if widely used, would remain a free market is naive - the government, any government, will not give up its power without a fight.I did not say that you would not be able to take BTC for the house.  I said that if Q-BTC (Fake backless Bitcoin-denominated loans) were legal tender, then if the buyer offered you Q-BTC and you refused, the courts would give him the house anyway.  If he chose to give you BTC, then that's fine - take them and be happy he's not ripping you off with backless currency.  However, if he offered you Q-BTC, you couldn't reject it because its not real BTC.As as "who could prove...," I can only assume that you're talking about taxation.  That very "proving" is what IRS Auditors are for....that's another discussion altogether. I am not changing terms.  Federal Reserve Notes == Balance with Federal Reserve Bank of the US.  Equally worthless, because each is backed by nothing.  Also, Federal Reserve Notes == Dollars, whether those dollars are printed, or not.  The granting of Federal Reserve Loans (and thus the inflation of the value of Federal Reserve Notes) by "magicking" loans is no different in its effect on the economy from printing money.  Do you think that with the Fed gives Fannie and Freddie one trillion dollars, they actually print these dollars?  No.  The dollars may or may not be printed later on, if there becomes a need for them to be stuffed in someone's pocket.  Until someone demands them as wallet-filler, though, they exist only in the form of balances in accounts.  Most dollars are *never* requested as cash, and therefore, never printed.  They're circulated by means of checks, credit and debit cards, Automated Clearing House transfers, wires, Paypal payments, etc.  As they can move goods in this "unprinted" form, they "exist," but are backed by nothing other than a loan by the Fed or another bank.  Thus, they are bank balances and nothing more, whether printed or not. I have read that the difficulty of BTC generation varies every two weeks, based upon statistics gathered over the course of the two weeks.  This seems to introduce an undue amount of lag into the system.  We've all read about the guy who supposedly has 1,000 cores running the client - if he leaves, suddenly BTC generation takes far longer.  Also, if the difficulty is low and we suddenly have a mass influx of power, then coins are generated too quickly.What was the justification behind the two-week blocks of time between difficulty adjustments. Why not do something like the following?  (In this example, magnitudes of changes are fictitious, and target block generation time is taken to be ten minutes.)after each block:difficulty+=.001*600-block.genTimeInSecondsThus, the difficulty would adjust dynamically up or down every block, with the magnitude of the adjustments being in proportion to the influx or exodus of computing power during that last block.  Yes, you would get situations where someone would randomly solve a block in ten seconds and thus the next difficulty would ramp up exceedingly high, but the high (or low, in the converse situation) difficulty would only last for one block, and these random noise variations would even out in the long run.
I saw a post from Satoshi in another thread informing us that "Typically over 25,000BTC" had to change hands in a single transaction to warrant transaction fees.So, will no fees, ever, be charged in a deflated economy?  If the average transaction is .01BTC, or if only 10,000BTC exist in the economy, will no fees ever occur? Babylon,Credit Cards are not the same thing as Credit, not by a long shot.  Credit cards are a particular credit that is issued in a particular way by a company, and can be rejected.  However, it can only be rejected for other forms of the same backless credit. "Credit," in our discussion refers to any liquidity (purchasing power) that is not backed by items of real value.  Say, taking out a mortgage and getting "Federal Reserve Certificates" for it.  The value of the mortgage is the credit - the unit of payment is still dollars, not Visa or MasterCard.  If I take out a mortgage, a banker keys a number into a spreadsheet, and suddenly that much more money (not backed by dollars) is put into flow in the economy.  If people didn't accept credit, that's not akin rejecting Visa, its akin to rejecting Federal Reserve Notes, which we call dollars colloquially.  I can pick up dollars for a portion of this spreadsheet-mortgage, and go and spend those dollars.  Those dollars are still credit.  Even though they have nothing to do with a credit card or debit card, they're representation of value issued by a bank (the Federal Reserve) with no real value.  Now, this does raise Bitcoiner's (and others') point that with no Federal Reserve the backless credit system would be very limited.  They advocate that it would be difficult to create such a "lender of last resort" with bitcoins.  I disagree.  It used to be (Google pictures of these) that the US Treasury printed bills that were Gold-Certificates or Silver-Certificates.  You could go to any bank, at any time, hand them a twenty and demand an ounce of gold.  (Which now costs $1,200, or 600x what it did when we were on the gold standard.  Inflation.)  This was not credit, it was commodity-backed by something with rarity, just as bitcoins have rarity.  However, now, your dollars are "Federal Reserve Note, Legal Tender" and are not redeemable for anything of value.  However, if someone offers you these Notes and you do not accept (because they're not backed, and thus worthless), the transaction is null and void.  Why did we switch to these notes?  Because the government couldn't keep enough gold on hand to back the economy.Fast forward ten years.  The government pulls out dollars and puts in bitcoins because bitcoins are so darn neat.  (or whatever reason).  Because Congressmen don't read laws, they never read Satoshi's specification for the system, and they assume they can mint all they want.  For those who don't have computers in their places of business, they issue Bitcoin-Redeemable-Certificates.  You can walk into any bank, give them 1BTC, and get 1 of these Certificates, or, you can give them 1 of these certificates and get 1BTC.The above scenario would be called the "Bitcoin Standard."  It is identical to the Gold Standard scenario above.  Dollars (bitcoin certificates) are backed by gold (bitcoins) held by the government.  You can hand over a twenty (certificate) and get an ounce of gold (bitcoin).However, April 15th rolls around, and facing a new fiscal year the Congress issues an order to print more Gold Certificates so that they can have a deficit for this year's budget.  At some point, they realize they don't have enough gold to back all the dollars for the budget.  So, immediately, they invoke legal tender laws.  A bank, the Federal Reserve, is given the authority to issue a loan to the government.  This loan is paid out in "Federal Reserve Notes," because its not backed by any gold, so they can't call it a "Gold Certificate."  These notes are "credit," as they are based on a loan and nothing else.  Obviously, they're worthless.  However, a law is passed - known as a legal tender law - which states, essentially - "I know, American People, that you guys are all using Gold Certificates.  However, if someone offers you a $1 Federal Reserve Note, you MUST treat it as if it were a $1 Gold Certificate.  You can't go get gold for it, so you essentially lose $1 in gold, but you either accept the Federal Reserve Note or you get nothing at all.  To make sure people treat these identically, Gold Certificates can no longer be traded with us for gold."   People resist and refuse to accept Federal Reserve Notes, because they're worthless.  They don't get what they're owed at all, and so eventually everyone caves.  Federal Reserve Notes are treated identically to Gold Certificates, and no one is able to get their gold. Anyone who has gold sits on it and makes a mint because people like shiny metal.Identically with bitcoins, Congress realizes that they can't print more Bitcoins, and so they can't spend whatever they want.  They create a bank that issues "Quasi-Bitcoin" loans for which no real bitcoins exist.  These loans are issued by any organization that gets a charter to type them into existence.  A law is passed: "Anyone who has our Bitcoin Certificates can no longer get Bitcoins from the government in exchange.  Also, if someone offers you a Quasi-Bitcoin, you must accept it, or you get nothing."  Now, the government can get all the Q-BTC it wants to spend whatever it dreams.  People with real Bitcoin Certificates are screwed, and everyone must accept *credit*.  People with real bitcoins?  Well, humanity has this fetish for shiny yellow metal - it doesn't have the same fetish for cryptographically-signed kilobytes - so bitcoins go the way of the dodo, or at best become pretty much what they are right now - a novelty for those who understand them.Notice, there were not credit cards or checks involved in the above scenario.  The credit is the Federal Reserve Note, which you must accept, not Federal Reserve Notes managed by a particular company (Visa) which you can reject.  Even if you reject the Visa-managed notes, though, you have no option but to accept Notes from another source, all of which are equally backless. If the chain has a full history of transactions, including the most recent owner, then why can coins not be recovered from the chain?  Say my wallet gets wiped - the chain still knows the ownership of my coins is with me.  I suppose my key would have gotten wiped as well, and then I couldn't verify that I am in fact....me?For that matter, if the ownership of all coins can be derived from the chain, what is wallet.db besides a person's key?  Why not just store the keys, and derive coin ownership while online?This on-the-chain identification of ownership could provide a solution to the deflation problem - if its a problem at all.  If a given coin's final client had not been seen in....five years, say...then the individual is obviously not using bitcoin for monetary purposes, and the coins associated with that key could be liquidated and put up for generation once more.  Of course, that deflation is a problem at all is very suspect, especially given what I've recently been told about how precision can change.  However, I'm just thinking though technical options here.Additionally, could people use keys not generated by Bitcoin?  For instance, I have a PGP key with which I sign crucial files, and this key is backed up to the n-teenth time on any number of media.  If I could use bitcoin by simply inputting this key into the software, and then the software could derive which coins are mine from the content of the chain, it would make losing access to coins far more unlikely.  Obviously, switching keys would be akin to switching wallets. We wouldn't want to say "1000BTC is now 1 BTC."  This would create all sorts of issues.  For one, imagine the dismay of those individuals who had not yet converted when they called up their "suddenly wealthy" friends.  Rather, we would create a new unit, and convert bitcoins into that unit at some fixed exchange rate.  The change I was talking about would be the equivalent of taking everyone's dollars and giving them back cents - an equal number value-wise, just easier to deal with because of eliminating leading 0s It was wise when creating the BTC specification to allow up to 8 (I think its 8 ) decimal places of divisibility.  Given the natural deflation that will occur barring government intervention, its certainly better than two places of divisibility.  However, a number of theoretical posts on the forums have raised the question of what would happen if that ever was not enough.  I am amazed at the two categories of answers that I see - A)"That'll never happen," and B)"Well we're screwed then."  How difficult would it be in the future to modify the bitcoin specification to allow for nine, ten, or even an arbitrary number of, points precision?  My guess is that it would be pretty daunting, given that the entire chain would have to change (I think?). The second option that I can see would be a voluntary currency revaluation.  In essence, we'd release a new chain and a new client.  This new chain wouldn't generate *any* coins.  However, it would be denominated in "BitCoinMillionths" or whatever, and when you imported your old BitCoin wallet, it would apply the exchange rate of 1BTC=1,000,000BTCm, and continue from there.  The BTCm would be divisible to eight or ten or however many decimal places as well.  Thus, people could still generate BTC with the BTC client (assuming we hadn't hit the 21,000,000 mark), but the new client would allow for greater divisibility while not modifying the underlying system.  In fact, the BTCm client could generate bitcoins on the old chain according to the same rules that govern generation today, letting one program handle both issues.What do you guys think of this idea?Cross-posted to Tech and Dev to get a response about actually modifying the bitcoin's divisibility. It was wise when creating the BTC specification to allow up to 8 (I think its 8 ) decimal places of divisibility.  Given the natural deflation that will occur barring government intervention, its certainly better than two places of divisibility.  However, a number of theoretical posts on the forums have raised the question of what would happen if that ever was not enough.  I am amazed at the two categories of answers that I see - A)"That'll never happen," and B)"Well we're screwed then."  How difficult would it be in the future to modify the bitcoin specification to allow for nine, ten, or even an arbitrary number of, points precision?  My guess is that it would be pretty daunting, given that the entire chain would have to change (I think?). The second option that I can see would be a voluntary currency revaluation.  In essence, we'd release a new chain and a new client.  This new chain wouldn't generate *any* coins.  However, it would be denominated in "BitCoinMillionths" or whatever, and when you imported your old BitCoin wallet, it would apply the exchange rate of 1BTC=1,000,000BTCm, and continue from there.  The BTCm would be divisible to eight or ten or however many decimal places as well.  Thus, people could still generate BTC with the BTC client (assuming we hadn't hit the 21,000,000 mark), but the new client would allow for greater divisibility while not modifying the underlying system.  In fact, the BTCm client could generate bitcoins on the old chain according to the same rules that the generation follows at present, letting one program handle both issues.Cross-posted to Economics for the obvious non-technical portion of this. I keep getting random influxes of BTC....five cents here, 1BTC there....I can only assume they're from people on the forums, as I know no one who uses bitcoins.  Thanks to whomever it may be.  I'd really like to know who. I wish everyone would be so nonchalant about interest.  In reality, though, a million dollars in the bank can net *four thousand dollars a month* in interest.  That's enough to live, and well, without spending any of your initial investment.  Of course, the natural deflation of bitcoins can provide a sort of interest, as well.Please see the above posts.  In the US, any company with an "NA" after its name has the legal authority to create liquidity just by claiming it exists.  Then, they can take that loan and request dollar bills from the Fed.  Even if the Board of Directors of the bank were the only ones to deposit any "real" money, the scheme would still take off.  Thus, in a bitcoin economy, someone takes out a loan, the bank issues Quasi-BTC credit, and the person uses this to buy their house.  As a seller - don't want to accept Q-BTCs?  Tough - legal tender laws say you have to, or you don't get anything and still have to turn over the house to the buyer. I agree with the first portion of your statement, and disagree with the last.  I'm not saying that people are too stupid to understand bitcoins.  I'm saying that many, many very intelligent people today don't understand monetary creation policy because they don't find it worth their time to study.  If they don't find it worth their time in dollars today, they won't find it worth their time in bitcoins tomorrow, and thus will accept credit.  Per my last post, however, even if they do understand and won't accept credit, they can be legally forced to do so.With all of your comment up to where I cut, I agree.  However, no, I wouldn't have opened a checking account at 18 if I could have moved the money as easily.  However, I opened a savings account at 6 or 7, and not to move money, but because the bank promised me free money in interest if I let my cash sit in their vault (or so I understood at the time).  Free money is very tempting, and thus, people would continue to use banks.  As for the accountant, yes I would prefer my balances be paid in real BTC-cash.  I run a computer programming business today, and I'd prefer that everyone paid me in gold chips.  However, legal tender laws don't give me a choice, nor would they give a choice to the accountant in the BTC scenario.I agree.  What people don't understand is that a mortgage for one million dollars is created by typing in "1,000,000" and by nothing else.  They think the bank is taking deposited money, loaning some of it out, making money, and paying interest.  In reality, the bank is *inventing fake money,* loaning *that* out, and making money.  Only a tiny, tiny actual deposit s needed (if any - I'm not sure of the current status of the law). Agreed.  The culprit is a combination of three things:1)Banks can do BS things legally, like backless loans.2)The whole "sheeple" complex, where people don't know that this is going on.  This is not because they're stupid, its because between studying for their MDs (using smart people as an example here...)and getting kids to soccer practice and paying their bills they don't have time to study monetary theory.3)For those who do wake up, the fact that fake-money is legal tender means that there's nothing they can do about it.  By law, they have to accept the garbage.Without government intervention, and provided people aren't blind, then all you've been saying is right.  However, if the economy is in bitcoins, and we want roads and schools and troops to prevent China from waltzing over us, there will be government intervention.  *This* is where I primarily differ from you.  The laws which screw up the ideal analysis of Bitcoin's inflation-proof nature are in place because the government exists.  As long as it exists (provided that it doesn't suddenly grow a conscience), the legal tender law, which is the ultimate stopgap against responsible people demanding real money, remains in place.  My contention is that we shouldn't claim...For now, this is true.  Banks are not issuing bitcoin loans, and so bitcoins are inflation-proof.  However, nothing prevents banks engaging in fractional reserve policies and creating backless bitcoin-credit (since its all still legal) if they wanted to, and thus, to imply that using bitcoins in the context of the present, law-bound economy is proof against these inflationary actions is untrue.  Maybe Satoshi wasn't meaning to imply this, but as someone who's very concerned about these matters, that's what I took from the statement, until I further analyzed it later on.Agreed.The central issue is not the loaning out of deposited money, but the keystroke-creation of money that doesn't exist.  However, I suppose that this does make it "on-demand," as you can theoretically go "You just loaned me $500,000.  I'd like that in twenties."However, most likely, a bank would say "Sir, I just loaned you one million bitcoins.  That's 1/21 of the entire world economy.  You don't want it on a flash drive - what if you lost the drive?  To protect the economy and you, its our policy that you must use our super-secure, ultra-safe servers.  What? Is it real bitcoins?  Um...I'll have to check with my manager....but I"m going to go with....yes?" Thus, the bank can prevent a run by a matter of policy - essentially admitting that people cannot take out all of their money at once, but its not because the bank doesn't have it (which they don't).  Instead, its because the bank wants to protect you....Thus, the banks eliminate even the *possibility* that people demand large sums in cash.  I'm not sure if this is the present policy with dollars - I'm tempted to drive to the bank tomorrow and ask someone.  I know that its the current policy with ATMs - most accounts have a $500 or $1000/day limit, to prevent this scenario at the ATM).  However, as this eliminates the possibility of a run on the bank, the only option left is that people don't trust the banks.  As mentioned before, legal tender laws force people to use the bank credit, whether they trust it or not, protecting the entire system and leaving the only alternative as anarchy.As you say, this system cannot, and does not, perpetuate eternally.  Not even today.  Today, banks continued to give backless loans, and they ran analyses to guarantee that if people continued to make their mortgage payments or houses were reposed at current house prices, then they'd be fine.  Of course they couldn't provide enough dollar bills, but they could cover their debts.People did not pay their mortgages, because markets crashed, companies lost money, and laid off employees.  "Fine," say the banks.  "Repo."  Because with a repossession at the current market price of the house, they could cover their debts.  But there were so many repossessions that supply and demand drove down the cost of a house, and the banks couldn't cover their debts.Cue the Fed.The problem with bitcoins resolving this situation (which otherwise, they would), is that you can easily have a Bitcoin-Fed which issues fake, backless bitcon loans.  Even if people figure out that its a sham, the legal tender laws prevent them from doing anything about it.  As bitcoin does not address these laws, it is not inflation-proof.You're assuming the investor would be able to get a second loan.  In fact he wouldn't - Experian, TransUnion, and Equifax take care of that.  You're right, though, that if there were no cartel elements and banks could not determine how much the man had outstanding, this would crash them.  Unfortunately, they can and do see all outstanding obligations.  If somehow they were prevented from doing so, they would probably cease giving loans entirely - and while I don't like fractional-reserve banking or backless loans, its undeniable that an economy with no loaning institutions would stagnate at best.This is true, provided that legal-tender laws to not require that the two be equated.  My central point of contention now is that they would, as they do today.  Therefore, to make users "safe" from banking practices the use of bitcoins must somehow abolish these laws, which it does not.Agreed, at least provided that people realize that bitcoin-credit is not bitcoins.  However, legal tender laws will not be abolished, so the theoretical situation varies from the practicality, in which the only way to resolve inflation is honest politicians (heh) or drastic measures which would destroy the economy anyway.They force people to accept quasi-bitcoins by the following manner.  Assuming that fake bitcoins are legal tender...1)A bank issues fake-bitcoin credit.  No one wants it, so the bank issues it to its CEO.  He'll still take it.2)The CEO owes his power bill, grocery bill, etc.  He offers legal-tender bitcoin-certificates (digital, I'm assuming), which he got in exchange for the bank loan.  These, like the loan, are not backed by anything.3)The power company and grocer politely tell him that they will not accept it, as it is not bitcoins.4)He takes them to court.  The law invalidates his debt to them, since he offered legal tender and it was not accepted.5)His friends see that they can pay their bills in worthless credit, not sacrificing any bitcoins.  After all, Mr. CEO did!6)The businesses are left with three options - 1)Accept credit, 2)Go bankrupt because all of their accounts are declared null and void when people try to pay with credit and they reject, and 3)Rebel, which leads to jail or getting shot.7)One of the three options happens.  Number 2 leads to massive depression or anarchy as businesses close en-masse.  Number 1 puts the banks back in power like today.  Number 3 scares all the other business owners (they don't want to go to jail), and thus leads to number 1.Agreed, wthout legal tender laws.They did it once.  Wilson said "We're off the gold standard, guys," and suddenly everyone had to accept quasi-valuable paper.  Not that gold is inherently valuable, but neither are bitcoins.  Through legal tender laws, they could force us to accept whatever they wanted.  As far as confiscating bitcoins, they wouldn't have to.  As soon as quasi-btc were legal tender, then 1BTC=1Q-BTC, and as the number of Q-BTC increases, a real BTC becomes less valuable, and thus is subject to all the problems of Q-BTC.Yes and yes.Honestly, I would like the entire system to be replaced with something that is inflation-proof, but again, the whole issue there is legal tender laws.  However, I agree that this is the best solution.  Hopefully, bitcoins will become a big deal while still remaining "under the radar."  Most likely, this will be the case, as the USD isn't going anywhere any time soon.  That way, legal tender laws for BTC will not exist, and if anyone is stupid enough at some point to accept a backless Q-BTC (if anyone would ever issue those...), we can just reject it.Agreed.  Bitcoins are, for the time being, a nice way to enable a contribution to a future voluntary order.  The issue arises, of course, when those with the current control (who of course don't want to give it up), realize that this uninflatable, very difficult to tax currency is a thorn in their side, and they employ their mastery (through legal tender laws) to screw up the ideal. And I.  Its good to know that there are people who both understand and are willing to hash out the details of our current...predicament. Can a comprehensive changelog be included in the download zips?  I had to dig through the forums to find the difference between 0.3 and 0.31, and (less so, because it was more recent) from 0.31 to 0.32.  I'd also like to see, for edification purposes, the differences between 0.3 (when I joined bitcoin after the /. article), and prior versions. "That later transaction is on the recor that somebody spent the coin; it is signed with the private key..."So, the chain contains a full history of transactions, and a coin's current owner is determined by all nodes as being the last signature in the chain associated with a coin.  Am I reading this right? "With the permission of Satoshi"Does no one read licenses?  Go ahead.  You have permission to do whatever you want - he says so in every single download. Agreed.You mention three things - a)A lender of last resort, b)taxation, c)Legal tender laws.Pulling out the use of dollars and dropping in the use of bitcoins - what we're doing on this site - does not solve *any* of these three problems.Lender of Last Resort:  Debt based upon debt remains legal, since we're not changing the law.  So a lender of last resort exists.  No, it can't issue bitcoins, but it can "paper over" losses with very convincing, nearly-identical-seeming things.B)Taxation - Are you claiming that using bitcoins eliminates taxation?  Taxation is by definition graft perpetrated by the government.  Its "You give us x% of your income in dollars, or we throw you in jail."  If bitcoins become a smashing success....they'll be taxed.  The government will say "Give us x% of your bitcoins, or enough dollars to make that much value at the exchange rate, or go to jail."  Bitcoins do not eliminate taxes.C)As mentioned above, nothing we're doing here changes the law.  So legal tender laws still exist.So, banks might not be as successful without those three things...but they still have them under a bitcoin economy without law changes.  Maybe it can be decently argued that there would be no lender of last resort, but only if debt-backed loans are made illegal.  As we're not doing that...all three points stand, and so the banking system stands.I agree with you here.  However, as mentioned above, using bitcoins doesn't cut the US government's ability to tax you, their power to create legal tender laws, or their ability to make something which is close enough to a lender of last resort so that they can either fool people or throw in jail those who don't believe it is such a lender.Do I really believe everyone would be fooled by the bank system under a bitcoin economy?  Hell yes.  They're fooled now.  What was the initial reaction *on this forum* when I said that loans were not backed by paper dollars?  "No, that's not true.  If its an on-demand deposit, it is one hundred percent backed, one-hundred percent of the time.  Otherwise its fraud."  Not that people on this forum are fools - but if even the people here believe your bank balances are backed...what do your teachers, truck drivers, doctors....basically anyone who hasn't taken the time to study monetary policy, going to think?  They're fooled.  Not because they're less intelligent, but because they haven't invested the time and effort to figure out what a sham the system is.  Of course, some are less intelligent, and still others are simply unwilling to believe that a banker can create an unlimited amount of money with keystrokes and not even a printing press.  You should have seen the face of one member of my family who has devoted his life to building bank balances when I told him there was nothing - literally nothing - that backed his balance, and that a loan for five thousand dollars was literally five thousand dollars of new liquidity popped into existence without real dollars just by keying in "5000" on  a spreadsheet.  I might as well have said the Earth was flat.  Now, those who are particularly wealthy have a vested interest in figuring out how the system works.  You're right about that.  They can and will figure it out, as will those of us interested in the mechanics of the system for whatever reason.  However, other people just don't care as long as they can pay their bills, and bitcoins remove the only obvious difference between banks and cash to those who don't understand - the fact that cash is paper.  You also say that we should educate people - this is valid, and we should try, but the government has a near-monopoly on education, and there's a reason they teach civics and "economics" without a single breath about monetary liquidity policy and the nature of loans.Then we agree - bitcoins do not inherently remove the power of taxation and legal tender laws.  I agree that they make things more difficult for the government...but digital things that make things more difficult for a government all have a habit of skipping town or getting attacked - Napster, Pirate Bay, Wikileaks, all the rest.  No government will allow its tax base to atrophy by what is essentially the use of an untaxable resource.  That would be a threat to its control, and governments love their control.  However, my issue is not with whether we will be taxed.  I don't have a problem with (justly done) taxes.  Someone has to pay for the roads on which I drive to work and the men who ensure that the water in my tap isn't laced with lead.  (Now, whether the current administrations do well at these jobs is another story, but I'm not an anarchist in theory).  My issue is with the inflation that *will* exist in the bitcoin economy unless banks are either boycotted or made by force of law to back their loans.  We're not changing the law here.  If anything, we're a thorn in the government's eye, making the law *less* likely to change in our favor.Agreed.  However, unless the law is changed, "bitcoin credit" is what the economy will use.  The only alternative is for everyone to refuse to honor it...which they won't do, because those who don't care to research the difference won't know the difference.  If you're right, and I'm being pessimistic, and everyone would get wise to the difference, then a legal tender law would just be passed forcing us to honor backless credit with BTC in front of it instead of $....we can thank the financial sector lobby for that.Honestly, I think that if it weren't for antitrust laws, we'd wake up tomorrow and Chase, HSBC, UBS, RBC, BoA, and WF would all have had a merger.  However, I don't mean to imply that these bank corporations do not compete with one another now.  What I mean is that un-backed credit from *any* bank forms the basis for additional un-backed credit from *whatever bank* gets the un-backed amount as deposit.  Its not that each bank doesn't want all the money for itself, and to keep competitors in check or subservient.  I mean that if Wells Fargo gives me a loan (fake magic spreadsheet money) and I pay you, and you go and deposit it with RBC, then RBC can make more loans fake loans, etc.  Its not that they're all cooperating, but merely that the system is a closed loop (Think "system" as used in physics) which constantly inflates the numbers.Actually, faith=value.  Decree without faith gives you Greece right now.  So, with no decree, if people didn't understand, then they would still think the dollars had value.  The original bankers worked in gold.  They just hid from everyone the fact that not all the depositors' gold was available.  No decree existed then, but the system worked.  Then, when people began to *trust* the banks (faith comes in here) the banks wrote out checques (scrip) which *claimed* to give the bearer the right of ownership over gold in a vault.  However, the bankers soon got the idea that they could just write these scrips, in which people had faith, for gold that didn't even exist.  That was the root of the modern backless system.  Does it crash if people get wise?  Yes.  Do people necessarily figure out that they're being scammed?  Nope.  If they had figured it out here and now, we'd have riots on our hands.  Instead we have "loan modification programs" and everyone's happy.  Besides, even if people figure out what's happened, the scammers are either dead, having lived lives of luxury at others' expense, or they've taken up a private island in the Pacific and no one can get to them.You're right that in an honest banking system, your claims hold.  However, what is it about adoption of bitcions that makes the banks honest?  We still have the exact same laws...just with bitcoins...no change in what the banks *can* do, no change in the fact that legal tender laws *force* us to accept their credit as money....no change in the system.As far as the amount of money in circulation - Can you buy things with a credit card?  Then its in circulation.  A debit card?  Then its in circulation.  Cash?  Then its in circulation.  Cash is backed.  (Only by paper, but in a bitcoin system, cash would be backed by bitcoins).   Debit cards might be *partially* backed.  Credit is not.  However, this un-backed credit has the power to move goods and services in the real world.  Therefore, it is in circulation, and part of the money supply, and because it is, the money supply is inflated.  Thus, if banks can issue bitcoin-credit loans, and people accept these loans, then these backless credit loans are in circulation, and the money is inflated.  The amount of cash is not inflated, but cash is only a portion of the money supply.There is no need to change the law....All we need is a few players with some degree of wealth, and with some intelligence. Take for example, a wealthy Bitcoiner who has 100,000 BTCs in Bank A and 100,000 BTCs in Bank B.Bank A has total deposits of 500,000 BTCs. So does Bank B.Bank A is honest and keeps 100% of on-demand as reserves. Bank B only keeps 10%.Our wealthy Bitcoiner gets suspicious of both of these banks for some reason and withdraws. Bank A's capital is down to 400,000, nothing bad happens.Bank B busts because it only has 50,000 BTCs to give him.[/quote]This scenario is valid.  The problem is that Bank B, in this case, is not only dishonest, but stupid.  They allowed one investor to accumulate more wealth than they kept on reserve.  No bank would do this - they have statisticians with Poisson distribution graphs that will tell them that if they do this, they will go bust.  Bank B, if they had one investor with 100,000BTC, would keep 100,000 on reserve (and then some).  Why?  The chance of that one person at some point (say once in a span of thirty years) finding a better bank and moving the money is very, very high.  However, they know the number of coins they have to keep onhand to have only a 1/1000 of 1% chance of having a run...all the others, they will lend out unless legally required to do so.  Is this a change from today's system?  Yes.  Does it eliminate inflation?  No.I don't mean that the banks are a cartel, but a closed system (see above).  In reality, though, lets say bitcoins became popular.  In fact, they become so popular that they replace dollars.  Essentially, take today's economy, swipe out the dollars, and replace them all with bitcoins.  One of the following threads will then occur without a forced change in the law, which the use of bitcoins does not necessitate.1)  People remain fooled by the bank system.  They, as a whole, don't know the difference between bank balances and bitcoins, and they use a combination of both, relying mostly on bank balances, as with today, because of the promises of interest, the use of debit cards, and the advertising budgets of the financial sector, along with whatever other reasons.  Banks continue to give backless loans, inflating the money supply by typing numbers into their spreadsheets, and then these numbers, assumed to be bitcoins by the population, move goods.  Inflation happens.2) People get wise to the backless fractional scheme, and refuse to accept bank credit because it causes inflation.  However, backless-bitcoin-bank-credit is legal tender, like backless-dollar-bank-credit is today.  So the people go "I know this bank credit is worth nothing, and I won't accept it, but I want to get rid of it.  Its legal tender, so I'll use it to pay my bills!"  They try to use it.  The people they owe for electricity or gas or food say, "That's worth nothing, and we know it."  The payer takes them to court, and the court decrees, "Bitcoin-Bank-Credit is legal tender.  Legal tender was offered and not accepted, so the debt is null and void."  People don't get paid, services shut down, anarchy.  Inflation?  No...but ISPs and electricity companies have their accounts being declared null and void, so they shut down...so bitcoins are at an end.3)Say that people don't try to screw others over by paying their bills in useless credit.  The banks certainly will .  The end result is still a massive wave of businesses not getting paid and the end of organized services such as power and Internet access as we know them today, putting an end to bitcoins.The root of this is the legal tender law.  Whether dollars or bitcoins are the legal tender, backless credit denominated in those amounts are still legal tender.  Meaning that it is literally impossible to reject these inflationary forms of payment and have the courts enforce that you receive what you are owed.  Thus, to end inflation, a repeal of legal tender laws or a repeal of the right of banks to issue backless credit is a necessity.  In all other circumstances, the result is inflation or anarchy.  Bitcoin use does not change these laws, therefore, either the current system, or no system, remains in force.  All of these are monetary policy issues.  My only complaint is that the website seems to imply that widespread use of bitcoins fixes them.  It doesn't.  Only abandonment of the current system, which requires abolition of legal tender laws, then either a boycott of the banks or abolition of the right to issue backless credit, solves them.  Bitcoins are better than dollars, yes, but they do not solve these problems. From the wiki, "a coin is a number associated with an address."  Fine, but this doesn't answer my question.  What form does the record by which you verify that an individual who has spent a coin no longer owns it take?  Is it simply the latest associated address? I'm not trying to re-spend coins.  However, I do have another question.  What, precisely, constitutes a "coin?"  It was said...What form is this record, wherein the network denotes that I have transferred these coins?  Is this what a "coin" is? Its a market, with fluctuating rates and fixed service fees. I agree with your logic, with the exception of two small points.1)You and I and all the other tech-savvy individuals would prefer bitcoins to bitcoin-balances in banks.  We know the difference. (By the way, natural deflation is a nice interest rate independent of a bank).  However, your average Americans (or Brits, or Czechs, or whomever), would not see the difference.  Their knowledgeable friends would say "use real bitcoins."  The banks would say "Use our balances!"  The banks, also, would have multi-million-dollar advertising budgets, and the ability to offer services (of what form, I don't know) to entice people to use their balances.  I think I underestimate people's intelligence, and you probably overestimate it.  Personally, I don't think the people of the world, as a collective, would know the difference.  If history is any indication, they'd be easily swayed by the banks' advertising.2)My point is this.  If people use banks, and I think that they will for the above reason, it is presently legal for banks to back loans with nothing more than loans and thereby inflate the economy.  Either the entire population boycots banks (which I don't think will happen - see above), or we have to have a change in the law.  Therefore, using bitcoins as a currency is not inflation-proof without a change in the law or utter destruction of the banking industry.  My point with this entire thread was simply to dispel the false notion that printing presses are to blame for inflation.  Loans are the real culprit, with no need to waste paper, ink, and electricity on printing.  Taking today's economy lifting out dollars and dropping in bitcoins and continuing on would have the same loan rules, and thus would have the same inflation, minus only the very small percentage that is due to printing presses. Say I'm running a client, and I have 1,000BTC, and backup my wallet.  Then, I use the BTC to buy something.  Then, I re-copy my wallet, and my client assumes I have the 1,000BTC again.  Of course, if I use these coins again, the network will reject my payment.  On what metric does it make the decision that I no longer own the coins? You're quite correct in your assumptions, but the debate is moot.  If bitcoin becomes a threat to US security, they'll make it illegal, or come after its top users legally, or shoot people.  No need to go into theoretics about how to protect the network when you're talking about competing against a nation with millions of armed troops and nuclear weapons.  Unless you're the premier of China, you can't compete.In reality, if bitcoin becomes a big deal, it *will* be government-regulated, whether we like it or not.
