It isn't right to reschedule the krill freerolls before we are completely functional. When we do schedule the make up krill freerolls we have to give some time for players to learn of them. They will probably be around the same time of day as the missed ones and will be announced at least 24 hours in advance. I completely agree with this idea. However, we still aren't particularly experienced at this and every situation is unique, we haven't done this many thousands of times like a restaurant. So inevitably we get to some point where it looks like it will only be an hour or so, we say "just a few hours" and then learn that we were completely wrong. And in case anyone hasn't realized, Micon isn't actually stopping these bad packets himself, he only gets what info techs give.We could forgo estimates, but we think they have some value even if they can't be very accurate. Sorry about that. It's fixed now. Unfortunately we may need some more time before we're running again. Likely over an hour.Edit: It could take the rest of today. Very sorry. It is possible that there could be a period where we would not have an app, but we intend to keep supporting Android, ideally with no interruption.Sorry for the continued delays. Refunds are made when the site goes down. Individual problems are decided case by case.There will be a delay with deposits, but they will all be fine. 30-90 minutes. Yes. Sorry guys, we are working on it. No need to delay, just put 'freemoney' in the referred field. ;-) I'm sorry for the trouble. Seals does not run the staking system and we cannot do anything to fix it. They are krill farming, I've eaten their krill.We'll formalize prevention with something like a reasonable daily cap on krill for microstakes HU table play. Until then abusers will be handled manually. This is the new krill freeroll schedule. At 1250 krill a 600 chip freeroll that runs every 100 hours.At 5000 krill a 1000 chip freeroll that runs every 200 hours.At 25000 krill a 1500 chip freeroll that runs every 300 hours.At 50000 krill a 3000 chip freeroll that runs every 500 hours.At 150000 krill a 5000 chip freeroll that runs every 800 hours. It is back online now. We will be making some changes to the krill freerolls soon, but this one is running the same way as it has been today. Ring game rake has been reduced.These rake rules apply to games created after 3pm ET on Nov 14th 2013. Rake information can be verified for any game by using the info button in the software.Rake at ring game tables is 1 chip per 40 (2.5% rounded down) with a cap of the lesser of 3BB or 5 chips (0.005BTC).Limit tables with a big blind of 0.5 chips (0.0005BTC) or higher have rake of 1 chip per 50 (2% rounded down) with a cap of the lesser of 2BB or 4 chips (0.004BTC).HU tables with a big blind of 0.5 chips (0.0005BTC) or higher have rake of 1 chip per 75 (~1.33% rounded down) with a cap of the lesser of 1BB or 3 chips (0.003BTC).If a game would have a rake cap of 0.5 chip (0.0005BTC) then the rake cap will be 0.5 chips (0.0005BTC).No rake is collected on hands that do not make it to the flop.  If people making lists and refusing to honor valid transactions can kill Bitcoin then Bitcoin sucks. To be clear, Bitcoin doesn't suck. Rake will be lowered very soon. Rake at HU tables will be lowered by more than the others, but taking advantage of Table Starter rakeback by playing HU at full tables will remain be a better deal. A+, fast responses and delivery, no hassle. That's a possibility. To smooth things a bit right away the min cashout has been lowered to 0.02BTC.0.05/0.10 blinds ring games are now available in the launcher. The minimum deposit was reduced to 0.001BTC (1 chip) a while back, but the website didn't list it correctly until recently.We will likely reduce the min cashout soon, but we do pay fees on every cashout so it cannot be extremely small.
Seals Support is legit.And if a moderator can arrange a jail break that would be swell. I made a mistake. The game will run this week at 2pm ET which is where I accidentally set it and it has been showing in lobby that way all along.I plan to roll it forward one hour to the intended 3pm ET for next week and future weeks.So it runs in 10 minutes. The 10 chip 500 guar is now online, it runs tomorrow 2 hours before the 100 chip 5000 guarantee. We have 2 decimal places so $1000 is where we get 'normal'. $1350 or so would be like a site that uses EUR. Getting much beyond that something will be changed. Sorry for the slow response. I think a Sat 10 chip will be good. We'll leave the Sunday as it is, it is much better than I anticipated. We can still easily drop ring games and tournament buy-ins by an order of magnitude when needed, and some adjustment is happening now. We have no plan to change the 1000 chip/BTC ratio any time soon, though some change will be needed when the rate goes well over $1000/BTC.The Half Hour Turbo is now a 5 chip entry with a 50 chip guarantee.The Monday PLO is now 75 entry 1000 guarantee.We still have a 1 chip entry game every hour.New 2 and 5 chip guarantees were added recently. If you are using the release that matches your ubuntu version and it fails after you extract it and ensure that the executable has permission to run then please write to X@sealswithclubs.eu with as much detail as possible.  This doesn't seem to make sense to me.A problem with an address wouldn't delay a Seals cashout. The only thing we ever know about an address is whether it is actually a bitcoin address or not. If it was not an actual address it would tell you that at the time of the request and never become pending.In general canceling and remaking a cashout has no benefit and could cost you up to 12 more hours as you might happen to not have any cashout pending while payments are on their way out. Client version 0.2.18 is available.Preferred seating and savable default table sizes are the notable new features.https://sealswithclubs.eu/pc-client/ There is some variance involved as kjlimo explains, but there haven't been any unusual delays. The starting times shown are based on your system time.If you mean keep the tournaments actually starting at the same clock time in places that change their clocks that isn't possible without actually changing the schedule which would cause a similar problem for anyone not switching their clocks.Anyway, the hassle and confusion is totally worth it for the free time traveling adventures.  Seals will not be observing Daylight Savings Time as we have in the past.This means that if you change your clocks all games will appear to start one hour early. Please plan accordingly. Yes, NLFF made a non-royal straight flush for 10%, the jackpot is now 5702 and wind-down mode continues. 570 for a non-royal straight flush and 5702 for a royal at any stakes (not HU tables) hold'em ring games. I'm sorry, I was abrupt.Any deal or plan concerning a 5BTC on 10/31 hadn't reached me though I had put up a different special game on 10/31. I thought Cam was simply misannouncing the game I had just put up.We may yet change it if he's still interested, I've PM'd him about what to do if so. Possibly it won't happen in time to change the game and we'll just leave this one as is and maybe make a plan for the near future. There was some miscommunication somewhere, I just got a PM. We may be able to switch it or maybe do something similar soon. We are temporarily winding down the jackpot promo.This means that tonight shortly after the donkdown freeroll we are going to make the entire reserve winnable (doubling it to about 6000 chips) and remove the stakes reduction. This means a royal at any hold'em ring game will win the entire remaining amount and end the jackpot. This is not effective immediately, it will switch tonight around midnight ET, there will be chat announcements when it happens. I have no reason to think he's a scammer, he's just wrong. There is no Halloween 5k guar 500 chip entry.There is a 666 chip game with starting stacks of 6666 at 10:31pm ET. Don't be scared. Probably not. Admin@sealswithlcubs.eu is the way to contact us if you like. Some games are shorter and some longer. The Grindabit (GaB) games and BIG BTC are some of the longest. Others labeled deep are equivalent to starting the blinds lower. Whichever games get the most interest we'll make more of the same type.
Don't enter the CAPTCHA as the password.Go to sealswithclubs.eu/CAPTCHA-freerollEnter the CAPTCHA and click "Register for freeroll"You are registered, your table will pop up at start time. We've given 1000+ BTC to the public in no requirement freerolls over the last two years. We're going to keep running 24 per day for now, but the prizes will be decreasing. There are 12 "25 Chip Freerolls" and 12 50 chip "CAPTCHA freerolls" on the schedule now. The CAPTCHA may raise the bar enough to make it more value for those willing to jump the hoop.The payout structures may be tweaked. It is good to have some long tail on them to spread the wealth. There will be 12 per day with CAPTCHA for now. A better value for those who can be bothered to hoop jump. The register link is not supposed to be there. It will be removed soon.You are supposed to go to sealswithclubs.eu/CAPTCHA-freeroll and enter the CAPTCHA to enter. Accounts are not empty it is an internal problem that will be resolved soon. I'm very sorry for the confusion. You don't know which he does or how many times. If it gets mixed with other funds they could be his or not. Then again more mixing later, could be his or not. Even if it goes directly to a merchant and somehow you know this you still don't know what merchant.What you can know for sure is that if the money isn't moved he hasn't spent it. But anyone can trivially remove that certainty if they care to.And if he uses the money at your sex toy shop for example with no in-between address you could know that. It did have to be canceled. It will run tonight as normal. Sorry that was not ideal. I just sent you some extra. That one was left off by mistake, it is back up now.There is (another) make-up 1 BTC freeroll tonight at 10:30pm ET. It is called "Password will be removed". The password will be removed about 30 minutes before start time and everyone can enter. I made a mistake while re-arranging funds and wrongly sent 100 BTC extra to a player's cashout address. I don't know if anyone is keeping track, but that's a lot of value these days.Fortunately, the player was "Nek" on Seals and on Bitcointalk. I was able to get in touch and he has returned the funds. We are extremely grateful for his help and honesty. As much as I love our players, I don't think it would always work out so well. Nek is definitely a good guy. I just added two NLHE 9max .1/.2 ring games with 20 chip max buy-in. They may be in the launcher soon. Can you describe what is happening?Is the PC client working for you? Done. Sunday 4pm ET, you better be there. Tournaments are online. Tournaments will be off until we're confident that the problem is solved.  I want to verify that you are joking. I don't think anyone is able to get in now. We are completely offline, possibly an attack. We will update when we know more. Bots are not allowed to play at Seals. Cliffs: FTL communication is not implied by mainstream science's current understanding of quantum physics. Planets may need their own currencies, but if instant communications are possible then I don't see why they would, they'd be better connected than nodes are right now.Actually the idea of a separate chain on other planets seems shaky to me. If miners on some planet are a lot faster or more efficient which seems likely then they can double spend or otherwise hassle the lesser for only a the one time fixed time cost of transporting the work. Maybe the lesser ought just accept a delay and/or use processors who settle on the greater planets chain. That should be workable, but I bet something smarter than that arrangement gets invented.
Quantum entanglement enabled ftl communication isn't new, but it is false.This is the clearest explanation I've seen.http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dEaecUuEqfc Paradoxically I don't like the max bet reduction and now I'm sending dooglus more money (but not 4x more).People are never going to agree on what the fraction should be, but if it is higher then anyone can reduce their exposure, but increasing it is harder and requires more trust. I think a good solution would be to have three places for money, balance, 'ready to invest' and 'invested'. Then let users select a fraction of 'ready to invest' + 'invested' which should always be in 'invested'. It needs to be more intuitive than that I think, essentially it boils down to letting investors manage their own max bet by automatically shuffling money in and out. With a system like this a 10% max bet (of 'invested' of course) would be reasonable. To get the old way players would just chose 10% of their 'ready to invest' money to be invested, to get the current, 2.5%. I love speculating about bitcoin's far future.When the block subsidy is gone or insignificant it won't be profitable to mine immediately after a block is found as there will be no waiting fees.As fees pile up hashing power comes back online, the average is still 10 minutes, but the variance is reduced. Though average times during busiest hours (in the bitcoiniest parts of the world?) will be lower.ASICs kind of muck this up as they probably can't do anything else profitably (different chain maybe?) and it may be worse to power them on and off every few minutes I don't know. Right now we don't want any money going out automatically. Everything gets human eyes on it.Later it may be possible to have people checking 24 hours per day for near instant cashouts.Cashouts are within 12 hours, including today.  We don't offer an API like that. However, theoretically you could make it work, the info does come to you. Accounts 'champbronc2' and 'poopguy32' were closed for cheating last night.This is not related to player Jenger's blockchain account compromise. I've thought about this mainly in the context of playing over TOR where normal speed poker isn't so practical. Perhaps allow moves to be made via email or a TOR site depending on the user's preference. We just made the deactivate feature, soon players who have Google Auth activated will see a link to the disable page on their My Account page. Everyone who does not have it activated currently does see the link to the activation page. Games like this will appear from time to time, but not on a schedule like the four krill freerolls that have a fixed krill entry requirement. If you wrote down the key you can enter it on a new device. If you sync your phone with your computer or similar you should be able to recover all data to a new phone if needed.If you need want to get the key you need to disable Google Auth and re-enable it to see the key:https://sealswithclubs.eu/remove-google-auth/And to reactivate:https://sealswithclubs.eu/google-auth/ In case anyone doesn't know, the HU krill earn rate is 4.5x the 9 player rate. The formula is:sqrt(rake) rounded down to the nearest 0.1 then multiplied by (5 / players dealt).This was changed a few months ago.50% rakeback is valuable and if someone wants to be a dedicated table starter they can keep starting new games. I'm sure there will always come a point where games won't immediately fill up, but I would like to be wrong about that. ;-) Yes, that is great.That is correct, if you log in successfully your Google Auth will not be removed. If you are locked out definitely email us at admin@sealswithclubs.eu.None of those methods are solid because like you say, anyone with control of the computer will have them.Signing is particularly bad because of rouge webwallets and because players often have others deposit direct to their Seals account. And the fact that people using many wallets won't even be able to sign.In the warnings when activating Google Auth we say that we will remove Google Auth at our discretion. We never remove it with a wait period of less than a week, and 2 weeks is the default in absence of evidence ( evidence beyond control of the email on account). A valid login will cancel the request. This means that if you have Google Auth activated and you check up on your account once a week no one will be able to get in your account without your Google Auth device no matter what.This recent issue seems to have only affected a few of our players. Only 2 have written so far about losing Google Auth access this way. Thanks, I should have posted that here after putting it on our front page. It is a real problem. The price goes up because Bitcoin is amazing. It goes down because people temporarily got too excited about how amazing Bitcoin is. Deposits are available now. We are online. Deposits are unavailable at the moment.There is a new temporary freeroll for 300 chips every 90 minutes, "Instead of deposits FREE". This wasn't planned at all. We rushed a move to a new datacenter and in less than a day it essentially disappeared from the net. ETA 1 hour now. We are moving again, the best guess is 5 hours, we'll update when we know better. Yes, I'm sorry about that. When the website cannot reach the poker server it just displays 0 instead of a friendly failure message. We realize that is unpleasant and we thought we'd fixed it previously, but clearly not.
It may take that long, but we were prepared for this, just moved it sooner because of the terrible performance today, so it will likely be faster. It isn't a problem of money. We buy servers, set them up and watch them and we've been getting disappointing results for the most part. Lag is certainly a serious problem, but a server going completely dark for several minutes or more is a worse problem and we don't want to make a move to a server where that happens more frequently. Restrictions on where we are willing to run a server and ddos protection requirements make it challenging, but we will solve it, hopefully very soon. It may not be a good idea to use a very short password.In the options menu go to the bottom and selection 'connection options' then click 'auto login on D/C'.  Yes, currently slightly more than 10 BTC in completely free public freerolls each week.I don't have exact current numbers handy, but we spend even more in overlays on guarantee tournaments. The largest of the week is usually the 10 BTC guarantee tourney on Saturday. Last week we added 2.59 BTC to the prize pool. It costs 0.1 BTC to get in the big Sat game. 1.2 BTC is the total of prizes in the hourly games.Currently we have a 1 BTC freeroll on Wednesday night and 2 daily PLO8 freerolls for 0.1 BTC each.After you earn some krill there are even more freerolls available to you and they can be more profitable because of the limited entry and larger prizes. We've released v0.2.15 which has a setting for d/c detection and auto-reconnect and a few other features. Mac and Ubuntu clients are coming very soon.https://sealswithclubs.eu/pc-client/ We have maintenance downtime scheduled for 11am ET Friday the 23rd. It should last 30 minutes or less. Some tournaments that would otherwise be interrupted will be canceled we'll have a nice freeroll afterwards. That is old and left over from when affiliate payments were manual and 2 BTC was a cheap meal.As long as you've earned a full single chip that you haven't been paid for you'll get it on Monday.There is no pop up notification for affiliate payments like there are for rakeback, but you can see your payments using a link near the bottom of the My Account page. We've been working on the mac and linux clients. After the specific things that need done to support the other OS are in place regular development will continue. "PLO Special Freeroll" is now online, 0.1 BTC prize pool, 7 places paid. It will run every 12 hours for a few days. It may switch to PLO8 for a while before it closes.Since registration is open 12 hours in advance and it is free, no shows will be removed after one round (6 minutes) of initial inactivity. One way to make this work better would be an optional "Cancel my offer at X time" which would allow people to make offers that would end before the next episode at which point they could re-evaluate if they wanted to and post a new offer. Those who do watch could have an exciting time making and revoking offers in real time during episodes. Same thing with sporting events and elections.Markets like these will always favor those who can give more attention and study. I think providing tools to make it as simple as possible for people to express their money-backed-opinions is a reasonable goal. Incredibly huge speeds amounting to absolutely nothing is exactly what will secure the network.If mining isn't profitable in an individuals situation then they should spend the capital on bitcoins instead, that will marginally increase the supply of mining. So there is no loss and you it helps secure the network. The reason it appears that players are doing the policing is that it isn't a serious issue to spew accusations in the chat. Writing emails with suspicions is helpful, but involves no risk. We have to do a careful study before taking action. If we think there is a 95% chance that isn't good enough, we aren't going to close accounts and take funds from the 5% who happen to play together often and irregularly for innocent reasons. We've always had more NLHE action than PLO, but right now there are 4 games over .25/.5 running and a LO8 25/50 running.We removed 27 clearly cheating accounts that played PLO in June and July, that's certainly going to decrease the raw numbers, but the legitimate play is steady. Cheating is more powerful in Omaha games for sure, but the only way to completely eliminate your chance of being cheated is not to play with more than one stranger. If anyone knows enough players that they want to distribute a password to I will set private games at any stakes, just email admin@sealswithclubs.eu or PM me. I'm not convinced many games can form that way, but if it because popular to play that way we can automate private game creation as well.  Lol, I thought this post meant that difficulty was about to increase by 6 million. But I see it's only ~4 actually. Having multiple accounts is fine. The main thing that you lose by splitting your play is your progress toward higher krill levels. BoozeHound is aces!They've been supporting Seals and sponsoring tournaments for... longer than I can remember at the moment. I believe the betting is out of the lobby again. If there is still too much 'bet' chatter you can block it like any account and even stronger you can block all commands (from players to 'bet') and responses with the option 'Block SealsDeals Chat' in the options menu.Eventually we will have multiple chat channels. Have you met 10000 in the last several years? And 0-1 of them knew about Bitcoin?I meet very few people and at bare minimum 10% of them know about bitcoin. The very last person that I met randomly (a friend of an acquaintance who himself did not know about bitcoin) knew a little bit.Seals has thousands of poker players, some of them are "future investors, people experimenting, and pioneers" but many are just using it because it works great. It isn't him specifically, it is him and a bunch of somebody elses.If it is ongoing maybe it would be worth it to figure out the mechanism used for deciding and snag some cool milibits. Both of these have been paid. You can see two 20 chip transfers from 'bet' in your transfer history. Sorry for the delay.
Extra d/c time would be great, unfortunately it won't be available very soon.If you seem to d/c completely randomly with no preceding lag or connection problems look on the pc-download page for the 'nodcdetect' version and see if that solves it. Sorry about that, I'll make sure it gets fixed and boutnies paid. You can see actual data at pokerscout.comhttp://www.pokerscout.com/SiteDetail.aspx?site=SealswithClubs&ab=26416059We're down from the peak, but no drop in the last month, and maybe a little tick upwards that doesn't quite show on the chart yet from this last week. Lol, if you can't see it then it isn't there. This isn't desirable, but is actually correct. What happened is that you posted a dead small (because you missed it previously) and had almost nothing left over for the big blind and so could not win hardly anything from other players, less than the rake in fact. It actually should not. They are 1BB buy-in tables. They start as forced flips, but there is no obligation to keep jamming as stacks get deeper, they gradually turn in to skill games. Thanks for the feedback. We will be trying some more deep tournaments.One krill freeroll was made easier to enter recently, at the same time a fourth regular krill tourney was added and everyone earning rakeback was moved up a level. 50k krill accounts went from 11% to 19% rakeback.There has been a lot of PLO and PLO8 collusion lately, which is quite distressing. However, they were not very good at all, and repeatedly losing their deposits plus any winnings seems to have dissuaded them at least for now.But, as always, keep your head up and stay away from games that you aren't comfortable in. Ah, thanks. The total buy-in is actually 74 chips.  We ran a bounty tourney tonight and it worked perfectly. A bounty game will run twice daily, 2am and 2pm ET, total entry of 84 chips, 50 to prize pool, 20 to bounty, 4 rake.On Monday there is a 300 chip bounty game at 9pm ET, 200 to prize pool, 100 to bounty, 15 rake.Thanks to SealsDeals.info for making this happen. Currently everything is marked free. The only downside I see is that reaching $5000 for free shipping is going to be quite difficult. Does anyone know why the Agora article thread in Press was removed?This is the article and there was good content in the thread.http://www.webpronews.com/commodities-dealer-accepting-bitcoin-for-gold-2013-07 Posts about the format of a title are not content and they do not belong in the offending thread.Nobody wants to see the janitor, we just want a clean space. Lol, what the hell is going on. Everything at Agora is listed for "Free!" right now. How many 1 Kilo Gold Bars can I get at that price?Even going to checkout doesn't fix it. Unfortunately this makes it hard to get to the $5000 level for free shipping. The value has a long way to go and it isn't going to be smooth. I mean what would happen if it was smoothly going up? People would get ahead of it of course. The problem had nothing to do with the hand evaluator which has worked perfectly for a million hands. It was internally treating you as not in the hand because you couldn't post the big blind. The software wasn't built with having a 1BB maximum buy-in in mind, that possibility was not tested.  I'm happy to see your support. Why is this your favorite Insanity Dice thread? Yes, if you are all in preflop three or four ways the best hand loses the majority of the time. If you have a little bad luck on top of that odd fact it will seem absolutely terrible. Of course it goes the other way too. A strange thing happened in a new game. It only affected one hand. We've already made it right. Specifically you owed a small and big blind because you had missed the blinds previously and could only afford the small, and so it got confused and didn't let you show down. The lowest prizes in the 30 Prizes are 2% of the 50 chip prize pool, just 1 chip. But still, it's not that hard to get and gives a shot at the hourly "1 Chip" games. It gets exponentially more expensive. Each wave they run enriches normal users and traders who will naturally save some of their gains as bitcoins each time.And as mentioned there has already been tons of volatility and still bitcoin exists.If they are going to make say 10x more volatility than we've seen they are going to be selling coins for at least 100x less than they bought them for. Essentially endless huge injections of cash into the bitcoin scene.If they buy one coin from me for $5000 I can absorb 100 coins when they are dumping at $5. There are a limited number of coins they can dump before having to turn back around and send the price back towards infinity. Even people who don't buy coins back for some reason will be so rich that they won't feel the need to bail on the way down.People who do have the bizarre behavior of buying high and selling low to amplify an attack like this will go broke themselves and not be involved in future rounds. Many have already been shaken out by normal volatility anyway. 
I guess the "most wrong bitcoin article" competition is still running? Not. My worthless hole took 10x longer to dig than it took you to build that chair, please send me 10 chairs now. I enjoyed my beating today. The max profit is set much lower now. I see in the chat it is temporary. But in case the future of that parameter may not be 1%, I'd like to cast my unofficial vote that be 1% or higher.edit: I see it is set to normal! Now I can get back to betting the max, ha, kidding. Governments used to issue currency until it was used for kidnapping ransoms and other bad stuff.  Just in case anyone else might interpret my comment in that very generous way I feel the need to clarify.It is insane to send your money to a self proclaimed "trusted host" who even if he is honest rakes an order of magnitude more rake than any amazing, provably fair, instant, more flexible site that we all know about.  Appropriate name anyway. Two people have access to the same empty account and neither knows it. Hardly spectacular. It will return when we're sure it's fixed. A minority of bounties went to the wrong player. Possibly something to do with tables breaking and the correct player no longer sitting in the expected seat. That's right. I'm going to give the domain to Spike if I'm able. Lol, how many miners were there when diff was 1? 1000? Nope, we didn't even miss an hour.All that's happening is that now freerolls will alternate between 3 Prizes (the old way) and 30 Prizes (a bunch of 1 chip prizes and a few bigger ones) so that more players can get right in to something else, the "1 Chip", "1 Chip Turbo" and "1 Chip Rebuy" that run at :45 every hour now. We may do this eventually. LHE with the same blinds as NLHE does not pay as much rake, so there needs to be some tweaking and we didn't want to make the program more complicated at launch or wait while figuring out an appropriate modification factor.Same with PLO and PLO8. We've been adding a 1000 chips per day, but that's not an official rate, it might stop or change. There is no special jackpot rake.The "Jackpot" account has double the amount of the available jackpot. That allows for endless backup jackpots so it will never get emptied completely. That means that when someone wins 420 chips the showing jackpot amount only decreases by 210, when we add 1000 the jackpot only appears to increase by 500 etc. Ha, what a crappy system if it is vulnerable to some people asking some other people to ask (okay probably try to force) other people to do something. That makes no sense at all. Seals does on the chain transactions for cashins and cashouts and off the chain transactions for bets and player transfers. Not using each when appropriate would be stupid.  He created people with desires and drives and filled the world with uncountable wonders and pleasures. All can be yours if you release your grip on your bitcoins. Is bidding open for the week starting on the 9th? No, not instant, you just happened to make it right before they were paid. Maybe not the best way to use up your Seals luck :p Still, having to switch domains could be quite disruptive. PokerStars was legal in its jurisdiction as well. Some not so reasonable people seem to have control of .com tld. The invite request page is broken or missing.I suggest you just open it up, there is so much going on around here that extra hoops are going to badly limit the attention that you can get and a site like this needs thick orderbooks asap.If you want to send credentials to me via PM I'd like to see the site.
The Sat 10k is back to normal now. The first jackpot winner was a royal at 1/2 for 400 chips. NLHE jackpots are live.Details here: https://sealswithclubs.eu/jackpots-for-nlhe/Cliffs: Win prizes for NLHE straight flushes, bigger for royals. The starting maximum prize is 20000 chips (20 BTC), that's for a royal at 50/100 blinds NLHE and above. I've not studied the source carefully, but my understanding is that the regression theorem explains a way that a thing(s) have achieved moneyness in the past. If it does claim that bitcoin having value is impossible it is clearly wrong. It's been changed to two dailies:Daily Rebuy 75 2k guarDaily Rebuy 25 1k guarSo there are three daily rebuys counting the Midnight 50 rebuy and two that are larger once per week on Sat and Tues. He has cashed twice if I'm not mistaken. The "core team" is just a term for whoever is doing it best.Regardless of any shortcomings there may be, it is good enough to handle millions and millions of dollars worth of business and it is free to use, so they are giving out more value than almost everyone in the world. Maybe linux devs and a few others surpass, but they've had a lot more time. If OP is not being sarcastic, which I suspect he may be, this is preposterous. Thousands maybe millions of people get working Bitcoin (remember it's essentially magic money) software for free, how is this possibly anything except amazing? The schedule is still in flux and really always will be. We can offer essentially unlimited self-sustaining tournaments, but we can only subsidize a limited number. There is an art to figuring out what these will be, we don't want to cancel them too fast, we also want to move on and try other games, we're trying to find the right balance.Over a sample of 1000+ games we had to consistently pay people to play in the 10 Afters. At the same time, 10 chip SNGs ran much less often than previously, we assume because enough people started playing the 10 Afters instead which made the 10 chip SNGs not quite fill.Offering 24 "MTTs" that only got 1-2 tables often even with large negative effective rake isn't as good as trying to build a few daily that are more like actual MTTs and let SNGs take the demand for smaller games. It may take some time for action to return to them, but we'll try to speed that along by adding rewards as soon as we can.There will be new MTTs in the 10 to 100 range coming soon. If we do many at once we worry that all will fail. That's reasonable, we'll put the Every Seven back with a lower guar and note the guar in the title, not doing that has been a mistake.Edit: The "Every Six 600 guar" with 38+2 buyin is now online. It will run 4 times per day at 5am, 11am, 5pm, and 11pm ET. We've realized that roaming games are harder for people to follow and we're only leaving the Roaming Rebuy like that (it goes every 9 hours). And in the morning the 20 chip 600 guar changed to 25 chip 500 guar.NLNiko, I saw you were the only one in it when the change was made and assumed you'd still want to play, I sent the 5 chip price difference to your account (silently, but it did go). We are redoing the schedule. The 50 chip at 7am was never supposed to return, that was a mistake. The games you mention are being removed also and some tweaks have been made to others so that we can keep them. The hourly 10 After games all all done, they weren't popular enough to be sustainable and seemed to hurt the microstakes SNG ecosystem.New and substantially changed games:Wed Big Ante 2000 guar - The ante is equal to the big blind. Three smaller rounds are added to the beginning of the tournament to make it last roughly as long as a normal game.Big Prizes 100 - Every prize is at least 500 chips, enough to enter the tweaked 5pm which is now:500 chip 4.20k guar - a 480+20 with 4200 chips guaranteed.Sat Rebuy 12k guar - At the same time as the old Sat 10k, and with rebuys allowed.Friday 15k guar - This was the Friday Swell which had been bouncing between 13k and 14k.10 After NLHE 250 guar - Runs once a day at 8:10pm ET with a higher guar than when it ran many times per day.10 After PLO 250 guar - Runs once a day at 9:10pm ET with a higher guar than when it ran many times per day.Look for more additions in coming days. I'm sorry I forgot to write to you.That investigation is not finished. Buying and selling accounts is a terrible idea. There are very few with 50k+ krill and you always have to wonder why someone who clearly plays a lot would want to part with it. Beware of scams.We aren't going to pretend it isn't happening (if it actually is) or push people to hide and trade elsewhere, but that doesn't make it a good idea. Congrats on the win. You can talk about whatever you like in the chat.Account "Collusion" sent reimbursement to players who played against 19 accounts, mostly in PLO 3/6 who were clearly working together. My site only accepts bitcoin. To accept old style money would probably put us out of business one way or another.  We're sorry for the trouble, this was emergency maintenance. You don't need to re-download the client. We are aware of the problem. We will be back in a few minutes. Both are on the todo list. We don't plan to encourage or aid HUDs, but if we get large enough I'm sure it will happen.Making a new account to avoid being tracked is easy at Seals, all you lose is your rewards status.
For anyone who doesn't know, SealsDeals.info is a great site that helps facilitate staking deals at Seals. We didn't make the site and we don't run it. Ender, a Seals player, made the site and operates it and takes his own fees. When he plays he tries to win and he's (apparently, I haven't verified) been successful lately. There is no reason to think he wins more in tournaments because he gets a fee from other players staking deals.I don't want to dismiss entirely the idea of conflict of interest regarding stakees and stakers, but it is a very common thing in poker tournaments and it's not been a problem at Seals. Do you still get this problem now?I don't and we've not gotten other reports. I'll see what I can find out. It'll be a couple more hours yet. We've taken the server offline, we expect the problems will be gone when we return. It may take a few hours. We use cloudflare mostly for fast DNS switching and a few other minor features.We are in a ddos specializing datacenter, unfortunately that seems to mean they have customers who are big targets and currently they cannot handle the combined attacks. We're working a few angles, but can't say for sure when things will be completely stable. Please enjoy some extra freerolls and try to refrain from requesting refunds if you have trouble during them, we know there are problems, but it's not possible to pay everyone back their 0 chips for freeroll buyins. We were under the impression that our datacenter did not use vacuum tubes. We may have been misinformed. Lately it appears to be hamster tube equipment. One way or another it will be resolved.Tournaments are offline until we are more confident about the situation (dead hamsters removed?) as they cause the most stress and complications. We don't know when that will be.  It is absolutely not the software. The server becomes unavailable but runs fine the whole time. We are aware, and doing what we can (again). I'm very sorry. Did you just upgrade? If so no worries, just wait, it is re-indexing. We know there have been problems today. If you need a refund or have a question about where money went you can PM me or email admin@sealswithclubs.eu.Sorry for the problems. The option to turn it on will be back in a day or two. Sorry for the inconvenience.Accounts that have it activated are working fine. It is currently available inside the downloadable client.It will be available on the webpage again soon. We are aware that we are offline. Sorry for the trouble, we expect to be back soon and will make appropriate reimbursements. Your browser remembers that you are logged in, that's how you can go from page to page and it still knows. Eventually the server will time your login out (with tab open or closed). Closing the tab doesn't log you out, you have to actually click log out if you want to be logged out.In order to transfer chips or cashout you need to enter credentials again. Though someone walking by your abandoned active computer  and Seals session could play poker with your chips, so do be careful. donk4, this isn't a general problem and we're very busy. We will get to examining it eventually, but if you are sure you extracted it and are running the extracted program in the same folder as the sound (where it would naturally be) then there is no simple fix and it may not even be our client causing the problem.The flash client you've been using and the My Account functions are all available now. 21000000 BTC, but you'll have to wait a while and you won't get any callers.Around now. If you have over 500 krill and don't see the bonus in your rakeback/bonus history send me a PM. Great, a problem that isn't ours ;-)My Account is available now. Please report any bugs. Most of the messages (You transferred, cashed out successfully etc) are working but plaintext on white page, we know, it will be fixed soon. Is the sound folder in the same place as the icon you are running? You can email the errors to x@sealswithclubs.eu.We are very busy, I'm sure your problem can be solved eventually. New accounts were not being assigned bitcoin addresses for a while, that is fixed and old new accounts have been assigned addresses. Currently you can see them in the client, but soon they will show on the My Account page as well. Withdrawals are back to normal or faster now. They were paid about 5 minutes ago. We expect most My Account features to be available in about an hour.
The website issues have not affected bitcoin deposits. Can you PM me or email admin@sealswithclubs.eu with all details? If you had then you wouldn't have gotten any download at all, so no. We've just discovered that the wrong download page was showing, it was ugly and didn't have the most recent version. The link on the side goes to the correct page now and here is a direct link, https://sealswithclubs.eu/pc-client/ We are busy, and I'm not sure what is going on in your situation and I'm not very familiar with windows 8. If it says it is running and so can't be deleted make sure you close it. If you don't see it look in your task manager, maybe cntr+alt+del still works in Win 8? Restarting the computer will have to close it and it won't start itself on boot, so you can delete it then. You can and you can see your deposit address in the cashier in the client. Click "Buy chips with Bitcoin". Sorry for the confusion. We are having stability issues on the website only, if it doesn't work for you try again in 3 minutes. Cashouts are now available on the website, but most features (histories, transfers, cancel withdrawals, ring and sng launchers) are only available via the downloadable client. We expect to be fully functional within 24 hours. You need to extract the file before you run it. Close the client, right click the icon and click extract, then run that and you will have sound. We only took 30 chips (all there was at the time) and gave them to the players who finished right behind him in the tournament where he won them. We'll make it up, details when everything is stable. We've had to temporarily go back to website under construction mode. Sorry for the confusion. Yes, it is safe. If you want to play you should download and login. Pending cashouts are paid. There is no reason to think that anything was leaked. Pending cashouts will be paid very soon and the website and cashout requests will be available as soon as possible. This should have been fixed a few minutes ago. Please confirm that it is still happening for you. The website is still down. Logins via the client are working and games are running (and overlays are likely to be especially nice right now). Optimistically an hour. We are investigating now. It is correct and silly to say because everything around these parts is digital and virtual. That's a non-sequitur.Also, Chuckie Cheese tokens aren't an official currency and cannot be used to pay tax, yet they aren't virtual or digital currency. Even better, could start calling everything 'vitual' and 'digital'. "I just visited that virtual website." "Can you bring my digital computer?" "I can never keep up with my virtual inbox; all these digital messages are driving me crazy."   When there are only 2 players remaining in a cash game and you are one of them chatting about the hand is fine.If there are 3 players or more in a hand no one should chat about the hand.Don't chat about a tournament (including SNGs) hand in progress.So this is against the rules. I will send warnings. Usually people just don't know.
 They've been distributed and so will chips in any other cheating accounts you manage to play with.From the FAQ:SealsWithClubs is the wild, wild west of online poker rooms. SealsWithClubs will vigilantly fight any collusion, cheating or otherwise unfair game manipulation. We reserve the right to handle cheating, collusion, or otherwise unfair play at our sole discretion. He's not welcome anymore, it's just some trouble with the banning system that may or may not be fixed now, but certainly will be soon.That's long expired, sorry. Do try the hourly freeroll if you need help getting started. Mathew did not pay me back even in part. That would be dubious even if they made that explicit claim. If anyone anywhere ever trades a thing they made for another thing then the original is no longer theirs. Even their own courts would not enforce the money printers taking back the money they paid for buying giant slabs of marble or cleaning their mansions. They are fearful. First of being left behind, then of annoying their DC friends then of being left behind again. Soon they'll probably change their feelings again. They seem to be on the frontier of indecision. It does. The people who manage the system and the people who help them and the people who help them and the people who help them and the people who help them and so on get bitcoins.It is not linked, it is compared, and that is just what happens to everything. Castles, cars, candy and clothes all get compared to units of whatever people's local money happens to be. When the monies die the things still have their value, possibly extra value. It would be truly bizarre for two monies to coexist without there being an exchange rate between them.An example of linked would be the dollar and the cent. This is excellent. There was a bug that caused some titles to disappear, when you move up a level it will work from then on. This only affected display, bonuses and rakeback were never affected. It was never meant to be taken down. It was pointed out to us that Omaha tourneys ought not have antes and it was accidentally left offline after it was fixed.The krill system may evolve a bit more, but there will be a multiplier for the off-peak hours for at least a few months. I've never done that, but it doesn't seem right. There is no reason to accept 0 conf when sweeping from an imported key if a site insists on 6 when a normal transfer is made. The launcher won't work in client v0.2.11 now. If you try to log in using v0.2.11 you will now be instructed to upgrade, but if you've had the client open for about a day you wouldn't have gotten that message. .25/.50 games are now available in the launcher on site and in the downloadable client.  Think of it like a bitcoin faucet for poker players, instead of a captcha, play this game (possibly for a long time).It also lets people try the software out any time of day and gives people something to do at Seals while they wait to get more bitcoins. It may (or may not) be less vital now, but I think it really kept us going in the beginning and helped to draw in a lot of players who are now regs and wouldn't touch that dirty freeroll.It isn't meant to be strong poker competition, that's what the real games are for. I'm sorry if chat-blackening offends anyone, you should just think of it like (possibly unwanted) flirting. You can set your color back to normal yourself in the "Edit Account Details" page linked from your "My Account" page.Recently players with less than 500 krill were blocked from changing their own color, this lets downloadable client users bock all newbies chat in one setting. Fun fact, when you hit 500 krill your color changes imperceptible to mark you out from the newbies and stop you from being newbie blocked. Of course, if you suck at talking people may still block you individually.We want to give players tools to customize their own chat experience instead of completely chat banning anyone they might enjoy talking to or listening to. Currently the flash client is terrible for this, but the downloadable client is getting pretty good. Right off the top we essentially give 50% back in the sense that we're about 50% cheap than 'normal' sites. Then we do 50% more back for 2 and 3 handed play at 6 and 9 seat ring tables. So even with no krill lever you should think of it as 50% to 75% RB at Seals.It is rather slow to move up krill ranks, but unlike most sites you don't lose your rank for inactivity, it just slowly marches up.5000 krill gets you in the 140 hour krill freeroll (that's a bit more often than every week) and you don't have to keep playing in order to keep access to that. Right now the prize is 2000 chips and we haven't changed that even as bitcoin values have gone up 10x and more, same with the fixed chip prizes. We might have to change them eventually, but we like to keep things stable. Wave 4 still says tba because there might eventually be something else merchandise related that players become eligible for at that level.Starting tomorrow, krill will be awarded to 0.1 precision. Low games still get proportionally more krill per rake because of how square roots work, krill is sqrt(rake), but with less distortion from the rounding we can offer more lower stakes games and put them in the launcher (coming soon). Also starting tomorrow 2x krill for play between 2am and 10am ET.There will be more promos coming, I'll give hints when I'm sure the ones we want to offer can be achieved in a smooth way technically. I posted this on Jan 12th, no edits. I found this instructional video about how we should behave now. It is the lesser of 2BB or 7 chips. So a limit game with 1/2 blinds has a max rake of 4 chips.Table Starter Rakeback applies to limit also. All 2 and 3 handed play at 6 and 9 seat ring games gets 50% back weekly on Monday. So shorthand limit games of very high stakes still effectively only rake 0.0035 BTC per hand.  Started using Bitcoin in 2009! That's impressive.
You get 50% Table Starter Rakeback whenever you play 2 or 3 handed at 6 and 9 seat tables. If you get dealt and rake is taken from the pot then you get krill. Currently at least 1 whole krill, but the system will be redone soon and award fractional krill so we can offer lower games without distorting the krill system too badly. We rake .01 per .4 chips, so 2.5% rounded down. There is a 10 chip (that's 0.01 BTC) rake cap site wide with lower limits at some games and 50% rakeback for 2 and 3 handed play at 6 and 9 max games.Unfortunately "Wait for BB" is surprisingly hard to work into our system, but we do want it and will have it eventually. These may be the top 3 pots:PLO 856.34 BTC in Sept 2012PLO 576.30 BTC in Aug 2012NLHE 566.66 BTC in Jan 2013 A lot of hands are "like" other hands and if you are playing even a few tables you'll notice a lot of cases of matching and partial matching, it is to be expected. But if you get exactly 4c6d (in order) even 4 times out of 4, that's pretty far out there. 1 in (52x51)^4 ~= 1 in 4.946455187×10¹³But given enough chances it will happen.Note that's the odds of getting a hand picked in advance 4 times in a row. Getting any hand 4 times in a row is  a more reasonable 1 in 18,651,791,808. The user end is the more likely side to be compromised. Anyone involved in bitcoin and/or poker should be careful about security. Speaking of, we will have a linux version ready soon.  My only advice regarding PayPal is not to use it.PayPal must have an API. You would probably use bitcoind's API and some logic to trigger the PP payment API. When you use a credit card do they make you wait 6 months? That would actually be a remarkable miracle.Seals chips will always trade 1000 to 1 with bitcoins. The only reason for a slight deviation would be in an emergency where you can't wait for Seals fast cashouts.Do be very careful about who you send bitcoins and chips too, especially in return for PayPal. Thanks a bunch. I apologize if this was already asked and answered, but I didn't see it.This change seems like it would make a 1 BTC transfer fail if the chosen input was 1.000001 BTC because the change would be below the threshold for being passed on. Will this be made obvious to users or will it just not confirm with no explanation? Could this be solved by automatically making the fee eat the whole amount of the change? That credit system sounds complicated to me, I don't quite understand. Not having instant withdrawals protects users and the site. If you give someone else your credentials you are playing with fire and we can't make any promises, but we do help when the situation is clear and we can. Delayed and manually checked withdrawals have saved several players a substantial amount. In almost two years of manual checking we've never found anything like magic chips being withdrawn, but I still think it is very much worth it not to have anything going out without a real brain approving it.We are probably going to stick with all manual, it may get faster than our current 12 hours max time though. It was really nice when we could (in the sense that we took a risk and got away with it) accept zero confirm deposits. I'd like to bring that back in a limited capacity. Probably it would be set up where each individual account has a limit for what will be credited immediately. It would need to be clear that 0-conf transactions are not deposits, they just trigger a loan that will be paid back automatically when a confirmation comes in. Seals would have to specifically have funds for this purpose. We can't put chips in play that don't have corresponding bitcoins backing them up. And we can't use 0-confs to pay winners, so they don't count. (I'm aware that you can send 0-confs, it just isn't right to pay winners with them).I have thought a lot about a panic switch distribution. I'm reluctant for a few reasons. Even those who understand that they should use an address that they will own 'forever' might stick something in there that they control now, lose control at some point and not think to update. It's also hard to foresee every complication and there is no practicing for this. Also, all funds ought not be one button click away from distributed so it doesn't really work in most panic situations. An orderly shutdown of play and deposits etc, would be required first in addition to moving the funds to a position where they can be sent. In an emergency it might take longer without a system like this in place, but I'm confident that whenever we'd be able to execute a panic button successfully we'd also be able to do a slower shutdown successfully. Version 0.2.13 is available. It has some bug-fixes and we believe it will be stable on Windows 8. Use it with caution, feedback is appreciated. Actually you would see skew no matter what if you look at board cards. It would be relatively small and I can't guess the direction without more thought. In some games a flop is almost always seen. In some games a preflop raise often takes the pot, in those games there will tend to only be a flop when multiple players have higher than average ranks in their hands and you will see lower than average cards on the board. There will also be some flops that tend to make the hand end early and deal no rivers. Without looking at any data I would guess than flushes come in a little bit less often than simple analysis would predict because the turn and river are more likely to be dealt if two or more players are on a flush draw, partially blocking each other.edit: If you just looked at a tally of every card that ever appeared that would be correctly distributed. It's just if you look at "river cards" or similar specifically that there will be skew. The psychology of this goes both ways. People are various surprised, impressed, proud and/or pleased that the value of our unit is bigger than governments' units. Many units and phrasings will be used in different contexts.Seals chips are now mBTC, as they always have been. That seems like a claim worth giving evidence for. Can someone explain how that works? The variance decreasing? There are no "not-legitimate" transactions. Just ones that end up in the chain and ones that don't. If a user is concerned that they might be dealing with someone who would try to back out of paying then they should use Bitcoin's built in solution, wait for confirmations. That's how I was taught to write mathematics papers.Considering that he was hiding it in every other context it seems more likely that if he were a they they would be self-conscious about using 'we' and avoid it. You can open any game you like either at https://sealswithclubs.eu/ring-game-launcherOr in the "Requests" tab in the lobby of the downloadable client. We have full records of the ring game chips that were not returned and they will all be refunded in the next hour or so, sorry for the trouble.
Strike Sapphire and some others do this. We are aware of connection problems and are working on it. Sorry for the trouble.We are back up now. You can do it in a slightly clunky way with Electrum. You can mark addresses as "preferred" or "frozen" in the right way to get it to make the transaction you desire. "Bitcoin is bad because a long time ago some different thing issued by government turned out not to work as promised".What incredible logic.Makes me want to sell the gold I just bought (with bitcoins btw). In case it wasn't clear I was only commenting on the non-factual title of the article. That other site was probably in the news a year ago, and I am not affiliated with them and there is no current press about them that I am aware of.Anyone ever claiming that something is the first either needs to check through the history of the world or risk probably being wrong. Facts are so hard.https://www.eatgrubgo.com/bitcoin.htm The Sunday Big BTC is now a 1 BTC entry with 40 BTC guaranteed prize pool. It starts in about 2.5 hours. Every currency has an exchange rate with every other. People who use both look at the relevant rate frequently, it has nothing to do with being 'real'.Fixing prices in BTC terms can still be useful though. Some benefits that come to mind:Users can know how much they need exactly. If a server bill is calculated last second or changes every 10 minutes that can be annoying.Your shopping cart won't freak out or give a wrong price when Gox data is wrong or unavailable.It is a built in discount when coins are 'cheap'. Probably bad if your marginal cost has a large fiat denominated component but good for  items with very low marginal cost (music, software, virtual game objects, entry to a movie theater). Somehow Seals thread got locked (not by me, I tried the unlock, no luck). I'm not sure who the Gambling mod is so I emailed theymos 24 hours ago (how dare he take break) . If anyone else can help that would be great. I don't know why the thread is locked. I assume theymos will fix it when he is available.OP, you should propose something to admin@sealswithclubs.eu to make sure you are able to deliver before offering anything to players. Version 0.2.12 is up now and fixes the slider problem.Rake will be tweaked some more, but lower games will have higher BB caps. Ah, my mistake. I'm not going to interrupt the game, but I'll make real 6 max now. Yes, .5/1 ring games are available now. Unfortunately, they can't be in the launcher until some bugs are fixed which may take several days. I added some manually and I can take requests for more. We are going offline for maintenance in about 60 minutes. Hopefully we'll be back within 30 minutes. So you like Bitcoin but hate people who are willing to sell them to you cheaply? That is simple for us to do, but it will result in misunderstanding no matter how many warnings we give. People will make mistakes about what stakes they play and size of cashouts (important if paying for something for example). People have loans and staking deals that certainly could be correctly adjusted, but we don't want to give people that hassle unexpectedly. Logs would become very confusing as well. Fractional is more work, but it won't be long now. Gox lag remaining: aprox 640809 seconds I don't think it is important, but the username was KOTH123.Do not use your password at other sites. If you do you may be robbed. If you give your password to strangers setting up new bitcoin gambling sites that advertise themselves primarily in Seals chat you will almost definitely get robbed.Two factor auth is available now for Seals accounts. Make sure you have a valid email on file with us and then activate it at:https://sealswithclubs.eu/activate-google-authenticator NL and PL 6max and 9max have a global 10 chip (0.01 BTC) max.Limit and all HU games have a 7 chip (0.007 BTC) max.All rakeback still applies. It will be updated today.
There will be brief downtime shortly before noon ET on Tuesday. GA is required for logins, transfers and cashouts now.We will add GA to the edit account details page for accounts where it is activated.Changing email does require password currently. No, it means you will be able to buy in for say 50 chips to a ring game and make have blinds of  .25 and .50 and bets in increments of .50. Anyone who is interested can activate Google Authenticator for their Seals account now. It will work for web, Android and PC logins, transfers and cashouts now.https://sealswithclubs.eu/activate-google-authenticatorMake absolutely sure you have a valid email associated with your Seals account before activating Google Authenticator. Seals won't support LTC. Besides being confusing and more work and potential extra problems and splitting the player pools, it is trivial for LTC holders to get BTC. So the question is "Why do people think they are right when actually they are wrong?"?I imagine you'll get some answers from people who think they are right, but I'd worry that maybe they are wrong. This is all correct. But we currently only deduct for the various rakebacks. Freerolls, overlays and any other promos we've run have not been deducted, but we reserve the right, since without it theoretically we could lose money on play otherwise. Essentially. The more you pay for my first coins the less I'll be motivated to sell you the next 1% and so on. That is compounded by anyone realizing what you are trying to do. Considering that even if you can get 99% we'll have more than enough units, it's a pretty terrible 'attack'. Sorry about the current trouble, we are working on it. If you cannot reach the site normally but you can via proxy send your IP address to admin@sealswithclubs.eu and we'll see about a whitelisting it. We are aware of the current issues, we don't expect they will last very long. We can try to reach him. Restarting the client should help. New versions should also get better about that.  I'm getting no other reports of that now. Which client? Internet good otherwise? When did it start? Ongoing? Neither micon or ender have any meaningful admin privileges. Ender is helpful and micon is a pro and representative. There is no problem with either of them playing. Someone I know needs help from a trusted member with recovering a wallet. The wallet contains a substantial amount of coin. It may be easy, hard, or impossible, I can't be sure. The fee would probably be contingent. If you think I might trust you, PM me and I'll choose who to put in contact with him.The jist of the problem is this. He had some system problems (Windows Vista) and a tech installed Windows 7 telling him all of his programs would be fine. Bitcoin was still installed, but the wallet is empty. It had nothing to do with any possible overlay. Turning the server off to delay a tournament is far from profitable. We lost a lot of functionality that could only be recovered with a restart so it had to be done right away. Do you mean your account is not working (wrong password or account locked?) or that you cannot reach the sever (maybe you are getting filtered by DDoS protection by mistake)? No, it may be a simple fix, but we won't know until it is actually fixed.  So, you told him they could go up or down and now you are going to tell him you were right? You didn't need to wait a year really, you could be fairly sure to be right even back then with predictions that specific.
We certainly won't kill flash until there are robust mac, linux and win 8 clients. HTML5 may replace the flash eventually and if it is used by many we will likely keep it indefinitely.  Excellent. If it falters after a few hours just close and restart it when you can and it should be fresh again. Soon even that won't be necessary. That data disappearing means that flash crashed. Reloading should work. Switching tabs isn't so much the problem as having other flash applications open in the same browser, youtube, etc.  The only thing stopping you would be slowness of logging in. If you make sure to keep your web session active it would just be one click and a quick flash load up. No guarantee but you could probably make it.I would NOT play for money that matters to you on the beta with windows 8. We expect it to fail in its current state. Whoops, already fixed for the next version. The "X" should close it fine till then. It seems to crash for everyone after 10-15 minutes. If it is working for you please let us know.  It's a distribution method too. If you think it is more pay than the effort is worth go get your own piece of that free money. For sure, I haven't bought a coin in a long time. This is true, don't buy either unless you are prepared to buy more. How about actually sending the PMs or responding to PMs? You can easily sell 1000 bitcoins near the market price without even going to multiple markets.This shows current MtGox offer volume, bitcoinity.org/markets. 2000 coins sold instantly would drop the price less than 0.5%.The "they" who does the buying is any person or business who wants or need coins. If no one wants them there will be no one to sell to.The dollar amount of the last public trade times the number of coins is how the number is calculated, which is currently over $800M, but don't put too much stock in that. Obviously all coins could not be bought or sold at that price. Deposits are back. Right now you are getting that because Seals pointed to 127.0.0.1 until 30 seconds ago. And the cert is not god for your home of course.There is a chance that you will get the same error at our new IP, it is safe. We should be back up within an hour. Deposits won't credit for some time after that.Cashouts will be immediately available. We are very very sorry that you haven't had access to your money at Seals.Unfortunately we cannot be positive that our new setup will resist the attack if it follows us which turned out to be extraordinarily strong. We do have plans if the attack returns even stronger, but it will potentially mean some more downtime. If you need your coins make a cashout request right away and it will be paid promptly.Most tournaments will be offline at first except for some low stakes and some freerolls while we see how everything runs. We haven't made a decision about the Big BTC yet.Thanks so much for your support and patience. We expect and hope this will be the end of our troubles. We are getting closer, but it will likely still be over 6 hours. No ransom demand.It is hard to guess at the motive with nothing to go on, we're just concentrating on making it as difficult as possible to knock us down in the future. We have chosen to move to a data center with stronger DDoS protection. Unfortunately that means it will take hours at least, possible a full day.When we came back online briefly in the middle of the night I was able to award chips for stacks in the Daily Bitcoin, but nothing else yet. Other refunds will be made as soon as possible. Thanks for your patience.  I don't know why. We were back online for a while and I was able to make the Daily Bitcoin balance adjustments, but there was lag and we are offline again now. We have confirmation that it is a heavy DDoS attack. Cloudflare isn't able to protect us from this one. Nothing is lost. When we solve this everything will be made right.
Something we can agree on for sure ;-) That seems a lot like buying fire insurance if your house burns down. Uh, is that image claiming that the ECB bashed bitcoin and called it a ponzi? Because the report I recall specifically said it wasn't a ponzi. No kidding. That's exactly as disingenuous as it would be to say that the price soared 23% after the technical glitch. It did both, and in less time than anyone could write a serious article, mention both or none or you're a sketch-ball. I will be recommending this service. Everyone is just going to want to kick that guy in the teeth, it isn't good advertising imo.Also, being "unaffected" isn't really anyone's goal. My dead great grandmother was not affected by the Cyprus robbery either. Is your amount not updating at all or not as much as you would expect? I can give more detailed information about your player's activity via PM or email admin@sealswithclubs.eu. A block like the one that caused the fork will now just be ignored because the power decided to move to 0.7. I have no idea about Cyprus or Hungary, but in general I would think that "no warning" is exactly what one would experience right before confiscation. Krill for tournaments may happen. We will find some way to make tourney only players non-noob eventually.For now I can manually "non-noobify" players so if you are a tourney regular just PM me or email admin@sealswithlcubs.eu. Also players who changed their color over a week ago are automatically "non-noobified" for a technical reason. We'll consider check box placement.The main lobby is resizable on the PC client, can you not resize?Bitcoin forever, sorry ;-)We hit 380 logins on Wednesday.Thanks for playing. Presumably benevolent souls sit on 100% of the power right now, at least we don't have reason to think otherwise, but we wouldn't necessarily know. The problem with knowing who controls an immense amount of power is that they'll be defeated with drugs and a $5 wrench.Also, it wouldn't help in the slightest for the current power to be shuffled around. The only thing that helps is more power. No. As long as anyone is using Bitcoin there will be new blocks containing transactions and a 51% attack is possible. The only thing that happens near 21 million coins mined is that miners get only fees instead of fees and subsidy. That is on our todo list, but not near the top so I don't have a guess as to when. Sorry.No, that is no longer available. The plan is to have those statements preceded by a special character for easy filtering. The new client will be able to check for that char and make them not show to people who don't want to see them.Also, new in the new client is newbie filtering. It blocks chat from (most) players with less than 500 krill.Also, the regular ignore player feature works as it should in the new client, no "*****" anymore. The site is down now. Let us know how it works for you. It has been very stable except for some players using Win 8 and we're working on that. So he would be required by law to make a Bitcoin transaction returning them? Interesting for sure, lol. You've tested a bank's open source software and chosen to attach a fee that ended up going to a peer? Interesting for sure ;-) This reads to me like "No one will live indoors because plumbing is so hard." Our PC client is now available. It is beta, we recommend that you play freerolls at first to make sure it is stable on your system.There will be new features added frequently. Check for them here: https://sealswithclubs.eu/beta-client/
Mmm, hmm. Bitcoin is awesome and will change the world! As long as everyone in the world agrees to act in a certain way despite what their personal goals and motivations are.I think no. That would be such a neat feature. "Well, it's daytime in my area and Gox is down again, I'm so glad they implemented that, I'm certainly not going to sign up at a different exchange now". I'm sure they are trying to get back to making money, but miners earn rate in the short term is not affected by the hash rate, just the difficulty. If everyone but 1 miner stopped mining that miner would make the same amount for a very long time. Boom. Sounds like reason to me. That's right within mere seconds bitcoins might be worth negative 45 to 90 dollars. Yes, my thought is tournaments that are likely to go near 2 hours or more should have hourly breaks.Right now I think the Big BTC and the "Slow 2k Guarantee" have breaks and I just added them to the Saturday since we're keeping the 10k guar for now and it gets a big field. It is public information. If you play people will see over time how good or bad you are. Maybe not ideal for everyone, but I don't think it is a big problem. I think both of those sites are neat. Seals itself has had tournament and krill leaderboards and we may give more information directly on the site soon both for promos and general information. People like to know if a game gets a lot of players or an overlay or whatever. I thought the answer was going to be that you need something with which to buy coins if a better deal is offered. I don't think it's all just habit or psychology. If you say 49.72 you need some specific reason for the precision, just like if you said 50.00, but no one (outside of mytho-chartalists) claims that precision so they use even numbers to indicate that it's just a rough guess. Unless you've got like 0 fiat any remorse is misplaced. Guy with $10k in the bank should not be thinking damn, I wish I hadn't spent 1 BTC on those pizzas, he should be thinking damn, why didn't I buy 20 more BTC.And if you've got no fiat left then what are you going to do but eat at pizzaforcoins and bitcoinstore? You gunna regret eating and buying a laptop when yours breaks? I don't think so. SBR was more than happy to spend time talking to us. It never worked out but there was a real chance of doing business and they are in no way scared of bitcoin. Whatever is going on, you haven't figured it out. Our Android app is new and labeled as beta, please let me know when you have problems, admin@sealswithclubs.eu or the developer directly, android@sealswithclubs.eu.Also expect a downloadable client very soon. We are going to have brief, about 5 minutes, downtime Monday near noon ET. Aww, sorry. We are re-evaluating our time zone handling. Savings time sucks. When I first found bitcoin my wealth would have pumped the market price up 10x rather easily, and I didn't have very much wealth. To say that investing in bitcoin at that point made little sense is what makes little sense. Of course, exiting the market right after you enter it and before it sees the growth you anticipate does make little sense. Little nugget of fail there.Mighty be a ponzi, check.No one knows who started it and that's a problem, check.Attractive investment now because it costs more, ok...Order of magnitude(s?) off on the number of people who accept it. We've got a special series of 7am ET 7 BTC guarantee tournaments. They'll run 7 days in a row. It's just 0.1 BTC to enter. I actually thought it was just the genesis block which was published with the code and paper and the next block was a week after that. I may have it wrong, but I'm pretty sure he didn't spend a month mining alone. While those people were preparing (obviously they don't all have the coins to spend yet) the price would rise to accommodate them. So yes, the price has to rise in order for that to happen without the universe exploding or something, but it automatically will, so it isn't something to worry about. We are much more likely to go fractional than change the conversion. A conversion change could cause players to make bad mistakes while unaware or confused and is just generally a bit odd. Any change will need some study and preparation but it looks like the pressure is on. Tables with blinds of 1/1 are a possibility as a near term help. Anyone have thoughts on that? If anyone is unaware there are already 10 and 25 chip SNGs of all types available.
Some people have an offer showing on their My Account page. It isn't for everyone unfortunately. There will be an Android only freeroll sometime soon, that will be for everyone (who can log in on the android). I think that's more specific than you intended. I read it as $999990-$1000010.   The only way for there not to be drug trade in a currency is for that currency to completely die, so just think of it like a pulse. This.I think it is a correct description of the past. And that's all. For real. I think I'm going to use GMAA (go make an altcoin) as the new GTFO. Maybe you misunderstood me.I fully agree that it is dumb to complain about how people use any currency.I was just mentioning a possible tactic that could be used in response. If you ask them for any detail they will admit that their source of info is very week, not first hand, not second hand, not verified, etc.  8087 and 8088 are what the flash client needs.Check your PMs too. I have no idea. If anyone makes the claim ask what price they paid. Game over. Just an image, a sentence and a link to bitcoin magazine, but there are a lot of comments.http://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/2013/03/good-or-bad-news-for-bitcoin.html Sorry about that. It should be working now or in a few minutes. Try now, players are getting in. Cloudflare is offline, so Seals is offline. I don't expect it to take very long to get back up one way or another. Every halving is mostly priced in from the beginning as they are literally part of the definition of Bitcoin. The demand for the coin only results in a price because it interacts with a limited supply, there is only a limited supply because of halvings. Yes, and if the attack was actually working they wouldn't be able to buy more since no one could get coins to the exchanges, rofl. In case some people aren't realizing the simple practice of handing off keys is not a safe way to preform bitcoin transactions. The 'sender' can reuse that money any time, a primary way would be to send it to themselves at a new address by making an actual bitcoin transaction. I suppose a short term inconvenience would not be too hard to pull off this way, but they would be supporting the bitcoin price and enriching bitcoin miners. An the public relations angle would be bad but not terrible, "Why am I not getting in a block?" Someone else is paying more than you.Solutions exist and more will be made regarding setting your own fee and even replacing transactions to have a higher fee when they  don't get confirmed fast enough. So this is expensive, just an inconvenience, and going to become less effective over time even if the block size is not increased, which it probably will be.  So someone spends 72/hr in order to make people pay .001 for tx? That sounds wonderful for miners and a tiny inconvenience for users. It's just ~1.5M dollars worth per month. Assuming you don't drive prices up at all.  You have two cows, you sell them for bitcoins, now you have less bullshit to worry about.
Aw, they're precious. Mostly they just want something to put in their sweet little hands.Don't worry I've got a copy.This guy probably hates movies. http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2013-02-26/alternative-currency-goes-mainstream-bitcoin-atms-emerge I got bad service from KalyHost for a long time and eventually left them. I think it is just a business he doesn't care about and hasn't bothered to shut down. I'm pretty sure I've googled bitcoin way more times than anyone would google dwolla no matter how much they love it, there is just so much more to learn and read about bitcoin than dwolla. I swear one time I won some dollars and my thought was "Yes, that's over 500 bitcoins".But we already knew the dollar isn't "real money"(tm) "What is it good for if it is worth 0" is the same as saying "What is it good for when no one on Earth thinks it's good for anything or has any chance of being worth anything again".You and/or your friends should instead spend time coming to grips with why people value it in order to see that they aren't all going to stop valuing it randomly at some point in the future. I wonder in his actual opinion if we have to stop it 'ever' or 'forever' because some people have sometimes done that.I think it's kind of a silly idea though. If I ever find myself in a land that uses Euros I'll be converting it in my head to dollars not because Euros aren't money but because I spend most of my time in a place that uses dollars. The existence of some people who don't do that doesn't seem very important. Suppose there was a place where no one lived but only vacationed (humor me, even the workers only stay for one month shifts) everyone would always be thinking of the currency there as foreign and doing conversions but that money would still be a money. Oh really?? Welcome, we're working on the tourney schedule, what is your preferred buyin and time of day? $100 is not very creative dreaming. Do you really want a house that has a market price of 0 by the way? A 'house' is not always a house. Buy it. So that they can blame their ultimate failure on bitcoin when actually carrying paper all over the place is now stupid? So you agree? The price will be $100 before the date will be April 31st? "True" "Hoarders" don't sell at all. Thanks and sorry for the confusion.The Monday PLO will be weekly at 11pm ET with 6max tables and a 5000 guarantee. This is super common advice, I don't mean to pick on you at all.I think it's terrible. What's wrong with taking chances, risking pain? Does this advice mean that you shouldn't hike in the wilderness or ever ride in a car? You could lose your whole life.Besides that, whatever you do has some total risk. Leaving your wealth in the generally accepted forms just means that if you get wiped out so will everyone who might be able to help you.Be bold, temper it with a little thought. No matter what you do you could lose everything.  While I was listening to this guy claim we wouldn't be buying meals and hats for bitcoin any time soon I was wearing a hat bought with bitcoin and I ate a bitcoin bought pizza that night. You don't make hardly anything that you use yourself and most of it works great. And $1200 or whatever is hardly out of reach for home production anyway. I'll pay double for a coin if you show your work on paper.
rofl, yes, if it isn't tangible he should just be like "What, what? I don't see, hear, smell, taste or feel whatever it is you are talking about." Geez, I don't even know where to begin.He likes local currencies better because at least you can buy things with them.......... Anyone who never sells isn't playing aggressively enough. Use most of your savings, quit your job to run a bitcoin business and sell every week or month.I'm not actually saying everyone should to this. But "True bitcoiner never sells" is bogus. True bitcoiner sells to eat because he has so damn many.  I feel like that hand expects to break a solid glass sphere with that needle. Poor confused hand. How exactly can you hoard bitcoins without doing anything?  You can write to admin@sealswithclubs.eu or PM me and I'll take care of you. We are down. I don't yet know why, we're contacting our host. Also you have to buy a car and combustion fluid. It works, you actually get pizza for bitcoins, yum.Where it asks for promo code do you put the 3 digit number that is in a little box on the coupon in that field? Some good coupons came with the order that I might want to use for next time. If you think it has no value at "the end of the day" then 1 cent ought not surprise you any more than $27. Maybe it is the years of unbroken positive value that should perplex you? Echoing others, almost no one knows anything but they use all kinds of crazy shit. Satellite TV? Computers? I like how he tells me (a guy wearing a bicoin purchased hat and about to eat a bitcoin purchased pizza) that we won't be buying hats or meals any time soon. I guess I get where he's coming from, but it's sort of silly, and the equivalent statement, "People were still selling them for 90% less than previously" isn't so optimistic sounding. I do not consider that sufficient.Would you say that if you pay for a hotdog and the gentleman serving it has a heart attack dies and drops the last one on the ground? Is he is a scammer? More is required than not delivering in order for a scam to happen. It requires intent. There is no bad intent here, they are trying to offer a new international service, there are going to be some problems for a while. Sorry, I don't think I documented that anywhere on the site.https://sealswithclubs.eu/aff.php?aff=1&page=promotionsuse FAQ, seals-team-pro, etc in place of promotions as desired. "4 years and bitcoins are still awesome" should be an option. What's the problem with similar services? If they don't offer anything better they'll just die anyway. The idea of handing SD profits over to laywers and the state in an effort to keep prices up makes me ill. Ask if they'll take Amazon Coins. Naw, ponzi detection works like this:Does it have to do with money?If no: ENDIf yes:Have I heard of it a few times?If yes: ENDIf no: PONZI Um, what about Satoshi Dice and Wordpress? Those are both fairly large.  
Lol, can we get play out of confusion over Amazon's stupid naming? This doesn't make sense to me. Why would anyone choose the lower value strategy? Is anyone else getting "Unrecognized search pattern" on every bitcoin address lookup? Brian Armstrong has replied in this very thread. I'm nearly certain coinbase will pay if you pester them. This or something similar has happened twice to Seals players and it has been fixed by coinbase sending new funds. Oh, I think I got it now. I was forgetting that fees earned are just like subsidy and was thinking that method could only be used to pass on up to all of the subsidy.Can you help me see my contradiction in the first part? If miners know they'll be ignored if they don't pay half or more to the next block then if they are offered half they'll never try to remine since they'd have to pay out half anyway. I expect building on the latest block will continue to be the norm, but for different reason (rollover payments) in the future.In the future if some blocks offer rollover payments and some do not the ones that do will be built on, not the first ones to hit the network. My guess is that the rollover payment will be half of the fees in the block. If that was the norm then when faced with a choice between building on the previous block and getting half of its fees or re-mining the block, offering nothing (or less than half) in rollover fees and having your block ignored (by everyone who is expecting and already has available a version of that block that offers 50%) you will choose to build on the block. I'm still not clear on how to accomplish a rollover payment. What? This silly thread is about you, that's what you asked in the tittle. Yes! You better trace it all the way back to a coinbase tx! Yes, I totally get the idea of passing some on as incentive to the next miner. I'm only wondering about what implementation is currently possible. I think if this does not require a protocol change it will happen on it's own (maybe in 20+ years).Actually leaving out high fee tx as a treat for the next miner is super gross. Unless you are meaning something I can't think of, anyone who sees the block that you desire to be built upon can take the tx out and put it in their own block regardless of whether they use your block or not. And they can spend it in the same block in which they include it. Whoops, thanks. I have a feeling that Satoshi new he might be alone for a while and didn't want to "give himself" low difficulty and very high block rewards. I mean he did get to have highest ever block rewards, but at least he gave others 4 years to get in on that. 4 years was probably his "by then or never" guess.Or maybe he figured we could use some free media every 4 years :-) Ah, I overlooked continual readjusting based on a large number of blocks.I don't think it would be that bad for miners turn-off decisions. If they really wanted to stop asap when difficulty reached a certain point that is trivial to code. As it is profitability already fluctuates in real time based on the bitcoin value. I was trying to think how to pay someone for choosing to build on your block using what is currently available.Including a tx that anyone can redeem doesn't work, that tx can just be put in a later block.  You guys might want to test out that feedback form. I asked a simple question ~16 hours ago and didn't get a response. If you are in a position where bitcoins are too valuable for you to spend you are making or have made some bad mistake. Decide what % you want in bitcoins, wait, sell bitcoins to get back to that %.If you get stupidly rich you aren't going to keep living like you were forever. From Ron/Shamir: "If we sum up the amounts accumulated at the 609,270 addresses which only receive and never send any BTC's, we see that they contain 7,019,100 BTC's, which are almost 78% of all existing BTC's." This is way way different from saying that 70% of 'coins' (whatever that means) never move. If every bitcoin moved every single hour but everyone always used new addresses then every single address with coins at it would receive but never send! On the bright side that is still way above fundamental value. Geez, it's clearly not a scam, the same guys already move 10s or 100s of thousands of coins per month, it's just new and they are working out the kinks I'm sure.But when you launch and ask for feedback would be a good time to be quick on support, my simple inquiry via the form on the website is like 10 hours waiting. 
SatoshiDice links to satoshidice.com, but sealswithclubs.eu and switchpoker.com link to calvinayre. I must not be paying off the right people. Even if you solve the pick-your-own timestamp issue which is far from trivial, like eleuthria says, you would just get wildly fluctuating difficulty. Sometimes you'll find blocks within 1 second of each other and difficulty will go up 600x or more, then since it will take so long to find that high difficulty block (much worse than you expect because many miners will just turn off) that you'll have a very low difficulty next year when someone finds that block and difficulty will go way down, then BAM next block found and sky high difficulty again.Adjusting every block is not workable, but I wonder how fast it could be and still be mostly ok. Intuitively daily doesn't seem like it would be a problem, but you would have more fluctuations than now and I don't see the benefit. Anywhere from 1 week to 2 months seems ok, except if you pick something like 2 months and there is a big slowdown it could take a multiple of that to get to the next adjustment, that seems bad. As the rules are now people can enter their own timestamp on a block up to some distance from other nearby blocks. Over 2016 blocks inaccuracies of an hour or so don't matter, but it would be severe if we changed the difficulty every block. There are even blocks with timestamps before the blocks that they come after, what would difficulty be then? If you really mean small then they might not be for you, but OrangeWebsite.com is in Iceland and has been reliable and helpful for over a year. They accept bitcoin. They would need to actually send the 'fake' profits to the real owners of the shares so it seems like a terrible plan. Now if they didn't have other investors then making 'fake' wagers for publicity would be possible. I cannot reach newswire.net at all. The 10000 chip freeroll for high krill earners migrates around the clock, it runs every 530 hours. The "Over 1 year!" 10000 chip freeroll is 9pm ET which works for a lot of our players, weekend might be better for many, but we do need to spread things over the week. These one-time codes are redeemed on your "My Account" page, in the same blank as the codes that are worth chips. The wings are a great deal on the menu I'm seeing, 0.00 BCT.  I'm not sure of the current BTC value, maybe it just needs more significant digits ETA on Pizza Hut and Papa Johns? This appears to be several hours worth of well produced video. Running it now to listen for mistakes.edit: 12 minutes in, it's decent so far, but he's not gotten to bitcoin yet. That is what happened before cloudflare. I don't believe that http was ever accessible, it just went from redirecting to failing. I must just be lucky, every time I buy three years later the price is way up. I think this is now fixed. Would some people confirm that they can now connect without https (you'll get forwarded to https now instead of failure). www.sealswithclubs.eu and sealswithclubs.eu for example should work now. Considering that satoshi choose a japanese sounding name there is a very very tiny chance that he's from Japan. What are you getting now when you hit https://sealswithclubs.eu ? Sorry, it is just cloudflare doing a bad job filtering. Hopefully my last change improves the situation. Sorry, it isn't really offline, cloudflare is still overblocking no matter how it is set.The best way seems to be to try to hit the homepage then the blue button if needed, other pages seem to refuse entry longer. But once you get the homepage you can click wherever.We are working on it. Connection and flash troubles will happen and it should be a quick process to get back in. Sorry again. This rule would apply to blocks until they are 1 deep, right? Do you envision no check-time or size rule for blocks that are built on? Or a different much more generous rule? It requires knowledge of many bitcoin sellers desires to sell or not at various prices. Many times those people themselves do not know until they see the offer and how they feel about it, also their observation of other people's willingness to sell or not will affect them so it is very difficult to predict. Difficult to predict over large scales that is, you can just look at the order book on major exchanges and do arithmetic for small amounts and short times. I don't see how it can be a flaw if it can be like the competition when you need it to and better when you need it to. Having to giving a shipping address in order to have something shipped to you is not a flaw of bitcoin.
Aww, I was hoping it would automatically replace non-allowed words with equivalent phrases made of allowed words. Still cool though. Bitcoin doesn't -make- you anonymous. It allows you to be anonymous if you choose and are careful. The 'security settings' are a superset of your normal choices. Absolutely. I don't mean that it's a bad thing that competition eventually kills everything. That means that the stuff that currently exists always tends toward awesome because of competition. Those will all be gone and it will be because they were out-competed. I don't know what insane position you think I hold if it requires that nothing currently exists.All those things you mention replaced things you probably never heard of. B brand buggy whips and yummy Y brand fizzy pop probably. If space in a block is not a limited resource then miners won't be able to charge for it, mining revenue will drop as the subsidy drops and attacks will become more profitable relative to honest mining. Competition ends up killing almost everything, it is bad for any particular thing at all in the longest run, but competition is certainly good for people/humanity. Bitcoin has gone from essentially not a money to here in about 3 years. It's gunna be happening for real in 5 or never. MyriadCoins uses a salt, timestamp and hash to commit to our guess when the player arrives, lets the player enter their own guess and a win or loss is determined by the distance between the guesses.  It is worth thinking about the fact that bitcoin is still so small that there isn't room for 1 actual rich person without substantial value expansion.  When all we had was GPUs all they needed was a few ASICs, when we have ASICs, they'll need a whole lot more ASICs. Are you trying to hit the front page, https://sealswithclubs.eu/ ? If it is a scam it's a really really good one. Fastest Finger Freeroll Codes:FFF-U!7YQ62#EFFFF-*^4YDW5CX&FFF-8*VSWCZB2XFFF-QDP86F*WZMFFF-LA#WV%N7T& Cool, keep in mind when you raise the betting that if someone stands to net more than 25 BTC they can get an edge on you by selectively dumping blocks. I mean they can always screw you by dumping blocks that they find, but it isn't worth the cost to them until the betting gets higher.It occurs to me now that you have a max but cannot enforce it since bets are anonymous so this could be a problem at any time.  Would you be interested in a deal where you buy the right to sell coins to me for $8 each at the end of the year? I'm willing to denominate this in gold too and we can settle with coin if we both want or I can ship. It only measures at 1.7% because the excess isn't going in to food much yet. Is there a bitcoin in their basket? They all think you should watch. Make it happen. Are you in or near a big city? Where? I'd say that only seeing 12k coins on the goxlive chart is stranger.
This thread bothers me for some reason.What if governments started using English? Forks? Potatoes? Gold? Education? Lemons? Guns? Tires? Algebra? The internet? TOR?   I think clearing your cache makes it more likely that you will see that page. You can get through it every time by clicking the button, right? If all the taxis that come along use only slightly different prices there will me some demand for the more expensive ones because you don't know when you'll get another one coming by. A 5% chance of delayed inclusion must be worth something. Also maybe there are 1% ers with a lower requirement that you satisfy by attacking the 5%ers fee too. I have no idea what the params will be, but it'll probably end up being pretty smooth.  Price discrimination is real and emerges in many places. It would not be impossible for a miner with even a teeny bit of pricing power (pool with 5%?) to use a rule like .0001 + .01% based on the reasonable assumptions that large tx are willing to pay more and that they may care more about immediate entry to a block.But it isn't going to be unpredictable, that doesn't help anyone. There will be software that take into account the details of your tx, the current network load, published miner inclusion rules, etc and make a very good guess about the appropriate fee based on your desires. That page is from cloudflare which we recently added to keep us safer from DDoS attacks. You should not see it often and that button ought get you in when you do. I need to change that page if it is possible because some people are probably turning away. Nice, so are you against making hammers better because some people do bad things with them? 0 sense. I suppose there are early adopters like that, but I've experienced a 300x increase in value and I often wonder what is taking so long. I think some part of it might be that it is so easy to get coins to the exchange that people just wait until they want to make a serious ask to deposit them. With fiat deposits you never know how long it could take so you leave it loaded up, and if it is going to be loaded up anyway you might as well pick some low price where you'd love to pick up some coins and leave a bid there. This has the effect of really clearing out a ton of the asks when there is a general rise in prices. There might be a version of this claim that is true, but the chance of keeping 100% or more of your current value into the future by holding USDs is damn close to 0%. Of course if you only want to keep the same nominal amount holding USD is all aces. ;-) This is essentially a claim that almost no customer cares about a 2-8% change in price. Since for the most part people actually do care a business that simply does not raise prices will have booming business at the expense of all others. It is slightly counter-intuitive since businesses are the ones writing the actual price tags, but really sellers don't set the prices of things. Yes, I wonder how many stores really will pass the fees on. Many stores may not want to discourage customers from buying things they can only afford by charging it to a card. And in any high markup business it might just not be worth giving your customers a negative surprise at checkout.Otoh, in some cases people using CC will be less price sensitive and being able to charge them a bit 'more' could be good for stores.I don't use a CC, but in general if I am charged more than the tag I get a little peeved. Even when I expect it (sales tax) it still seems wrong. I don't care how common it might get, if you offer me something for X and then tell me "Wait, my brother/friend/boss/cat needs a bit too." that's annoying.  That's silly because it was designed to be exactly what it is. Maybe they didn't know there would be general interest, but certainly he/they knew what it would be if it did get traction, that was the whole point of the work."Oh, wow, we just realized what this is and the people who made it just had no idea" is quite patronizing. Not everything is posted here on the day it is written. The rule is good and not hard to follow. What I said isn't strictly true, the owner of the large amount of funds was probably only demonstrating the idea, but he could have also been moving funds to an exchange or elsewhere at the same time. We don't know, bitcoin is awesome. The funds weren't moved in any sense that is meaningful to selling them, the transaction is for the purpose of tricking simple analysis into thinking gmaxwell is a bitcoin high-roller. A common assumption is that all the inputs of a transaction belong to one entity, it isn't a safe assumption and this transaction proves it. I <3 bitcoin Ha, maybe if bitcoin were heavy and hard to move and conceal large amounts of. Uh, and if it was easy to divide down to the microgram. Oh, and if you could back up gold.Not a gold hater, but bitcoin >> gold. Let me know if you want something special set up.
Your coins are safe at Seals. We don't use player funds for anything except paying players back. We have some coins that are potentially at risk for my convenience, but it is an amount I can cover without too much pain and if they were lost I would replace them immediately.Still, I don't recommend that people leave coins unnecessarily with any business including Seals. So leave on what you might want to play with and know that it only takes about an hour at most  to add more if you get low. Oh, does everyone have the same number of HOURS? I might not understand your problem, but you should be able to send bitcoins from your MtGox account to literally any bitcoin address. Maybe you just need to use the cash you sent to buy bitcoins first? If you don't even want to deal with making a market order in the future check out coinbase.com.If you don't want to leave your coins with MtGox or any other company look into the Electrum client. The android app is currently blocked by our fancy new gate. We're going to punch a hole in it soon. I am investigating. I know most that were backed up were paid. I've caused another problem while trying to fix this and our host is taking longer than expected give the assistance we require now. We were close, but now I'm not sure. I hate to guess, but I think 6 hours is reasonable. I don't know if it will last, but try to get in now. And then don't leave just in case ;-) I think it gets the time from the browser, you might be able to fix it in browser settings pretty easily. I assume the browser usually gets the time and zone from the system so you might double check that first. It was a mistake, it is fixed now. This game starts tomorrow noon ET. Expect 1 chip tournaments with (relatively) nice guarantees at random times.Krill for tournaments is possible, but not set yet. We don't rake fractional chips and some players really wanted a 10 chip option to try out omaha. I'm going to add a 25 chip option which will have much closer to the normal rake since rounding will have a smaller effect. Possibly I'll remove the 10 chip option as well as I don't really like having a game with that high % rake. It's actually an interesting game as is imo. There is some incentive to pick early since your guess will help keep people out of the range you think is most likely. No, that one exchange is not what's pushing most of $200M worth of stored value. $33.10 Mmmm ok, they wouldn't be 'completely anonymous' hmmm ok, maybe because they'd be entering their name? mmmmmk.But yeah, forget bitcoin at your peril silly website. Lol, tell them you sent it under duress.  It's the best thing ever and the more value it can hold the better it works. Why it took 18 months and counting to put in new highs might be a better question. I think scarcity is often and correctly used to mean known or roughly known amount and not arbitrarily expandable.I think a usefulness discussion could be interesting. Arguable bitcoin was not useful in the beginning and that did not stop it from becoming a money. And saying 'potentially useful' is no good because it's wholly circular, anything that has the other properties could become a money and thus become useful so that attribute would be completely wrapped up in the others. There are plenty of reasons to sell while up or down even if you are (or were) 'willing to lose'. You might get fired, prefer a new car or get cancer etc. Maybe it'll cut down on some of the people-still-use-paypal nonsense. Welcome. Let us know if you have any questions or suggestions.
This is easily one of the longest most wrong economic fallacies of all time. Things are not worth their input costs. That isn't real, that isn't what happens. Laptop + milk = fail. That isn't the bias of the poll that is the result of the poll. You can't really tell from a result which direction the bias is in unless there is unanimity, then you can rule out bias in the opposite direction.If you don't know wtf to do and people at 'the bitcoin forum' are telling you not to then maybe you should not. If you feel you have good reasons and evidence that a certain 'surprising-to-other-people' thing will happen I don't think it's really right to call it a black swan. Plus, even if you are just like "Oh, that would be unlikely" that doesn't make it a black swan. We know monetary revolutions happen. We know technology can change how payments are made. Plus we know that normal people are willing to use bitcoin. So the 'bitcoin revolution' will just be more of the same.  Obviously you should be careful, but it isn't a disaster to have to check all possible typos after you realize it isn't right. Wow, I wonder if the people asking you to focus on making things for them have any other possible agenda besides your best interest.Obv I'm not saying there is anything wrong with exports (which is just an arbitrary subset of something called 'trade') but the freaking point of and incentive to trade isn't what you give it's what you get, otherwise just talk about the important of gift-giving. Some miners saying "yeah, I'll do that latter" doesn't mean a different miner won't include a tx that makes the first one invalid (uses the same coin to pay someone else). The miner's intent or even promise means nothing because when they build the block it will be ignored because it has an impossible tx in it. Sorry guys, it should work now. The room wasn't really full, it's a bug. I didn't even use plastic much before bitcoin, but I never charged back either. Certainly we're paying for those who do, fraudulent and not.The people with the real good stuff that the consumers want get to choose ultimately. Sorry OP, I'm with Bell and Elwar. There might be something to other points, but this is not a real thing. I think the idea is that you can just buy anything with your promise to pay, so if it can be used for anything it could be used for purchasing bitcoins. I'm not really sold on it seems messy as hell even once it gets the critical mass that is absolutely required in order for it to function at all. I mean bitcoin might have been 'pointless' too when there were only 100 users, but the system worked, but ripple just doesn't help at all until there are many relationship 'coincidences'. I don't see how it bootstraps like bitcoin did. It sounds like you want to give away free puts, but the terms aren't very clear so maybe not.You want to promise X rate for up to Y coins until sometime for people who have specifically requested this protection?As with most anything you give for free you'll have more people wanting to take it from you than supply it.A market for puts and other financial devices would be quite nice and useful.I think for merchants who are just worried about the rate it makes the most sense to simply sell the coins right away, possibly using a service like BitPay. More people using Bing?A fixed amount of interest generates a larger price increase because new coins are flowing at a lower rate now?Larger capital holders getting in (fewer searches per buck)? I think that is mostly an illusion. Lots of people were becoming interested at the same time back then and there was so little content and infrastructure that they nearly all came here. The quality (in terms of average usefulness of a post) was much higher immediately before the explosion so it was a reasonable place to come. I think a lot of people left the boards, and maybe also came down from a bitcoin high, and certainly some decided bitcon wasn't interesting after all, but I think it is much more a matter of dispersal than disappearance. I would not send someone new to the boards now, but it was the first place I'd mention 2 years ago. Consider the value of the ashes of beautiful furniture. The cost to make something does not give it value. My idea of bitcoin and the regression theorem is that maybe it applies maybe it's too much of a stretch, but it doesn't matter. Like the vaccine/evolution comment implies, just because there is a known route to something doesn't mean everything needs to take that route in order to work. Is that starting just today or before? Supposedly today's upgrade improve re-connection handling especially when multiple tables are open. Mike isn't saying that 0 conf is safe. He's saying that with a small fix it is as safe as (most people thought it was) it was before which may be not safe at all or totally fine depending on what you are doing. If anyone has the problem of freezing upon reconnecting when you have multiple tables open from this point on please let me know. Guess: $107.66
Right, there just isn't a safe way because you can't reliably tell if losing the money is on purpose or not. So even if you had careful tracking of who loses to whom you wouldn't know if the winnings were safe to pay out.I plan to make small deposits instant for long time players eventually but some details still need to be worked out. Essentially it will just be a courtesy to loyal players who want to not miss a tournament or something. I bought it and enjoy it. But what was up with their system? Did I even need to pay? It seemed like I got the link before instawallet even sent my coins and they used the same address a bunch of times. I've been waiting for the right time to end Seals 0 confirm policy, seems like this is the time. It was really nice while it lasted, a playing with fire success story. Seals is going to start requiring 1 confirmation for deposits starting today.We haven't had any trouble, but we've determined that it's only a matter of time until we do. Sorry for the inconvenience. Plenty of governments use currencies that they don't control. They do it because the currencies work much better than what they can manage themselves. It is the opposite of a problem. People with this view don't only want to keep what they have they want to get more. To get more they will focus their energy and attention toward providing goods and services in exchange for bitcoins making bitcoins more useful and more desirable. Doing this double fills their goals, they get more bitcoins and they make their bitcoins more valuable. I'm convinced, we need more bottles for sure. It has nothing whatsoever to do with the man. It might speed adoption that he can't be smeared as a kitten rapist but that's only because of mood affiliation fallacy or something like that.  Related to this, there is a common illusion that you can put some kind of money 'into' a thing. But you can't, all you can do is divest yourself of one thing to gain another. The illusion is even stronger when the thing you are purchasing has a face value, but even a "That guy owes me 11 coins because I gave him 10" is not you having 10 coins 'in' him, it's you becoming no longer invested in 10 coins in return for being invested in a promise from a guy for 11 coins. Seals uses Orange, been quite good for a year.Seals manages to pay all the bills with bitcoins. On the rare occasion that dollars are needed, those are available for bitcoins too.By 'certain' he must mean promised by someone currently powerful. What in a museum? There was a thread just yesterday I think about "How many bitcoins do you have invested?" which makes no sense but belies the same fallacy as this snippet. You don't 'invest' dollars when you invest, you get rid of them for something better. Everyone smart is always looking to get rid of their dollars because they are shit value. Sorry guys, this was hidden under my ginormous picture a ways back. That's the fastest way in. emailing micon or myself at admin@sealswithclubs.eu works because we we email sivv for you.And the email you get will be from sivv.com, don't be alarmed.Thanks for the interest and help. As was said, all that matters is execution. If you haven't done hard work on complete implementation details then it's just something that occurred to you and it will occur to many people. And if you have done all that work then someone can't just come along and steal it, they'd have to 'catch up' to you all while knowing you'll be in their niche. There is so much more to do than there is time that idea hoarding is pointless. Avalanche's gunna change... just wait. +1Anyone who has reasons explaining why it didn't happen is wrong so it must have gone up by about that much. Yeah. The money that can hold the most demand back from real goods is the money that wins. It's a bad question because reality is that whoever has the top level weapons gets to keep them because they have them. All we're talking about is what the people with the most dangerous weapons will 'allow' others to do. But it's backwards, once you manage to get the top weapons suddenly you are actually 'allowed' to have them. All the current dickering is about how many orders of magnitude weaker to keep the people who are weaker than the best armed people. Real time doesn't matter much in bitcoin, we know the order without doubt because the later block contains info from the previous. Money is a great accounting system for anything that is small compared to the scope of the system, but it is meaningless (or close) for measuring the whole system or a large part. Fair enough. I was meaning to reply to:Even when bitcoin is a national currency in the sense that you describe it won't be tied to that nation and more than it is tied to me because I use it.
What did distribution look like 1, 2, and 3 years ago? Where is it clearly heading? I agree with this and think that the individual opinion of gov worker vs what gov will 'think' and do is huge. Virtually no government worker who thinks bitcoin is going to deal major damage to government is going to go spouting their ideas and lose their job or be ridiculed, they are going to collect bitcoins. Damn, all this time I've been using it to improve my life and just now I find out it's 'unpractical', that really sucks. That might actually solve everything, platinum out of thin air would be a neat trick.But seriously this is nothing new whatsoever. They've been saying that a pile of paper/db entries is worth trillions of dollars for a very long time. When countries start using it out of necessity of foresight it still won't be a national currency, just like it isn't a drug or gambling or sock currency. It'll have about as much impact as an actual butterfly crash. Lol, yes, the monetary cycle:BarterGoldPaper representing goldPaperBitcoinBarter Yes, this isn't simple improper display or reporting afaict, they've been matching incorrectly for years.Mixing the books is fine if you do it correctly. Mixing them doesn't make 13.72 in USD lower than 13.71 in USD. Right, if it halved forever it would fail to reach it because of asymptotes blah blah. But in reality it fails to reach it because of adding. It's definitely hard to talk well about Bitcoin, very good job imo. I'd never heard these guys, they sound a lot like FTL.The network does not adjust to reduced mining power in 10 minutes, in fact it can take much longer than 2 weeks.There is no reason to wait for more than 6 confirmations even for an enormous transaction. Your partner is absolutely not going to have ~45% mining power and count on luck to go faster than the network for 6 blocks. He can either rollback 30 as easily as 6 or he can't roll back 6. It's a much smaller 'lie' to say that 6 is solid than it is to say there are no fees.The no fee claim bothers me but I know from previous conversations that you are fairly set on it.If you had gotten into discussing mining like they wanted to you might have been in a sticky spot when they asked about mining incentive after the reward drops to zero, which it does btw, you seemed to imply that you thought it would get ever smaller without going to zero though I think you only said that it would not reach 21M, which is true (caused by reward going to zero, not getting infinitely smaller). I specifically didn't say that. What I said was that I created the site in order to get bitcoins. gl w/ the bridge. 510, hmm, wonder why that number ;-) I bought in 2010 because of all of the halvings, so there. That is why I created a bitcoin gambling site. So lol away at reality too I guess. Seriously, if they wanted cash quickly a confiscated plane works pretty damn terribly. You can't really currently say $80M worth of bitcoin please, since that is not well defined at all. You'd have to figure out how many coins you actually valued at around the same amount. I think right now $80M would be a super awkward mess and impossible if people were actually trying to get dollars quickly in a set amount, but $10M or so you could kind of work out, I'd prefer 400k BTC to $10M right now. I wouldn't be surprised though if in a year $1M value tx were not so bad and the outer limits was around $100M value.Two and a half years ago it seemed similarly impossible to buy a car. Now a car's value dumped instantly on that one big exchange moves the price a few cents. You'll pay orders of magnitude more for registration in many states than you'll lose in the currency exchange. "Just use Bitcoin, which is the currency on the Internet."This could honestly be like the slogan for the foundation or bit-pay or something.  This has been accomplished thanks to FA! Yeah, I agree it's huge. I see how the first sentence could be seen negatively, like if we're going to super dumb thing, lets just do kind of dumb thing. But I don't think that is even very negative.But then he just flatly claims that bitcoin is the currency of the internet. It's big. Not in the sense that it alone will do anything, it just reveals/confirms where things are at. Very cool. Interesting. Looking briefly I see reports of ATT blocking 4chan so it seems quite possible that's what they are doing.If there isn't a good competitor in the area maybe you can get him one of the bitcoin accepting proxy services.
You should know about mokimarket.com. That's not right. It's nearly the opposite. Gold is hard to get because it is expensive. There is all kinds of stuff harder to get than gold, no one bothers to get it because it isn't wanted. What's the name of that bitcoin poker site... maybe I should google 'bitcoin poker' and see..  I bet this would be my fate. Lol, maybe my extensive ignore list gives me a biased impression. There's always hope!**not an official position The Android client is coming along quickly. We'll need testers next week. Email support@sivv.com if you want to be one of the first. Really briefly there are two important parts, the blockchain and the rules (protocol)The blockchain (currently) contains every bitcoin transaction.Every full node has a copy of the blockchain, all you have to do to be a full node is run bitcoin-qt or similar and wait for download (from peers) and processing/checking the data they give you.The rules are essentially enforced by ostracism, if you try to do something like spend money you don't have everyone else will just ignore you. If anyone is willing to play along, then they'll just be ignored as well. Sheep leaders usually lead their lambs to slaughter, just sayin' At least we have the forum... I thought I got it but then I didn't.Why not pay tiny amounts for photos of stamped bills and show them in an online gallery?Could even arrange them by serial number and make jokes about collecting them all. Yeah rich people aren't going to hold that money.And the rich 'spending' means dumping it and the poors (and slow rich) will pay for it in further currency devaluation. But hey, you could just dish out more money to make up for it. Hear, hear. There is an excellent thread buried somewhere by mndrix(?) about how he accomplished amazingly low fraud before PP shut him down (and froze his money for 6 months).  Victim relief has two huge problems.It will be scammed unless you run it very conservatively. Which will mean asking victims tons of info and then still mistakenly rejecting some actual victims.Then if it does somehow become an effective and meaningful remedy it will lower the incentive to avoid being scammed and (potential) victims behaviors are nearly the only thing that determines how much scamming happens. It's just a numbers trick then and nothing is actually happening and there is no point but to add confusion or maybe trick the dumbest few percent into thinking a real terms wage decline is an increase because it is a bigger number. +1Here comes the best year ever! 6666 It's gunna be your problem if you don't have the balls to decline play dates. That's as silly as saying that the 'olden days' of bitcoin didn't give equal votes because my mother (she doesn't mine) couldn't exclude transactions. She could have if she cared and so can any current miner. Do you think pool operators are special? They are just people who care to do what is required by the actual laws of physics to set up blocks for mining. 
I'm not 100% sure, but supposedly 0.8 will be fast enough that processing won't be the bottleneck anymore so the maximum you would have to download each day is ~6x24 = 144MB. And in reality it's like 10% of that now. He made tens of thousands of bitcoins worth of bets, lost, claimed it was a joke. How's that work guys? One day you're like "I wish there was something like bitcoin but slower, heavier and could tarnish..."I kid, I have some metals. It teaches them that they're the boss once they can beat the shit out of you. It's not so hard to not associate with people who aren't enjoyable to be around. All you have to do is want your kid to get hit less than you want him to play with a kid who hits them. I'm not saying to never see them again after one more hitting, but end the day, then call them less, then call them almost never. People don't want to be alone and if they see that hitting the people they'd like to be with isn't getting them what they want they'll stop. Or they're crazy and you found out cheap. Is no one going to mention how weird it is that the guy whos ID he stole was named John Doe?But seriously this isn't that special, all over the world there are tons of people who no state has tabs on. I suppose the state interacting with a (clean, not-poor I assume) 1st world person who they don't have a file on is surprising, unfortunately. Silly that the standard is to equate 'identity' with 'holding a fancy picture of someone who could plausibly be you'. The problem is hitting. The solution is......... wait for it.......... more hitting! If it isn't profitable for anyone it won't be done. It will be done. If you insist it isn't or won't be profitable you have too narrow a definition of profitable.  Wow, strong. You gunna force it to force people I suppose? Just noticed this page:http://ces13.mapyourshow.com/5_0/exhibitor_details.cfm?exhid=T0009202&CFID=54931990&CFTOKEN=ccedf4dd804bf92-1E8D4AA6-ADF6-8099-8E9EDB10A325D142has a bad link to bitpay.com, I think it is missing a colon. I'm a customer.I mentioned to rg that the address to pay should be on the emailed invoice. That would be great, thanks. Total or relative balances of either aren't that important for this. If you have bitcoins you want to get rid of and bills to pay it could work for you. A popular closed source bitcoin client that automatically updates? And maybe everyone will just eat poison and you can have all the gold. No timeline, but we are seriously exploring it. You could even say working on it. Sorry about this. About 30 accounts were affected. The lock was caused by repeated failed attempts to access your accounts. There are now global failed attempt checks in place and your accounts are opened again.Remember to use strong passwords. The Ring Game Launcher is now live.You can open nearly any game you want at sealswithclubs.eu/ring-game-launcherThe link is also on your My Account page and in the menu above the software.There will be a small set of games always on.The rest will be removed periodically. Lobby clutter should be greatly reduced. I saw the value rise by 1 cent in less than 40 seconds today, this time next year we'll be over $9000.edit: that's just linear, so I'm prepared to be defeated by a more excited bull. A few thousand! What do you think he just left a miner on all the time for a month? Crazy. The SNG launcher is launched. There are 6 structures to choose from. 'Turbo', 'turbo+' and 'smooth turbo' have 2% rake, 'normal' and 'smooth' have 3% rake and 'slow' has 4% rake.We'll probably tweak the structures in a week or two and welcome feedback.You can open any SNG that you can buy in to and you will be entered automatically when it is created. I don't think it's nearly attractive or destructive enough for that.If it were a horse: Huh, I never knew he waited so long. I guess he wanted to tell some people and surely had already tested everything on a test chain. I think he was pretty sensitive to the head start issue, even though imo he clearly deserved an moderately 'unfair' advantage. I wonder if that was even him who got block 1.
It's June 2011, bitcoin prices will rise forever and everyone knows it so everyone hoards and no one uses their coins, but wait, what's happening, are people being enticed by the high market values to release their grip? How can this be? I'm such a confused deflationation-haterator. lol, 01BTC10, I can't imagine a better answer. No cost? So you'll give me one for free? Or .01BTC so you can profit? Low price because I could just get one of the free ones from any of the many people who have free ones lying around.Valuable, profitable != free.Also I'm curious about the 'etc'.edit: One more jab! Since they're free I guess operators don't have to worry about losing them by making it really super obvious that something is making them run when idle. Sorry that this is turning into fee thread. Nice interview.There are cases when not knowing about a 1 penny fee can screw you. If you need to pay exactly some amount, so you acquire exactly that amount and then find out that to send it without a fee you have to wait 2 days or something that 1 penny or less means you need to do another acquire-bitcoins transaction.Plus if you are talking with anyone who will eventually want more information you'll have to be like "oh... yeah, miners get the fees", "hmm, fees?".  Ah, ok, I did try that, it just googles it. Maybe I need to set it to not do that and then it will execute?If you can write something that I just need to put in the area Mavens gives me for html/js for the top area that would be great. I'd certainly tip. Certainly I might not know what I'm talking about.What does putting that in the address bar do for you? If I'm supposed to make some obvious modification to it to make it work I'm not clever enough, it just does nothing. Suppose Benny was the most trustworthy human in the history of the world, still he could not instill remotely as much confidence that his 'decreasing QE' scheme would occur as the confidence that code and math can instill. FA, I think the space will be reserved no matter what fancy thing we do. The height of the top area is an option in the Poker Mavens control panel. It is not the case that the flash software just starts displaying after the last visible div. I've been working on this and I don't think it will be simple because even though I can hide the content it is a Mavens setting as to how much space is reserved. It can be changed but not on a per person basis. So I think this is a thing the software company would need to change.Oh! I've got a tip. click it then cntrl - until it is almost gone. That will not affect anything else on the screen and you can get it back with cntrl+ repeatedly.  Ah, I suppose that ins't much harder. The main reason it is up there is for people who don't think of going back to the Play Now, they are the same. Yeah, I can see about that. Do you never have to use the reload button though? I would pay for this forum, but it wouldn't really be this forum anymore if everyone had to pay. A section for donators or longtime members might be cool. It seems kind of cool to me, but I wouldn't pay much of anything, and probably only be interested in like one block if I even wanted to bother.I could see the tiny fraction of people caring become a lot more people than there are fresh blocks eventually so the premium could go up, so there is some speculative value. However, while you can buy a virgin block you can't safely sell it once you buy it. You pay people to mine to your key, but then once you've got it if you give the key to someone they have to trust you forever or else move it and destroy it's virginity. So... I'm thinking overall it's mostly a no go. I don't think so, an insane amount of cash passes hands in a casino and they don't interfere. Stakees to stakers, husband to wife, friend to friend. I mean you might manage to make yourself suspicious enough, but you'd probably have to try. The casino wants money to flow, usually people getting money in a casino are getting it in order to gamble. Even if that isn't the point of the transfer they know there is a chance (and they love chances).But I don't think there is much advantage unless you or your customers spend time in the casino anyway. You are safe pretty much wherever people are around. Just don't do stupid things like $10k+ with a person you are meeting for the first time. We are going to have some brief downtime around 4:30am ET to hopefully fix some problems we've been having. There will be a 5am ET 1BTC freeroll. Ha, you are fast. I deleted after scanning and seeing someone mentioned it doesn't cut the call for a brief d/c, which would make sense for keeping the call alive if there was just a small problem. They must be counting on the person dialing right back. Funny to hear the call to the actual police offering a pin number. I just paid pending cashouts.Still having trouble, now is a good time to try to get though. We're having apache problems. It seems to work for about 15 seconds after I restart it which I'll keep doing while I investigate. If you are quick you can log in and get to the software which is stable.edit: Up for about 3 minutes now... fingers crossed. They can have (almost) all my coins, but not at the market rate.I'm not special either. The vast majority of coins aren't for sale at the market rate, if they were the market rate would change until they weren't. I'm very sorry for the recent down time. We did make some upgrades today while we were down. Connection messages and re-connection attempts should be more robust. Please let me know if you notice improvements (or not).Any log-in or load-up problems that may have been caused by a bad or missing sound card should be fixed now.
I'll let you all know when I know more. Can't get dollars - angry at bitcoin! This is what made me think that, but I won't pretend I understand what he wants at all.Whatever he wants to do it's probably a lot harder than matching subjects to appropriate verbs. I hope you feel terrible next time you eat.  (Miner, dirty) So you just want to watch one address? Then watch it at blockchain or blockexplorer. on the list of things that matter this isn't Think about this. The person uses the coin to buy a different coin, you lose the trail completely and you are just watching a random 'coin'. There isn't any good way to do this and that's part of why bitcoin is a money. Maybe he meant "positively overwhelming success". I think we need a sticky that contains warnings, for example: Don't overlook the fact that a game operator can play the game. If that requires you to trust them think about whether or not you trust them. Yes, our bitcoind was down for about 2 hours today. Thanks Micon for handling some cashins.That QR code ought not show an address that any client would send to, just an empty QR code, but it should get automatically disabled when the page doesn't receive an address from now on.Because of what happened today I realized that slow My Account page loads are caused by slow communication with bitcoind, so we're caching them and that page will load much faster in the future. And when bitcoind is down you'll still be able to get a hash (provided it has served one to you since today). Of course a deposit won't be processed until bitcoind is back up, but that should be rare and short, I can't remember the last time it happened and I think I know what caused it today and that won't happen again. I enjoy where this thread headed. The average person won't use bitcoin because the suitcase-of-1M-to-btc-fees are still too high. Am I interpreting this thread correctly? Two of his other accounts came in here to vouch for him and he used those accounts to scam with instead of bothering to make others? Certainly it could be pushed to a point of being too limiting, but I think keeping out scrubs also makes the site more valuable. Stolen money is worth the same and the spender has to give up whatever else they could have bought just like people with earned money do. 1% retail currency conversion is too high?  Considering that the vast majority that will ever be lost are already lost all this proposal does is make the supply increase wildly when these coins are eligible for 're-mining'. Whereas from here everything is smooth. Never gunna happen. The idea of even potentially taking away someone's multi-generational savings is disgusting anyway. The angle I like on this is not a PoB system exactly, but a PoB method of transfer to a new crypto-currency. It allows for gradual and voluntary transition to a system with incompatible rules. I think if a better system than bitcoin was devised a PoB bridge could save it years of bootstrapping. Wow, comprehensive and accurate, nice work. The only tiny thing I noticed which might just be an artifact of when it was written is that the standard client does have a simple backup procedure now.This is a document to point people to.  So... n-lock is no good for this, but couldn't a script be set up that requires part of the hash of a valid future block to redeem an input? I mean theoretically, that sort of non-standard ability is off for virtually all miners right no I'm pretty sure.edit: I'm not actually very familiar with this, can you reference data from a (future in particular) block in a script?
Or you could shop at bitcoinstore and let panda figure it out on their own, heh. Doesn't it bother you that if all countries were united you would have to say there was no growth no matter how much growth there was? Honestly you could do worse than a simple count of shit we don't have to do manually anymore. Lets play mad-libs.<Noun> controlled Bitcoin becomes a <noun>(Alien, telephone)?(Wind, heart)?(Beer, trip)? Well, in those terms anyone with more than 0 is doing well over the last 4 years :-) No, it is negative since we spewed out all that expensive tech into space.   In a market that is even slightly mature whenever the situation doesn't change and the price goes down the panic will be in the direction of buying before the price goes back.Lower price on exactly the same thing means a better deal.It wasn't like that years ago because everyone (obv not everyone) was like "This is Bitcoin and I don't even- OMG maybe it's broken or something- SELL". Ok, I'm tired now, but I think I follow. So is buying and checking 1000000+ lottery tickets per second. Analogy holds :-) Someone wins a raffle every time the dude pulls a ticket from the bin, bitcoin mining isn't like that.Every time you increase your nonce and make a hash you have a fixed chance of winning (finding a valid block) regardless of whether everyone else just turned their miners off or if 1000 ASICs just came online. Later (every 2016 blocks) the requirement for a winner will change, but it is always an individual thing in the moment. I think it is usually assumed that every miner is getting tons of these tickets in proportion to their mining speed, maybe it should be made explicit.  I don't think there is going to be any one reasonable measure and it's better to think about what you really specifically want to know.A society full of incredibly productive people working a little bit and developing amazing leisure and gift situations can easily look poorer than a society of long-working life-hating grunts.Totaling up the currency or currency spent in a GD- like measure is ridiculous imo. Print paper and the 'economy' has grown, amazing. Buy a $78000 toilet, BAM, wealthy society, incredible.Or suppose 5% more people take their economic activity underground so far as to even abandon 'normal' currency and reporting. Did the society get poorer by that whole amount? IBM helped Nazis.. their tech probably lives on in your hardware and therefore the blockchain, so... be careful, don't catch Nazism. I'm just going to accuse them right back. I'll accuse them of Money Whistling. Then we can have a ridiculous conversation about an ill-defined and made up thing, since that's obviously what they wanted. Of course, I'll have an edge since I'm a Money Whistling expert and they've probably not even heard of it before, what amateurs.  Will do, foo. That doesn't make sense."Ok so Bitcoin is done now"Bitcoin news itemBitcoin news itemBitcoin news itemBitcoin news itemBitcoin news itemBitcoin news itemBitcoin news item"Seeing Bitcoin in the headlines doesn't surprise or interest me since I know it is over"Ok..... No doubt, way to take care of business MD. Just a 2BTC freeroll with a password that we'll give out via reddit. There is a Seals subreddit, http://www.reddit.com/r/sealswithclubs that's where the password will be some time on Tuesday. There is exactly one way that happens and it isn't how you are thinking. Every system is going to be susceptible to brute forcing, the answer is just to use more bits to make it hard enough that it ins't worth it or can't be done before the sun dies. You don't need to inject anything. You can write a program that when fed the genesis block it makes an illegal pattern of pixels come up on the screen. So only 2 and 3 need to happen.
That list isn't showing the smallest unit of other currencies.It's a dumb page imo, and putting bitcoin at the top might be a good way to point that out, heh. Very cool, thanks. Fundamentally you are right, that is the real strength of Bitcoin. But while the censorable medium of the normal web is being used another benefit of Bitcoin is that government can't (or maybe just hasn't) recognized it for what it is. Lol, I hope there are enough BTC enthusiasts in your office that you didn't reveal yourself. I haven't really gathered that and I wouldn't say it's true for me. My philosophy certainly deeply affects my parenting, but not so much the other way. My philo changed a lot more in the 2 years before I had my first kid than in the years since. I just glanced at the thread. This makes it all good imo:4. The first person who pays the above address (as determined by the BlockChain.info first-seen timestamp) is the person whose Bitcoins I am buying.  If more than one person accepts the offer,I reserve the right to choose to either give a refund or to perform the same transaction with theadditional parties. Maybe we have different ideas of 'need' but there are over $800000 on offer above $10/coin so volume shouldn't be an issue.edit: at that one market... mtgux or something. If someone asked "When are you going to prom without Cindy?" and you weren't going with Cindy how would you answer? It means that Bitcoin is better than what you have to offer. Interesting. How will the blockchain tell you who sent first if it is a close call? Essentially frac reserve is just tricking people into temporarily thinking there are more coins than there are. That 'trick' is much less robust with Bitcoin than bank money because you can hold your own Bitcoin but not your own bank money. Whenever people notice that bitcoin is getting oddly easy to acquire they will hold the actual coins themselves, the frac banks will run out of actual funds and collapse, bitcoin will become harder and the people who kept the actual coins will prosper.  Difficulty doesn't matter for the success of an attack. The attacker is racing the rest of miners.Imagine a magic network with no latency and difficulty so low that every hash made a valid bock. You could comfortably accept 1000 blocks or so with no risk of (lucky) double spend and it would take a microsecond or less. I got one up for 2pm ET. 2000 guarantee, 200 entry. I hope it isn't too late for you. The scale is already set up. There is some cost to unspending after 6 confirmations and you get an unlimited (Gox hot-wallet really) amount for the effort. It seems like allowing some little amount at 3 confirmations would let the vast majority through in half the time while not really exposing as much as the current 6 limit for huge amounts. In combination with all the KYC in place and per account limits based on current balance as was mentioned it could increase convenience without loss of security. I don't think Gox will ever, but others will. I don't use exchanges, who knows what other sites have in place? Very nice, evo! When old economists change their mind every 2 months you know the singularity is near.rofl, because prices aren't for transmitting information...  It might as well be "The Center for Preserving a Snapshot of Our Economy Forever" Lol, so if a casino opened that charged nothing and even put an ATM in the lobby would you be like "Whoa whoa, that ATM will charge you $3, no house edge my ass". This was a software problem. We'll be back in 10-15 minutes. Very sorry for the delay. "move" is a command for shifting balance from one bitcoin 'account' to another. I don't know the answer to the question. I would guess you should log it elsewhere regardless.
I'll tell you his method (for free).Troll around looking for suckers, offer to tell them how to get tons of bitcoins for a price, get $$ upfront. This is getting off topic, but I think the answer is "because you think you know what you are doing". Yeah, governments hate centralization and usually volunteer to make information about ongoing investigations public. Surely some people will save more, but on the whole people will flee from saving in a unit that is being debauched. Unless it can be done in a way that gives credibility to the notion that it will not be done again (highly unlikely) prices will rise by more than the increase in the supply. The existence (or lack of) of alternatives is an enormous factor as well. For anyone who thinks this would not be harmful, what is the problem (if any) with giving $10000 or $100000/mo?  It's not true. If some entity has more hashing power than all honest miners they can eventually catch up from any number of blocks. It is no where near the level of "sun turning off". Indeed, I don't see why someone would want to lose more on average playing with lower maxes at a newer site.The affiliate and custom addresses are somewhat innovative, but still why would someone play? Perhaps you think you can reach people who haven't heard of SD? That doesn't seem likely.The future is lower house edges. What does that mean? Cite it? Are you sure that you want to rely on blockchain.info? It's probably fine if you plan to stay small, but otherwise you should set up your own node and get the information you need from it. Either way it shouldn't be that hard. I'm not looking for work and I'm not that experienced but I did recently write something that used blockchain's api, so I can maybe answer a question or send a bit of my code. Hey illpoet, we've been back up for about 7 hours, but when we crashed 4 'lucky' accounts got messed up and yours was one, I just fixed it minutes ago. We're back up.Anyone who was harmed just let me know and we'll make it right. I think that is true, most will complete fast if there are many games happening. But there will always be games at the margin where only one person per hour, day, month wants the other side and imo the way to get them to fill is with the market mechanism of price. It happens that in the beginning a lot of wagers fall in this area (at most one person wants them at the price of zero). This is very interesting.I think part of why a casino can get away with charging so much is that being able to make a wide range of bets instantly is a highly desired feature.Allowing anyone to offer any wager, even -EV ones might lead to a very large selection of wagers at very low fees as competition does it's thing. I don't have any interest in making wagers, but if I stood to profit a little bit on average I might load some in an set some up.Everyone would be on equal footing, able to make or decline any wager, but I suspect you'd get two sorts of customers, those with a lot of money who want to profit by 'being the house' without setting up a 'house' and those who want instant gratification and don't mind paying .1% or 1.5% or whatever the market demands for instant gratification of their desired wager. If you don't think you can recoup it with your cut of fees it probably shouldn't be up there and I think it's understandable that they don't want to wade through a bunch of freerolling listers. Tons of 'choices' that all suck because there is no money on either side to be won is no good. Eh, it's not that good. People being "forced to drop out of the system" because they don't get as good a rate as before makes zero sense. Didn't you know anything you can buy with money gets part of that money's money-ness infused in it?It's a problem I often have with chairs. This chair I am in is so comfortable, but I'm dismayed that it is tied to the money I bought it with which greatly reduces it's chairy-ness. That makes no sense at all. In order for MtGox to not have customers funds available they would have to be willing to have used customers funds inappropriately. But if they are willing to simply use customer funds they don't have to buy the funds with their bitcoins, they can just use the funds as they already were (in your theory). Yeah... I classify governments as an antiquity, so there. Aww, I thought you were goign to say "Just because a submarine can be bought with dollars doesn't make it sink." Maybe take this to the haters forum? You have to convert it because it isn't your local currency and the store you went to must only take local currency, hard to understand? No.
It's also not a 'prediction market'. You can't sell your statements. Umm, here's a metaphor, bitcoin is cash. And a simile, bitcoin is like cash. Small nitpick. The wording should not be "Your funds can be stolen" but "The funds are not yours" or something like that. "Bitcoin might be a solution."Two seconds later, "There is no way to pay with cash on the internet."I guess cash only means state paper to him still. Not that clever since he'd be paying .01 instead of the direct access payment of .001A more substantial deposit that is returned after the account doesn't spam is probably better, that way it is only a cost to spammers. It only really works in communities where most people will have coins and even then could be annoying, but so is spam. Often when I write there is no chance of misunderstanding and I leave it off. Eventually I just won't walk to people who might think I meant something else <snicker>When I write it it's 7BTC. Though now that I think about it I don't know why I smoosh them, 7 BTC it is. To clarify for anyone who doesn't know, the devs can set the behavior of the client they publish and they've done fine so far, it people ever want nodes with different forwarding rules they don't need any permission, just their own code. I believe a lot of miners already run custom code, but I don't think there are many with significantly different rules.  Oh oh no no, artificially high profits because some people will be scared, oh no, please, no, Mr Politician. It seems to be state money on a blakcberry. Wow, you must have received a lot of small transactions? Are you sure it isn't .0005 which would be ~$.007?That's right if your wallet is cleared of those they won't cause it to ask for a fee. There are other ways to need a fee though, like sending inputs that you just received. The bigger they are the less long you need to wait to avoid the fee, one "bitcoin day" is the general rule, so 12 hours if it is 2BTC, 1 hour if it is 24BTC. That fee will certainly only be .0005BTC though. I expected to see a lot more. The Australian TOR node exit node operator got 220+ in a few days. So... how many fingers am I holding up?n/m I'm not going to actually hold them up... or am I? It's a little bit complicated.Short story:Your wallet is made up of a lot of small inputs and constructing the transaction takes a lot of them and it takes up a lot more space than a simple transaction so you need to pay like a penny. And you don't really -need- to you can always find your own block and put it in that or find someone else will, but it's not really worth doing that since we're talking about a penny. So you agree? Of course people get things wrong, but if they know about things they are as likely to overshoot as undershoot. If you know that people systematically overshoot or undershoot you can make free money (for a while, until you've corrected it and the price reflects your knowledge).  Do you suppose that generally export regulations only apply to government property? Do they own addition too?Who cares.Maybe they will kill you, but it won't actually be because you are a witch no matter what they say. If you have the name you can use whatever methods you currently use to avoid being defrauded. The reasons so many people get ripped off for their coins is that Bitcoin makes it possible to send money directly to complete strangers. There is nothing safe about that, the way to avoid loss is to not take advantage of that option. Welcome.Of all the places to occupy, banks are low on my list :-) He's 2, it's not like he's got to go to work in the morning, just let him play until he's tired.
Do you have your own car? Did you have regular customers? Bitcoin Mobile imo. Neither do I, I didn't look. I was responding to the argument only. Not all exposure is good. And imo associating with low rent spam tactics is worse than being know as the Currency of Evil TM Emails are free!! Write to everyone and someone will be interested for sure!It doesn't matter that one guy in 4900 will click a link before not caring anymore, the other 4899 subtly think bitcoin = adult diapers = viagra = free credit repotingIf you care, don't be annoying. rofl, SD should require photo ID and a notarized intent-to-bet form mailed in. localbitcoins.com better than a thread.Also there is the meet up sub-forum.Good call on the voluntary aspect. You'd have hella enforcement costs otherwise ;-) I might misunderstand, but if you are pre-selecting the winning value doesn't that mean you know it and could play it? Looks cool.Given that $10 is kind of arbitrary and you don't have any marginal costs to speak of it seems like a good time to denominate in BTC directly. The payer won't need to wonder or ask which exchange's rate to look at and you won't have to examine the timestamp and look up exchange data to see if they are short or over.You could adjust the price if it moves too far from where you want in terms of value, but I'd say that when there is more total value held in coins (high price) the shop code is worth more and less when less. So you might even just pick one BTC price for all time.Anyway, hope it sells a bunch for you. BitPay is doing this for wikipedia. At first I was a little annoyed partly for Vit's reason, but now I like the idea. Each extra thing you can makes the coins more useful to people and thus more valuable. Sure it would be a better PR boost if they took it directly, but that wasn't really about to happen anyway. And later, when there are even more uses for coins these places that are only getting old money from pass-throughs will have need for coins and want to get them directly instead of hassling to buy them. It came through. It must auto-re-broadcast. This transaction was sent via blockchain wallet and seems to have been poorly broadcast. http://blockchain.info/tx/ed8d5df4272aaaff31847a2e50f408ba9759b7c5c1a075020377180a4a9a20f5Does that happen sometimes? Will it automatically be re-broadcast at some point? People place single wagers for more than all the bitcoins is existence were worth in 2010. Up is the only way for growth and for there to be millions of successful bitcoin businesses. Stable is better than down though. And a smooth ride up is better than bumpy.  Wait, I'm confused. I was thinking cashout was on the octopus, but it's actually a link down at the bottom. It is kind of a 'sloppy' interface, but it is appropriate for this game imo. You were trying to get away but you bumped into a fish, whoops. The money you have in a fish is always at risk anyway. If you hover, the tooltip will come up and if you click then I think it means you are safe. My bitcoin? What would I do with my day and my life? Walk around and look for berries I guess, maybe fashion a slingshot and take out the fattest squirrels. We had 60 players even in the Saturday 5BTC Guarantee.November is over, GUILTY tops the chart again. The top 50 krillers are registered for their freeroll(s), all you've got to do is show up tomorrow at 4pm ET (and 9pm ET for the top 10). Seems like doing a bunch of stuff at once would not be the way to learn what broke it. If you have any ideas give it a try. They don't need to tax to do that. If they get people using a money they can make then they can just buy what they want, stopping others from consuming it. Taxing takes the pressure off of the currency.  I don't even know where to begin.Change as mentioned is a huge factor. It would be like calling my buying gun with a twenty dollar bill 20 dollars worth of activity.Also some large unknown amount of those transactions are from a person to themselves. It would be like counting me putting money in my wallet (and returning it to my safe later) as double the amount of money that I DIDN'T spend.Some of those transactions are actually currency exchanges that you don't see because they happened in a local coffee shop.In order for that many coins to be sold there would have to be an equal number of buyers and you can't tell what the price would do. Probably in order to get a tiny fraction of that many coins away from their owners (who have either recently acquired them or have declined selling them for a long time) you would need to offer some higher price than is currently on offer, who knows how high.The fact that tons of coins are being used shows that people have plenty of stuff to do with them and aren't going to try to divest en mass. I bet it will dip below 20 but be above that in 3 weeks. A slight price increase and a slight difficulty drop will go a long way imo. Jesus has the whole world in his hands so by definition, no.
"What's so great about your money?""It's easy for powerful people to watch what we do with it and they take what they want." I think going hundreds of years into the future more people will be remembered by someone but way fewer people from long ago will be know by nearly everyone. I guess this based on an expectation of better recording methods and growing diversity (there will be an ancient cryptographers of the early 21st century fan club). I use my miners to dehydrate pork, be sure to mention that to the rabbi when he asks about how bitcoins are made. Also I work them extra hard on the Sabbath.  You would run that code?If what you are accusing him of was even possible most of us wouldn't be here. Right... when you compare the probabilities of [someone being nuts or having a bad day or disagreeing with your values] to [critical bitcoin vulnerability] it's all just so clear. I love them too. You could practice sending them to me if you want. Is the opposite day the lowest number of suicides?And I thought is was near Christmas anyway. That's obviously a picture of his home aquarium, he was just showing how similar they happen to be. A god-given right iirc. I'd love to see a money that still works after you are beaten and robbed and bitten by zombies and unable to even communicate with your trading partners. It would be some true magic. This is what happens to pirates who won't accept bitcoin. "Babe  babe, I won the lottery, we're rich!""Omg, where is the ticket, sweetheart?!?""Some guy on Bitcointalk.org has it. I hope he's legit!""..." While I don't think the vast majority need to know the inner workings in order to trust and use bitcoin (as mentioned they used FED paper for a long time) there is some minority of oh 100 million people or so that would benefit by better explanations that I've currently seen available so it is a profitable avenue to pursue imo. Always a good day to start accepting bitcoins (and to stop murdering people in faraway places). Better yet, how about offering the other side of that exchange? Came to say it. Clearly not a pressing need. Flip a coin until you get 2845 streaks of more than 19 heads, that's when I'll arrive. I believe today's rebuy was the most entrants in a paid bitcoin tournament ever, 108 registered and 215 rebuys. Twenty places paid and the winner was Svarne2 for 7000 chips.Donkdown.com freeroll tonight at 10:30pm ET, registration is open now. A program can be made that will display bad pictures when fed this post as data.  Twenty players won prizes, Svarne2 took first place for 7BTC even.
Seals Block Part Tourney was a success, 108 entrants and 215 rebuys. I'm nearly positive this is the largest turnout for a paid entry bitcoin tournament. Prepare block 420000 FUD!Oh snap 420k get it get it? drug conspiracy imo. Even if you don't feel like saving them now keep the disk and pay to get them out when they are worth $1k, $10k or $100k. Also, the sun is going to burn out eventually, literally.  It started at block 210000, the first one with lower reward and the beginning of a new era! Imagine if you could email someone dirty pictures email would never have taken off. Block 0 had 50 so block 210000 is the first with 25. There's a copy of Washington in my house that won't make it through the day. I'd love to see a solution as it would make a whole new class of games viable. I don't think it is possible; if there are any wagers sent by people who are unknown to you it could be the operator.  There are no special admins. The only code that runs bitcoins is the code you can run yourself. You and anyone else can change anything you want in that code and all that will happen is that you'll be ignored by the people who didn't make a similar change. good OPThe 78% stat also rests on another misconception, the idea that bitcoins are always allocated. In reality many people have access to the same pools of coins and the top of each pool is repeatedly skimmed from and replaced. There can be complete rapid turnover of every person's bitcoins without touching nearly all of the actual blockchain coins.Seals has X coins belonging to other people. More than all of them are used every month, yet somehow 80% or so of them never move.Bitcoins are fungible. You will never know what is happening to bitcoin ownership no matter how cleverly you stare at the blockchain or pig entrails. It isn't a very expensive game to run, just send 1BTC or more to the address yourself each block ;-) whoa, I clicked my 'E' and it dropped away, I had no idea, why did it do that? Sorry, my mistake. Heh, what do you figure happens to it when you die? This forum is for bitcoin legal questions and info. There is a politics and society board where this would belong. I think you can move it on your own.It would be great if the person who made the least made a lot.It would be bad if someone got hurt for offering a job (especially bad if someone wanted to take that job). For a lottery that spans a week or month 0 or 1 or 6 confirm makes almost no difference.There is already a lottery with a 1% fee. If you want to break into the market you are going to need a guaranteed minimum imo. You probably will not get traction unless you are as transparent also, meaning all tickets send to one address so we know our tickets are counted and know how many there are and see the winner is paid properly. It keeps getting more interesting. Short version: You put money in a fish and you can attack other fish and they can attack you taking each other's money. Mostly just gambling, but maybe some skill coming in with the newest features, jackpot and coming shop. The biggest Fish is a little bit like this. By leaving money in a fish you are offering to take wagers with odds from 50-100% in your favor for anywhere from 0.05 up to half your balance. It is more optimized for fun that flexibility so another project is needed imo, just pointing the game out. Sweet, for some reason I really like that way. I just went slumming, lost every time, but now I'm biggest again anyway hahaha. Is only one fish big sized now or is it a static or dynamic threshold? Is there a bigger size we haven't seen yet?
Not on purpose! It was meant for the Big Fish thread, a neat new bitcoin gambling game. Is only one fish big sized now or is it a static or dynamic threshold? Is there a bigger size we haven't seen yet? Ah, ok I guess that makes sense.I did realize I can zoom pretty far out to get less overlapping, but the text does get small. And, ahhem, I can't eat any fish at the moment. I put 2 coins in and everyone else did the rest :-) Is the performers claim all you need to be covered? That would be less onerous than.. almost anything. I can't even buy alcohol on my word in my country.edit: I don't mean 'my' country, just the place I physically am. It's pretty much impossible to know what the smallest we could be without an attack being attempted is, but bigger does make coins more valuable all else equal since an attack is less likely. Also there is the other purpose of mining which is to get coins distributed initially, total power doesn't really tell you that but I would think that high power correlates with more miners to some extent. Minor improvement. Fish you can't click don't need the % shown, would clean it up a tad. Especially as it gets crowded in this ocean!Also minor.Tthe black text on the fish is sometimes hard to read because of the black lines on the fish when I'm zoomed out a ways. In a recent update it supposedly started doing this, but I don't think it works well. I'll see what's up with that and if it can be improved. Not to mention losing all of your dollars is obviously a LOL reason to stop accepting dollars. In fact, if someone gave that reason you would know there was a lot more to it than they admit or that it was just false. Maybe that's what Bruce said, but mybitcoin did return 49 or 51%. What is 'offense' -0.05 mean in my history?I would assume it means I attacked a fish, but that amount isn't possible and I didn't click a fish.edit: n/m that amount is possible, so I must have clicked a fish? err, I was .101 so actually I couldn't lose .05 because I can't click a .1 fish. Plus I didn't actually click a fish. From the starting point of having BTC (an enviable point):1. spendFrom the starting point of silver:1. drive to shop2. get a bad price because you have 1 damn coin3. go to bitinstant4. drive to bank5. pay a fee6. spend This seems pretty important, people will pay you and not be able to get paid if they mess up an address. Address validation is not hard. Maybe it wasn't worth having Bruce stop by all the time. That would be a huge story, actually many huge stories and drama over several years. Likely and the price would settle much higher, barring something like every major government actually stopping it (something they haven't managed for drug use, immigration, tax evasion, murder, rape, etc). I don't see how getting the identities of the false owners shows them to be false owners. So Nefario's mother and girlfriend happened to be holding a lot of shares? What are you going to do about it?Furthermore, giga and others have already been trusting Nefario's reports (while the site was running) and so are already exposed to the same if any liability from a possible Nefario share stealing scam. "cntrl+f""fred" You can use bitcoin over there if you don't mind somewhat slower propagation to and from Earth, but you can't mine. The rules should show somewhere before you join. Are you looking for investors now?
Ah thanks, I assumed you were the owner and hired tech help. So that email is the owner and tech and you are PR? I would totally buy this game and use 0 conf. PM an offer if there is any chance. Other visual and possibly small monetary events would be cool, like fish food falling that a random nearby fish eats. Or (maybe not feasible at all) people have to race to click the food to eat it. Yeah, diversity would be cool. Also seems like the fish size could scale a bit more smoothly. Freemo is alive. I took it as one 10BTC bounty.  It is only difficulty for almost everyone, and he only needs one person to positively identify them. Freemo fish still missing :-( That's pretty serious. I'll pass it on to the software company immediately.It is really surprising to me that this happens across all those browsers and OS. Are you completely closing the browser before trying again? I assume you have had it fail on one computer and switch to another? It would help debug if you tried logging in with a different account when you are stuck out. That should work if being in multiple tables is what is freezing it.Unfortunately, I can't think of anything to recommend in the meantime besides not multi-tabling.How recently did this start? I've not had another report yet. It's 'EuroParliment' they pick the make-believe capital of Europe annually and other meaningless things like that. Is there any reason the code can't stay in the bar until you leave?Maybe it shows up in browsing history and you can recover that way? I don't use that land or claim that land. I didn't hurt anyone and neither did my dad.If you affiliate yourself with some of the various governments that perpetrated and continue in murder and cruelty then I think you do have moral problems, this being one of many. Starting back on Nov 19th 6max will get the same table starter RB as 9max.There will be changes to table starter rakeback sometime in the next few weeks in order to factor in krill, but 6max will stay equal with 9max. My fish doesn't seem to have grown for this tx:http://blockchain.info/tx/83c3a00fa6d2d2de145fd0f4a54770ad85d3365f9af95783c3bd4af52bf4e53e He should make his own internet protocol too, and write the text on his site in Esperanto, er that might be too mainstream, Esperanzo? Ha, I just picked the biggest ally. Makes sense about the coins spreading, ultimately you take the risk. But action is definitely reduced by having to wait. I think you'll get more interest if you don't wait for confirmations to make things happen. Just make confirmations required before cashouts are enabled if you are worried. Or, make some higher cut off for requiring confirmations. I figure a lot of people will just want to see real quick that it is responsive and what it does etc. Also, 0.1 is pretty reasonable, but you could make that dynamic or just lower temporarily. Done, I guess it is ok to have multiple fish with the same name since it let me? User error, but I suspect it'll be common. I clicked continue before I actually saved the link thinking I could do it after I closed the dialog. I don't see a way to get it back now. We're having some trouble and working on it now. Sorry for the inconvenience. edit: And we're back.
https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=126615.0 agree, just do slightly big C then Bitcoin imo. What's so innocent about the Royal Mail accepting money for delivering drugs?! <snicker> It's not just that, if you've got a very small % and that's your rule you'll be selling all the way up and even if the value of bitcoin goes up 10000x from here you'll potentially get 100x or less on 1-5% of your wealth, which is nice but you are missing a lot of the value due you if you've really figured bitcoin out this early. A rule of 1% of what you have now and never sell doesn't really work either since... you'll never actually benefit in any material way. A high % and keep that % roughly constant is the way to go imo. I violated that during the bubble/peak to my detriment. Selling down to my previous % would have protected my stash all through 2012, but as it happened I had to sell quite a bit. A few bits of news.We're trying a 6max MTT tonight at 10pm, I know it is short notice, but if it gets any interest at all we'll do it same day and time next week.We've got a new 10000 chip freeroll for players who have earned 50000 krill. There are only 24 of them so far and 17 in striking distance so it should be good value for some time. It will run every 530 hours and rotate between PLO, PLO8 and NLHE. The first one is next Monday at 6pm ET.If you're wondering why we're scheduling by the hour in strange amounts (50, 140 and 530), it's so that no one will be permanently excluded by work or other obligations regardless of schedule or time zone. Sometimes it will be convenient for you and other times not.  Yeah, how did they find out  I'll be sharing these! He shouldn't have been peeing in the officer's yard. I have a few months expenses in dollars, most of the rest in coins. 2012-11-19 Calvinayre.com Bitcoin online gambling sites: pros, cons and preaching to the choirhttp://calvinayre.com/2012/11/19/business/bitcoin-online-gambling-sites-pros-cons-and-preaching-to-the-choir/ http://calvinayre.com/2012/11/19/business/bitcoin-online-gambling-sites-pros-cons-and-preaching-to-the-choir/The article mentions SD, SwitchPoker, StrikeSapphire and BC-Casino and has 3 paragraphs about Seals. Well damn. I dunno about sketchy link there, but there are still over 10 million coins to go, so it'll be a long battle. Ouch, I know he's talking about Seals and he says "extremely low stakes poker". We've got a 60BTC buy-in ring game running right now, geez. Sounds like a fail-scam. We'll be taking off when 'buying bitcoins' makes no sense. I haven't bought bitcoins in well over a year and I encourage you all to join me in collecting as many as you freaking can. (buying bitcoins is so 2010) BTC is cool, will change the world and is magic. Lol, if one permission slip isn't enough you also have my permission. What sort of thing does a $5 (or any price) WP upgrade get you? I think I saw numbers of like $45 mil for WP last year, but I don't know if that is revenue or profit, are lots of people buying upgrades? Certainly they will change their mind, but they'll never be on the frontier.
I know, at least with free advice you get what you pay for! I've got it. Promise him flowers soon, give someone else double flowers, fight with that person, never give nefario any flowers. It's totally bogus. Frontier my ass. They are afraid to publish a 33 char string on their webpage. Unless your group is going to be 6 people forcing 4 people to do and not do stuff you might as well just skip voting and go with actual consensus. Don't do stuff to people without their permission. You don't even need 10 people you can start by yourself. Don't hurt people and don't make excuses (uniform, election, tradition, etc) for people who do hurt others (including yourself). Complaining isn't productive, but the wrongs of people acting as government cannot be overstated and anyone who points them out has my respect.Imprisoned by psychopaths for gardening? Just work hard in the prison laundry until you die.  Dollar signs on a bitcoin awareness site kill me, but I might buy something anyway. Works for me now. I forgot to try 'downforeveryoneorjustme' on it, so I dunno. Site down. :-( I think we'll try 100-200bb in the near future. I have a lot of bitcoins, I don't use exchanges. Many people in those countries have skills that someone somewhere in the world might pay for. I won't suggest what BoB should do, but in general I think manipulable statements can be great. This one essentially pays girls to come out to play. And, this or a similar statement could be used to indicate that it won't (or will) be a sausage fest. Yes, taking them back when you aren't using them is indeed the only way you will know your coins are safe.I suppose if we are incarcerated it will not be possible to return them in a timely manner, but they won't get your coins by seizing the server, which is in Iceland and possibly non-trivial to do anyway.We have db backups and should be able to return funds safely and relatively speedily without the current server, but a more detailed plan should be developed and announced. Heads you win tails they lose imo!"In Google Play!" OR "Sorry that's too real!" Satoshi: <watching anime>Satoshi: <pondering>Satoshi: <serious voice> "I will build it." Yes. Only bitcoinclock.com comes to mind. 2052, OMG it is actually going to happen. I don't think that is as attractive to people. Part of the draw of a guarantee is the potential overlay, but a lot of people just want to know when there will definitely be a good tournament running. Someone make a note of this in his profile. Yes, I'm thinking about running a tourney series with some higher buy-ins to get some data about what we might be able to support on an ongoing basis, but it is a pretty tricky art since without a guarantee or with a low-ball guarantee enough interest is not generated, but a high buy-in with an ambitious guarantee can be quite a disaster. 
That could happen. It is going a lot better than a few weeks ago, but at 12:30 today it only got 2 players. Any guarantee that runs around the clock has potential to get pricey.  What is this crap?Every time a bitcoin is 'accumulated' it is also 'un-accumulated'. So, I guess we'll wait for the "OMG, coins are being un-accumulated at an all time high. Why isn't the price tanking??" thread to cancel it out? Extra coins magically appearing? Come on. Maybe you haven't heard that all transactions are public? Because you can take a higher % from richer people without them disassembling your body.If the people you control are generally poor they have hardly anything that you can take without causing them great pain. If they would still be the most comfortable people in the world with half of their wealth you can take quite a large fraction of it without them risking their lives to try to end yours. The price will go up since that's a more expensive way of getting gold!  Yes.And also, ever coin is always being saved or 'hoarded' at all times.It is a really bad article and a dumb statistic. I should just save and copy paste my reply to this topic.That stat is meaningless. Most people use the services that most people use. These services often send out coins that were recently received. That means that even if everyone uses all of their coins every week many coins can remain completely still. It has more to do with a somewhat arbitrary coin management decision of a few of the bigger bitcoin companies.I manage X bitcoins for many other people, even though we do something close to X withdrawals every week 78% of X coins have not moved in a very long time.  We decided to give 6-max tables a try again. They are all invisible by default, but you can open them at sealswithclubs.eu/open-tables Six game types and all stakes up to the 40BTC max buy-in are available.Until I get some rate limiting or auto-closing set up the krill requirement still applies to that page, but I've lowered it to 5000 krill. That's no good, I wonder if they'll get it faster. We're getting close to having multiple ring game tables running around the clock, but after about 5am ET it gets a little bit slow.So, we're offering 3x krill from 5-9am ET on all ring games to see if we can keep the action going.Krill earns you rakeback and entry to special freerolls. More details at the bottom of the promotions page. https://sealswithclubs.eu/promotions/ Geography by false dichotomy, would be... interesting. Yes, it is gone for now. Even a large overlay wasn't bringing many players. We will try again soon. You can open PLO and PLO8 SNGs of all stakes now at:https://sealswithclubs.eu/open-sngs/ lol, it really is a toss up. A+ A rebuy shows as 45+5+R. The rebuy amount is the same as the buy-in (45), but there is no fee. You can rebuy whenever you are at or under the starting chip amount, for as long as the rebuy period lasts, it varies by tournament and you can see it in the tournament info section. Sorry. Thanks. Fixed now. obv I have no idea of the numbers, but it's the answer to your question of why not yet. You don't, the plant will grow just fine without the licence. Regardless of what they call it it is a "don't get attacked by us" licence.  Because the risk/cost is X and while SR is open the reward is X/5 and when SR is down the reward is 5X. If anyone really thought bitcoin was going to the moon they'd have to spend them because they wouldn't have other kinds of money sitting around to spend. Starving or freezing to death doesn't get you to your vast riches. And unless you suck you should have/buy electricity, computers, an office so you can work to get more coins.The reason that damn article that keeps popping up concludes that none are being spent is because they didn't bother to figure out what is going on.Most people keep their coins in services that most people use. Even if every person used all their coins every week the service would still have coins that never moved if they use a first in first out method which makes complete sense since you would want the coins that sit still to be safe in cold storage. What is this I don't even
Why so much info requested? Billing info for BTC? Unless a miner decides to put someone else's address in the generate tx they will get the coins. You know who loves to bet that politicians will die? Politicians. It's called life insurance. Do you know if it will always take that long? I was thinking/hoping it would be same day. We've added all varieties of HU and 6max SNGs. To avoid clutter, you can open them from this page:https://sealswithclubs.eu/open-sngs/You will see a link to that page on your My Account page if you have 50 or more chips available. You can only open games that you can buy in to and you will be automatically registered.  You should just post when that happens. I know you maybe can't know until the last second, but you can click "Start Now" when you ought be in the BB next hand and if one player happens to sit out you'll post behind the button. I'm no pro, but I think posting 1BB one off the button is actually a slightly better deal than posting 1.5BB to get a full orbit.There was a bug where if you sat out and came back in the BB it also wrongly charged a SB, that should be fixed so if it happens please let me know.Another recent improvement is the table popping behavior. It was practically unusable before it would interrupt your action at one table when it came your turn on a second. Now it queues them up and waits until you act to give you another. if it had even occurred to me that was possible I would have sent popup messages to the players, but since some players were talking back to me I mistakenly assumed the chat was a fine way to communicate. Sorry about that. Certainly you'll mention the upcoming halving I'd think. Seals is having a 25BTC guarantee with just 0.05BTC entry to celebrate if you are inclined to mention that. Oh! I had no idea.I saw the chat fine and assumed everyone did. That's a data point worth passing on to the developer too.So you did not see players avatars either? I saw all 9 sitting out. Hmm, all I can think is that you missed my communication while you were restarting and switching browsers.Unfortunately I can't get the exact chat at the table because that was part of the problem with the table, the HH (which contains the chat) was corrupted. But I initially said that I didn't know what was going on but it would be resolved. I tried pausing and restarting the game twice (which showed in chat) then I removed no-shows to see if it would break up the bad table. It removed you all because there was no record of hands at that table. I said that at the table and that I was going to make a new game for you in about 5 minutes. A few minutes later I had the 6 of you who were logged in registered in the new tournament and I said so. Then I started the game. I made maybe 5-6 comments over 10 minutes and it is conceivable that you would miss them or at least the important ones. I was trying to communicate, but I was also trying to figure out what was going on.Hand-for-hand is a good idea and I will mention it to the software developer.Giving money to anyone we chose above what we promised is never unfair. It is our money and we can give it as we like. The players remaining in the main tournament got more value than they were promised anyway since one table of players was eliminated from their game.  I think it could be done if there was some complex emergent system where the better people were at controlling resources the more they were able to control.... I'm not sure what happened yet, but I'm helping him out. Correct.I believe early on the 29th is if we get 10 minute blocks, but we've actually been getting like 9.6 or something for a while and that would put it earlier.  Those two HU tables are open again.The link for opening tables is https://sealswithclubs.eu/open-tables/If you don't see a 2 or 9 player table of any stakes or type of game you want up there jeust email admin@sealswithclubs.eu or post here. I will be adding tons over the next few days since we have plenty of room now.There will be one for SNGs open soon. That page will require you have enough chips to play the game you choose and will register you for the game. So make sure you unregister (in the software like normal) before leaving. There will be a warning on that page when it opens. Right, it will be open soon. Sorry, I went on a cleaning frenzy after I turned on the new "open-table" page. But right now it is set to only work for players with 10k krill until I set up another way to avoid abuse. I'll open them back now. Smiles are even less regulated than religion. Bitcoin = smile imo. He was asking which tournament you were playing, but you didn't even say it was a tournament.There is a 5BTC freeroll tournament tonight at 10:30pm ET, absolutely free. You probably won't win, but you can't lose ;-) That sucks. But your signature is awesome. Wed Nov 28th 7pm ET!Whenever it is we're ha(l)ving a party at Seals.
bitcoinz.ca doesn't sound like a very super store to me. No, the 50 chip freeroll will just resume at 11am, the "10am 2000 guarantee" was started at 10:30am. Well, in a sense... less resources will be given to secure the chain. It's not a priority and it is tricky with our current setup, but if you are serious and want to talk more email admin@sealswithclubs.euAnd.. we're BACK. the 10am tourney will be started at 10:30am and high hand prizes are doubled for the next hour. Thanks for the info, I'll wait a bit. We are going to be offline in about 20 minutes for about 20-30 minutes. When we come back up I'm going to set the high hand prizes to double for a while. So... probably not reasonable for me to fly in, but damn I would love to. We will likely have some brief (~20 minutes) downtime Wednesday morning. If so it will be announced in advance.The chip transfer feature in the software has been disabled, you can now make transfers to other players on the webpage right below where you cash out. Anyone else love this?http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conway%27s_Game_of_LifeYou can see how it works without downloading anything here:http://www.julianpulgarin.com/canvaslife/and the source is open.I'm thinking of how I can adapt it to an interactive bitcoin skill game. Welcome. There is the hourly freeroll and the half hour 0.4BTC guarantee if you play tournaments. The smallest ring games are 1/2 NLHE and 1/2 PLO. They run almost all the time now. The weekly 10BTC guarantee rebuy tournament is tonight. Paid, thanks. If you keep in mind that laws are threats (and occasionally they aren't empty threats) to hurt, kill and destroy lives it will never be surprising when they make bad stuff happen. I need to get rid of my crumbling fiat! I know, I'll buy ASICs (which don't seem to exist yet) and sell the coins I mine to get my fiat back! The less you have the harder it is to make X, but...The more you have the harder it is to make X% more than what you've got. Strong hoarders prevent it too, or do you consider people who sell all their coins to still be hoarders somehow? I've been using bitvps for about 6 months, no trouble. Recently I made a suggestion and was acknowledged the same day.The title of this thread is wrong, OP or a moderator should fix it. I get nothing at https://fastcash4bitcoins.com/learn.aspx https://fastcash4bitcoins.com/payment.aspx and https://fastcash4bitcoins.com/about.aspxI'm thinking about recommend fastcash to people, where can I see total fees? Or is that all worked into the price showing already? More like T-3weeks! Not completely, it would be extra hard to find a robot collision AND collide the first few chars. Don't forget the PLO8 8BTC Guarantee tonight at 9pm ET.
They won't panic dump their stash if they are good at hoarding/saving. And what is the big difference? Poker, start with freerolls if they don't trust their skills. The idea is to get value from people who won't pay. I don't see the logic. Could someone not criticize a Pirate Pass-through without owning shares of it?There is a difference between ever having tried something and currently holding a stake in it though. And someone ridiculing something they clearly don't understand and without using it is pathetic and it ought be pointed out.  Are you serious? How about the fact that he can't alter code running on my computers? Lol."Mom can you send me lunch money? I'm the panda with crossed eyes holding a rainbow in its LEFT hand." 2012-11-03 DigitalJournal.com: Poker with Bitcoinhttps://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=122312.new#new http://www.digitaljournal.com/article/336104They mention Seals and its affiliate program. I don't know why they say we are shy about answering questions. I wasn't contacted. Seems like it is only relevant when paying an address you have seen before. An optional warning in a client like "You are trying to pay an address that may look like one you have payed before, BUT YOU HAVE NEVER PAID THIS ADDRESS BEFORE. Proceed?" might accomplish this better.  Typo under "Earn Money", "Receive your it on your Bitcoin address after every download."And I'm not an expert but I don't think a colon is appropriate here in the FAQ, maybe a semicolon or a separate sentence."Bitcoin uses peer-to-peer technology to operate with no central authority: managing transactions and issuing money are carried out collectively by the network." Yes I highly doubt internet drug dealers see the huge potential in bitcoin or want to keep their profits in a currency that is difficult to confiscate.   I might be missing something but I don't see how this isn't just obvious. You can buy more mining power yourself or your could hire out. DONs reward collusion particularly highly and it is extra hard to be sure when collusion is happening in them so we've decided not to offer them. I can make other custom games and stakes on request though. The only reason we don't have a full selection of PLO, PLO8, limit omaha and limit hold'em SNGs is to avoid lobby clutter. If there is something you think might run if it were up you can ask here or email admin@sealswithclubs.eu. I do plan to automate this process sometime this month. Seals has a freeroll poker tournament every hour with 0.05BTC prize and a weekly freeroll on Wednesday at 10:30pm with 5BTC in prizes. Absolutely free to enter. This is interesting.It seems it helps in cases where someone expects to be paying an address they have already paid, but the address has somehow been swapped out with the malicious one. If the site that was compromised is also serving the icon could that not also be swapped out for one that doesn't actually match? To guard against that the payer would need to personally check, is that what is intended?Another solution that came to me (inspired by etotheipi) is to generate a visually distinctive address (etotheipi used an address with only capital letters). I think there are probably a lot of ways to make an address visually striking. Now that alone would not work because making another one that is striking in the same way would cost the same as the original on average, but if people remember the feel of the address plus the first 5 characters or so (which the original address producer can just let be random) then matching it would be about 58^5 times harder for an attacker.What are some cheap but striking patterns? An unusualy high number of triplets? (1j4U666mJJJw3QD7gggrHHH2rynFEcAAA)A lot of numbers?No letters or numbers with curves?Only capitals and numbers? 1 minute is a nice crap, the average is going to be several times longer. I should mention the current expected date of the 210000 block is Thursday Nov 29th. This thread is good for keeping an eye on it https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=67185.120 Lots to announce:The top 50 krill earners in November will be entered in a 10BTC freeroll on Sunday Dec 2nd at 4pm ET. The top 10 krill earners will additionally be entered in a 5BTC freeroll on Sunday Dec 2nd at 9pm ET.The Friday Swell surpassed the guarantee again, it will be bumped up to 4BTC for next week.The Monday night tournament is now a 560+40 with 8BTC guarantee PLO8 tournament at 9pm ET.The high hand promo continues to spew prizes around the clock to NLHE ring games.And most importantly: To celebrate the upcoming block 210000 we are going to run a 0.05BTC entry rebuy tournament with a 25BTC guarantee. The tournament will start very shortly after block 210000 is found. Registration is open now. It's a lottery with a low max win that isn't even guaranteed with a 10% rake when a reliable service exists that charges 1%. It's like selling inferior hotdogs for $20 apiece right next to the $2 hotdogs.If you actually want to break into the bitcoin lottery market you are going to need to do something like start out free and/or offer a compelling guarantee.  Same as always, see what the lowest price you can find is.
Email users vs email servers. Ignore nodes when contemplating bitcoin users. You should not get involved in mining. You'd have an upfront 'learning' cost at the least and then no particular advantage over the people who already had knowledge, equipment, cheap electricity, advantages of scale, etc.What are you good at? What do you do? Thanks k.Looks like they don't even record credentials so they won't know if you change them right after. Seems fairly safe. Has anyone done this or know the details? Do they just log in one time to verify that the account is yours and then you can change your password? Durability and divisibility and difficult (dare I say impossible) to counterfeit.  Taxes and CC suck.Bitcoins are awesome, not mostly for what you can do with them now (as a simple consumer I mean, I can run a business and make global payments instantly for nearly free), but for their properties. That's not sufficient, signed copies of my first album are downright scarce, but also worthless. Best way is to show what you can do and offer good prices. Awesome, for a second I thought Atlas was on a posting spree again then I smiled.</sick burn> Sorry, minutes are irreversible (that's why they are so valuable). I get 8-9 hours pretty consistently. A few days ago I only got 4 so I took a 2 hour nap, I was still tired after the nap.  We've got a consistent lot of moved topics especially in the general section. They need to be there so people can find recently moved topics, but it seems they could be shown in the way that topics with an ignored OP are shown. It would look cleaner imho. It might also reduce the benefit of starting threads in the wrong section for the purpose of advertising. People want many various things to varying degrees, it is all very complicated. A good way to get those things is from other people. A good way to do that is with an intermediary 'counter' that is durable, easy to transfer, easy to identify. Bitcoin totally fits, unless it turns out that one of the main things most people want is to see a bigger number and not more or better stuff and experiences. Oh snap, we overlooked this major fail. Wrap it up guys. That doesn't seem fair. Seems very sketchy to me. I think it is just version 2.0 of this:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=51820.0 Thanks dooglus. The numbers on the homepage mean players logged in and include all running tables including the hourly freeroll which sometimes counts for a lot of tables. pokerscout.com keeps track of current real money ring game players and a 24 hour average over the last week. We're up to 18 ring seats filled average over the last week, a pretty nice improvement over two weeks ago which was 13. Stacking coins is a once in a lifetime (or much longer?) opportunity. I spend coins because that's nearly all I freaking have. Think about it, hoard them so hard you have to spend them to live. Well now I can brute force it pretty easily ;-) Am I misunderstanding or can you beat any of us no matter what since you have no cost in betting more and more since it isn't even really a bet for you? 
A small group of people are currently killing thousands and imprisoning millions so... I'll take my chances with the sociopaths not having a veneer of legitimacy? Seals has an affiliate program, email affiliates@sealswithclubs.eu for details and to get set up. Wow, Satoshi really is a Japanese programmer, the ECB told us so. /sarcasm  I'll mention that to the software company.I added a link in the cashout area to an offsite QR code for now.  100 days? Are you using version 0.2 on a netbook? Yes, I can do that easily if we are willing to trust a third party. I'll do it today or tomorrow but tuck it away somewhere and give a warning.When people pay via QR does their application usually show them the real address and ask for confirmation before sending? It is because pretty much everyone who has BTC wants it more than everything else on offer. You have to be fairly enticing to get it from people who have declined everything else.What is the trust issue? People don't trust you? Simple and free amirite?! Random spec:A lot of people mine BTC with GPU, they sell some, but have also found things they like to do with them directly. When ASICs bring the difficulty some will turn in to buyers and many who were using part and selling part will just stop selling, and some will quit mining and buy any they need, or stop selling in advance to avoid needing to buy any time soon.Given the willingness of the first batch of ASIC receivers to pre order way in advance with lots of uncertainty they are probably not the type to need to sell immediately and presumably they have faith in long term bitcoin anyway. Factoring in that some new players will have much larger amounts available to them I expect trend up with spikes down.  With absolutely no evidence, I'm going to claim it was expensive as fuck and the money went to someone who knew someone. Saving money, lol. Saying in a serious way that you are leaving should be autoban because either 1. You were leaving anyway 2. You are trolling. No downside to anyone and might eliminate troll. This thread again, woohoo.I hold X coins total for hundreds of people, while most of them play with the funds on site, transfer them via the site, and/or withdraw them to use elsewhere very frequently the amount I'm holding hasn't been below 78% of X in quite a long time because other coins are constantly coming in. In reality some are actually saved or forgotten, but even if EVERYONE used ALL of their coins EVERY week there is no particular reason 78% or more of the 'blockchain' coins wouldn't keep sitting still. It means absolutely nothing.Furthermore, if people desire bitcoin for savings that just means they are that much more desired. We experimented with that a while back and it hurt the games. Already a lot of the action is shorthanded, adding 6max tables made it still mostly shorthanded but with more frequent waiting instead of the occasional full ring game (which lasts longer generally too since a person on the waiting list is more likely to bail than a person seated).So, it will come when we are bigger (which hopefully won't be long at all!)Btw, the SNGs are 6max and I'm not opposed to a 6max MTT, think that would go well? bitcoincharts.com has a lot of info you might be interested in. He is worried about anyone at all (even the site) knowing the deck because of things like the AP/UB superuser.There is clever math you can do where no one knows any part of the deck they shouldn't until they should. Ultimately you could play poker without there even being a site, you just use whatever client you want and connect to whomever you want. One of the problems of implementing this is that you can't have players running off while you still need them to finish the hand. It is too easy to lose a window that way, though maybe another solution to that could be found, or only the entire boarder could be dragable perhaps. Seals has a game every hour with .05BTC prize, no cost to enter.It looks like coinworker.com is still running, it has small jobs anyone can do.I think generally it will work better the other way eg, "I can do X well, here is proof, I accept bitcoins". And that happens all the time. In the type of setup the OP is referring to know one at all knows the full deck during the hand and you need all of the players to help decrypt the deck at showdown. Perhaps some techniques could allow decryption with n of m players, but then you'd have to worry that n players were working together to decrypt ahead of time. Those are good and don't seem hard, I'll pass them along.What is the trouble that reusing the window would solve? I know that the old one doesn't auto-close so that you can get your hand history from it if you want. I am working on some ideas for cleaning up the lobby. I know it isn't filters, but you can sort, the best sort is to put the games with players seated at the top, or by stakes if you are looking to start a new game.You can auto top up. On the add chips dialog box there is a checkbox for rebuying automatically. For multitabling I recommend turning OFF the "bring active table to front" because it doesn't respect your turn at other tables. If you cascade the tables from upper right to lower left, the action buttons will show on every table and you can see when it is your action.I'm not interested in buying something that doesn't exist yet, but if you or someone you know has something in a reasonable price range please do write to me at admin@sealswithclubs.eu.
Glad to have you, what one or two things would make the biggest improvement in the software in your opinion? We can't control development directly, but the software company does listen. Supposedly the IRS doesn't care if you rob banks, they just want a piece of the action. That's what I always hear anyway, dunno if it is true. If you trust the third party and they say it is fair then that's it. It's fair without trust that is hard, though I am convinced it is possible and will eventually come. Did you view this alleged CP? We just put a 10k guarantee rebuy with 220 entry and 200 rebuys on Tuesday, Thursday is still lacking and will be the next addition. The Monday PLO is being replaced and some other PLO and PLO8 will be coming. doubling Wednesday will come after that, probably something starting an hour or so after so they don't totally overlap. Have to ratchet up the guarantees with caution so we don't risk having to scale back, don't want to jerk things around too much. Hmm, sorry about that. Is it ongoing? I'm not getting other complaints. Maybe it is a flash problem and not really a connection thing (even if it is saying that). You could try another browser. It's like a beautiful castle was built and everyone wants a job as a janitor.You aren't forced to provide hashes to help secure the network, if you don't want to do it in the most efficient way, then do it at a loss or don't do it. Krill rakeback is paid up to Oct 21st now. I hope to do it every week after table starter, but it is pretty insignificant amount since a lot of players are just in the 2-5% range. When I do procrastinate you actually get a little more value because I pay for the whole period owed at your highest krill level. Way too late, sorry. Tonight I hope. It will be about a month's worth. I try to let it go for my health, but anger is justified when a large group kidnaps and kills innocent people both as policy and through negligence.  Just think how pissed you'd be at me if I killed people in your country or held your friends in cages in my basement. Geez man, why so angry, are you 12 or something? Lots of angst cause of hormones maybe? I'll do it, I'll volunteer to hold these 'worthless' credits on my computer. Eat that Mosler. Block 0 had 50, but they weren't spendable, correct? So 210000 will have 25 reward. Wait everyone else stopped developing, what? What's going on. OMG, the newbies know more than me. Download some version, it will stay the same, done. If everything is cheaper in bitcoins everyone will buy bitcoins before spending driving the price to even more maddening heights! edit: And don't tell me it will be canceled by the merchants unloading them because why would merchants lose 15% just to turn around and get fiat!? The Monday 10BTC PLO Guarantee starts in just over 2 hours. And, if that merchant needs/wants bitcoins then instead of being worth less because of the ~1% to get rid of them they will be worth ~1% more since they get to avoid the fees involved in acquiring them.  I seem to recall MtGox arranging it so that if you sent bitcoins from your MtGox account to an address associated with another MtGox account they didn't bother making the bitcoin transaction and just credited the account. Does anyone know if this still their policy? Thanks.In general I think it is a terrible idea since you are robbed of your permanent audit-able 'receipt' when this is done. Saving is only for those 99.99999% of disasters that harm you and not the entire world. Hey scaredy-cat, why are you so afraid of giving me half your money huh? huh? huh? What are you afraid of? Wuss.
We are monitoring the situation. It seems back to normal now, but no cause has been determined. You are unique atlas. Oh, doing it voluntarily with complete foreknowledge on a case by case basis seems fine. And leaves room for people to do whatever they want. I'd say our work here is done. That's absurd, how will I know which key(s) belong to the court, and why will I care and how will I know who agrees? Blah blah if I hadn't raped your mother blah blah. Do I carefully feed bananas to Cher the She-Alpaca for Friday's solemnization rehearsal, or RSS feed anyone circumnavigating her gyrating yak nards? Lol, a couple of people/entities don't offer the code so they pretend like they've been sanctioned. Boo hoo. Some mother fucker actually wrote that code himself and if you look around someone will give it to you for free. Site looks really nice.Just out of curiosity what fraud are you worried about if you ship after you get the bitcoins (even from a Nigerian)? Stolen packages I guess? It's a meaningless number.Seals has X deposits. We haven't gone below (X * 0.78) in a long time so roughly (X * .78) coins are sitting dead still. So what? Tons of users have been moving coins around and that doesn't even count all the moving that doesn't happen on the blockchain (playing and internal transfers).If it isn't clear. It is totally possible that all of our members used (by any definition, played, transferred, withdrew) all of their coins during the period that 78% of them sat still. I'm sure there is a way to do this correctly, but a practical solution would be to send all but a bitcent or maybe even just a bitmil. Unless you are destroying the wallet and doing this all the time or something. Not a big surprise, we hit the guarantee and it will be bumped to 2000 for next week.Big juicy weekend games coming up! I thought it was good!But you said 131 super matter-of-factly, lol. Messages are not automatically saved in the outbox, you have to check a box or set it in your forum options. So it is only the escrow part you worry about? What about finding a few trusted escrow services and simply recommending those? Yeah <80000 is totally easy. Because you can take more from people who are doing better without them removing your insides. Freeroll means no entry fee at all, and there are real bitcoin prizes. The hourly freeroll has one prize of 0.05BTC for the winner. The largest weekly freeroll is the Wednesday donkdown that pays 5BTC, usually split into 17 prizes.It's a great way to try out our software and for some people a great way to get their first bitcoins. They didn't link you to transaction info?  Lol. Without the threat (hypothetically, I didn't actually get paid, certainly not twice) I'd return them, but if he's going to be 'chasing' people I would use his coins to cover defense costs (running shoes?) since you are about as likely to get 'chased' if you pay or not, he doesn't know who sends coins to that address.
wtf, then why "send them again"?? If a vendor -wants- bitcoin though it saves them CC fees plus the fees involved with buying coins with old monies. And there are more and more reasons to want bitcoin all the time. Are you playing at Seals? There are freerolls all the time and I'll ship some chips for the legend with the bar in his head. I also lived on. They would have to know the info and know that no one else can get the info and use it to make money by being less greedy. I talked to Aahzman, this turned out to be from not showing the hand. I added that to the lobby message about the promo on his suggestion. Right, which is the complete opposite of simple to do. Maybe he means simple to imagine? There is a new weekly guarantee tournament on Friday!It is the Friday Swell Guarantee at 11pm ET. The buy-in is 0.4BTC and the guarantee increases by 1BTC each week that we don't have to add money to the prize pool to meet the guarantee. The guarantee tomorrow will be 1BTC.  Please immediately invite or summon one witch to this séance, or goatse everyone arguing about this virtual office. Yeah, it's hard work doing what the government tells you to and doing it damn badly.But I get it, they're probably swamped under a mountain of documents that never showed up. This is blowing my mind. Of course a private person responsible for only their own stuff could give a wrong shipping address! Why does that matter at all? Beyond that if I a wrong shipping address it 100% automatically falls on me, I don't get my stuff. Also how can they overlook it? Aren't other people sending documents there? After a month you would think they might go "Huh, we don't get documents now that we moved". Bleh, we need new business so we can finish putting this one out of our misery.  Please delete or add one witch to this séance, and/or lick everyone homosexual in this orgy. Here is another reason to gamble.You have 2.7BTC left over from before your GPUs burnt your house down and need 3.25BTC for your order from a certain website to ease your pain. You could go through the hassle of buying 0.55BTC or you could bet exactly 2.7 to win 3.25 on Myriad and have an 82% chance at avoiding the hassle and fee.People with discontinuous utility/btc curves can profit (it terms of their utility) by making negative EV wagers at the right times even disregarding entertainment value. I don't 100% know, but everything I've heard for the last year is that 4 weeks is fast for them.  Switch poker takes EUR and BTC. Accepting bitcoin is smart, but it doesn't automatically make a site huge. Please delete or add one image to this séance, and/or lick anything else in this orgy. Yes, but legitimate businessmen can read so they'll be in on it   Don't delete or add one image to this séance, and/or post anything else in this thread. Change or add one word to this sentence, and don't post anything else in this thread. Seem like a good time for http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GH_StQ6KdW0
General reminder, don't click dodgy links.Someone has been spamming a dangerous link in our chat. It should be ineffective now and the one player hurt by it was able to recover his chips. But still don't visit unknown links given by strangers (at Seals or elsewhere). There was a problem. I am investigating, it appears to be working now. The 3am buy-ins have been returned. Sorry about that. Amazing that people think that, but aren't interested in doing that (copying bitcoins) and getting rich while everyone is overvaluing them. Then Bitcoin is just shit and there is nothing you can do, oh well. Not really. They used a stolen card or account and the real owner says so and gets the money back. There is a new 'drifting' tournament now. Every 50 hours is a 500 chip (0.5BTC) freeroll for anyone with 500+ krill. The next one is at 5pm ET Saturday. You need to register for this (and all future krill based freerolls) by clicking the link on your My Account page.Fun fact, 425 active (logged in last month) players have 500+ krill. Bounties would be great. It's on the to-do list. US shipping awesome! It doesn't matter where you are, don't send bitcoins to strangers unless you are feeling generous. I <3 D's nuts. Thanks for the feedback, it or something like it will return. I can and would take the loss. The large majority of deposits are in two encrypted off-server wallets, the exact percentage fluctuates. "The community" isn't going to do anything as instantly as that would require. Just use whatever name you like for 1/1000, eventually one or more will catch on and be the de facto base unit.At Seals we use 'chips' to mean 1/1000.This isn't a real problem because people can solve it easily when and where it matters. The Drifter is over.There is now a daily morning guarantee. 2BTC guaranteed, 0.2BTC entry, 10am ET. Backing is a promise. Bitcoin = no promise. That's why I want them. It's not a flaw. I am interested and would possibly participate if this was actually implemented. Anyone else have trouble posting in the comments? I made an account and then posted and it doesn't show. At first I thought delay, but now it's been a while. Guess I'll repost in a bit. Thanks for including Seals. We're growing all the time, instant deposits, and awesome (imho) support. Oh, I just noticed you are AUS. The shipping cost and time will probably keep me from ordering directly, but the site looks good and I'll keep it in mind to refer people to. Any chance of shipping the same stuff from US in the future?Shipping costs are in dollars on the shipping info page btw, I imagine you'd want to convert the same way you do the prices. How do you do them btw? They don't seem to have adjusted in the last 15 minutes of craziness.  I've only spot checked, but the complete descriptions seem missing.A nice thing would be for the "Sort By" to not reset itself on each page.
Cool, checking it out.First thing, PC cases are inside "Laptops & Notebooks". Yes, but only as of about a month ago. It applies to all ring games. The state is willing to pay other people's money to give you one of their men to defend you against them, how sweet (for everyone but you). Theymos said he thinks there are 4000-8000 coins of deposits at GLBSE. So... bitcoin market-wise, nothing really. The legitimacy boost of "This is a thing that worries us" is global and any actual cracking down would be local. We'll never really know the exact effect even if it happens because it will probably happen in response to a period of rapid increase in interest.It is already seen by many as a way to get around laws, so it might not be hurt much by a law. Though you do lose the plausible deniability that you could be doing something legal with it if just owning it is illegal. You should use whichever currency is less valuable to you at the margin. If I found myself with mostly dollars somehow or even an even split you better bet I'm going to use the dollars. As it is I have close to the bare minimum amount of dollars I feel comfortable with so if I want some gadget or some nuts I buy with bitcoin.I don't do it explicitly, but a good strategy is to determine some % of your assets you want to be held denominated in bitcoins and rebalance as convenient. You could possibly rebalance with purchases. This has the benefit of mostly buying low and selling high but also takes your complete situation into account. Sounds like what a terrorist would say. I'll switch 50/100 to the faster time soon. Can't make it just preflop though.The reason it is so slow is that there is no d/c timebank. When we get that ever game will have faster normal time. Honestly I had vague bad feelings about you, but you can't be all bad saying that (and I have a shitload of posts).1NVz3gjCs7LG6gGG2uc9xDrB2crmWS77Ns Wonder how they get that stat. Suppose they figured out that bitcoin was going to replace current monies in time to do something about it, maybe they would buy bitcoins and enjoy continuing to be wealthy. Don't the vast majority of miners not bother with a node? They are in pools and just take work orders right? For a brief time we had separate affiliate accounts, but the new system is more integrated and will be easier to improve as needed.Making a seals account is actually faster and easier than making an affiliate account used to be and if you happen to be a player it is now only one account that you need to login to in order to check on things.Once you have a player account (really it takes seconds) just email micon at affiliates@sealswithlcubs.eu or myself at admin@sealswithclubs.eu to be set as an affiliate. We aren't looking for spammers so just give a brief idea of what you plan to do and you'll be in.Once you are logged in to your account you will see a link to images, more and better ones will be coming. I'll take bitcoins from anyone, it's PP, checks, etc that you don't want to take from untrusted people. Must be true since TheBible tells me so.. Miners will keep mining at the shutdown pools you think? Probably they like getting paid so no. Most of "the state" (smaller orgs and individuals) take dollar dominance completely for granted. They can't mobilize against an impossibility. Likely a few sub-state orgs do fully understand, but they can't get much cooperation on a big mission without starting a panic themselves. It would be like shouting that there is a mouse in the movie theater. No one listens to you probably, but maybe you can make the mouse sound super-powerful and evil but if you succeed you've mostly convinced people that you do not have the situation in hand. Free like free speech not like free beer! Nice!If you wanted to go longer I think it would be cool to make the speed increase in proportion to time since the beginning. At first each new tx/new block is a bigger visual change, but by the end it gets pretty slow seeming. Historically tournaments without guarantees have flopped. We had a nightly 500+25 at 9pm for a long time and it rarely got a full table. We are expanding the guarantee schedule, but they are risky and I don't want to overextend and have to pull back since a steady schedule makes it easier for players to plan. So.. more coming, but slowly. Currently:Mon 10BTC guar PLOWed 5BTC donkdown freerollSat 5BTC guar w/ 0.1BTC entrySun 60BTC guar 2BTC entry3am 3BTC guarThe Drifter 4BTC guar runs every 25 hoursThe Half Hour 0.4BTC guarThe Hourly Freeroll for .05BTC
If that was true wouldn't there be fewer new people every day? But actually we see more because bitcoins are more valuable now. They are more valuable now because every new person or business who accepts them makes them more useful. That's not a possibility. If everyone else "loses incentive" I'll mine them all on one laptop. The incentive will always be enough because it adjusts. You can send complaints (or any other feedback) to admin@sealswithclubs.eu. Talking in a foreign language is not suspicious. It is fairly easy to get the jist of what they are saying with google translate. There are lots of innocent reasons for not betting both weak and strong hands. That doesn't make for very good evidence.We really don't want to censor chat outside of flooding, but we are aware that the block chat function is not very good now. Hopefully it will be improved before long. The main downsides are that you still see **** in place of the blocked chat and that there is no permanent block, you have to redo it every time you log in.  The red button is just missing? What browser?if you are logged in to your web account just hit this directly:sealswithclubs.eu:8087 We've just set up high hand prizes so if we do a BBJ it won't be for a while. The prize for a royal might go progressive, that might make it more exciting.I don't like deposit bonuses because I don't care if you deposit, get chips from a friend, or win them in a freeroll. I also don't want to discourage withdrawing like most bonus setups do.We do have the krill system (and right now a krill race) which lets you earn rakeback eventually. And once you earn it you don't lose it, so it is like building value in your account.You can't access the software via port 80 unfortunately. Bribe an IT guy with coins? :-) Probably so, but they should just pack it up if they are afraid to be on the frontier.  Imagine if we all went to the Dunkin' Doughnuts on the corner of 38th and Walnut at 9am on Wednesday! Assuming there is still some market we'll just go see what valuable things we can get for a bitcoin. There is nothing special about fiat except that it is in wide use now. Lol, indeed, ought be barren blocks. Actually I'm just confused about what you want. I guess you earn fiat and think of it in terms of time and want us who earn bitcoins to do the same? That would be perfectly fine logic if it was a 501(c)(3) for saving cute endangered animals or something, but they are supposed to be on the FRONTIER, not acting like some scared org not wanting to meddle with something that has unknown legal implications. They are supposed to be pioneering this kind of stuff and advocating it. wait you work for fiat? So when I need to sell some for rent instead of doing [fiat rent]/[fiat price of BTC]=[number of BTC I need to sell] what calc should I do? Bitcoiners are just too damn smart.But at the lower levels it's never such a tough game. The only reason you can pick a price for a thing in dollars is that you are surrounded by dollar price tags. If the dollar was gone you'd have to find another way (like looking around at the BTC price tags, yes it's circular, it's already begun). Unfortunately there is no way to prove honesty with our current software. If/when we build something custom that will be a high priority. You wouldn't win a biggest loser prize Kentrolla. Absolutely not. A lot of people around here have ~0 coins and another group are in bitcoin debt.What % of world wealth do you think men have now?But yeah, it'll be higher % smart people than now :-) I will never accept Litecoins because I'll always have to worry that the sort of people who will jump to a similar chain will just do it again (Lightercoin?) and there won't be goods backing it when I go to get payback for my work. State 'thinking':This new thingamacurrency will empower people to ignore our dictates. Lets write some more dictates. Mmmm, germ paper that burns good.
Fuck the EFFFrontier my ass  Hooray for writing shit down not making it reality! They can't get a bunch more except for a few days or maybe weeks because as they get better at finding blocks blocks get harder to find. No kidding, how could twice all balances ever not be enough? They obv plan to fail at that and then they will fail at getting them at all. Well.. enemy of my enemy... what's that address again? If I write in a database that I have X coins, those aren't 'fake' coins and more than if I write down that I have gold is it fake gold. I mean it isn't real, but it isn't even fake. My scam-sense is tingling. I'll kick it off:.2 Cool store imo. That warning isn't quite right because it implies that the old backups won't be dangerous in the wrong hands, but they will until you have used all existing inputs. It has worked before for you?Have you tried restarting the browser? Then try restarting the computer. Sure, but unless there is some reason to think the fraction of bot accounts substantially changed in a particular direction it's good for measuring the change in interest. There are two sorts of complaints imo:1. Using that site is a risk because tons of money is all in one place so it's a big target, I'll go somewhere else, do it myself, whatever.2. OMG that site is trying to CENTRALIZE bitcoin!! Don't use it or bitcoin will fail!!Only one of those is a reasonable position. 60BTC Guarantee tourney starts in less than 2 hours, 6pm ET. If anyone doesn't know, you can get those stats at the bottom of the 'Home' page.We had more new signups in June 2011 than the last 6 months combined. Expecting a service like this to police the source of funds is ridiculous.If a service was going to do that they would need to give warning to not be thieves/fraudsters themselves.And the only appropriate time to do it would be before the money was allowed to be wagered and wagered against. Sending back to one of the input addresses could be an optional setting. Better to have some alert to robots or just some fixed content ("We accept bitcoin"?) that identifies you as accepting bitcoin. Many BTC accepting stores won't even be displaying an address in an index-able area. Cool, keep us updated. I think I'd want 1BTC to be my highest denomination. Powers of 10 are a bit far spaced. Quarters?About how much for a 500 piece set?
Simple printed denominations can be very useful. No need to decide each time what each color will mean, even if your house game has a standard it is easier for new players to not have to ask to make sure they aren't making a mistake or getting ripped off. Plus in this case it 'enforces' the bitcoin standard and keeps it from slipping back into a dollar game which is a risk before everyone is used to needing to bring bitcoins. I just made a terrible discovery.The English Foundation.This is a foundation dedicated to US English. I can't tell but I don't think they even invented English, they seem to be co-opting it for their purposes after the fact and I fear it will get worse. One main tactic seems to be teaching English to new people, eventually those people are going to outnumber us and (with help from The Foundation) have more influence than us early English adopters. This is -our- language we are talking about here. I don't think it would be wise to leave it in the hands of this one organization. I have the black polo, nice shirt.I'd get a hat but I just bought 2 similar hats. Sure, in a normal market those are going to roughly balance for the average skill trader, but in a market where someone is paying to increase volatility that money goes to the reasonable traders. It's awesome when someone sits down at the poker table with a boat load of taxpayer money, you don't have to be better than average to win anymore. Amen, lets start writing code instead of posts! Are you with me Atlas?! Continuously high volatility means automatic payments to anyone paying attention, it's like a free money injection from people who hate bitcoin to people who like it (or are just rational). Relax, I'm pretty sure "bloody congress" refers to parliment. Can't wait to see "Disclosure, the author is still despratly clinging to some dollars." when articles are written that involve dollars. Yes, the future is hard to predict, but some people have trouble predicting the past too. If people can actually hurt the value of your money by (iyo) claiming authority over it then it was pretty shit to start with. Merchants decide what they value. Miners can create whatever non-Bitcoin blocks they want but merchants won't want them at all. Miners are employees not voters if you need an analogy.  .07 Major claims are completely unsupported. SEC? How do you know? 500000BTC? How do you know?Who is this guy, it looks like he just reads the spec subforum (seems like a poster really). Might as well both.I don't fancy phone so I don't usually think of it.What happens if you are watching on your fancy phone and the qr comes up, do you need another fancy phone to take a picture of it?  Firstbits at the end of content imo. That's nice, but what if his wife gets rare expensive cancer. Also he could set it up to give the keys to his illegitimate son or mistress none of us know about on his death.I guess we just trust that since he didn't plan any of that (esp cancer) he doesn't even have the keys.I don't think it is a high % risk, but it could end up being billions of dollars worth, so a better solution would be good. For a lot of people getting their money means getting bitcoins.  Why not 80? 40? If you could make changes like that it would break trust, can't so won't so we're fine. Everyone running the reference client (and some other clients) has a complete history of all spends (the blockchain). Miners also have it or have access to it and won't include your transaction if the addresses you use as inputs don't total as much or more than the output.
Huh?and 'artificial'? You can and should edit the title of the original post now. At least just add [Not actually hacked] to it. 2100000000000000 is a lot of medium, it's going to be ok. We've just turned on high hand prizes. They'll run around the clock for now. All NLHE ring games qualify. No hole card requirements. 1 BTC for a Royal Flush0.25 BTC for a Straight Flush0.1 BTC for Four of a Kind It doesn't 'change' its address, it shows you a different one for convenience, that's all. As long as you keep wallet.dat you will have all the addresses it ever shows (and 100 more already made btw that you can't see). I don't think Honduran law applies, you can probably have guns since (I think) I read safety/law enforcement would be an open system.What is a free market in land? I would take that to mean that you don't have to pay a third party for owning or transferring land, but that is explicitly contradicted. Shut down bitcoin and go to:Users/Appdata/Roaming/Bitcoinyou might have to unhide the folderdrag the wallet file to some other placerestart bitcoin and tell us what you see You deleted the program but not the data because that is in a different place. It would be like deleting notepad, redownloading it and being shocked that you can still read mydiary.txt.  You still 'have' it, it just displays a new one, usually after it is used, behavior might depend on the version, that might be why you had different experiences. It's simply to encourage you to not reuse addresses for privacy sake.Not seeing your money and not seeing that address are not related. If you are all caught up on blocks you need to rescan like someone mentioned. I'm def not saying if you just go and use it you are anon. It's just that Bitcoin (the protocol) doesn't require you to reveal identity. Actually not revealing your identity is on you/your software provider/your girlfriend/whatever in other ways. I still feel like I'm not being very clear. But it isn't possible for Bitcoin to be any more anonymous. There isn't such a thing beyond not requiring you to break anonymity. Your browser, your ISP, your friends even your particular Bitcoin software might screw it up for you, but that's not anything Bitcoin can change.Someone could make a Bitcoin tx by mail proxy/mixer. You send them a raw tx made out to their bitcoin address in the mail and a note about what address you want paid and they send it less a fee. But the mail will be traced back to you etc etc. so see? It's nothing to do with bitcoin, it's a general problem of communicating carefully. Bitcoin doesn't require your identity. It perfectly lends itself to anonymity theoretically.  You don't need to identify yourself to use Bitcoin. Now you (and any developers) are free to be as careful as you want. It's really not a bitcoin thing. If you want a very small risk of large loss and considerably less upside potential go with gold/silver. Buying and running miners is like a part time job and will make small-business-ish returns, on $5k, that's not much.$5k worth of bitcoins right now is about .002% of all the coins that will ever exist. If you expect world changing things from Bitcoin that is the way to bet on it. This belongs in off topic. If the girl scouts start accepting bitcoins it's worth a thread in bitcoin discussion.I equally don't understand Boy Scouts of America Property Company. If I heard that the Girl Scouts were selling every property and setting up a trust to subsidize all troop camping trips for all of eternity I'd be shocked, in a good way.seclusion = security is false. And there are plenty of pristine places that can be used without owning them. If you want to save a large amount, it's no problem to wait.If you want to spend a smaller amount, it's no problem to land them in instawallet between where buying and spending.If you are making a big purchase, get an address from the person/business and buy right to that address.This is a problem with many solutions.  Why do girls need to own sites instead of renting them? It always seemed odd to me that an organization supposedly oriented toward something like character development in girls would need to double as a real estate management company. Just because technology improves overall doesn't mean an increasing effort will be applied even when the reward for a task shrinks. Unless the value goes up by a lot or the ASICs actually arrive there will be some downward difficulty adjustment. I've got answers if anyone has questions. I run Seals. Very fast! Got my hats, very good hats. Can't wait for new stuff in the store.
That person/people with problems don't equal the economy. The stuff they don't get goes to someone else who on average can use it better. Lol Why would no one make the first step? I'm particularly interested to hear the theory since first steps have already been made. No. Think about this. Identify Ponzi X, offer exactly what they offer as long as they offer it, be completely honest and up front that if/when they stop paying so will you. If you don't want to pay any more (decide they aren't ponzi, run out of funds, whatever) you return all money. You offer a little bit extra too, maybe 10%, maybe less. If the original is a ponzi and you are trustworthy enough that everyone believes you will do as you say and pay as long as the original pays then most money will leave the ponzi and it will fail faster and make less money.You only make money if you identify ponzis really well.The main risk I see in running this is that if you are transparent about how much capital you have a ponzi could specifically plan to outlast you at which point they'd get a lot of people rushing to them after you pay back principle. Without out looking I'll bet it's the same coins over and over. The half hour tournament is now a 400 chip guarantee, just 50 chips to enter. That means we've got a freeroll and a guarantee running every hour around the clock now.  You can't start off with big bets on that site, it's pointless. You are betting against nothing on the other side. Stupid to think "Only hoarding" is going to happen. If there was "only hoarding" how would a 51% attack even do anything? Try to set up an attack that doesn't require trade to have happened. Feed children to whom? A few small bug fixes and tournament start times are better displayed in the lobby now. Seals is going offline briefly in a few minutes for a few minutes. I say no to them all, problem solved for me. Are you asking me to somehow say no for other people now too? Super sketchy to ask people to trust you as counterparty while denying that risk exists. I don't trust him (Turk) one tiny bit. I'm tentatively planning brief downtime for upgrades around 10am ET Friday morning. The 'improved' schedule is kind of blowing my mind. I'm thinking who would mine in the beginning, but who cares, if no one starts it's super low difficulty. Seems reasonable, but I dunno yet.  It is 'an' address, not 'the' address. Probably not even then since we'll likely still be getting more efficient. I don't follow the details of other chains, is it exactly the same with just the excuse of restarting or is there some supposedly beneficial change? No, I want people to be able to participate in bets that end years from now for just hours if they want. Gotta be trade-able. I really want a prediction market. For example it could have as propositions like this for every month. People would participate way more because they wouldn't be locked in to maturity. And then we could use it as a good indicator of what we can count on.
If people all want to do that they can, but it's not a group I'd want to join since they'll probably do it again after spending up their easy coins. What if it closes permanently and reopens? Or closes temporarily forever? Terms should be something like, "SR will be closed on June 1st and July 1st 2013" or July and AUG. If you won't take my bitcoins you need to make it clear before you offer to take them for good or services or you are the thief. A full list of coins that you won't take needs to be sitting next to the request for payment at the very least imo. Probably you should say that you only accept a Special Subset of Bitcoin Called <whatever you call it> and not Bitcoin. pls be onion, pls be onion. I'm not looking. I bet half of this forum doesn't even have 1 coin let alone the ability to hold it for decades as people are offering thousands and then millions of dollars for it. Sorry about that, I'll make sure it gets done right and timely. And I was hoping for the bitcoin option...  It's gunna be big, look for announcement in about 2 weeks. Just buy bitdimes instead, they are only ~$1.20 now, very affordable. This is wrong. A 'Bitcoin' that follows something besides the majority of the hashing power is not Bitcoin. Who would want to be so much smaller for $5? Is that the good doctor's own site? I'd hope not. New secret freeroll. It'll show up 6 blocks before the difficulty change and start with the new difficulty. The prize is 2016 chips, that's just over 2BTC. It was -really- a secret last time and only got 4 players. I think I know!the dice are an animation, constantly changing, white dots on white and you can't see them unless you drag them, which pauses them, on to the different color background. Very clever! No one can ever 'push a false transaction' regardless of power, we all can and do instantly recognize and dismiss that. What a 50%+ attacker could do is undo some of their spends and re-spend them. Or they could refuse to put transactions in their blocks. Anyone can refuse to put any tx in their block, but it only matters much if someone is able to make all the blocks. 50%+ means you can make all the blocks because you can build your own longer chain.The only 'defense' imo is to find automated ways to watch for hokey stuff like a fork from previous block and stop automated bitcoin systems (or maybe all) until you know wth is going on. Network size is not determined by the number of units. If it was we could have been ten times bigger now for the cost of one extra "0"! I would say they aren't well camouflaged at all and presuming that the basics have been explained to them they are already revealed (at the very least as economically incompetent). That's just nuts. The US could dominate the entire galaxy and they wouldn't ever let the value of the dollar increase more than a slight amount for a short time. Hoarding dollars is value-fatalism, you'd have to completely give up on being able to find value anywhere in the world. Many more people use web wallets now. I only run 2 nodes, but I hold coins for hundreds of people. Not many people host their own blogs or run their own email server either. +1I plan to be crazy for a very long time. Ads this early are probably counter productive. They must not pay hardly anything now and might slow your growth. Also you ought be able to get more from bitcoin advertisers since you have such a targeted demographic.
Looks good. I think the tag line is misleading if I'm understanding the point.We currently have a forum (bitcointalk) where everyone really is welcome (scammers, thieves, trolls, etc) and you are trying for something with higher quality average posts and will eject people for sucking, right?Granted "where you are always welcome until you suck" isn't great. But "Higher standards" or something like that but more clever might get the point across. You've got it backwards. It can be converted to other currencies because it is in fact worth something. You probably won't need to torture the recipients. So it'll be like, "Please leave your house and other assets behind or we'll fight you to the death." or more like "Sorry you missed your chance to leave, locking/killing you to proceed immediately." Lol.Yes, the poor are so well represented in seats of power around the world. Your sig link doesn't work for me. Make sure your plan details what happens to people who refuse (rape, murder and imprisonment generally get decent compliance rates). And don't forget to budget for that too, institutionalized rape costs a lot even if you do it in a bare concrete room and serve animal food with it. Yes, it is -possible- but I don't expect it'll be enjoyable at all.Maybe someone will make 'slow motion poker' that would work well over TOR. It doesn't seem like it would work.You pay and they continue... then what?If the DDoSer linked themselves to a psudo-identity they could build a rep for not doing that.But it's still ridiculously unstable because once you pay you are a better target. Oh, n/m about the psudo-identity, they can just pretend to be someone new DDoSing you.Odd to me that they would try for such a high amount in this case. Without knowing much about WalletBit it makes me wonder if the ransom is just weak cover for someone doing it out of spite. That's pretty much the only good reason I can think of. If you wanted to be roughly neutral and were working for a company who promised bitcoins on completion and you fully trust them you might borrow to hedge that. I really doubt it would be worth it at the rates around here, but if you've got to make rent or whatever it could be wise.Borrowing coins is usually a terrible mistake imo. Displaying as the percent of mined coins would be slightly interesting. I think there is a group that wants money to disappear over time, might be a good feel for them. On some level I wish there was only 1 bitcoin and we all used parts of it. Would make the haters even more furious. "OMG ROFL 1 bitcoin economy!!" That seems like a decent plan. I bet a lot of bitcoiners would be willing to trek to a more out of the way destination for a goal like that.I doubt that "If your local businesses accept bitcoin then we'll come" is the way to go, but more like "We're coming, tell your local businesses we have bitcoins to spend and we're going to buy where they are accepted." With the exception of the venue itself perhaps. Shop around until you find a satisfactory venue that will accept coin then go tell chamber of commerce, local media etc.Might work even better for like a week long bitcoin party/vacation/conference. Seems like a group of people with 0.001% of military power will be a lot more civilized and strive to avoid conflict than a group with 10% or 60%.  obv troll.ISPs are going to block 99.99% of sites, right....that's besides the general insanity of it.I eagerly await your next terrible pretend idea.Maybe punching tellers at banks that won't accept bitcoin deposits? ~Everything Nobody is going from $2/day to $500/day. The current money and political system absolutely limits who in the world you can trade your work for $3/day with. It's a huge ladder with nearly all the rungs busted out. The weekend is coming.The Drifter has drifted all the way to 11am, that's a nice time on a Saturday imo.The Saturday 5BTC Guarantee looks like it's going to be a big one. Just 0.1BTC to enter.And don't forget the Sunday 60BTC. People lie. This is an example of that. I've accepted over 6000 transactions at 0 confirms without any problems. I recently made some changes to limit the possible damage, but I still don't expect any trouble. Requiring 6 seems outrageously careful.  I have my software set so that I'll automatically keep using bitcoin even if someone else starts using a different system.
He doesn't mean "if the block reward is changed" he means "if the 'plan' to halve is changed". +1 It is equivalent to a dollar auction really. It would be more interesting if the bets were private, but you'd still have to trust the operator a lot since you won't even know after the fact if you've been ripped off. He's got all the money and is pretending a reasonable goal is to get more money. It's just not reasonable at all. This dictator ought be happily lending out the money at a loss to get new stuff. Beyond that, he can get paid back amply even in money terms by buying stuff when it's ready, getting paid back and buying more stuff.There is so much strange about his system that it doesn't isolate the variable he's trying to criticize.  Oh, ok. You guys want to get together with my wife and I? rofl, $1500 for a report in which bitcoin is one of the 'companies' mentioned. Yeah, I'm sure it's stellar research. It totally helps compared to "No never".Considering the huge rewards for being fist if we all hear is "Yeah, yeah, we're right behind you" tons of people are going to want to get in first and this ball is rolling.I hate to say it's a total lock, go do your own figuring, but it's a goddamn lock now, ok.This bitcoin thing is not a footnote. Wow numbnuts, you buy any pizzas since 2001? Should have bought bitcoins instead. And we're all waiting to hear. Come on OP, avoiding the question? Right, today they talk. Tomorrow they act. :p I'll bet that rule is not instated. Whoa, meta. pop 1.2M, he better win this. Since we're just making stuff up... I think dragons finally ate an important part of the server and they're valiantly fighting them back into submission.  If the people who supply the value (merchants not miners) want different money they can get it whether they want EUR, Bitcoin, or modified Bitcoin. The people who mint the coins do it for us because we pay them to. Sounds like a bad ass. There are more dollars now, all else equal it has to boost the price some (maybe tiny). But Bitcoin is a better money because of stuff like QEx, but most people participating in the bitcoin market (at least the segment demanding coins) know this so no immediate effect imo. OrangeWebsite.com is somewhat expensive but it's been well worth it, they accept bitcoins and are located in Iceland. I only recall one minor downtime in 9 months. It might be hard to get 8 servers in different parts of the world even if each was relatively insecure. Possibly not so hard to trick them into signing unless the system was well designed. They often take cash before trial or even without arrest or trial ever happening. Most 'normal' people don't have a lot of cash, so if they see a lot of cash it's evidence that you are up to no good. Most people don't have a lot of bitocins either (and never will no matter what since 'a lot' is relative). But it's easier to keep bitcoins safe and hidden from anyone. There would be so much less demand for cash if you couldn't break the law with it. Value would absolutely crater.
They are going to want the money eventually. Miners can do whatever they want, assign 200 per block, play WOW, move to Antarctica. But if they make changes they aren't mining Bitcoin and people who wan't bitcoins just ignore them. The only thing that matters is what people are accepting for goods and services and right now the only crypto-currency anyone is accepting at all is 100% durable. There was a problem with the 3am guarantee and it was 250 chips short, made it right manually. If they put all the addresses in one wallet and make one tx you'll be too slow. Best hacking practices are to do it all at once, so odds are pretty bad imo. "We demand you give us the private keys to these addresses within 24 hours!"Transfer bitcoins."Here ya go" My slightly less naive understanding is that they usually do nothing <insert insane stat about how everyone most children get abused> and when they do do something it often involves placing the children with abusers and rapists and the people hiding behind the organizations that do it are never considered accomplices.  Seemingly more pressing question "Is it possible to eat your children in our current society?"Yes, it is possible. Donkdown.com tourney tonight at 10:30pm ET. 5BTC in prizes absolutely free to enter. http://taobao.com/and....  You can either easily access the coins all the time (including during a robbery) or not. If you want to suddenly be -unable- to access them, just send them to an address with a key that you don't have handy (something like cas describes). That doesn't help if someone decides they don't believe you or don't care, but at this point it is pretty much someone randomly murdering you because you use bitcoin. I'll sell my 250BTC for 25BTC. You don't need to move it at all. But back it up just in case.On an old version you'll need to go to C:\Users\user\AppData\Roaming\Bitcoin it might be hidden. I don't always shave squirrels. But when I do<mandrinkingbeer.jpg>I use Trendon Shavers. Calling it a scam because you think the price set by free participants spending their own money is wrong makes no sense.You don't like the price, you don't buy it.I met Giga, very nice guy, solid mining plan imo, I'm confident he'll be able and willing to deliver exactly what he promises. I bought no bonds because I thought they were priced higher than they were worth, that's all there is to it. Doesn't someone need to know it so that it can be revealed even if he wins and doesn't want it revealed? And what is the pretense for withholding info at all "here's a message that may or may not say I'm totally kidding". I mean in the future now mostly. Bitcoin is exactly what it was before you got ripped off. If you rationally evaluate things on their own merits your life will be better than otherwise. Just fyi, Seals has accepted hundreds of thousands of bitcoins from nearly a thousand strangers at 0 confirms with no trouble. I'm not saying Seals is 100% safe to do that, but that tx you just got is going to confirm 100% of the time. No one is double spending you for half a coin. It can only attain a tiny tiny fraction of current systems unless it is solidly better. Once it is widely accepted and solidly better it's just going to crush. The USD etc are not things that can partly crash. If ~half of the value rushes out of them and into bitcoin the rest will follow.edit: maybe I didn't read carefully, I was just thinking "current system" and nothing about debt in particular. Debts are going to be denominated in whatever currency people use because that's the only convenient way to do it. Not that tipping point is some kind of well defined thing... but if we're going from the point at which it was inevitable I'd say the pizzas or thereabout.Later (maybe not too much later) there will be a point where things start happening really fast (seeming unstoppable to everyone) and that's more what I think of as a tipping point. Draw seals playing poker.
You are off.Why would capitalization imply your specific type of dollar when there are lots of types of dollars? I also don't think you can tell in advance, but somewhere around the time that you can get pretty much anything directly for coin in most large cities there will just be an absolute explosion imo. And I happen to know that it'll be March 2016. Right or wrong maybe people are realizing they can't trust strangers to deliver millions of dollars. And regarding the title, NO. If you think a promise of a coin = a coin you are going to get burned. The promises aren't bitcoins and aren't worth nearly as much. If you go fractional with dollars and aren't stealing or sucking really bad at investing you'll be able to get all or most of the dollars back, possibly after some delay.But since almost nothing is as awesome as bitcoins you (or people who deposit with you) are taking a huge that what you invest your bitcoins in won't be as awesome as bitcoin and even if you are fantastically successful in real terms you won't be able to cover your liabilities.If you think bitcoin is awesome don't give them away unless you know what the person is doing with them and you think it is even awesomer than bitcoin. Update time!Player "illpoet" won the Monday night PLO 10BTC guarantee.Player "kittle" won 10BTC for a straight flush about 5.5 hours into the promotion.The first 3am 3000 guarantee went off almost without a hitch (slight manual prize pool fix).The Drifter starts in 2 hours (7am ET) 4000 guaranteed. This thread has gotten super super lame. Pls talk about vodka.For example: I'm going to swig cheap vodka now because NEFT is not available in my area. So people make up shit and are wrong. Obv anyone can reserve anywhere from 0-100%+ of people's deposits. Yeah, but he started with a car worth 4000BTC and ended with a car worth 200BTC :-)(Numbers completely made up) Was really weird when I saw satoshi answer what I thought was a new thread. Bitcoin will always be the crpytocurrency with 21M cap and set rate. If anyone wants something else (and a few do) they give it another name so as not to appear or be fraudsters. Bitcoin is what it is and a lot of people understand and trust it and desire it.People don't desire the currencies with holes in their tanks nearly as much. Asking people who don't know or care about you or bitcoins to help you with your bitcoins is definitely silly. In general governments owesalmost everyone enormously for its crimes and anything you can get you are more than entitled to.  If everyone turns off I'll CPU mine and get all the coins!It's a self balancing system. Worst case imo is waiting 20 minutes for blocks for a little while. Yeah, there are only a few players playing that high now. Sitting with bait helps, but that can get boring I know. A 6/12BTC limit game ran HU most of Sunday and that's not the first time. There is occasional .6/1.2BTC NL and PLO also. wtf. Sell them. What are people so afraid of? New game is up, 3am ET, 3BTC guarantee, 300 to enter. Starts in the coming morning. The turnout at those times has been reasonable. Probably on a fixed schedule turnout would be a little better assuming a similar guarantee. I'll plan and announce something soon. It's not pirate.Here is the evidence of people who say it is:1. Pirate once said he had ~500k BTC.2. The address once had ~500k BTC. That's not really true. People who don't/didn't understand it thought it was a scam back before there was a single theft (that I can recall, certainly nothing in the news).New thing that I don't get that has to do with money = scam to a lot of people.Obv doesn't help that people now hear about scams done using it, but most of the people who can't think straight enough to tell the difference between a hammer and a murder didn't/wouldn't have gotten it in the first place.There is a huge block of people who need big incentive to change anything, maybe you are hearing a few of them giving an excuse. Later if/when it can really help them it doesn't actually matter that a guy named ********* promised **************** and didn't deliver. Good questions.You must show the hand, either voluntarily after winning without showdown or at showdown.You do not need to use both or any cards from your hand. The prize will be paid in full to anyone who makes a straight flush in a hand. This may have to change in the future if we do even bigger prizes, but I'm willing to chance it on this one.
The Drifter 4000 guarantee starts in less than 2 hours. This is that late late night game some people we're asking for. This data will be used for scheduling. Monday night at 9pm ET is the 10BTC guarantee PLO game (leaderboard points also awarded).And starting at 11pm ET Monday the first straight flush made at a No Limit Hold'em ring game wins a 10BTC prize, all stakes included. This prize will be won, there is no deadline. Miners would notice that 25 accepted, valued bitcoins are worth far far more than 100 do whatever we want accepted nowhere bitcoins so profit motivated miners will secure the valuable chain for valuable pay.Anyone at any time can start assigning themselves 100000 'bitcoins' or 'hokeycoins' or whatever they want to call them. All that matters is that people want is real bitcoins and they don't want that crap. Break the rules and everyone knows you don't have bitocins, they know it automatically, you just get ignored. I think he's saying that all matthew wants is all the threads to be about him instead of pirate and everyone is helping.Mostly I agree, but this thread was fine imo, good OP. +1 I'll bet (not with you) that that's going to be one goddamn tricky document. Good luck hiding the ridiculous loopholes! I run Seals. A server breach would be very bad, but it would not result in loss of all coins, the large majority of coins are off server and encrypted.There have been some simple collusion attempts quickly caught. It's not possible to completely stop collusion, unfortunately. As we grow we'll be able to dedicate more resources to that. You should always watch out for and report anything you think is suspicious to us at admin@sealswithclubs.eu.Regarding privacy, we don't want your info and promise not to share any info you happen to end up sharing/revealing to us. Obviously be careful giving money to strangers.There are games where we (Seals) add money which can make even somewhat bad players favorites.The Sunday game has been hitting the guarantee lately so nothing added there, but "The Drifter" runs every 25 hours and it is a 4BTC guarantee with just 0.25BTC to enter. Last night it only got 6 players so we had to add 2.5BTC. It runs at 5am ET today.So there could be legitimate value if done right.  Also, just because something has normal or bad returns doesn't mean it's safe.Also, even if you are somehow sure something isn't a ponzi, it's still probably a bad idea to send money to a stranger with (or without) a plan.Also, regulated securities suck too. Thousands of people trade bitcoins and the price stays the same, but when there's a huge move it's always one person, that's just the only thing that makes sense. I mean two (or more?!) people at the same time (same time like summer, you know) deciding they want more? Unpossible. If it is so good that it's worth saving then it can be sold for what is owed or more or close. I doubt it's good enough to warrant that by a long shot.Any part of it that is good can be sold to someone who will probably use it in a safer way. Yeah, that's what I'm saying. I think it's pronounced "quickie". The first step would be to find out how much money the person wants.I just checked and I was corresponding with jack @ btfuture.com. Since the domain seem to have changed owners I doubt you can get him there anymore. The transaction trail is you-->satoshi dice-->you and anyone knows it because they know all the satoshi dice addresses. I will pay my bet even if there is 100% proof that Matthew is pirate. And if I lose I'll be paying it on the 9th.When I bet my money I fully expected him to pay and not paying bets is a scam whether the other person expected it or not. The severely mentally handicapped is the only demographic coming to mind that matters less than grandmothers here. Besides the whole thing (taxes, hiding tax paperwork from people you expect to vote for you, pretending (or actually doing it) to steal tax paperwork) being a huge farce, lets just say someone wanted to pay a million dollars worth of bitcoins to some anonymous punk, they would probably appreciate free help from someone who can get that done.  Maybe your next OP can be "MTGOX funding online gambling!" Seems a much less capital intensive business that takes advantage of dispensaries mainstream money woes would be to be the bit-pay of colorado pot. I could maybe bankroll or provide liquidity for something like that. Is it even illegal all over? How do they word the law usually?Law is a joke, selectively interpreted and enforced, it's just a club used by people in control to stay there. Absolutely no law enforcement is going to care if I get blackmailed. At best they would think it funny if I complained, possibly I'd be charged with interfering with their 'important' work."Officer, my brother copied my tax forms and is threatening to post them on his blog if I don't give him $1000 (in bitcoins lol)"
Yeah, same as an "Internet Economist", can't be wrong all the time, it would be too useful. Like an "armchair quarterback" or "backseat driver". Six posts since "goodbye", hard to leave eh? Money in any form when in actual use as a medium of exchange.Bitcoin is currency to me. A while back I talked with the owner of BTFuture.com which appears to be a working or nearly working but abandoned site and he is willing to sell but we never got as far as actually negotiating price. I decided that I didn't like having to manually adjudicate results and didn't see a way around that.I just checked and the site is gone. Speaking of meta..I'm willing to give really really good odds that if Matt pays Micon then Micon will pay anyone who takes this bet. That's the whole point.  Imagine if you had "Siam" in your password and then one day it was gone! It is/will be is what I'm hearing! 11 bitcents says I want to see more.Make an even faster version each day and lay them end to end as time goes on? Ok, done!In the lobby click "Options" then check "4 color deck". Greatest part is that it's going to increase Satoshi Dice profits   I know, such a tease. You'd call it a war if you were preemptively invaded. tyvm! Let's not get off track here, hammers are the best at skull crackery. A perpetrator can crack a skull in literally SECONDS OR LESS, splintering bone into soft brain matter as desired. please asap We are perpetually at war so this doesn't even make a little sense. You are a hammerer?Moderators: Is this the kind of element you want associated with bitcoin? HAMMERERS?! Chart looks 2 days lagged.
That is how it worked in the past. But if a big media 'event' is sudden it can hit before corresponding price increase imo.Also if the news is about the price increase it has to come after the increase and that's what a lot of the news was last time we had a ton of news. How exactly would that discredit bitcoin? That's like say a hammer is discredited because it cracked through a skull with ease. No, that's a really good hammer because all a hammer is supposed to do it be good at hitting things hard. That'd be entertaining. Yeah, I wish they had demanded dollars, then everyone would be like "oh, I'm so butthurt that he demanded dollars because now everyone is going to hate dollars oh oh oh no". What does the owner need in order to change the lock? Why would he be able to keep this safe but not the private key of the address? You mean they'll accept bitcoin for a while and then decide it's too risky because of vague conflict of interest issues and dump them? "The Drifter" is at 2am ET tonight. It's had money added every time so far. 4BTC guaranteed. We hit 140 logins tonight and in addition to 90 players still in the freeroll there are 7 ring games currently running from stakes of .001/.002BTC up to .6/1.2BTC blinds. Correct.Though micon said he wanted him on the show which is practically the same thing right? The Donkdown.com 5BTC freeroll is tonight (Wed) 10:30pm ET.No password for max convenience.Don't quote me on this but Gavin will be on the show to reveal the big September Surprise. That's smart. We've been waiting a long time for Nefario to allow the same coin to sit as bids on multiple assets. Agree.If they are going to stay, do not police them. You will make mistakes and nothing could be better for a ponzi operator than to get whatever stamp of approval the forum starts handing out.But I think they should go. If you want to let people talk about whatever it can be in off-topic it doesn't need a serious sounding name like "Securities". There is a buttload of data concerning satoshi dice. There is a freeroll (absolutely zero cost to enter) every hour at SealsWithClubs.eu that has a 0.05BTC prize.Wednesday at 10:30pm ET is a 5BTC freeroll. It usually pays out 17 prizes. Maybe you can bloat your offering and draw interest/get people used to the site by finding a nice selection of freely available books and organizing it well, summaries, tags etc. I go to the grocery store and no one knows I'm actually a..RADICALOUTSIDER STATISTICIAN (STATUSITE?) It's a collectible card game. That's all I know, mark it down as data. Interesting, I had assumed it did exist, but didn't figure it was ever much.Funny to remember how bitcoin was such a small thing that someone would use a left over domain for an exchange. If you didn't know, Mark had nothing to do with the original MtGox (Magic the Gathering Exchange) he bought it from Jed after it had already been converted to the largest bitcoin exchange.  You know how the media gets all hot and bothered about voter turnout? It's because it legitimizes the system all their friends control. If some tiny minority went and picked themselves a leader it would be clear that he's just their leader, getting everyone involved keeps up the illusion that we all consent to the system. I don't.I'm not saying that voting actually makes you responsible for following their terrible laws. If you think it can protect you, go for it. Maybe this time you'll actually tip the scales in the "should we rape the ladies in the lifeboat" political hypothetical. After you lose the rape vote again you can still try to drown the bastards.
Are you giving people a hard time? Or you don't use bitcoin? How would you use illegal drugs if no government outlawed drugs? Unpossible imo. These charts are all of the past. When do we get the future ones?  Yes, 20 people with 100000 each can easily hoard 95% of their coins, but it is more challenging for 200 people to hoard that fraction of 10000.But I do bet many more were lost from 2009 than 2010. Without a market people tend not to value and there was absolutely no market in 2009. Over half of 2010 had decent amounts of trade and markets. You have the 500 or not? Interesting ordering of forbidden activities, bitcoin and unlicensed lotteries between weapons and guns which appear to be two separate things to them. I guess we'll know we've arrived when we're listed twice. Agreed. Also someone pointed out that 25 hours is near a Martian day, could find another appropriate orbit or two and do a planetary tourney/leaderboard series. The Sunday game got 33 players this week, slightly down from last week.We've got a new guarantee tournament that I hope will give some info about the demand for tournaments at various times."The Drifter" will run every 25 hours starting tonight at 11pm ET. Being as there are 24 hours in a day this tournament will fall one hour later every day. It has a 4000 chip (4BTC) guaranteed prize pool and costs 250 chips to enter.If you want permanent tourneys at a convenient time for you make sure to play at that time to let us know (and bring your same schedule friends). It is amazing that we can still get the chain in a few hours. This probably won't always be the case, enjoy it now. You can easily download every bitcoin transaction ever, wow. Later (aka now) maybe we'll share databases, that'll still be awesome. That makes sense.I'd be interested to know why you think it is government, but feel free not to share. I understand the thinking, but don't you open yourself up to an attack like this?Attacker owns a machine out of us with completely normal foreign IP, connects via remote desktop or similar from US, reveals or proves in some way that they are in the US, but only if they lose. A friend was lazy about getting his money out of Trade Hill when they were closing. It is ~100BTC. His few emails somewhat recently haven't been answered. Is anyone in contact with Jered? Has anyone gotten funds recently? Did they make any statement about a final deadline or what they will do with funds? Can you get like kindle format and whatever else is popular? How does that work?I can't think of it this second, but there are downloads for bitcoins sites and I think they have pdf/ebook stuff, might want to investigate them. The reason bitcoin+provable is so awesome is because together they eliminate nearly 100% of the overhead of starting a gambling operation. Strangers can pay you in a way they can't yank back and they can trust you as a stranger aren't screwing them (any more than the odds dictate at least). I think we mostly agree. Velocity is really incomplete, more data could give enough context, one version of that extra data would be BDD. That's not very similar. In terms of economic activity there is no difference between an old and a new coin.I think BDD is useful and velocity is not. It is my poker site and it isn't a scam. I'm super long so I can't buy more with fiat, but I don't get depressed because I'm earning bitcoins. I'm pretty sure I can earn more coins the longer they stay undervalued. If they issue in the morning it's good to go by morning, not lunch :-) No kidding. It's a little whack, but the higher it goes the -fewer- I sell since it takes fewer to cover my incredibly awesome cheapo lifestyle.
""   ""  $1 ""   """"   ""  $.1 ""   "" Yes, that is BitInstant's minimum. You don't need to deposit or play all of it on Seals to get in the tourney though. The BitInstant 10BTC freeroll is this Sunday Sept 2nd at 10pm ET, all you need to do is buy coins from BitInstant.com and forward the email they send you on completion to admin@sealswithclubs.eu. 11 players in so far. If you make sure to always get it in with the worst odds you'll be the only one sucking out ;-) It says in multiple places on the site that it can take over 12 hours. Taking 0 confirmation deposits is a little risky and I don't want to compound it by letting money flow out freely. I'd like to borrow 50000 shares of GSDPT. I'll pay 3%/mo interest, transfer fees, and and dividends. Willing to make a deal for as few as 10000 shares. Maybe 22 is the number of times he's just fucking with you. fwiw it looks scammy but that's never been reason for a lock before. You are sure you didn't lock it by mistake?Meta would probably be the place to post about the closure. off put by the GW episode?Like 99.999% of viewers went from thinking "......." to "<anything else>" about bitcoin.It was way not a hit piece either. "Real is going to change", old people hating on it, protagonist on the bitcoin side. Read it again guys, he's not talking about chain bloat. He's talking about how payouts are going to stop coming.'Testing' is a flimsy excuse for having people sent you .25 because there are other ways to test the code:1. test it yourself with smaller amounts.2. use the testnet for free.I'm not saying this is definitely a scam, it's just indistinguishable from one, a la BS&T. Seems like you would save ~15 seconds compared to signing up at seals but then have to deposit every time instead of having an account full of chips available. Or is there some other benefit?And all winnings would need to hit the chain and then be sent back for more play?You would also start out with up to .001 + .001 for the transaction fees which would already be 2% on a 0.1 game. Well, actually it would be 2 ins and one out for 3 fees. rofl, yes, everyone will crash into each other on Jan 3rd 2009. Bitcoin is bigger than 'the bitcoin devs' anyone with the skills to write a client and other cryto currency apps can just make a newer better bitcoin client/apps and be years ahead of where they would be on their own in terms of bootstrapping an economy. Without reducing the demand for paper money at all? Kidding? I've practically abandoned paper money. I'm down to 2 months expenses in paper thanks to bitcoin.The reduced demand for paper is tiny because bitcoin is tiny and so is the pollution.Also paper money pollutes children's bodies with shrapnel, so there is that. Shares you can trade immediately are worth more than shares you have to wait to trade. I wouldn't buy in a system like you describe because I would know that the operator expects the price to drop and that's why they forbid letting a market price to emerge asap. Maybe you have some idea about IPOs elsewhere. But this one (and all I've seen here) are a simple way to offer some shares to the public. It doesn't matter if evoorhees, evoorheez, or a swamp monster buys the shares or doesn't. One share is a set fraction and you don't need to worry yourself with others. I say that anyone sending is taking a chance so it should stay   No, you'll not have the same market size with a positive and negative EV game. You don't need people to send you that much to test your system. One cent should do fine and you'll get a lot more data for a lot less cost. There isn't just "not spending" and "spending" everyone has different willingnesses and the tighter you are the better shit people are going to have to offer you. It incentivizes them more the tighter you are because you aren't some magic ascetic who doesn't want a spaceship, better health, amazing palaces, etc. And if you are I still don't care, I'll build palaces for other people.
So evoo just pays himself for the shares who the hell cares? It's the same to cancel/end the offering and to buy them from yourself. No bank = no money floodingWe might not be so lucky. You can have a lot higher max bet and lower risk of ruin if you are willing to reduce it as you lose.Also the edge in blackjack can be massive if some players play poorly.Or he might have a massive roll :-) Gunna be some looooow supply around the holidays. Seals is gunna have a huge party, I don't care when it happens :-)We should know day and rough time of day about a week out I'd think.Agree, will be steadier next time, but probably always a bit turbulent timing afterwards. Why did you think that? I don't think greed is a good answer. I really wanted to keep my coins safe because I'm greedy so I didn't invest. That's right! All we need is a more powerful government who can punish the current government. Please begin preparing an even more powerful government then for punishment of the inevitable crimes of the new more powerful government.But seriously punishing the government is insane, just withdraw from them where you can. I have returned 650 shares of FSB to Vescudero. I don't doubt that the balances total that much, but those balances were were never bitcoins. The interest was fantasy. Plus many of the actual bitcoins were sent back over all that time. I would believe 100k coins, even 200k if there were even moderatly trustworthy people who made claims totaling that amount, but I don't see it.I'd also believe (not on Pirate's word though) that he stopped because he ran out of funds. Not meaning 0 profit really, but all 'profit' already spent. Especially considering a lot of the growing time period was at $5 coins. When we get faster than light travel and trillions of people across the galaxy each need thousands of addresses it is still unlikely. After millions of years when it eventually happens, the average amount in the address will be far far less than 1 satoshi. I'll give you a billion dollars for that apple. Gives apple. Doesn't pay. OMG I just lost 1B dollars.I'd like to see evidence or even victims claims totaling 1M. Not remarkable promises unfulfilled, but actual coins sent less coins returned. The apple not the billion.   Mailing list to use to kick off his next project? Fund managers do all kinds of shit, like outright steal. I'm pretty sure they will find ways to get BTC exposure when they want it. The mistake of spending a coin would be dwarfed by the mistake of not converting everything you can into them. As long as you are worrying about spending one you haven't taken your exposure to where it should be which is the point at which you are equally concerned with one bitcoins worth of dollars as you are with one bitcoins worth of bitcoins. My dollars are relatively precious only because I hold so freaking few compared to bitcoins.Also that .5BTC ad impression ought make you .51BTC back or you really should hesitate If they do that traders will eventually realize that it is better to trade off market or at other markets. But the fact they could make money doing that doesn't mean they have trouble selling coins, kind of the opposite. It is far from being a no-brainer (except maybe in the other direction). Subsidizing something that kills people (even people who don't drive, but pay so others can) pollutes, and cuts every city into blocks is awful.It's like the most massive gift ever to an industry. If I invent something that will help everyone get around but just needs hundreds of billions of dollars of outside help it's a terrible idea. Really it needs more than that, they also have to force people to give up land for a lower price than they value it out. Easily trillions all totaled. Not to mention the lives, it's a 9/11 every month. Putting it up shortly. We've got the weekly Wednesday DonkDown 5BTC freeroll at 10:30pm ET coming up.This Sunday, Sept 2nd, at 10pm ET is our first 10BTC BitInstant.com depositors freeroll. All you need to do to get in is buy bitcoins via BitInstant.com, deposit some of them on Seals and forward the receipt from BitInstant to admin@sealswithclubs.eu and show up for the game. Only 6 players in so far.
Well, if they tried to sell them at their own market that would just generate more fees and they'd have the same problem.And remember, premise of OP is 1 market exists. Fixed that.But really, one day MtGox will go out of business and we'll all be fine.It's funny really, people aren't going to like "OMG coins are so cheap but no where to buy them because I'm only willing to pay .5% fee and no exchange can exist on that because of the costs of one exchange at one time in the past." There is still a lot of stuff lying around. And there is the made shit that surrounds me which I refer to the raw materials anyway. Then even if it really was gone, we've learned a lot and had some fun.We're always getting better at reusing the processed stuff. As soon as the price of that ticks under getting the harder to reach raw materials that's what we'll do.Nothing is going anywhere, it's just changing form and it just takes smarts to deal with it well. It is smart for me to pay people in BTC because that is what I know I'll have available. If I promise 40BTC for a job I know I'll have it available in BTC no matter what because I see it in my wallet. If I promise $440 worth of BTC I'm at the mercy of other people's valuations at the time I have to pay.Now promising to pay BTC that I don't actually have yet could leave me in big hurt. That's essentially betting against BTC and I don't recommend it. Can you tell us a currency that doesn't have exchange rates with other currencies? How big is memory dealers?Or do you mean accepting bitcoins isn't enough to be a "bitcoin company" SoaB, I messed up, I'm no gun control advocate.Gun control is impossible and gun control advocates aren't even striving for that. They want a subset of the population to control things with guns. But we haven't even hit 500k.Telling people you'll give them 500k and then not isn't stealing 500k. It's stealing whatever they actually send you which is less. Terrible and terribly clever malware is the only way for that imo and it would have to be soonish because there are going to be security developments and just generally more diverse ways of using bitcoin reducing the possible size of any one attack like that.Thinking more I don't know if even well hidden malware in the main client could get 1M. Attacker has to spring it pretty fast to avoid detection and serious business doesn't upgrade fast, nor careful or lazy individuals. Most people with brand new version will be new or have most coins cold. Thanks dooglus, one correction, the minimum withdrawal is 0.1 so you'd have to win twice or double it in a ring game or play the half hour game. The half hour game is 50 to enter and has 100 chips added to the prize pool.The freerolls are getting a lot of action lately, one had 38 players in it. For a better chance of winning you can try the off hours, like 5am ET and into the late morning. Same with the half hour, sometimes at night they only get 2-5 players you are potentially putting in 50 for a roughly 50/50 chance at 200 (if there are just 2 in). Betting a value less than a penny is not going to work out well. If you are going to play Satoshi Dice with that amount you need to do it all at once to minimize fees.Sealswithclubs.eu has free tournaments every hour.Neither Satoshi Dice or Seals are 'investing' though. Oh, you mean actually invest in shares of the company, gottcha. Gox? If not Gox I'm sure it was higher somewhere. He already owns them, it makes no difference if he pays himself or not. If I'm like "yo, give me your coins and I'll give you a magic cheeseburger" and you do, without ever seeing the magic cheeseburger, then you don't have to worry about wtf I'm going to do with the magic cheeseburger when I don't deliver it. That really doesn't make much sense (about furniture). If there was constant need for one billion pieces then each year and they lasted 20 years there would be need for 50 million pieces each year even if no one was ever born or died. The real demand is all the breaking pieces plus all the NET new houses. Lol, I used to read every google hit for bitcoin every day. I'm going to say this is a positive compared to then. which pic? Nope. If you can use your coins faster you can keep them as coins for longer. And if you just need to -maybe- use them this weekend you don't have to cash them out at all whereas before you had to cash out as much as you might possibly need.Easier to use ---> better money ---> more valuableDon't forget people who think "eh, too hard to cash out, I'll pass" now they are in. Let's hear it for November! woohoo!Anybody throwing parties? Very sorry about that, it is running now.I had some difficulty when switching it from a set 60 to the full amount. There is over 70BTC in the prize pool today.
3am cali time good? 300 chip buyin? Buying it would involve giving someone money.Selling it would involve getting more money.He's been selling Pirate IOUs all along. Maybe he's still selling them, I dunno. But he's not buying them, lol. You are going to lose (be less well off than if you hadn't loaned).What if I get robbed and then win the lottery? Yay for robbery because I'm richer now? It's not record low for the last 6 months by any means. bitcoincharts.com has data. I have seen Gox 24hr numbers below 20k many times. It is a zero sum game if you insist that participants gains only count if they are in money units. And imo there is a lot more types of gain than units.If the market wasn't helping people to get security, or excitement, or fun or -something- then it couldn't continue to exist.When people trade they do it to get better off. It is totally possible that someone buy coins at $11 sell them at $9 and have benefited both times. Maybe once they got to do something new and fun and the other time they got to sleep better at night. If there is demand for that there will be other markets.If GLBSE wants to deal with larger and more reputable stuff I think that's cool. What cheap <$1 bitcoins? The ones he's selling? He's going to rack 'em up by buying from himself? Yeah, it would be a panic alright. A panic to get $$$ on any exchange asap. Hardly seems apparent to me that under-investing is the standard mistake. From looking around here I'd say people need to be encouraged to cut it out (if you were into meddling that is).But the idea that people need to be encouraged to consume seems like an unfunny joke.  If he won't supply then they don't really have to compete on fees.And yes I love the free market. Oh, I think I misunderstood you. You mean after he puts up a warning it is ok, I agree. Same as satoshi dice etc.I was thinking about the situation where they didn't do that and want to get rid of the coins.I know they aren't black holes, it could be an address assigned to another user (or Mark! as in my hypothetical) or an intermediate/cold storage address of the wallet provider.Slightly different point also, you cannot in general assume that paying to an address is equal to paying a person unless they explicitly agree it will count as payment because they may have lost the private key or not be looking there anymore or sold it to someone in a foolhardy firtsbits collecting scheme.Given the situation Mark is in it is impossible to return the coins to the senders, he's not accomplishing the desired undonating. But since he's only trying to convince bureaucrats who won't understand anything that comes with a sentiment of "I'm sorry I did something strange regarding money and I tried my best to undo it" will probably work unless they hate him. I'm surprised to see MikeHearn and etotheipi saying to send back to sending addresses.I would be really upset if I used my bitcoins to donate to Mark and they ended up in MtGox or instawallet's slush fund.There isn't a way to safely return bitcoins and I don't think Mark blasting off what people gave him to who knows where in order to maybe satisfy potential bureaucrats complaints is terrible. Worse than never accepting them at all by long shot.How about this:Bureaucrat says: Mark we see what you did, pretending to return all of those coins by sending them to the sending address recorded in the blockchain, now you need to prove to us that you don't own any accounts which are attached to those receiving addresses. For all we know you made deposits to 1000 instawallets and 5000 MtGox deposit addresses before announcing that you were accepting bitcoin donations. You fully knew that some people would be paying from those popular wallet services and chances are that some of the coins would be paid from accounts with addresses associated to your accounts. So you 'returned' the coins to some of your own addresses. It's clever Mark, but not clever enough. The possibility that you retained any of those coins invalidates your campaign for breach of XXXX regulation.Mark: ....... Uh huh, guy makes -almost- 7% per week for the better part of a year, then shuts down because it's just getting boring or difficult or something vague and will pay back right away, then he doesn't and it's because he's just now thinking about splitting.Imagine this, he never did a damn thing, paid most of what he took in he paid back as 'interest' and has far far less than the total amount owed as his 'profit' and he'll use that to buy a hideout, he's irrelevant now. Guarantees coming the next three days.Saturday 5BTC at 6pm ET for a 0.1BTC entry.Sunday 60BTC at 6pm ET for a 2BTC entry.Monday 10BTC at 10pm ET for a 0.5BTC entry. (This one is Pot Limit Omaha)  Odd question since savers pay the subsidy to miners via Bitcoin's inflation. I bought from BitMonkey, he was very helpful. If my boy ever lets me use it maybe I'll post a review of the item. I didn't know that. That sounds terrible. That's just info that's on any check right? So you could go on a checkboox stealing spree and then grab it all in a few minutes?But still any system you can build to do stuff to entries in a db that stand for dollars you could do to entries in a db that stand for bitcoins. You won't actually get the paper dollars unless someone will redeem those entries and same for the bitcoins. Yes, some truth. There were some accounts recently created with code in the email field. That is no longer possible and there is no damage.The back end is certainly not destroyed. I don't see any changes to the database or data files and we have backups. The large majority of funds are not kept on the server.  Myriad has QR codes for the payment addresses now. It's exactly the same situation as dollars. They can't PULL dollars out of your pocket, you have to go a third party who sets you up with a database entry pretending to be dollars and then you give permission to the company billing you to tell that third party they can pull out whatever they want. It's exactly the same with bitcoin, there is no fundamental difference. Bitcoin does allow that third party to be software that you control though.I know this is what people just said, I'm just trying saying it again.
Please make me 300BTC now. Bitcoin is awesome, I've got a cool business enabled by Bitcoin.Because Bitcoin is so awesome people want to get you to send them to them so they can keep them or sell them to other people who think they are awesome. Don't send them to these people.  Yeah, I was joking, but really not joking at all. Buy a mediocre, break even site and make it profitable by adding bitcoin payments to the existing ones?Repeat Profit? Setting login records tonight, 119 right now.Going for another big night tomorrow (Aug 23rd) with a special edition of High Hand. Every ring game sitewide qualifies from 10pm to midnight ET, 2BTC for the highest hand, upgraded to 10BTC if the winning hand is a straight flush. I'm thinking you should probably not, especially if you had no plan to before. I have this vision that I'll be in some government dungeon at some point and low IQ state employees will be badgering and threatening me if I don't tell them when Bitcoin hired me and who my contact person is. Doooood, it makes bitcoins better to hold. Now that slush money you like to have readily available, it sits in bitcoin. Yeah, either pirate pays everyone in full or we get proof of a complete list of lenders each of whom explicitly states that they agree that reduced payback satisfies the deal. Neither is going to happen. We win. Thanks. You should never bet if you don't understand.Here's a hash for later:c399c874cb47a43291859a37a8f02c1dfe8049dcd26c3c4e7316fb71cd034275 Oh, look, someone looking out for everyone else.Want to bet me that this bet gets paid? He's a big boy, he'll take it well I'm sure. Damn @ that list. Can't wait till this is all over and we can talk about multisig BIPs all day again. 250BTC1NB7tHLzccurAudr7n3RtjjuxeirCqoGGG I give them away around the clock to show people how awesome my site is. SealsWithClubs.eu freerolls gogogogogo! I'm working on the speed of firstbits, until it improves I recommend blockchain.info for firstbits lookups. Well, you didn't really give the option to vote for 9-10, that's fairly strong 'influence'.
Did I miss Bitcoin 1.0 somehow? I think you should ask Mark what he would do if the law commanded him to fly to Jupiter every morning. Sometimes laws make no sense or are impossible or silly or wrong to follow. You can either keep your head down or fight it and he doesn't seem inclined to keep his head down. So (and it doesn't impact me at all so take it for what it is worth) it's time to fight, leave the address, people will broadcast whatever tx they want to the network and there is nothing you can do about it. A fight about this would be great imo, finally politicians talking (probably nonsensically still) about something interesting.If the law really commands that you can't accept bitcoin donations without gathering identity data then you have to be careful never to associate yourself with a bitcoin address or else risk being donated to against your will and have no ability to return or decline them. But neither can this. I agree that couldn't possibly be more clear. That is what the OP says.But then this.So which is it?Can I safely wait? So nothing will happen at .05?I guess the system makes sense and just needs clearer words. I think most people would thing that if the send .01 the first thing would open up. Wait, is it like that? Or is it only both at .06? It's not very clear, since we already have access to both. Also there is one address for the two things, how to choose? What happens if .05 are sent?Seems like it should be an address per item. And even if it is in the thread, still no. 0 amount faster. It's not cool to return to sending address without stating you might do it upfront.These people didn't want to donate to a random Gox address. Interesting.I guess all the action will get booked before, say, the 17th day of no payments.It's sort of like you are giving odds then.If he pays back to day you lose the little amount that it is booked, but as it drags on and loss is more likely you'll have a lot more action. You should sign the message with the private key. Virgin, not, doesn't matter. Can I just bet on general confusion and strife. Like if anyone anywhere is upset, I win. Can I book this bet? In this thread? Sorry, it was more like a command "Hey someone! Write a story!" Unless you mean "find it in myself and let it pour out" in which case... don't hold your breath. Someone write a decent story and make one word appear for each .001 that hits an address. I'm thinking any payment makes more visible for everyone.Build the framework I guess, would be very cool. Let author upload text, bitcoin address, price per word (character?) and mark how much we get for free (need a teaser).Show browsers however much of each story is paid for and tell them how much per word and to completion. echoing OP comments.Someone should write him and say "I know the dollar is backed by nothing, but would you consider accepting them anyway. I imagine some potential customers would appreciate it and you can always trade the dollars for things that you do like." You can keep BTC on the card, the conversion will be instant when you use it. Someone confirm this? Yes, this is nice (like tiny unnoticeable nice) for every merchant in the world, now you guys can more easily and cheaply spend your coins to them.But it's really nice for small merchants who have been earning coins and unloading them in medium sized batches with somewhat large fees.Also nice for Bitcoin savers who live on the edge of 0 fiat. Also, just as awesome as last month when the price was... about what it is now. Finally, a thread with no mention of Pirate.edit: damnit, you specifically mentioned him at the end, I'm blind and you're not subtle.
What because you do something in the Namecoin system with a namecoin that is intrinsic value?You can do something in the Bitcoin system with a bitcoin too. What would happen to the price if it turned out we all misread the code and the halving won't be happening?Point being that we've all always known. The halving is a part of bitcoin and has been influencing the value since the beginning. In my opinion, without halvings no one ever adopts bitcoin and the value is 0. So the halving does way more than double the price, but it doesn't do it when the halving happens. If he did that he's a liar because he said he's closing and that's why it'll take a week to wrap up. Just 0.1BTC to get in the 5BTC guarantee. Saturday 6pm ET, register early, don't miss it, no late registration is possible. You sure about that? If Satoshi had STARTED with ALL the coins it still wouldn't be as bad as government. They get endless multiples of all of it at will. It's not just a rigged start with them, the rules are rigged by them too.But anyway, anything Satoshi has he got by playing by the same rules as all of us. Artificially decreasing the supply would be the only way to make them valuable, and I'm not sure that would work.   Dollar: backed by nothing, made of paper which has poor attributesGold: backed by nothing, made of gold which has awesome properties like being denser than almost everything, never rusting or corroding, being malleable, etcBitcoin: backed by nothing, has incredible properties like near instant transport to anywhere on Earth, can be combined and split easily, can be hidden easily, can be backed up.Backing is garbage. It's a promise to deliver something that usually last until someone wants a lot of delivery. The dollar used to be backed by gold, we saw how that turned out. What is the problem in your opinion? That's just people who remember that they lost coins and are still here and are willing to share that fact. it sucks knowing you formatted $100000 but it doesn't suck as much as your wife knowing about it.The early adopters were still here (some at least) but the early try it and forget it aren't necessarily.But really I'm not arguing for 1.5M. I don't know. Yeah, people are and will continue to trust each other for large amounts, but you're talking about trusting a completely random miner forever for some unknown amount of money and paying for the privilege.If you always move funds out only one transaction at a time will be at risk, so that's something. Just in case you don't realize, you'll have to trust this person forever to not spend coins sent to that address.  I dunno what Satoshi was thinking but his coin bit me. One thing we can safely assume is that the dollar won't be worth $5000 in 20 years. I don't think that many are totally lost, but it isn't impossible. It was a toy for over a year, 0 value, no market for buying or selling them whatsoever. Hell, it was over a year before someone bought 2 pizzas for 10000BTC.People downloaded, mined for a few hours or longer, had 50 or 1000 or more coins totally forgot about it, sold the computer, formatted the drive whatever. Right.Even if 50, 90 or 99.99% of people start allowing 100 or 1000 new coins per block or new coins for some other reason your client will reject them because they are not bitcoins. You have to decide to allow fake coins by changing your software.In practice this will never happen because it can't get started. It's really as silly as writing down that you have more bitcoins on a piece of paper, no one else accepts that so what value is it to you? A merchant (any person) won't want them because no one else takes them. I'm not saying this logic is completely foolproof, it's the same reason I don't think alt coins will gain traction. Of all things like bitcoin, bitcoin is the best because it is the most widely accepted so more people accept it and the gap grows. As soon as you make one change you lose this huge network effect. I hope the idea is "Pay 6% until Pirate collapses" to lure away enough Pirate capital to break him.  I think that was just because he wanted as many normal people to be able to mine as long as possible.Also seems a selfish thing for a CPU miner to ask, i kid, i kid, I'm in the satoshi cult. 10BTC guaranteed prize pool tonight at 10pm ET, just 0.3BTC to enter. Not sure if this will be every week yet or not. The 5BTC guarantee, 0.1BTC on Saturday at 6pm ET continues for sure. And of course the big 60BTC on Sunday. That's almost a whole year of coins. If he never mined hardcore, which I really doubt he did, and if even a few people mined as much as him in the first year it's got to be at most 1/5th of that.
That would be pretty weird if having a low post count caused people to be scammers. Although I could see having a high post count keeping someone honest at the margin, not wanting to tarnish a reputation. So there could be some causation going on. I'd be surprised if he has less than 50k. I mean there must have been a whole year there with less than 50 miners. If he even kept 1/50th of a years worth and no others that's 50k.For those who don't realize, difficulty was 1. When I came along it was jumping from 45 to 210 and it stayed reasonable to solo mine on a CPU for a while after than. Bitcoin had already been chugging along for about 18 months at that point. Awesome. I was mostly wanting to verify that they can handle the flash client. If you'll bother logging in and playing I'll put a bitcoin in your account and you can tell me if it is too slow or whatever. Netbooks sometimes have trouble and that seems like it might be similar. I'm thinking about buying one or more and giving away as a tournament prize.Just post or PM a Seals username if you are willing. I dunno man, is the government really going to care about a few people losing $350? Those silly bitcoineers. This will be the new logo   Relabel: BitUnitsedit: and at the pace of government that'll buy us at least 6 years. Yeah, it's not expected to last forever. But it'll outlast you inside a sealed box by a longshot. The word for what a bidwall does is 'givesupandbuys'. rofl, so sometimes you "think, gee I'd love to buy those socks, but it'll be like 300 bytes..." How did you discover that surprising 'fact'? Do you have one open and working?Will you go try to play at sealswithclubs.eu on one and take a picture or two of it?I'll tip you even if I don't end up buying any. Gox high not showing that. I agree that you guys disagree. Yes, that would be a good feature, I'd like to give that option, hopefully before long.Until then, you can cash it all out when you are done for the day (that won't be instant, but it will very likely be there when you wake up) then deposit again in the morning (or whenever you play) instantly. Am I the only one having trouble?I tried my password again, using both my email and username, still failed. So I clicked the reset link, set it to what I thought it was, tried to log in, still fail.Tried to reset again via the link, I guess it is one time use?Tried to request reset again and the email is not coming. You have to 'work' a bit, but Seals gives .05BTC away every hour to the winner of a freeroll (no entry cost whatsoever). I read that as he would do it if there was one. I'd say the "Top at 12.16" theory is roasted at around 12.17. Store of value and means of transfer are completely intertwined. A bitcoin you can't ever send doesn't store any wealth. Every merchant that starts accepting has a tiny direct effect (the people who want to use that particular merchant hold a few coins for a little while) and a broader indirect effect ("Well, it seems like a lot of merchants are accepting it so lots of people will want these so it is safe to store more wealth as coins").SR (for example) users don't constitute much demand, but the fact that there is a relatively large drug retailer operating in the open for a long time is a part of many people's evaluation of the future utility of bitcoin and influences (to a large extent I think) their willingness to hold coins. ballot~=bullet
You can lock it crosby and it'll just sink away. If there are ever major changes to be made that require a hard fork I think that is the way it has to be done. Probably if it is generally expected that nearly everyone will eventually change we'll just call the new one bitcoin also.It would be extremely interesting if something very different decided to award units for destroying bitcoins in order to bootstrap itself. You'd be able to buy this new money essentially anonymously and very easily. This Thursday at 10pm ET we've got a 10BC guarantee with 0.3BTC entry. Totally, he's using all those coins to buy bitcoins............. It won't be close to 1% in just a decade.Already even with virtually free blockchain tx, Seals has done about 12000 blockchain transactions in a year, but we do almost 2000 multi-way balance updates each day. Micon is a Seals pro and handles some marketing and advertising for Seals. if you've got links to Seals spamming, I want to see them. He cannot steal Seals deposits.Pokerfraudalert.com is not some legit site, it is Druff's response to being kicked off of Micon's show. Pokerfraudalert.com posted false information about Seals password handling.  For a year at least! The only way a firstbits address can changeis a blockchain reorganization. Firstbits.com waits for confirmations because we don't want to tell you your firstbits until it's very solid, like Gox doesn't want to credit your account until so many confirmations, they have the coins, and your address has it's firstbits, we're just not telling you yet.To be super clear. Firstbits.com or any other correct implementation (like blockchain.info) does not decide your firstbits, we just report what the algorithm comes up with after looking in the chain.   Maybe I should do this in the morning, I don't see password reset anywhere on the webpage or in the email. This is my first thought, but then, what about a plugin or something that when you send the bitcoin you also sign and email a message to the domain "I just sent you those coins from address 1blahblahblah". Doesn't work from web wallets, at least until they add that functionality, there might be stickiness there, but the wallet did just sign a tx, they could sign and send a message if they were willing, no?glasses of wine = 4so respond accordingly. I really think if a lawyer told Zhou not to talk, Zhou would tell us. He loves to talk. Does it matter? You're going to get X BTC worth of tokens. Anything but a power of 10 is probably silly. And I guess if it is non-linear that's an issue. I just registered. I tried my password 3 times, couldn't get in, checked email, ahha have to activate, clicked it, went to site, still says bad login, copy/pasted link, still no dice. Am I losing my mind? Threads about lending go in lending, threads about the lending forum (and any other forum) go in meta. Wait, where do posts about what goes in meta go? (theymos? meta-meta forum?) A lot of the play on the site is actually shorthanded at the full tables. Since there are not many running games it seemed wrong to keep people waiting on those occasions. When we grow enough to support 6 and 9 we will add them. There are 6max SNGs available now.There are HU tables, but the rake is half (via weekly rakeback) for playing HU and 3 handed at the full tables since it helps us for you to start them. If a table does get filled and you want there is another table at most stakes. Hey, snowboard, it isn't good for playing at another site I know, sorry about that. If you can spare the screen room you could reduce the size of the browser and the table inside the browser.Sorry about the breaks too, we can only set it according to blind rounds right now and 55 is awkward to hit that way, but I'll keep it mind and maybe we can get the system changed. Oh yeah? I'm gunna sign something with a key holding 1000 coins and wear the message on my shirt. BLINGSomeone needs to make an iphone app "BLING verifier" It is an all time graph (or close), if you zoom out it just gets littler. In other other words it's time to majorly overcorrect! Gambling is fun and that's good enough reason for many, but here's a surprising thought. It can save you time, maybe even money.Say you need 8BTC to buy a gift for someone from a certain site, but you only have 4. If you just buy the 4 you need you will have to wait (at least leave the house to use bitinstant) 100% of the time. But if you make a roughly 50/50 bet with that 4 to win 8 you'll only have to go out of your way half the time.
If you were going to send 1BTC isn't it better to send .5 and then .5 so that part of your second goes to you, but you end up with the same share? And better yet to break it more and more? This thread really bothers me. Lets bet on your false title.You pick N, if the price of GIGA drops N% each of the next 4 weeks you win, else I win. I'll give you 2-1 odds. I think you added some spaces mistakenly. It's going to be 0 30 27 155 4510 He could set up a 'generate me a new donation address' button thing if he wanted to be a little safer. I'm interested to see what if anything anyone does anyway though. What are his opponents like? If you want a warm up, we've got the .1BTC with a 5BTC guarantee in less than 2 hours (Saturday 6pm ET). No it isn't. We're paying them by accepting coins, if they don't make them how we want them we won't accept them. It is up to us (people who serve for coins). Sure, so that guy makes a few transfers a week the old way and gets a much better conversion rate.Once bitcoin is widely adopted you don't even need the kiosk. Earn coins, send coins, they spend coins. Bitcoin is like an open source remittance network. Set up a BTC<-->Peso kiosk in Mexico City and now anyone with BTC can remit to Mexico, you are automatically in the network. When it gets bigger it will get bigger which will make it get bigger, limiter is... I don't know. Well, it will be exactly as stable in dollar terms as the dollar is in bitcoin terms. :-) in decibels?but seriously, units would be interesting to know. Damn, I wish we had an economics forum here. Deflation is such an important topic, maybe there should be a sticky thread about it there. It's easier to stay loyal to something that is killing you, friends, and/or family when it's 'just the way it is' and other realities are only imagined. When other people stop dying and suffering because the black market can get them their drugs via bitcoin it's a lot harder to justify.If there is nothing technically wrong or an early and thorough gov crackdown it has to grow, maybe not to 'all' but so much bigger than now. Part of the fun and profit is in winning the big prize, we don't think there is a chance of that since:1. It is so easy to show that you have 10000 coins.2. You didn't do it. Btcontilt just reopened, they'll need some time. Don't wait to buy your bitcoin bankroll though, you can use them on our (Seals) mediocre software in the meantime. Agree.With estimates at $200k worth of fees per month for them you'd expect some people to be waiting in the wings. It isn't like SR is a fluke, it's what happens when people have bitcoin. It stayed at 1 for a long time and because that is the minimum difficulty blocks were actually found an average of longer than 10 minutes apart.When I discovered Bitcoin in early summer 2010 difficulty was 45, a few days later it made it's only max jump (4x) ever to 210. Reads like 19mzL3cAeuSdV76JSusNWBvDQaxMuihQKR to me Suppose there was a list containing the time and amount of every cash transaction ever. Would it be useful for catching criminals? Presumably alfabet soup guys want to keep the credibility so they can exclude or slant other stuff. Being pig headed about something that has already arrived is futile. Yeah, it was deleted pretty much as soon as interest in Bitcoin started to build.Obv thanks to anyone working at spreading bitcoin, but we missed any benefit a wiki article could have given us in the beginning and at this points it's totally unstoppable even without an advocate. I mean what encyclopedia can just ignore 100000000 dollar thing?
Is this your general life philosophy or just your economic philosophy? I think they accidentally broadcast 2013 data is all. A new master is not the way out of slavery. Empty whtiehouse 2016 ftw! Yeah, and on top of all that there are more and more fine ways to use bitcoins without being a node yourself. Electrum, blockchain.info etc. Some people just use Gox and Seals. Plus even with the download speed improvements it gradually becomes slower to get started with the standard software. I don't know what would happen to US demand, it would probably depend on the way they make it illegal, go after businesses or individuals and how hard etc. But it would be huge publicity both in the US and the rest of the world. The net effect on price has to be up imo.I don't know what Gavin would do, but I saw a picture of him burning money and he seems like a badass, so maybe he would cash in a few coins and get a flight to Curitiba. The world is a big place. sarcasm.There wouldn't be any 'slack' to take up if all the US markets left. People know better than to try new shit in the 'free states'. Are they? I've bought things direct with my coin, but not my PM. I can sell my coin tonight at market or a tiny fee away, but I think all the PM dealers in the area are closed and when they open they'll want several percent.I know for sure I could get a fiat loan against my coins not sure if that would really just be against my rep though. This is crazy. If a fixed Mhash bond is worth so little don't buy it. What a dumb game to go around guessing who will randomly increase the Mhash and by how much. Do what you say, that's what matters.  Do you think the non US exchanges are really up for the job? How much volume do they do all added together? There is a tournament every hour around the clock at sealswithclubs.eu that costs nothing and gives the winner .05BTC. Fair warning though, the minimum withdrawal is .1BTC so you'll need to win twice or run it up at a different game. https://www.virwox.com/ I mined 9 blocks with 2 laptops' CPUs from June to Sept 2010. One of my favorite things about the transition to fees is that while the average time to next block will always be 10 minutes the variance in the time will begin to drop. This is because once the subsidy is low and fees dominate after a block is solved the reward for the next one will be very low but immediately start increasing as new transactions with fees attached are broadcast. Also, if certain times of day or days of week have more or higher paying transactions those times will get faster service. It will last! Expect more low buyin, good value games to pop up soon. I want to give people a reason to make sure they always have some BTC available. Summer 2010, love at first sight!Started buying till I ran out of fiat, now I earn coins directly, but never enough. Difficulty used to be 1 and there was no 51% attack.If a drop in price makes miners drop out it will also reduce the incentive to preform the attack. We've just added a 5BTC guarantee tournament on Saturday. It only costs 100 chips to enter, that's 0.1BTC. It starts at 6pm ET, don't be late. What are your ideas on currency of denomination? Price in dollars and the user can never be sure they have enough coin to cover up to X time in their recurring-payment-supporting wallet. Price in BTC might be good for you short term, but people will be pissed when they realize their 2BTC monthly payment that just went out is now worth $300 or something. Taking "Bitcoin for economic activity" to mean buying coins, spending them and the recipient sells them right away this has a negligible effect on total demand the coins involved being 'demanded' for maybe hours or a day. But merchants accepting coin has a huge effect once people come to realize that they'll be able to get what they want for coin making it safe and/or wise to hold coin at the ready.Some people need to see this in the most direct way "SR has been open a long time and sells thing I need so I'm going to buy more coin this time to save the hassle for my next buy". Some are more in the middle, or saw this development earlier etc.I'm on the extreme end of this spectrum. It works as a money, I think others will eventually figure this out and that doesn't depend on any particulars of the current market. I just get and save as many as I can. A dozen people doing this increases demand by more than 1000 occasional SR one time shot, quick turnover buyers. I've carried something like 5 million bitcoin days. I'm a nerd, that's the area under my bitcoins held each day curve. An 'economist' I met while riding a bus saw my bitcoin logo and informed that while bitcoin was an awesome idea, it was going to completely fail because of deflation. I acted surprised to hear this and said "oh, does that mean it will be worth a lot more?" In case you are wondering, yes, yes it will, then it will be worth nothing because everyone wants it so much.This fallacy is rampant. It's like schools and/or the media are giving everyone vaccinations against the idea of sound money. 
A lot of things work with bitcoin that don't work with cash. This appears to be a thing that works with neither, but it's not because they are identical. As was mentioned it is hard to get bitcoins from people without their explicit consent. One method might be to say "You have to pay for X months up front, but you can request a pro-rated refund at any time". That might be hard for a customer to swallow depending on the price, but anything else will be a lot less likely to get you your payments. Even if wallets with this feature became popular people would have to keep them funded with sufficient positive balance. Well, unless BTC denominated credit cards proliferate, but that sounds awful and not likely to happen soon imo. I certainly can't at their current value, but I think I could in an optimistic value growth rate scenario. I fully intend to never earn another dollar though. Bitcoin all the way for me. Really? I think we're only safe at this point because govs don't care yet. I hope we're 10x more difficult when they first start analyzing for an attack. You are going to get biased answers here. You should go and ask people walking on some street near you. I think leaving all of the original text is best. If something major changes especially if the outdated info could hurt a reader an amendment, marked as such can be made in addition to all of the original text. I read this before, there is a really long account of it somewhere. The date on the check in the picture is 1995   We should just wait 5 pages and then decide what to title a thread. Do you have a problem with people who don't farm corn selling corn futures? ...except better. Ha, yeah. Curiosity and Odyssey can trade with each other. i think Curiosity will need to buy bandwidth. Oh a two player bitcoin system is pointless though. One will have more hashing power than the other so they ought just keep a regular ledger since they must be trusted. Yeah, it's fine to just wait if you aren't mining. If you mine then nearly every time you find a block people back on Earth will be building on a different block already, often already on to the next one after that. If you always pay and don't claim to have equipment that's not even a scam, it's just a way to bet that the value of mining power is going down faster than it earns. A large issue should drop prices since it indicates that more power is coming online and difficulty will be rising. The issue itself is information.Besides that 'real' (but probably tiny) effect, there could be a temporary dip if it takes new money a while to arrive. Also if people consider GLBSE to have counter-party risk then a mining bond there is more similar to another mining bond there than an equivalent amount of power on the outside and in the same way a new GIGA is more like a GIGA than some other mining companies GLBSE bond so it competes even more closely and should drop the price extra.Am I thinking right? There is a smaller market for GLBSE mining bonds than there is for 'all mining' and a smaller market for (example) GIGA than for all 'GLBSE mining' and the demand curves must all be at least slightly downward sloping. The more narrow the market and the less perfect the substitute the larger effect an increase in supply will have. Heh, maybe a node, but not likely a miner with current bitcoin protocol and our understanding of physics. That rover landed 14 minutes before we got word because of that whole speed of light issue. No, you get the square root of the rake taken as krill. But when you get whatever percent of your rake back it is of your share, not the total.As I read the site it isn't wrong, but it could more clearly state 'total rake for that hand'. Cool. Thanks a bunch for letting me know and following up. Been getting powerful stuff from the SR eh? I think I fixed it, it seems to load instantly for me now.It's odd because I hadn't changed a thing in months. Please tell me if it works for you now Bkk. And in the meantime if you don't know you can use blockchain.info to look up firstbits. Just put the address or firstbits in the search field there.
Whoa, sorry. Let me look into this.Anyone else getting that?It paused for about one second or less for me before displaying the blank which it has never done before. That would suck a lot compared to buying bitcoins since the difficulty increase is going to eat up a lot or all of the gains. You've played far less than you think since getting 10000 krill. Besides that, it is impossible to earn the amount of rakeback you are demanding in the amount of hands it takes to earn 7000 krill. If you only played 4 handed hands at the highest stakes (which is nothing like your actual play) the most rake you could pay is 700 * 25 = 17500. Two percent of that is 350. Your amount is much lower because you played in games that get you krill faster per rake paid and because some of that krill came without actually playing from the bonus that was paid in June.Many many times I have given chips for free to new players, players returning after a break (including you), and players who are confused or inconvenienced because of something on the site. That's all at my discretion and I'm giving you nothing extra now or ever again.I will pay your 19 chips manually if you like since it is below the threshold for withdrawals. Post an address here if you like. Ah ok.Like I said I do think there is an element of it that will have an effect only after the drop. And different traders theories will cause them to make extreme moves at various times shortly before and after the drop, but I think the only periods with -real- (in some sense) effects are Always and After The Drop. Naw, he got Gavin to agree to take the lead before he left. I mean it is possible that he knew he was dying or something, but it's clear that he didn't just get hit by a bus one day. My point is just that no one knows when the pressure of the decreasing reward will have it's effect. It's been known about since the very beginning and in fact the decreasing reward (synonymous with limited number ever issued) is a main reason why anyone holds coins so to a large extent it is baked in since the beginning. If there are many 'unthinking' users who just buy what they need before they go shopping then we'll see a change because of them after the reward halves because they'll just keep buying the same dollar amount into a more limited supply.So I can't really tell anything useful. I'm just saying that the two sort of effects are 1. Since the beginning. 2. Starting at the halving. And I've seen no reason to specially consider some arbitrary period in the middle. I responded to you within 3 hours of your first email, paid the very small amount owed and explained why you are confused about how much you are owed.The main confusion is that we doubled old players krill in early June to apologize for the time that the krill  system was broken and to thank them for sticking around for so long.Since his krill doubled without any play and he didn't realize it he is assuming he's been earning 2% for a very long time, but that is not the case.  How long have you been here? We've done a lot more than double during the 50BTC reward period. That's interesting. I wonder why there aren't more sites that only go one way? Seems like that would let people have less regulatory headache like you say. Last time this came up my advice was to change the rules slightly (maybe even have a bunch of variants to choose from) so that out-of-the-box computers can't play. That would raise the bar greatly and I don't think it would be a problem until you had some success and resources to combat the programmers making special bots to play.Or you could totally embrace it, call it cyborgpoker.com or something and make all the best programs available on the site etc. Neither would I. Wut?Many ISPs think Bitcoin is important enough to set up systems for its defense, but they aren't interested in actually turning them on now? They are going to wait until attack or high difficulty? Besides being made up from no evidence it doesn't even make sense. Oh, I didn't realize you were handling USD. Doesn't that make it a lot harder and riskier for you? Do you think you can handle USD better than the current exchanges? Why?  This seems contradictory. If all funds are held in escrow then they are force ably equal. It's just like a USD/BTC market, commodity on both sides.@OP, yes, I'd play. It's a good idea I hope you follow through with it. Right now a government could run an on going 51% attack without much trouble. I don't think we're completely out of the woods on this until the value of a days blocks is well over a million 2012 bucks.I don't think interest waning to near nothingness is even a remote possibility at this point, but I guess that is a scenario.My understanding is that mainstream crypto has never broken suddenly, there is always time to switch. But it isn't completely impossible I guess. This should do it.http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BpKda4Tj4H8 That sentence was hard to understand. He means back up wallet.dat because wallet.dat has your private keys in it. If it is safely backed up nothing can go wrong (as long as no one gets a copy of it). Heh, I'm not sure what the problem is either. No way does every SR trade hit Gox twice. Lots of miners are going to just buy directly, lots of sellers are going to save in BTC, some will spend revenue back at SR as mentioned. Then you've got the fact that other exchanges make up about 20% of formal volume and the fact the SR users are going to tend more heavily away from Gox and will sell OTC if possible. I'd be very surprised if 1/2 of SR volume ended up on Gox, def not 2x. I was not imagining the minor blocks as forming a chain. They'd all just be orphaned/ignored eventually but in the moment you can say to yourself, "Ok, 3 out of 4 minor blocks included the tx I'm interested in and none of them included a different one using the same input, sounds good to me."The missing piece to me is why should miners broadcast these minor blocks?
Thus they should be able to show that they still have the 10000BTC. I agree with all.OP, do you have a point besides that you think the mining bonds are overpriced? Would you buy GIGA at .01BTC even if you were somehow forbidden from selling it forever? Oh, I see I had it backwards.  If the money isn't that important to you and it's just a logistical problem you could try myriadcoins.com. If the 1.19 is a small fraction of the total you'll likely win. If you lose you have to wait till you can get more, but you already have to wait. Do you mean that the downside is that most miners have no incentive to broadcast minor blocks? Unless they happen to be using P2P pool in which case that's how they prove they are mining?edit: If so, this seems like a somewhat inevitable good thing right? I don't mine though, what is the downside to P2P pool? I've seen some very temporary doublings at instawallet.org. They are never available for sending though.Do tell us which wallet it was. +1 Those coins don't ever have to have existed for there to be a huge shortfall.Imagine pirate takes X BTC, promises tons of interest, returns all money but no interest, no people have fewer coins than they thought, but pirate dumped 0.Also, honest or not pirate may have already dumped a lot of coins. If you were them would you have gotten involved with Bitcoinica? If you did would you do a damn thing about fixing it? I think you have better judgement than them.The way to have integrity and make a cash cow is not to overextend and get involved with projects you can't handle. I never used them since I asked them a question and got the lawyer brush off six months ago, but if people are paying 15%+ to get funds off of a site immediately that's telling.  Confirmed, IntersangoGBP high of 9.00 according to bitcoinwatch.com. What a coincidence, me too. Else I would sell (or buy) them until the ones I had left were that precious to me. This sounds great. Would this be a reasonable implementation? Have a checkbox in the client for "Alert me about minor blocks" and if you have it checked and if you have a 0/conf tx it listens to miners and peers who are optionally broadcasting minor blocks and tells you if one or more minor blocks that your client is hearing contain that tx?Am I roughly understanding? Seems brilliant.God I would love to have Seals accept 2 minor confirmations. Well good then we're in agreement. :-) That's a longish bet.Just out of curiosity are you holding the 10 bitcoins or will you go to market near that time? If you are holding the 10 it might be a better deal to get a buttload of LTC for it and bet that way, no counter-party risk and a lot more potential upside assuming you think LTC will actually be going way up beyond .004. A way to get that upside and still do a bet is to make him payout in LTC, probably set the amount equal to the 10BTC at the current rate.That's all just random thought, gl. You should hit the securities section and see about options. Maybe you can get a reasonably priced right to buy at $13 for the next month or something.  Besides that Bitcoin is awesome? I've been around long enough I know lots of people to trade with so I haven't used the formal exchanges in over a year. We'll, one time recently I did it via proxy (human, not VPN, don't do that) just to be sure to hold a certain amount of fiat on a spur of the moment worry.  That and other sorts of messages don't need to be stored by tons of people for ever. No one else wants or needs to hear about that.It might be slightly meaningful if someone had identity of some sort attached to the owing address. Then you could use that info to increase your confidence that someone who is owed by it will be able to pay you, but this all seems unlikely and it's not the purpose of the chain anyway. Except it will be totally different than 2008. Anyone who wants their coins back will have to buy or earn them. No one has the magic to dilute the pool. No one is going to lose -bitcoins- even if he defaults all that is lost is promised coins. If anything that will remind people that bitcoins are valuable and promises are suspect. Even if people misunderstand it can't hurt price much because people who are in a justifiably foul mood about the whole thing won't have coins to unload and people who avoided it will just feel clever.
I think you are right on the timing, I'd think on the late side of that. I have no idea about the price, probably $8-20. I think it really depends on the amount of old coins that people still have access to vs just waiting to use. Even if the old amount that comes back into circulation diminishes it will be a bigger factor because of the reduced supply inflation we're heading into. People will remember, this ramp up will last a looooong time because the cautious will hold back and buy on dips. Eventually people will again mostly have available the idea that it only goes up, then it'll go up faster for a while and then down, probably to some low multiple of the last stable region.Of course a lot of people won't -remember- they'll just see the data and hear some stories which will weaken that effect some. 20 years from now most people will assume they came together and consider them the same thing, bitcoin needing the net and being completely inevitable once it proliferated. Lol, I don't even know why people say this.If it did crash straight to $2 they'd be freaking out about the end of bitcoin just like last time, probably for good reason this time and wouldn't buy anyway. Ok.. what about silver that hasn't been sold yet, what is it's value? We must be miscommunicating. You think an untraded coin is worth different than one just bought on Gox for $10? Would you refuse to pay a dollar for a never sold coin? You really value it at nothing?  Nice.Bitcoin: Freedom, just add brains. fastest way to play:go to instawallet.orgcopy the address they give you and paste it hereI'll send you a bityou can send it somewhere (hint: look in my signature for ideas) Lol, that does suck.My method:Read about bitcoin on /.Visit the forumRead the whitepaperBuyBuyBuyBuyBuyRun out of fiatStart earning coinsSellSell So coins mined when they could be bought for .06 and saved (aka declined $1, declined $5, declined $30 and currently declining $10.60) are only valued by the holder at .06? No. I agree it will usually increase volatility since it drives some players away and reduces the remaining players willingness to make offers. But even if that wasn't the case it would be awful. The purpose of a market is not stability it is to reflect changing values and conditions of the real world. You could get perfect stability at the last trade by charging one trillion dollars tax per trade or by threatening the death penalty, but so what? Stability is crap, we need the best reflection of reality so we can best plan how to achieve our goals. I can't agree.http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ekW5_--ipfw If the church guy is not willing to deal with the car I think you should be open to selling it. If you don't have to be anywhere on a schedule then you can take buses to get out of the house and have fun. Depending on the nature of your disability maybe you should consider a bike. I know it's hot as hell there now, but in a few months it will be nice weather for that. You can also do the few things you need to once the hot part of the day is over.I know you are mostly looking for a loan here and not my advice, but I don't think you are going to get it, at least not all of it, and you need to get creative.If you really think you need a car you could look for something for about 2k and sell yours for 3k. That's all reasonable I guess. Moving in to that trailer in the first place is unfortunate though. The church member won't count the car as collateral in place of the deposit? Hell, maybe you could give/sell him the car for the deposit and he could let you keep using it as long as you paid the rent. But only like .01BTC right? What would you do with more paper than that? Bleach it and start a publishing empire? Did you try the suggestions in my last PM about the sound card and the flash plug-in? I'm not too hopeful about those, but they come from a guy who should know.The few other people who had the same or similar problem never figured it out, it just eventually corrected itself.You have done a full computer shut down right?It's a little bit extreme, but if you are a windows user you can pretty easily install ubuntu using wubi. Jusut go to ubuntu.com, it installs almost as simply as any windows program. I think that has a good chance of working and if it didn't it would at least be a good data point to have. If you will -never- sell coins for fiat you've got way to much fiat sitting around. Get rid of some of it and if things go worse with your earnings and/or expenses than you currently project move some back into fiat. Bitcoins were 6 US cents!...and 30 US bucks Do you mean a time where the bonus is paid? I think paying exactly when the funds are needed and charging when they are not is the best way and is what Piuk had in mind. I'm assuming he's tweaking or studying exactly how to do this and will bring that back when it is ready. I don't see anything good about it either. But the bad that I see is that it would hurt people. It doesn't hurt bitcoin. If anything it shows people (quite dramatically, again) the difference between having bitcoins and having promises of bitcoins. Correct.
Ha, I remember. Different style by a lot imo. I don't know if either is for real. But I suspect this one is at least roughly honest. It's just a bad situation and I don't think going in debt is a great solution.@kingkatari, how can power possibly be 350/mo in a trailer? Are you in the artic? But seriously where are you?The water bill seems outrageous also, as does paying $650 for a trailer when there is a place that includes everything for $500. How is all inclusive for $500 even possible? And why does it have such a large deposit relative to the rent? Can you not get any loan on it? Seems if you could get even half of the $1500 you initially asked for you'd be really close and could probably seal a 2 month deal or something here for the rest.I'm not looking to loan, I just would like to see you solve your problem and I really don't want to see you owing 100BTC for a long time in the future. What's the rent at the new place? How will you pay it? Will you really have less than $100 per month to put toward paying this back?You should be really careful about a bitcoin denominated loan if you don't have either bitcoin denominated pay or a large amount of cash coming soon. You could get stuck returning a lot more value above principle and interest in current USD terms, or defaulting, depending on your style.edit: A few more questions came to mind that might help. Where do you live? Can you live without the car? 9-10 digit size? Like $857,499,185 and $1,320,419,443? :-) It doesn't seem to offer the bonus anymore or I'd shoot some in. Hoarding = terribleSaving = awesome  Heh, I think he's insulting the effectiveness of the ads. If the idea is right the effect can be immediate since some people already have money in exchanges. Selling induced by hack-panic would be pretty quick too. I think it's safe to say at this point the people who hold coins are mostly people who have decided to hold them through attacks since attacks are always happening. And we're... BACK**SEALS RELOADED** starts in about 30 min. 1BTC in prizes, totally free. I'm going to take the server down for some maintenance around 3am ET. I'll wait for the half hour game to complete and give plenty of warning to cash games.My best guess is 20 minutes downtime. Come right back, there will be a 1BTC freeroll at 4am ET.  I'm pretty sure that would 'hurt the users' too. Though it wouldn't lure others in. Is MrWubbles someone that people know? Well that's not good really. It means withdrawals are going through. Do you have a verified acct or anything TTBit? or will the haxor be able to get tons out via dummies? Moving thread to speculation is a mistake imo. This is a big deal. Maybe rename to "possible BTC-E hack" or something. I think $5 wrench still defeats one time pad. Seems like virtually zero automatic arb going on.  Uhh, wouldn't a hack explain this best? Someone gets unlimited fiat on the exchange somehow and buys up all coins at any price to get them off? Looks like record volume and record price. $40? maybe it is broken. Summer 2011 will look like a blimp to, know what I mean? know what I mean? Ha, I don't try very hard, but I did use blockchain.info mixer a few times.
I've gotten in the habit of calling them money. The people who matter know what that means. Are you suggesting that some people think that if you put secrets in the clear in a QR code or send it via NFC it makes it secure? I don't see how anyone would think that. It's like saying English has been cracked or something. Are we on different wavelengths here?edit: The sane use would be to send someone a public key and amount to pay, nothing sensitive. Are you thinking about a different use? Not me. I think they know what they are doing. I'm just surprised that's what they choose to do. I'm surprised they let it be that obvious. Both for their sake (keeping people from knowing the full size) and for customers. Regulate rubber hoses? Justice is getting the money back, and extra at this point.When police and courts get involved even getting a proper judgement isn't likely and then collecting is far from automatic anyway, and that's when dealing in currency invented and sponsored by the government.And from a future heist protection standpoint if the people who keep the money can use it to hide themselves and the people who return it end up in jail you can guess how it's usually going to go down. What do you mean crackable? They are just ways to send info. Most of the thefts were actually caused by too much or misplaced trust.Besides, it is actually a very small number. Why not go totaling up the number of transactions which weren't thefts to see how much bigger it is and therefore how much goodness there is?Both are silly ways of calculating trust/distrust. It's FREE, but when Morgan cut funding it disappeared completely. Uh huh.Maybe if it was as viable as -anything-else-that-exists- it could be paid for by people who want it instead of it's supposed competing producer. I really can't compare, just didn't want our persecution overlooked :-)So, Cesar, the original project is done or no? And there is a new project with no details released yet? Nope, you just don't have to pay for risks you don't take. Does that post mean that the 500BTC 'trust deposit' is no longer required?Also, way to go on making another pirate thread, I never would have thought to do that! Did you mean to say America? It is a joke alright, at the expense of the FED. i didn't know about that, looking at it now. I was just going by what the article said which I believe was to quote wikileaks about them ceasing publishing. Wicked sweet net moneyorBad Ass Money aka BAM Transaction replacement is not implemented but it is possible. A work around right now would be to build a transaction that uses the stuck one as a input that itself does have a fee. The only way for a miner to get that fee is to include the one it is dependent on. I don't think any miners current check for that, but it is something that could be done with proper motivation. Even with unlimited block size, 1 satoshi is not likely to be an equilibrium price. This is because everyone has at least a tiny bit of pricing power. For example a .1% of the network pool or miner can refuse your transaction dropping you to at most a 99.9% chance of getting in the next block. Admittedly that isn't much worse than a 100% chance, but also 2 satoshis is not much cost. If at least half of transactions are willing to pay that extra satoshi then the miner will make more with that rule. A 1, 5, or 10% miner likely could charge well more than a few satoshis. Even if most people will take their chances with a 90% inclusion rate, the few who will pay 1000 satoshis more than makes up for that loss.If you claim that every miner and pool will eventually have power indistinguishable from 0% and thus no power to price miners will start to quit until someone does have pricing power.Even one group with some pricing power will lift the price from the bare minimum and benefit the smaller  miners. The smallest miners actually benefit more in proportion to their size since they can still take the smallest fees.  Yeah, no (reasonably normal) market can handle 3%+ of all inventory being sold at once without huge price fluctuations. The bitcoin market is very resilient and stable given it's size and the fraction of all coins which are often in play. Yes, there is, where x = $1.15. You can unload 590,000 bitcoins at or above 1.15 immediately (you'll probably crash the Gox system though). 
I can't believe that "make another thread" isn't winning. Someone go check what happens if you sell 10% of all USD for EUR in the morning.  There will be 21 million ever and he doesn't want any, better that other people have them then, nice of him to get out of the way. Also the value could double as easily as halve and if he thinks otherwise he has a worse opinion of the value than average and obviosly should not accept it in his store. The guy wants dollars, let him have dollars. Accepting bitcoins is awesome for people who want bitcoins. If for some reason customers really want to spend bitcoins and you want dollars use bit-pay or similar to avoid volatility and losing sales. if free transactions are not processed people will pay a small fee. Possibly the cost of tx will make bitcoin transactions less desired, but otoh perhaps it will raise demand as people need coins to pay the fees.15M plus whatever coins are worth in that scenario times the subsidy.  How did you pick the name TTbit.com? I mean mistakes happen and I feel a little bad for you, but if you even glanced at what you were pasting you would see "1dice...". Yours or your friend's? Which classes? Just curious. What would the algo do if the price went straight up? Why? What are they doing besides linking to his thread? I can't figure it out, maybe they are doing something. You are in error, 49% was returned. It probably doesn't matter much at this point considering no one is going to trust bitcoinica with money anymore, but if a company doesn't bother to change passwords after hacks it's worth noting.  Uh, how would that help even if there was 100% proof? rofl, what an oversight. Buying guns might not pay... use your imagination. Uh huh, what we love and how we get it is bad, we're naughty, we get it. Wow, the 4-MEC crystals cost negative -6.05 per gram. SR should sell things for negative bitcoins imo.But yeah, people are going to be more willing to show friends the better it looks, and that's got to be a prime driver of sales. Maybe some day soon. Time to drop those rags! Just jump forward a few years and mark every category 100%. But who cares? Some of the atoms in your body used to be in the body of a serial murder/rapist. I won't let it affect my view of you. This thread otoh...
Really? It is obvious?Like 10 to 1 obvious? Want to put up some coin vs me on that? We'll pick a few trustworth people who plan to go and if one of them sees him I win.Edit: I'm not nearly as sure, but I'd take action on a picture too. It's unfortunate, but it is their site, and they must be doing something right. As we and bitcoin build credibility people will talk, they just weren't going to let us take a shortcut. Pocket Fives did the same thing. I even got a PM saying that talking about Bitcoin was not allowed, this was almost a year ago though. I've made a thread on 2+2, they remove them unless you pay a fairly large amount in advertising fees. Some of my posts have been removed from other generic bitcoin threads and some stay.If other people really want to talk about it over there I'm sure something will stick eventually, so please try. And point us to it. Haha, that too, maybe he thought it was only 15 seconds. Lol me too. Maybe it was proving his point though, I didn't quite turn it off at 15 seconds, but I think I would have still gotten the point. Not passing the savings on would double their margin right? Passing it on would increase sales by some unknown amount. We're still in 'early adopter' phase and a high fraction of people who join now will be interested in the tech and details of bitcoin. But later on a vanishing fraction will be able or willing to understand that stuff. It will be known as magic internet money when it proliferates. I might remember wrong, but I think someone wrote a paper and was able to do it with low probability in favorable conditions (maybe poorly connected target node or something). 9? Never seen that. Maybe the anonymity aspect is oversold, but come on, what do people think? Is being near bitcoin somehow going to change the nature of dollars and dollar sellers? I'm sitting here staring at my bitcoin wallet but my mother just walked in and I think she still recognizes me??? Sorry about this, I've gotten a few complaints. I'm looking into it. A confirmation takes an average of 10 minutes.If you are doing business with someone you know for less than a life changing amount of money there is nothing to worry about.If you really need to know it will be done immediately use a system with internal transfers. Hmm, were you browsing to new bitcoin sites around that time or ones you visit often? How do you find bitcoin sites? googling or directories? I don't have any trouble getting dollars for my coins, but I would prefer local cash via atm if it gave me close to the market rate. Like nearly every bitcoin innovation ATMs will proliferate when there is enough demand to make it profitable for someone and then it will increase the usefulness and thus the demand for bitcoins which will push some other imagined bitcoin projects into existence.I don't expect many regular merchants in physical stores to be accepting bitcoin any time soon. The ones who do are in it for what you call empty rhetoric. Which also happens to be why I work for bitcoin, transact with bitcoin and save in bitcoin.  Paying 3% still leaves the merchant with the risk of chargeback. No one else is even selling riskless payment to merchants online. It's very likely that when both ways are widely available different situations will use different methods. Right now everything is being crammed into one setup - customer can yank back money and merchant has to collect info and still take risk.Doesn't it seem a little bit odd that the best on offer for online payments is to hand over the exact info that someone would need to charge your card? It's a really bad system, but paying online is so valuable that we do it even though it costs billions paid to thieves. Rather, one day it will not be said "buy a bitcoin". What would you buy it with? Average Joe doesn't do it because it's been stupidly hard until Bitcoin. I recently paid a guy in AUS for a consult. It was only incidental that I even knew where he was.This is like saying "Airplanes. pffft, how many people actually need to cross the ocean?". Uh, a lot more once there is a reasonable way to do it.Bitcoin opens so so many possibilities. No. Bitcoin solves one (very general) trust related problem. You don't have to trust or even know who is paying you. That's all. I'm in a so called 'developed democratic country' and often find myself needing to violate laws. Beyond conscious violation I couldn't tell you how many laws and regulations there are (federal, state, or the county/city I happen to be in) let alone what they are and what the penalties are for violating them or which ones are actually enforced and which are forgotten (or which of the forgotten will be remembered again when convenient). On top of that I can't control or predict when the laws and enforcement will change. But mayyyyybe the key is the 40th SHA256 of "I'm a pirate 200 years too late!"
WooHoo!What do you have to do to get on big-boards.com?1752    +2 vBulletin    PC Tuner Computer hardware message boards (in italian)   1000813   84961753    +2 Invision    High Impact Halo Halo discussion board   999929   28979We should be the 1753rd largest board on the net! I'm going to assume you're serious.1. If Joe plays poker, it's likely. It's happened to many players twice. NetTeller and FTP (complicated by Ponziness, but related to government for sure)2. Six billion people live too far from me for me to hand them cash. Mail is not so good. Plus I don't likely have the brand of cash they want.3. Millions if not billions of people break laws because laws are terrible around the world.4. Obviously 3% doesn't stop much trade, but 3% is worth 3%.5. Merchants and their consumers are on the same team. If merchants get hit with fraud they either pass it on to the legit consumers or they go out of business.6. Of course they can be stolen.  That would be an insane price to pay for clean coins.  Ha, didn't know that was there. Memory lane. It's not just the default client. The protocol requires a complete input to be spent. Way more likely for the graph to be in error than explorer and .info. A lot of people need cash for various reasons. If they can get cash for bitcoin easily they'll hold more coin and be more likely to be willing to work or sell for it.  The big Sunday game is coming up! 6pm ET, that's like 2 hour and 15 minutes. You beat me to it, I just checked the addresses, it's not bad yet, but I think it's a sign of things to come. Be really carefully who you send to. Yes, I think you'll miss both markets doing it the way you originally proposed. People who want to buy silver don't want to buy it at a specific time far away from now and people who want to speculate don't want to be forced to take delivery or risk having to sell below market to convince someone else to. Continual with redemption is best imo.I think making shipping fees separate as TT suggested is fine as long as you commit to a fee schedule and a period of notice for changing that. Monday or Tuesday. The rate of increase will decrease (in about 4 months) but it will still be an increase. You can edit the post if you want. And even delete the separate post.  There is obviously some incentive to hurt bitcoin when you owe hundreds of thousands of them. Any real hurt certainly will lower the value of what you owe. But if he had some inside info or ability why wait to freaking long? I don't think he has any intention like that whether he is legit or not. He obviously meant computations/btc What I learned is that molecular structure ain't nothing but a thang.http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ABm7DuBwJd8&feature=relatedIt is enjoyable. Beyond quality issues it seems like the sender would also have to include the outgoing postage, insurance, and handling fee in order to keep the "1oz delivery included" definition. Also this could get to be a lot of managing work. It might be good to have 'registered' silver shippers working with the issuer/organizer. You are saying you think scalability the less important?I think it's more important when I consider worst case scenarios, but mostly I think we have plenty of time until it becomes a real problem and a nice GUI for multi-sig would be awesome. Hmm, I'm pretty sure it would be fine, it just wouldn't be exactly a future.. it would be... I don't know what to call it but it seems natural. You'd just be buying the right to an ounce (or 5) any time. Ask Nefario I guess.I don't think I'd ever want to take delivery (unless the price persisted in being 'wrong' on the low side) but I'd definitely like to participate in trying to profit by helping get the price 'right'. So I'm pretty interested.I've taken a casual glance at other threads mentioning things like this, but I don't think they had delivery on reasonable terms like you intend. You are doing 8 worth 5oz each right? Is the reason for not doing 1oz the shipping and handling hassle? It might be fine to just require 5 or more to get delivery.Have you considered letting it run continually (delivery any time)?
Tell us more. What the hell do you need an alternative for? You apparently have magic money, just go enjoy it. Maybe it's weaklings driving this rally, but I'd think most of the big players know that this kind of crap happens with websites and that's why bitcoin is awesome. Maybe it will remind a big player that the big exchange can be overthrown pretty easily. Hopefully all the other exchanges get a little extra action out of this too. It was a hugely epic day. Like a $3, 40% swing or something. It got caught in a pretty short loop I think, like a few minutes long. Same bug they had like 6 months ago. Meh, it helps for sure, but I don't use it. I don't mean I don't use 'the system' at all, but they can't tell that I use bitcoin without considerable digging. And if they did cut me off it would cost maybe 5% and some headache at most to manage. Especially an org like wikileaks could pay some expenses in coin and could OTC for the rest.I run a site, admittedly not a huge site, with all income earned and expenses paid in coin. We could scale up a lot without that changing. I'm not saying wikileaks could do that, but they don't seem to even be interested in being financially independent. Regardless of their funding method 20 anonymous phones for $5000 sounds like something government would do. Is it so hard to have 50 volunteers mail multiple burners to multiple places, use some and randomly give some away? I'm obviously judging from way outside so I could be way off base. But I think they have big serious organization syndrome. I mean they stopped doing the one thing that they are about to focus on getting funds and they're just burning up funds during that time.They want to have a fight about being included in the old system. It's way stronger to say "Ok, have your shit system we can manage without you". That's what will bring down the corrupt system, not finding a loophole that you can use for 3 months or something. Also, can they even keep the funds safe? But that's not what backing is. Backing is a promise to give something worth more for something worth less. Backing is for worthless things like paper. Not bitcoin or gold. "We are forced to temporarily suspend publishing whilst we secure our economic survival,""...We cannot allow giant U.S. finance companies to decide how the whole world votes with its pocket. Our battles are costly."Spending donations to pay yourself while you find more donations is certainly a strategy. And it is their choice in a sense as to how to spend already donated money. But it is everyone else's choice to keep giving.imho they'd raise a hell of a lot more by sticking with a payment method that doesn't require the permission/consent of their enemies and showing that they can actually do real work with funds from that source.He's obviously looking for a fight about money instead of a solution about money. He's not serious. So the theory is that people will make a bid inside of the range instead of just making no bid at all?Because forcing it to stay in a range where no one wants to bid won't help you cash people out at all. When you run out of liquidity inside the range that's it, 0 way to force close anyone out. Either way 5% is way too tight for bitcoin in december right now. I think it will happen. In the meantime it is a guarantee that the chain can't get to some stupid size overnight.It's no catastrophe, just means that some people will start to economize, not make 1 cent deposits and tiny bets to places or send their money back and forth for 'practice'. Lol, they all get their info from Gox because that's where the info is made, no conspiracy, relax.The out of range price is because Gox doesn't have good matching software, it's been happening for 2 years. Milestone coming up today. We'll be just 1 million coins away from the drop. Yeah, I thought it was clever and then I realized it is just "bitcoin trade dot com" so surely it is taken. BitInstant is a great company. The service you are using is a little bit new, but you will get help and it will get solved. I can't agree. I know exactly what I owe and it's not hard to understand what is going on. It's just plain ridiculous to complain about Bitcoins anonymity compared to cash. I mean come on, my grandma can't be bothered to wear a cloak, mask and gloves out in public so paper USD is rather a fail for her too. I dunno, it's not Monday. +1 you ain't seen nothing yet.It's going to be huge and there are going to be awesome solutions for all needs. Yes, er, maybe, but either way, we know what happens later.
God, we need BitcoINtrade so bad. I'd love to own a piece and/or help run it. Such a pervasive and silly idea. It's like Tom Sawyer getting his friends to paint fences, but for decades. Sounds like they've been spending donated bitcoins to fight to get old methods back.  I own gold and think it's great. But it is already valued really really highly. There is hardly room for value growth at this point. Any major price increase will be because of a depreciating dollar. Bitcoin is so small and new that a few guys learning about it could double demand. Earth would need to spawn a new densely populated moon for that kind of demand increase in gold. If I understand correctly the broker will give you cash for selling the stock you borrowed and you only have to leave part of it behind. The rest could go build your BTC position. It doesn't matter, you still drive up the price because you keep those coins from going to market. Even if you find some coins that would never sell at market but will sell to you the person they'd be selling to otherwise now has to go to market. Even if that person refuses to go to market they now either gobble up some coins that would have gone to market or they push some other person who cares less into the market. It isn't clear, but it's all connected. Demand is demand. Close enough? :-) We'll just have to wait for them to come out I guess. Really sorry, bear with us a bit longer. You didn't even need to sign up, just listen. I think there were some streaming problems today, but most people did get it working. Sorry you missed it.radio.donkdown.com:8000/radio.m3u can get the stream in a player instead of browser. Hey misc, interested in action on the BTC/gold ratio at the end of the year? We could make a straight bet on it (50BTC?) or we could do a future swap deal at the current rate (175BTC of yours for 1oz of mine?). Easiest to just settle in BTC, but I do have the ounce in case you disagree with kitco price by that time or whatever. DonkDown.com is hosting a 5BTC freeroll tonight at 10:30pm ET. Get the password by listening to DonkDown.com/radio at 10pm ET. Yes please do. I just ran in to an 'economist' on a bus while wearing a bitcoin shirt and had to listen to him explain that Bitcoin would fail because bitcoins would be too valuable (which would make them worthless, doh). Ah ha, there must have been transactions -from- your wallet since last attempt correct?You must have a wallet with a ton of small tx. When you made another tx it used up some of the (probably slightly) larger inputs and so now you need even more of those tiniest inputs to make up .15.You are using up a relatively large amount of system resources for tiny amounts so you either need to pay for it or wait a while. Don't you mean .0005? That's not how it works. As Bitcoin grows the nominal amount in each address will tend to flatten out and yours and other early lost addresses will become the highest. Rather depressing   The value of a thing is what it costs to destroy it? Can I have your house for a match a gallon of gasoline? Are you all sure it isn't just arrrbitrage? I don't think he necessarily violated #17. Maybe he tipped himself for a live shower performance of "I'm a Survivor". Next day he uses the tip he earned to do whatever he wants.Now if someone else ran their card and he gave that person bitcoins for it, that would violate #17. Is it a difficult process?I'd read the large number of withdraws to mean that the coins are already there.
I wouldn't say it is obvious at all considering that the first time I used it the bonus was paid to the destination address.It really doesn't make sense for the coin to go back where it came from. At the very least there needs to be a warning to not send from a web wallet.Now I see what you mean though. If I want to send 20BTC to Joe I'll accidently overpay if the bonus is included. But this isn't a good way to pay someone looking for a specific amount anyway because it gets broken up. Plus even now that the bonus is not included it doesn't equal exactly the full amount so you'll be short on any specific amount. This service (as currently set up) is for sending to yourself or to a site that doesn't care about the exact amount, deposit to poker site etc. Also the network provides more than transactions. It acts like a nearly unlimited number of secure vaults. I did this again and this time I got the bonus, but it went back to the address I sent from! That needs a warning for sure.To be clear, only the bonus went back, the principle is landing in the destination address now. Usually yes, but that one is ok. Totally agree: btccharts.com I don't know, but we're talking 1 million. Maybe he found it in the cushions of a really big comfortable couch.  Makes a little sense. He hears about bitcoin, super excited, excited enough to realize he should open his goddamn mouth until he has all he wants. Timing works for that. Right, because a bucket shop was going to suppress the value of the best money ever created. Yeah, maybe the media will pick it up when we top the old high.  Yeah, it was truly insane last summer. I like to look at the all time Gox logarithmic chart for perspective. The slope (on a log chart!) is really steep. Compare to how flat this current liftoff from $5 looks.http://bitcoincharts.com/charts/mtgoxUSD#tgSzm1g10zm2g25zvzl Not to be a conspiritard, but maybe they are actually telling the truth and only a few percent of withdrawals got delayed? Myriad has been getting Martingaled! With the current limits and starting at .01 there is room for 10 doublings.For the small wagers the fee is just 1%.I am willing to temporarily raise the limits too, I just don't want to leave too much exposed permanently since the site is only lightly tested. What would I buy them with? I only have coins. So do those walls imo. That's like a big flashing message that he'll make it worth your time to dig those keys out of storage.What would you do if you wanted to buy a half mil worth of coins right now? Gotta get the word out. On July 4th (America day, lol) you could buy around $6.50, now a million dollars is willing to sit at gox trying to get coins for $7+. It's on imo. Lol, I'm such a dummy, how'd I miss that. It's so obvious. I don't know if it helps for what you are doing but you can approximate compounding by the second with the continuous compounding compounding formula.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Compound_interest#Continuous_compounding That doesn't seem right. The borrower will have to buy back just as much as they sell. I have to click and go do something else and come back later to see if it accepted my request to do something or see another page. This can't be caused by legitimate usage of the current userbase, it is constant and way beyond what a few thousand people should be causing. I'm a total noob, but I think it's loading up and even calculating data that it doesn't need to on every page load. Why does it flash me a huge list of previous trades(?) all the time and then not even show that after the load is finished?I hope it gets fixed soon, I don't see an alternative. I did get the bonus 11 confirmations later on the 3BTC, but when I did 120BTC I haven't gotten the extra .5% after 60 confirmations.
I don't see why Gox would do this but you could conceivably have a third party handle your hot wallet and in that case the coins would go to the hot wallet handler. As annoying as it is it doesn't seem like Gox' responsibility to sort that sort of thing out. Ohh, I just saw it was 17 coins, good luck. users ~= [days since block 0]^1.6 60BTC again. By overlay I don't mean extra above the 60, just that the 60 represents that much more than was actually paid by players meaning you have fewer villains to defeat for the same prizes. There were 24 players this week, so we added the 12BTC to make it 60. We'll forgive you because the poll is kind of silly. I also think it will happen within a decade, and within 5 years, and within a decade. Twenty minutes to the 60BTC, currently a 30BTC overlay. Go get it. I tried this out with 3BTC expecting 3.015 back. So far I've gotten 2 tx back that total 2.9996. Was I charged the miners fee twice or am I just waiting for another tx of .0154?Will it ever happen that it switches from bonus mode to charging mode after an address to pay is generated? Or does the right to a bonus stick with any address generated during bonus time? If all the bitcoins (lets say 12mil) were worth the same as all apple stock it would mean a bitcoin price of $47000. $7.50 and $100 not looking so high with that in mind.  :-)Where does it end! Considering the people with access and responsibility couldn't handle deciding who to pay I don't think any outsider is going to fare any better. I know it isn't the same as giving to all Bitcoinica customers, but I think you can't go too far wrong paying the 5000 to Memory Dealers. His claim is clearly true, and if somehow people are paid in full or close he can be trusted to return it to you or someone else who can do the right thing.If it seems too unfair to you or to other Bitcoinica customers you could just donate it to a trust to be controlled by Memory Dealers to be used for the benefit of Bitcoin in general. That ought be pleasing to MD since that's what he wants the coin for anyhow.Really it is your money, but since you publicly pledged it to Bitcoinica users maybe it is too much like renigging on that, maybe gauge sentiment first. Don't you really want to print it yourself since it has the private key right there? One rouge employee with a camera could do a lot of damage.  I just mistakenly paid rakeback a day early. So Sunday the 15th will get added to next week, and there will be an hour or so (midnight ET to ~1am) that will get paid double. The first time that happened I didn't sell (Yay me!)The second time that happened I didn't sell (Yay me!)The third time that happened I didn't sell (Boo!) Really? Sell on pirate default? It seems to me that a pirate default reveals there to be fewer coins that previously though and should push the price up. Maybe moreso if he first struggles to buy the coins he owes.I'd be pretty damned concerned if BFL or similar said "actually, we're going to keep these and mine" and then the difficulty trippled. Or if double spends past 1 confirm became common. I'd probably have to sell a good chunk.CNN claims "Bitcoin is a Ponzi Scheme" doesn't scare me at all. Other media will love to ridicule them and demonstrate the differences. Plus so few people who are holding coin will believe. And even if only a small percent of non-holders figure it out and become holders that will be a huge number compared to current holders. If I had free cash I might buy on a story like that. Not to mention that a story like that doesn't come out of the blue and probably indicates increase top-level concern about bitcoin proliferation. I will ** it for next time. There was short notice for it this week so it didn't get a turnout. This one will stay at the same time, but we'll keep the whole globe in mind as we develop the schedule. There is a transfer feature in the playing software and that is the faster way. In the lobby click Account then Transfer chips. If you want to save an amount that is meaningful to you learn how to safely handle your own wallet. If you convenience for a small amount use an e-wallet. You might want both.  We put up a 1000 chip (1BTC) tourney for 6pm ET on Saturday.Stay tuned for more. And don't miss the guarantee on Sunday. DHMO really deserves a whole new thread. That stuff kills a lot of people.  I dunno if it is 'false' if it is the best way to solve a problem. It may be 'undone' soon, or maybe not, if the thief also considers it a solution to the long term storage problem. I'm thinking 6am ET which would be 3amPT and 7(?)pm in AUS?
Get some sun if you can. I hate to say it, but it almost has to be up from here, right? I have no idea about the particular technology you mention, but your implication is dubious no matter what it is.What we can do has been governed closely for a few millennial, it's not remotely like being free. Government invested in and then abandoned some great technology and that's the fault of restricted individuals? Well.. if it is going up insanely fast while Satoshi is unloading it'll really get interesting when he's finished. That's pretty much my point. You can't tell easily what size/type of business can 'fit' in bitcoin now and you can't tell the effect. Though I am quite confident that someone trying to jam 70 million dollars into bitcoin and/or opening up a huge market would have a positive influence of the price, I just have no idea by how much. I don't have tips for destroying Bitcoin, but if you want to destroy a bitcoin send to 1BitcoinEaterAddressDontSendf59kuE. yes <3 bansky Ideal time for you would be Aus evening? Yes, bigger tournaments soon for sure.There is the Nightly which is 525 chips and the midnight rebuy which is 100 chips per rebuy too. Got mine too, didn't take that long really. Not really, it's totally different things. It could be that there is currently one untaken offer to buy 1BTC for $7.20 and no others whatsoever, or there could be an incredible depth above $7, both would show the same "market cap" but it would be very safe to hold coins in the latter situation. I did. Do you know how long till I should get an email?It would be cool if they displayed how many and how much they received via bitcoin. 1000x is a ridiculously high requirement. I think 10x is plenty if the chance that you want to exchange rapidly to legacy money is low, which it would be for someone worried about having it all seized. 1x is actually pretty close to where it needs to be imo to start making the move considering the amount that you would expand it by yourself and the outside demand that would likely follow the example. I selected bitcoin and entered 1 for amount since I read that was what you needed to get the extra game. On the next screen it said to donate $5 more to gain access to extra content. So I assumed the blank meant "dollars worth of bitcoin". So I made it 6 and now it goes to the bit-pay screen asking for 6BTC. Someone who has their ear ought get them to clarify what is going on from the very first screen.edit: also, very awesome We take a rake from cash games and there is a fee on tournaments. Income is variable, but we consistently cover expenses and promos. No maintenance happening now. Did it work after a reload? Working fine when I test and no other complaints. If the reload doesn't work try clearing browser cache, closing browser and try again. Ugh, that's such a terrible model. Already CPUs and random GPUs can't make much, and it sets people up to think Bitcoin is a thing that slows down your computer and doesn't actually get you anything valuable inside of a decade. The underground economy is huge now when it is extremely limited by using paper issued by governments in place of money. Bitcoin certainly has a chance at growing the underground economy by a lot.  You think Bitcoin is the answer? But what about mountain hours? I think it is just that anyone paying attention knows there was 20-40k that kept popping on and off, but does actually sell some. When the price broke through we didn't know if those coins would pop up at 7.50 or 7.00 or even lower so there was hesitancy. Now we know (for now). And 7.10 isn't a bad price since we did hit 7.25 so it gets a good amount of action. 1@1BTC
I'm genuinely curious about your reasoning and not set against anything. It just looks like solicitation to me, especially in a place where it can't be construed as spreading bitcoin exposure.I don't think 'ridicule' really captures what is going on here. But even if it was there is a huge gulf of positions between ridicule and "everyone needs a public address" and while I currently hold a middling position I'm curious about that view. Why? Nice. You might think about turning it on one block before the difficulty retarget, how much would you make on average? How much would it increase the difficulty on average? My intuition says that since you only affect the difficulty if you find a block it's never worth waiting. You profit more by finding any particular block than the finding of that block will slow you down later.  They play down to 9 players and then finish in November. I have a ton of coins and no dollar income for ideological reasons. That makes buying coffee for bitcoins a practical benefit to me. But yeah, going work--->cash--->bitcoin--->coffee is sillier than work--->cash--->coffee. But work--->bitcoin--->cash--->coffee might be inferior to work--->bitcoin--->coffee Yeah yeah, I know a hard rule wasn't even suggested, just echoing that. I don't think we need a rule per se. But it might be good for people to mention how they perceive it in a place like this thread. Whenever people start using new technology it takes time for norms to develop.When someone post an addy it makes me think that they either rate themselves very highly or are new and bitcoin broke and possibly regular broke too. The exception is when someone or something they've built is actually awesome and Armory/etotheipi comes to mind. I think that's the only sig addy I've given to in the last year. He said "Liberty Reserve" I think you missed the 2000BTC crowd. MtGox is buggy, it has been sending info and/or executing trades incorrectly intermittently for 2 years. Police haters? I'm pretty sure the people you are talking about would feel the same way about anyone who did that sort of thing, it just happens that most of the time that is people wearing police costumes. Yes, I think it is getting slower lately. I think it loads a lot of unnecessary history on all pages and in an inefficient way. Not another guarantee, but I am willing to try new things on the schedule. Maybe a 1BTC "warm-up" on Saturday at the same time (6pm ET)? If you spend $1000 worth of hardware and electricity inefficiently searching for aliens then you can tell yourself you helped $1000 worth. But if you spend $1000 inefficiently on bitcoin mining and get $900 worth of coins you can only really tell yourself that you lost $100. It used to make you pick an exchange, but now you can choose bitcoin to email via coinapult to get them direct to email. I haven't personally done it, but it sounds really simple. There is a $1 fee for that according to bitinstant's fee page. Coinapult itself is a free service. Yeah, money is the fairest sort of power there is. Unlike political power you have to part with it to use it. You hand it off to someone else in even measure to what you want them to do for you. Not near as much distinction when the ability to produce money for nothing is a political power, but it applies to good money. I saw, congrats! I'll cover BitInstant fees if you forward the BitInstant receipt email to admin@sealswithclubs.eu and include your username. That makes BitInstant the best way for sure.This is not an official thing, but I will do it for a while.  I think part of the problem is that people don't know that if you are in a subforum and search only that subforum is searched.
Did this just happen? I have a bid out but my available balance is the same as my total. Ha, I predict only 26, even more overlay!But regardless, first place is always over 20BTC, not too shabby. The locations are mostly defaults, there aren't actually hundreds of players from Krakanow and New Krakistan :-)If you suspect cheating please send specifics to admin@sealswithclubs.eu A few weeks ago Nefario said this was coming. Someone said it would be a game changer, I agree. They aren't irrelevant to the people who lost them.This isn't one of those "OMG, people will lose coins and it will ruin Bitcoin" posts. He just wants to hear personal stories. You play a bunch of hands, you come out ahead, how much? You dunno, it's random./OT It might be insignificant to you that I don't go around initiating violence, but there are people including myself who find it quite significant. Do you initiate violence? Are you posting them manually? This feels like one of those math proofs of statements that are trivially true and I have no idea what kind of argument would be required. It's just a way to live, like vegetarianism or celibacy. If you live it you live it if you don't you don't. Even if you get an edge the outcome of each hand is random. And even if you are talking about the long run to the point where you are sure to win your exact result will vary widely.  Finding out that coins are missing doesn't hurt Bitcoin unless it happens to reveal some previously unknown fault. This will happen over and over as long as bitcoin is used. What would hurt is if whenever it turned out coins were being double counted Satoshi magiked some more into existence to make everyone whole. Since that can't happen Bitcoin will be fine.e You can see the addresses that the coin or fractions of it go to, but you need 'off the chain' info in addition in order for it to mean anything. blockchain.info and blockexplorer.com are two places to look. To be clear, they don't have any special privilege they simple help you view the info that anyone can download using the standard Bitcoin client.edit: I just saw you have 1500 posts and might know this and be asking something else. Blackjack is not random? I don't know what Buffett thinks about, but if he is usually running in to a limit of what % of this company do I want instead of what % of my assets do I want in this company then it doesn't really apply to him. It would be like a millionaire playing penny poker. If the limit is lower than Kelly would recommend anyway then it doesn't matter. But every small competent investor at least makes an intuitive approximation of Kelly Criterion. I'm by no means a trader, but I do have assets and I don't put -all- of them in the one thing I expect to preform the best.  A few days ripeness is nothing at a poker table. :-) I'm sorry to hear.Do you think you would feel opposite though if your family member was killed by an American soldier? It is at least 100 blocks in because generates are not 'confirmed' until then. And the standard client doesn't let you spend them for 120 blocks. I bet he played with a private testnet first though so he probably wasn't in a hurry to test that. All of those games have chance. Swing at the monster.... miss. Swing at the monster... hit! Monster drops.... a dry bone or a dirty rag or a pile of gold!The government goes after what the people in government want to go after.  Those two sentences are badly contradictory. In the 'real world' only zero or one party needs to agree.Maybe some resolutions could be done here, but trying to mimic old systems will disappoint everyone. People who want something new and better won't care about it and people who want the same coercive style won't be able to get it here. If you can connect directly then the offer from the third party can be declined (unless they are violent or something) and you are no worse off. If you cannot connect directly someone might be able to help you.That is intended as support for paypal-ish companies, not paypal, paypal can burn, they are holding 200 gov dollars hostage.
I guess people should make a new address, but there might be circumstances where they don't want to or can't do that. For example a July fundraiser by a site that wants to use the same address as always for transparency. Maybe have a checkbox for "disregard previous payments to this address"? Looks very nice.It seems to already have BTC, USD, EUR, GBP, CNY, and CAD. http://bitcoincharts.com/charts/mtgoxUSD#igHourlyzczsg2011-06-8zeg2011-06-11ztgSzm1g10zm2g25zcvzlThat chart makes it look like it didn't break $32 on gox. I'm sure it did elsewhere, but I don't know what should count really, not that it is super important, $39 is just a lot more than I usually hear as the figure. I was going to mention the generation chart. Seems I actually did mention it.Where did you get the $39.91 peak? Your conclusion is correct. Nice, but why 1-3 days? I assume that means it is manual, but 24 hours ought be more than enough right?Showing current prices in btc would be cool. That is fascinating. I'd love to see the code. admin@sealswithclubs.eu is the best way. Division by two is very simple and clear to code, that's something. Is it a checking account? What if you made a check out to cash and someone brought it in to your bank? Are they really not going to honor that? I really don't know. But it seems like big news if a lot of customers can't write their own money out as checks over $3k.Wait, what do you mean "not my bank, but a local one" usually "my bank" just means you have an account with them. Do you not have an account with this bank? That is a good idea, thanks. I just raised limits by about 5x. You can bet .01BTC to win 19.70BTC right now. Politicians never betray me, they aren't on my side even temporarily.  BitInstant just started doing this for 6%. That gives reason to mine, but no reason to include your feeless tx. Maybe the equilibrium is lower fee, but it isn't clear why that would be.Big flaws I see, as mentioned, people will just opt for bitcoin and supposing many opt for it for some reason 4.4% of the economy will always be dedicated to mining, which is outrageous long term. I don't think anyone can know in advance the exact right amount, but for a world dominating currency my guess is that .1% is more than enough. That's a nice idea. I think playing via email would be more enjoyable than through TOR.Heh, now I'm thinking about email poker. You could have a site or sites that helped manage your hands, but make it all work via email in case the helper sites got shut down. Super insecure right? Have to train everyone to use GPG. I'm not seriously doing this, it would be ridiculous. Though slow poker in general ought get more love, in a studying sort of way. I guess no one wants to play with people who are obviously training though, would be a pretty flimsy ecosystem. I want an Oreo type cookie that you roll open to reveal the private key.Don't eat that cookie! The Hat-Trick Jackpot tournament is ending which means the full amount is up for grabs instead of just half. The game is at 1am ET and more info is at http://sealswclubspromotions.blogspot.com/There is a new Midnight Rebuy game at midnight eastern time. It costs 100+8 chips to enter and if you bust in the first half hour you can rebuy for 100 chips. You can also rebuy whenever you are below the starting amount.Seals chips are bitmills. 1000 chips = 1BTC Still, the government essentially saying that they are worried about Bitcoin and Bitcoin poker and that Bitcoin is valuable would be pretty huge. Really I hate to say that things are impossible, but poker behind TOR is pretty close. Does anyone know any gambling games behind TOR now? Simple ones would be possible, but I suppose there isn't much demand. Though I suppose SD can be played over TOR! And the site could be reposted there easily I'd think. Technically... the rest of them. But really just a few times the normal amount in a day will send difficulty skyrocketing and bring it back to the average amount quickly.
Congrats guys. No one will use it anymore, it'll be like marijuana.   Marketing is our short and medium term focus. We are testing an affiliate program now, email affiliates@sealswithclubs.eu if you want to help with that.Poker software is not a simple project, and pouring money in does not guarantee good results. I don't think the tens of thousands that we probably could raise on GLBSE would suffice. I expect better bitcoin poker software will come from someone(s) that have the right skills and are passionate about the project or from some company that already has top quality poker software available to it.Poker Stars software is superb, I have played several million hands on it and I love(d) it. It cost them millions of dollars and I expect over a million dollars/year to maintain and improve. You can't get that quality for cheap. I really hope a big player makes it happen before long. I think it is inevitable. Seems quite a task to stop players from placing wagers as observers. It also opens the possibility that they'll bet against themselves. The hank-panky will occur.Backgammon +1 What do you need help with? People are really pretty helpful here.The little guys comprise muck more than 49% so I think you must be confused. I sell because I spent all my dollars on coins and now earn only coins. I think chess variants are a pretty good solution to that. At least it will narrow the cheaters from "anyone with Chess Master" to programmers with skills. Who exactly owes me for stolen cash?If anything, the point you mention is a similarity with cash. Sent you a PM. Let me know if it is still giving you trouble after you read that. Yeah, I was astonished that I got the same (well similar) problem with fresh everything. It was ubuntu 12.04, probably not that tested yet.I did find a gavin/dooglus convo somewhere about which wallets where causing this with what frequency with which versions. So it is somewhat known. But everything fresh is odd and I've not seen it reported. Thanks for your help guys. For now I'll just have to boot into windowz occasionally. "You know how good tech is like magic? Bitcoin is magic."In 2010 I wanted to tell people all the details I knew. I don't think it's a coincidence that so few people used bitcoin that year.But if you have to say more maybe:All we really need is a ledger. Bitcoin lets everyone participate in keeping that ledger correct, new coins go to people who devote computing power to help with this. No onehas a special position. Anyone can use Bitcoin and no one can close their accounts. In windows now on the original machine, 90k blocks and counting with no problem. So I closed, loaded wallet in, it seems to rescan automatically, sees all my unconfirmed tx, and is getting more blocks now.So I would be sure that is was a disk problem or a ubuntu problem, but then what was the deal with my other computer with everything completely fresh? Very puzzling. Decided to use a different computer. Fresh OS (Ubuntu 12.04), fresh bitcoin install, fresh wallet, got to 50k or so blocks and gives me the same error. WTF is going on?Actually error is a little different.EXCEPTION: 11DbExceptionDB::put: Cannot allocate memorybitcoin in ProcessMessage() Yes, also fails.The error has changed, not just when trying with a blank wallet:EXCEPTION: 11DbException       Db::open: Cannot allocate memory       bitcoin in Runaway exception       It seems to always be at exactly block 43788. I clicked the "detach on shutdown option" then closed bitcoin, waited, opened it again, same problem. (Something Gavin said made me thing maybe I have to actually shutdown the computer, do I?) It also seems to be jumping ahead in how many blocks it reports having when the error happens. It was at like 25k, one minute later I looked again and it said 43k and had that error. If you think making coins in long term savings disappear adds value then go make your own chain with that 'feature' to show it.  Hmm, this happens even when I don't load files in though. I delete everything, put a wallet in the dir, it loads up, downloads ~40k blocks and gives that error. Will try it anyway. I can't stop getting this error: EXCEPTION: 11DbException        Db::open: Invalid argument        bitcoin in Runaway exceptionIt started when I tried to open a version 3 wallet with version 5. After clearing everything I got it again, then again after clearing everything and using 0.6.2. Then again using the version 5 wallet I've been using.Usually I'm getting it about 40k blocks into the download. I'm using ubuntu 11.10. Plenty of memory and disk. I have had problems with memory before (FF leaking memory I think), but I don't have any other symptoms of that now. The scheme is not changing. The current scheme is a constantly falling rate of inflation with discontinuities. 
Yeah. There have already been forks with little power or interest. They could have stupidly called themselves Bitcoin also.  Also, even a majority of miners playing by new rules won't change the fact that merchants will still want the real thing. Bitcoin isn't valuable because miners burn up energy mining it, it is valuable because merchants will give you something you want for it. What do you say when they ask to see your huge stash of screwdrivers?! :-) Really? Some governments promise to redeem their paper for gold then break that promise. Now if they promise it again you'll go for it?Why would you drop coins for paper backed by even a credible promise of gold, but you don't drop coins for actual gold which you could get now? I suppose the paper gold would fly through the tubes better than actual gold, is that it or something else also? The government can easily get away with calling things by their wrong name (defense, lol), but it won't change the fact that the 'bitcoins' the government sends you won't work. So you expect BFL needs the bucks right away? And that people are buying these mostly with coins they already have, and that they don't want to replace the coins? That's a good one, but still, a bitcoin private key can fit on... maybe... one hundred millionth of the space of a few ounce drive? And there are already keys that have been worth millions of dollars. With more valuable bitcoin and even smaller storage of the very few bits required the potential is going to be leagues ahead of everything else. Auction!Or just start with a very high price and start to drop it as orders slow down. Lol, it seems to me that he's kidding, but I'm not sure. Damn, half a million followers. Nice mention. Backing is crap. Backing is a promise that usually gets broken. Who do you believe? Who do you trust will always be willing and able to pay? What other thing do you even want? What will back it?I'd rather just have the useful thing itself. That's -really- unlikely. When people realize that they can actually do stuff with coins it makes them go get even more. He probably feels much better about buying a (historic) pizza with bitcoins than spending dollars on pizza which could have gotten him bitcoins. And the amount bad he feels about both is probably negative. Welcome.I don't think it makes much sense to have 1000 people donate to you so you can donate a bitpenny to EFF, who I think stopped accepting coin anyway.Seems better to me to get yourself some and keep or spend without obligation. https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=74046.0 Potential. There is no way everything required for one billion US banker bucks to be delivered fits on an SD card. Totally possible for a billion dollar value string (bitcoin key) to fit on a tiny fraction of any card. And that is all you need. Ok, maybe you need the transaction prepping software, but that is small also and rather ubiquitous even now. 'Official' lite client at some point? Most potential value density is a string of text.Water, lol. Make sure you save those tears. Something I like to remember is that bitcoin makes a much better savings money than any government money ever and a better spending money than gold. That is a killer combination. It seems possible that in the very long run it will hold more value than all government money and all gold combined. Then after that there is the fact that the world's wealth tends to grow anyway so there will be more wealth to store. Then on top of that bitcoin will likely increase the rate of the growth of wealth in the world because it allows easier trade and more incentive to accumulate wealth to save. Yeah, what the hell is going on? I bought some coins 2 years ago and those ones are only up 10000%. I was fully expecting 100000% by now. Satoshi's paper was lame?n/m I understand now. It was stupid and confusing of the meme guy to call it a white paper. I don't think so. A mathematical breakthrough could mean that fewer operations are required than previously expected. Nothing wrong with that, but they usually find the good stuff to regurgitate. This is true. Ever notice how there are always spikes?
Lol, thief can engineer a double spend, but not wear gloves. Lucky for us! Better to let them sit a while and get nothing during the first period they are available? Did you do the math on that? Thanks, that makes sense. What? How did that happen? Where was the government?edit: did the victims at least get the protection money back? Yes, and most people will use a 'wallet' currently known as a light node and stop using 'banks'. It just lets them know they are getting into more than they might want. It enables you to do those things with funds you provide. Just like a building downtown and 20 employees can accept deposits and give out loans.I think 'bank' is closer than 'wallet' but still not perfect. Maybe some suggest the NAP should be a law, but I just use it as a way to live and a way to determine who I want to avoid. And my (current) chosen way to live allows me to chose whether to defend or not. I don't have an obligation.Regarding property, I consider things mine to the extent that I can defend them. I don't buy property (houses, land) because I don't think I can defend it well enough (own it well enough) to be worth the cost. Why would people mine this other chain? If it has lower hashing power is everyone trusting it more susceptible to double spends somehow? The Sunday 60BTC guarantee is in less than an hour! Leave is disabled during a hand though so maybe you should just put the amount on the table and a link back to the table. Or I suppose check to see if a hand is in progress and make it a "back to table" button if so and a "leave table" button otherwise. Oh sorry, I get it. I thought you just didn't want people to know. That makes sense, maybe "++1.1" for broadcaster only or something.  It is totally optional on the part of the sender to say into chat "+1.1" before sending the 1.1. Do you know when they'll actually be in the store? Should I look now? I don't think it went down at all. Is it working for you know? Not really. One person could buy as much as everyone combined sells and the effect on price would be the same. And buying and selling are always equal in terms of amount sold.The price went up because people value it more (with respect to supply), that's how a free market works. I found an internal server error.Open the game in two windows, buyin in both of them, leave in one, make a bet in the remaining one. Ah, I missed that, but it is a reasonable place. "Leave" doesn't seem right at all the more I think about it. When you click it it welcomes you, which is odd for a leave button. And it's normal function is for adding chips. What did you get on the next hand? A distinction ought be made between the average and marginal costs of a transaction. It certainly can make sense to have transactions worth less than the average cost to process if the marginal cost is low enough. 
Whoa, what? The email must have disappeared also.You mean you deposit and never see them? Win a freeroll and never get paid?selaswithclubs@gmail.com and admin@sealswithclubs.eu are both checked very often. Or you can post here or PM me. At least let me know your username and the dates that chips disappeared if you know them. Here's a thought.Make it so that if you type something like "+1.1" (make that invisible I think) and then in the next minute or so a donation of 1.1 comes in it says "SoandSo donates 1.1BTC" And another theory: This is slowly, someone wants 1M+ worth. Maybe they think if they wait it will be higher? plausible imo.  Currently the only way to bring more to the table is to click "leave". Something like an "Add chips" button, maybe even just renaming it? How can I relax at a time like this? Horrifying realization and all. Horrifying. It is totally reasonable to be skeptical about high returns. But the people who are vocal about it are nuts. They do that simple and completely irrelevant calculation as if people or pirate will never scale back no matter how big it gets.Pirate gets to push people out and afaik he actualy does it. So there is nothing exponential even implied here. It's like a standing loan with a standing payout. And when the loan amount goes up because pirate wants more the interest only goes up in exact proportion, linearly.I think a fast BTC price rise is going to bring pain though, I'm watching closely. Oh nice, tyvm. I get a blank pop up when I try to bet zero. My balance on the table is .5, I think this is the issue. Lol, capitals plus exclamation mark, I think you are going to be fine. Now if they had used 4 or more exlaimers it would be a lock. Yeah no fees for using cash my ass, everything I buy costs money! Also it's silly to think that the right way to price is at (or even in some fixed relation to) cost. The main determinant of good pricing strategy is what substitutes are selling for. There usually isn't a good alternative to a specific bridge, ergo higher enough price for you to bitch about. Sheesh. I don't buy 99.9999% of things on offer in the world because I think the price isn't worth it. The services you mention are pretty dumb. So you get different coins with a 'bad' history, big deal. There are tons of sites that let you hold balance and get your money back for free and it's not likely to be the same coins and you can check.But if you feel like being outraged some more I offer to do it for 10%. I think partial verification makes a lot of sense, but you are being ridiculous and counterproductive.Bitcoin is more tested than the vast vast majority of software in existance. Thousands of people trust it for thousands of dollars of value on a continual basis with nearly no problems except bad user error.A super node requires nothing to implement, I'm already running one. Our most recent update has a "refresh table" in the options menu of each table. See if that fixes it.We don't have any immediate plans to change software. Yeah, this not not mania by any means.I suspect a lot of people are thinking something like "Bitcoin is more mature now and won't rise so much this time, 10-50% is a more realistic rise so I'll sell somewhere in that range", then when they are all exhausted we'll get the flare up and eventually settle at the next level up from here..06, .20, 1, 2, 5... 10(?) I spy with my little eye: 40k at 5.70 I briefly had the same confusion about depositing vs bringing money to the table. I think it is only confusing when there is no balance, maybe when balance is zero remove the input blanks and make the instruction to deposit to that address slightly more prominent. I see it says withdrawals take up to 24 hours. I think manual withdrawal is smart, but since they are manual anyway you could allow withdrawal requests even when there are unconfirmed funds. Not a big deal though, just a thought.
Very nice site.One minor thing I noticed. On the edit/account page the only way I noticed to get back to the action is clicking "BitZino" at the top and some people might not realize that's the way. A "Play" or "Blackjack" button on the other side of that top bar could help. Sure, but all it takes is one person with a clue and a lot of money to come in between the last time you check and the end of the betting period to leave you with a bet that you don't want. On top of that, even if you do check in time you have to have more money available to commit. Ha, I never read those as platinum coins, I thought it was more like "mission accomplished, retired" and they were faded out coins. I totally agree. I'm jealous that you got so much borrowing action. Though I suppose I might be able to is I was willing to pay double dividends.I was responding to anyone who thinks the USD price of BTC affects the BTC price of fixed MH bonds. Say bitcoin price doubles and diff stays the same. The bond is worth twice as many dollars, which happens to be exactly the original number of bitcoins.  Lol, I opened this thread, clicked his name, clicked show last posts fully expecting not to see the OP at the top, I was not let down. Wages, ads, promotions, gambling, stocks, servers, domains, gifts, tips, donations.And buttons, candies, candles, coffee, shirts, flags, metals, a certain magazine and more.And everything else online that I buy via a few guys who act as proxies for me.And greasy germy FRNs. Ha sorry, it didn't occur to me to pay her directly for some reason.I think that's a good method for doing multiple bets.I can't believe they are really down 700, that's crazy. I wonder if it was bad luck back when they had a higher max or if there is some problem. I'm 100% serious. But I'm not saying it is always the best way.Imaging you know that Side A is 80% to happen and there is little or no action yet and you don't know how much will end up sitting on each side and you have to make your bet(s) right now (going away on safari for a month).Do you just bet on Side A hoping there won't be more than 80% of the money sitting on side A at the end? I put down 80% of my bet on Side A and 20% on Side B. That way the worst case scenario for me is break even, that would be when other's bets sit 80/20. If there is more on either side I make some (theoretical) profit.Now if you know the result 100%, no uncertainty, at all then you put the money down all on one side (same theory as before it just happens to be 100/0 this time). I suspect a lot of funds that would be doing work like market making are getting sucked up by pirate and the pirate funds. It's a little bit of work to manage market making and some risk and it's not usually going to be as profitable as 28%/month.The big swings are the incentive. I don't think whatever marginal incentive GLBSE could add is going to make much difference.  But does that include what you have on deposit with pirate... oh wait... +1Though if you can use a CC that is a step. SD pays a fee on all tx correct? What fee? Whatever it is x30000 seems meaningful. Keeping the address active for the same wager briefly crossed my mind, but since we reserve funds to be sure we can pay them I don't know how that would work. How do you reckon SD does it? Unlimited loss risk? And go manual when the hot wallet runs out?edit: ohh, what about a "play the same bet again" button to make it reserve the funds one more time? Your word is good for a dozen dimes. Distribute or keep as you like. Thanks for sharing the game with people and keep the feedback coming. Hyper happens from loss of demand for a currency. People keep demanding really shitty currencies when there are no other options, but if bitcoin is usable enough those old currencies could self destruct while they still look healthy compared to breakdown points of the past. I'm too busy staring at it to post it here, but go look at the MtGox all time log graph. It's the longest runway ever. Then why the hell wouldn't the price of Giga adjust? Sorry, we're having some unexpected downtime. I'm working on it.edit: We're back. Minor software update: Refresh table option added for when a table failed to load completely. I went there with bitcoins and I left with all my bitcoins. Sometimes they take them though.But I know I saw a beer store online at one point.
Why not? (Because difficulty is way up, but that's all covered in (2)) With a mining bond the Numéraire is Bitcoin. I don't see how USD matters in the slightest.I don't want to buy a Zimbabwean bond. Do you want to buy caramel candies from Bees Brothers? I got it like 3 times in a row earlier (emailed you about it) while reusing an address and then didn't get it when I tried a new address. Now I can't make it happen. I changed the games to not expire for 8 hours, I was only thinking about delayed payments like from Seals or similar. Forgot that people could get locked longer that way. Change to whatever you like while testing notme. Show on now. Good quality video, usually it skips a ton for me. Just pretend they are yelling about what they expect it to be in the near future. So you are going to hold funds on request from other exchanges? Only exchanges no one else? Will you be telling the victim which exchange froze their funds? Why does (1) matter except for it's potential effects on (2)? MtGox not paying fiat might be very strongly positive in the short term, but it would probably result in extra selling at other markets and off-market pretty quickly. The way possible would be buying bitcoin... Some other really important factors that get lost in a scalar are "how long ago did this person prove trustworthy" and "how likely are they to have let their reputation credentials get hijacked". That makes sense.Still, it's hard to get something so simple to say "Honors their contracts" into something like a number. Like if I see 6/7 what am I to think? Do I really think that 11/11 is the same or even likely at all to be similar to another 11/11 I did business with?Some contracts require nothing more than not being a total scumbag, for example, "I have $100 on dwolla and will send it after you send me 19 bitcoins". Unless I'm a total liar I'm going to uphold it and when you rank me perfectly it means a lot less than something like, "I can deliver XYZ software with A, B, C, D, and E features by time T" That requires proper estimating of the task, ones skill, avoidance of bad luck like illness etc etc. If it is completed it ought be a large boon to reputation and if it only partially fails it doesn't mean the person is untrustworthy with smaller or even similar jobs.It makes me think of the doctor who has a great record because he never takes risky cases.I don't mean to imply that work should not be done on this, just that a complete solution (even for something as simple as "does this person honor contracts" is probably going to evade us forever and tools for managing the information we can get about potential trading partners is a good place to start. Malicious operator is the worst case of the general problem of needing 50% in order to redeem. It's a lot like no redeem-ability at all. I don't know why several people would want to become authorized already. The upside is essentially being able to turn $500 worth of coins into $500 unless there is a large mismatch. Allowing redeem-ability of a small fraction of the total amount of units is the fix, but that might be a headache. MtGox codes is the simplest way I can think of, but then you've got that counter-party risk too so I don't think it's a long term solution. What you describe (religious people giving bad ratings) is a fundamental problem with one dimensional systems. They just won't work as general purpose reputations which are certainly multi-dimensional. An ebay seller rating can be one number because it pretty much just means "Does this person send what they posted".But a general reputation covers so many things. The solution is probably a bunch of different ratings, maybe connected or maybe not.The ultimate answer probably looks a lot like no answer at all, people just making connections and vouching for each other to make new connections. Tools for finding paths of trust of arbitrary types types would be nice. I have a great reputation without being involved in any official reputation systems at all. The bets will get bigger! The balance is actually about 20BTC right now, with bets that win 20% being the max, but like you say the 4BTC is all that matters for brute forcing. If you ever lose a bet you'll be able to bet at least a little bit more the next time, unless someone has reserved some of the balance in between.But, yeah, I just changed it to an hour. Should be good enough. Yes, smart. That's the way. I can't tell what is best, but we should all do it the same and be clear.Want to see what Piuk thinks and then lock it in 'officially'?  Dime sent! Right now no bitcoin magic is happening so that would be for version 2.0.But even them I'm hesitant, I'd need that WARNING showing prominently and still people will mess up. The "Send back to yourself market" is pretty well served too. Paying a multiple of the dividend makes it a bit.. unnatural. I want to be short most mining bonds, but I'd actually like to lend shares if I could get 2x the dividend.Weekly or monthly interest plus the dividend seems good to me. I've made two deals with terms like that.
Yes dooglus, I love it, don't stop.Changed 'confirmations' to 'confirmation'. I dropped the payment address from the after game messages. Logo links now.I don't intend other wagers to be showing, I'll look into hashing the id. Simple hashing won't be enough, maybe the hash of the payment address or something. And if you visit a non existent id's page it should just take you to a new game. I changed "After you pay, click here to see if you won" to "Click here to refresh the status of this game." because that link is still useful after the result shows, it will tell you you've been paid eventually. Seems good? People could get authorized to get actual US dollars from you somehow but only in lots of 500 or more? If you issued only 1000 then you could (via and agent or other account perhaps) buy up 501 leaving only 499. You would make about 500 dollars and never have to do anything and never technically breach anything either. That might happen eventually, but I'm not sure what/how modifications need to be made to send 0 confirm inputs and to select coins. For now I dropped it to 1 confirm though. I know there is demand for this type of thing, a good solution could bring lots of action. So if you release 1000, buy 501 yourself.... no worry about paying?It's nice that there is no fee for 3 months, but as when/if as you announce the fee the people holding will take the hit since the value will reflect it pretty quick. So it seems better to decide up front.This might not be technically feasible, I don't know. But if you (or someone else wanting to) used a bot to always maintain a bid of say 95 cents worth of bitcoin covering all outstanding shares could that avoid the issue of actually sending dollars and also serve as a fee?  Right, I know what you mean. I thought browsers did it on their own (it seems they even do it cross sites sometimes right?) but I guess it needs to be enabled. Me or notme will straighten it out. :-) Hmm, let me investigate. Dimes coming to you and the 3400 guesser! Yeah, I will increase it, I think 15 min for now. I can't just make a new hash silently since that would defeat the promise, I think there has to be notification/action.Let me see about the remembering. I slide the fee like that so I can offer larger wagers than I'd want to take if the fee was flat.Splitting your bet up does help me since you are not likely to win (or lose) them all and so my variance is less and I can invest less capital.When I load up the wallet everything should be about 10x bigger (and maybe more later on). Meaning 10x higher caps and the same odds for 10x higher wagers than currently. Hopefully in less than a day. Thanks dooglus. Keep it coming. RSS feed maybe? I just changed it to say, "After you pay, click here to see if you won!" A few seconds after you pay, click the refresh link. Cool, sent a dime. Bump for the free dimes offer. Are you planning to flip fast and pay 0 or 1 dividend or are you willing to commit to some longer amount of time? Ah, that's nice. You could have had that user publicly accept responsibility. Yes, I borrowed some shares and I've sold some of them. I don't care much for the word 'fair' either. But if you were to place all the various systems in order from fair to unfair, Bitcoin is pretty much the fairest. It always makes the same offer to everyone and the way that offer might change is made as explicitly clear as anything in the world. I mean the 'interpretation' and enforcement of the rules is done by computers.
Agree, but with the caveat that damping the swings in the general market will probably boost the price in the long run from increased confidence, ease of planning and hedging. GLBSE + Bitcoin or even just BTC/USD exchanges are a great way to learn about markets. So much better than "pretend you own this stock magically and we'll see if it goes up or down" which is how 'investing' was taught to me. Using a frozen exchange rate will expose the company to losses by adverse selection. When the rate improves for the user they will/could go to another merchant and only use this company if the rate moves against them. Like you said you can limit it, but then the service doesn't work for the user when it matters most. You could have the sender send directly to an address given to the receiver that corresponds to some code the receiver can use only for getting local currency in the amount fixed at time of bitcoin transfer. SealsWithClubs.eu has a free tournament every hour with .05BTC as a prize. Sometimes there are free tournaments with larger prizes. You are quite fast. Myriad offers flexible bets. You enter the amount you want to bet and the amount you want sent if you win and it offers you odds. You can accept the wager by sending payment.The max bet, win amount and effective fee (lower odds than 'fair') depend on how much is in the wallet. We're testing with real money, but a smaller wallet for now. Because the effective fee is determined by the percent of the wallet you are trying to win the fee will be higher now for the same wager compared to after the wallet is fully loaded up.The games are cryptographically provably fair. We use sha256 to hash [junk, timestamp, our guess] when you first hit the site. After the wager is completed we reveal [junk, timestamp, our guess] and you can check that the guess is the one we committed to at the time you came to the site.Since wins are determined by how close your guess is to ours you don't need to worry about how we select our guess. Please give feedback! And ask questions if anything is unclear.MyriadCoins.comMax bet has been raised! Right now you can bet .01 to win 19.70! When was your last successful login?Have you tried another browser? Do you have another computer to try?Have you installed anything recently that might block a port? There are duplicates of the popular ones and I'll make more if you need a particular one.Auto spawning tables is on the wishlist.We did used to give 10 chips to new accounts and one table has an extra low buy in because of that. Maybe that should be changed, it isn't normal to be able to buy in for that few blinds. So yes, choice of the user for now. I'd still like about 500 more shares of FZB if anyone is interested, paying 1.5% per month, plus transfer fees, plus any dividends. It's fair in that it treats everyone by the same rules. The fact that people bring different resources could be interpreted as an unfairness in the world, but not Bitcoin. Will it also be the size of a CC?Thanks for the update! Lol You could even keep the same account with the rule: after funds are all sent to locked in address (plus waiting period?) you can turn off or reset the second factor. Don't use kalyhost.I think micro-tronix is good. I paid about $16 worth of coin for a domain, but I just clicked all the extra stuff, I think the base price was 9-10 USbucks. Can anyone stop?!  It seems some angel and venture money is starting to come into play. When that is common I'd bet that some realize that their project and the 'inside' knowledge they have about it means bitcoin will be more valuable and pop some money directly into coins too. I used to explain to people how gold was good money because it has divisibility, easily identifiable etc.... and now.. compared to Bitcoin it's just like, just no.I still keep gold though, because it is shiny.  Falkvinging is backing out after making a big public statement. I think you are right, the only reason we don't yet is that the guarantee is semi-manual. I guess that it'll be over or under at some point shortly before it starts and set it appropriately. I've never been wrong, but if I am I'll send the extra prizes manually, which is annoying because it means they would display wrong.But yeah, eventually for sure, and hopefully more than 10BTC! Bitlet not bad.edit: yeah, that's what I'm calling it, bitlet
and http://blockchain.info/address/1BitcoinEaterAddressDontSendf59kuE That's no remotely likely. The coins will usually be going to a safe place not accessable by the on duty clerk. If the customers doesn't want to pay or can't pay the essentially random extra tax are you going to return the coins.. later? different ones? You are not going to have a popular store that way.The only way this would happen is if someone forced stores to do it. And even then they would probably bail on bitcoin unless someone was forcing them to keep using it. That really doesn't matter. If it gets any popularity at all it'll crush Ellet High School and a few long dead guys. I would think most pronounceable 5 letter combinations would have a lot more competition than Ellet.  Right on. All that matters is difficulty. If BTC price goes up then the output of a mining stock is worth more, it cancels. A good choice.It just isn't right to take from some random user because some other user stole from another user. Nearly anyone would get behind something the could take back from the thief, but that's not on the table as a possibility. "How to piss off friends and customers." Let's use this thread to suggest titles for this thread."Confiscating bitcoins from innocent people. But what if there was a large bounty?" I never heard an explanation of the 100/120 difference.  Are fractional shares a real thing?To do auto buys you would want to go to the order book no matter what? It's often pretty thin. I thought I was about to turn 2, but I actually have another month to go!It feels like it has been a decade and I can't imagine life without bitcoin anymore.  SealsWithClubs.eu, StrikeSaphire.com and Switchpoker.com The person who's card you stole gets marked and you pull up the next card and go again.It would be convenient if people could use Visa/MC to transition, but they kind of suck at committing to transfer value. What the hell are you talking about?Why not just keep the whole thing and call it your reward if you are a thief?To break it down one more time. Person A steals and buys candy from Person B who buys sex toys from Person C who tips Stripper D who deposits the money with you (lucky girl). Now you notice that once upon a time someone reported a theft so you confiscate the girl's money and get your reward. (I bet you'll want to subscribe to the service that accepts all reports and offers fat rewards, eh!?)Probably Stripper D, now learning about the various taint reporting sites, goes and reports the same coins to have been stolen by you. But it's not all bad maybe the coins will find their way back to you again and you can claim that reward too. The donkdown show has different and uncertain hours during the WSOP. The tournament will be Tuesday (today!) this week and a 5BTC prize pool. No password, just make sure to register between now and 10:30pm ET. Oh, I keep imagining a plain encrypted file. If all the parts are in place and just the keys are encrypted then I think it makes sense to just pull one. Is the key pool encrypted? Is it easy to tell which are in the key pool? Pull one (for each cracker?) from the key pool and have a contest? Nice idea Tangible. Just out of curiosity is there any theoretical way to put another password on a file before handing it off to someone yet still have them able to know if they've found the original? Oh dooglas, I've been meaning to tell you, your last deposit to Seals was rejected. About 6 steps back some mybitcoin coins got mixed in. So yeah.. please resend your deposit.Since this is serious business I'm not going to assume anything. I'M TOTALLY KIDDING. WE'LL NEVER DO THAT. also reddit.com/r/girlsgonebitcoin and reddit.com/r/decrypto
Not everyone has a linear utility/BTC curve. In many cases 0BTC and .5BTC are very similar in value to someone and you are doing them a big favor by letting them risk their small amount for a big one. Good odds doesn't have to mean positive nominal BTC expected value. It just means good odds relative to other offerings. If you do try that then you are not an honest user.If you say "this item costs 3BTC from any address except 1blehkljf or 1crapjkfd or 1pointlessjkfs5lkj or 1lamejkeil3q or..." then you are nuts but not dishonest I guess. Resistance is futile. That's because it's been done to death on this very forum. The perfect response is now two lines long and 20 posters quoting it.Since you missed the summary: Coins are coins. +another Noob question. You cannot take an address and make a new address that the same private key can use, correct? But this is just because of the hashing going on, if we used pure public/private key pairs that would actually be possible?Regarding identifying the sender generated keys. The sender could notify the receiver out of band, right?I have a feeling like I'm missing something. Yeah, I don't think name servers fit for that reason at least. Though you could have however many addresses you expect to ever have outstanding bills waiting on and reuse them. Maybe you could also register a bunch under one alias like bitMint.112, bitMint.113, etc The intention of the hourly freeroll is to have some activity always going on and to let newcomers try out the software. 100-150 chips isn't going to change the level of play very much, but we do sometimes have 1-10BTC freerolls.Where are you that you think playing poker for bitcoins is illegal? The difference is that you can settle immediately and thousands or millions of dollars of value debts don't pile up resulting in ostracism or murder when someone defaults. Must be a walmart, CVS or 7-11 nearby too right? Give up human! Me too, but I've been genuinely surprised almost constantly for about a year now.  Mmmm, I could really go for a 2bit burger.Someone still thinks bitcoin is a scam, how cute. There is a 'satellite' to the Sunday 60BTC guarantee up. It is 5 players, 400 to enter, one winner gets 2000. That's the perfect amount for buying in to the 60BTC game. I'm about to just let this go, but here's one more shot.A 1BTC (or better, no min) lot size is not to make an expected return of 5 USD cents. It is to make some amount of bitcoins which many of us expect will be very valuable in the future.Low minimums also allow users to get familiar with options and your site without large risk or a large amount of funds tied up.Reducing to 1BTC min also enables 9BTC and 15BTC. I expect it will be quite some time before that amount of liquidity will not be of any use to you. The title needs to be changed imo.  I actually have no technical skill at all. I just had the idea and got SgtSpike to implement it. The blockchain.info implementation was done separately.I'll find out about sendmany and let people know.I do not think integration into the main client is a good idea. Firstbits is risky, a typo costs real money. Satoshi integration is too much of an endorsement for new users to start using it without really thinking about it. It accommodates all types by not offering 1BTC lot?You've got a bootstrapping problem. Few people are going to jump in first for a larger amount.  Yes, I'm very sorry. Firstbits.com had some upper/lower case mistakes recently. It works correctly now. If something still seems wrong please let me know. Our lookups are often slow also, I suggest you use blockchain.info.
btccharts.com Confirmed received 650 shares. No need to send that bit. I accept. 1.044225BTC sent to 1G7YRZHYn4eVQRUrXXwyLF2xEMMHgpmZUiedit to add: my GLBSE username is freemoney   I see a huge benefit to being open for trading 24/7. I'd be interested in hearing the advantages of closing for half the day. If you want regular downtime for maintenance/changes/settlement make it 1 hour per day. I made one deal for 200 shares. Looking for more. Are you sending the tx direct to pools? I get this on their page and no response from support during the day today:Database Error: Unable to connect to the database:Could not connect to MySQL If you knew you could get the last bet in I guess it is ok to leave yourself unbalance and take care of it later.But say you come across it with evenly balanced bets (50%) and you think Side A is 80% to win so you load up on Side A. Now someone else comes along and thinks side A is even more than 80% likely and they bet and now there is so much on A that you prefer B at these odds. You can't unbet A but you can bet on B now.If you want to make sure you don't end up taking a wager you don't want no matter what happens then you need to bet both sides up front. I think you are supposed (as in that's the good strategy) to bet on both sides in the proportion that represents your guess at the odds.  What percent of stolen laptops do you guess that courts recover for people? I imagine it will be lower (unless you guessed 0) for bitcoins (at least for a very long time). What do you do if someone pays with traditional money and charges back? The chance that you get double spent on is incredibly close to zero, maybe not quite chipmunks discovered on the moon zero, but close. Some companies are taking some risk in accepting zero confirms, but domain registration is not one of them. I bought a domain today with bitcoin and it was instant.  It is still 1 'vote' per hash. I guess you are annoyed because so many people are so interested in bitcoin? If you want a bigger say you could help the network more. If you don't know how you could hire someone. Lots of people selling hashing power lately. Full Tilt quality.. hmm. I don't have any plans to, it's hard enough spending my own money. Hmm, ok, I was looking forward to writing "flaccid" and "rockhard" but I'll refrain. Suggestion. As a compromise between contributing and writing 'sub', write one word about how you feel about the thread. Interested, concerned, afraid, excited, happy, rockhard, flaccid, etc. I'd like to borrow up to 2000 shares of FZB. I am willing to do amounts down to 100 shares.I will pay any dividends issued during the time I am borrowing the shares.I will pay a monthly fee at the beginning of each month until I return the shares.You can request your shares back at any time and I will return them within one month but will not pay another monthly fee after your request. I will still pay any dividends.I will pay GLBSE transfer fees.Unfortunately I have only a finite amount of bitcoins so I want to give myself an out. I reserve the right to give 10x the btc price of the shares at the time of the loan in place of returning the shares. btccharts.com I bet they move to GLBSE and we start to see spreads narrowing there. I need more 3-1 night chess.If you want to make a bet, awesome.If you don't, accept my free challenge and I'll send you a nickel if you beat me.fantasypublishings.comI am goisbetter1. It is regular chess except the nights move 3 and 1 instead of the normal 2 and 1.
Putting up your own bitcoin trivia questions with little bounties at random times would be good promotion. I guess I can't say why, but It seems really obvious there will be multiple ASIC projects. Even if there is only one, that one is already (or soon) selling to the public.Anyone selling coins is competing on price with everyone else selling coins, not just people who will mine them efficiently in the future so even if there was only one ASIC producer at this point they will pretty much never have most of the coins. They'll always be competing with the old 9000000 coins and with any coins they ever sell. Are there any brokers open for business? Threads about 2% spikes make me smile.  I'm just getting in to GLBSE now and it reminds me of bitcoin in the beginning. It's incredible how things have changed. Instead of Bitcoin being the tiny thing traded vs the 'real' dollar. Now Bitcoin is relatively rock solid and can act as the -real- thing vs a host of assets. I don't see why GLBSE would object, I'd like to hear Nefario's stance, but it seems GLBSE can safely ignore it completely. It will just be someone sending an asset as far as they are concerned. They never claim to enforce this sort of deal and I don't think anyone would expect them to. Maybe they could (if they don't say something that covers it already) explicitly state that they are not responsible for any promises made by third parties.I didn't intend this as leverage for myself, but that is a good point. If someone is thinking in terms of "I know I'm right about the price going down so I just need to cover the fee." they are a terrible person to do this type of business with. I think using a cap like I offered is a reasonable thing. If the maximum loss is both made explicit and the lender determines the borrower is good for that amount (or at least factors the chance of default in). In my offer the most I could lose is 2000x10xcurrent price which is a bit under 2000BTC. I don't intend to actually expose myself to that. Perhaps I'll only sell half below 1.50 and some not until 3. Point being that I don't actually expose myself to the max loss until and unless I actually sell (and not the -max- loss unless I sell them at 0, which I don't intend on doing).Lower factor buy out clauses seem like a good idea. Ideally you would pick the point where the lender thinks it is so unlikely to reach that they aren't giving up hardly any expected value. For a lot of thing this might be as low as 2x.Another thing we could explore is swaps. They could be used to reduce the one sidedness of the trust issue which might be good in some cases. Yeah, I think the price is going down. Maybe not in dollar terms, but I like the short vs BTC.I looked earlier in the day for a thread like that and didn't see it. Looks like it popped up about an hour before me. If the powers decide we don't need both I'll remake my offer over there. I'm surprised to not see any talk of this. I'll kick it off with an offer and my idea of good terms.I'd like to borrow up to 2000 shares of FZB. I am willing to do amounts down to 100 shares, but for simplicity will wait a day to see if I get a large offer first.I will pay any dividends issued during the time I am borrowing the shares.I will pay a monthly fee at the beginning of each month until I return the shares. You can request your shares back at any time and I will return them within one month but will not pay another monthly fee after your request. I will still pay any dividends.I will pay GLBSE transfer fees.Unfortunately I have only a finite amount of bitcoins so I want to give myself an out. I reserve the right to give 10x the btc price of the shares at the time of the loan in place of returning the shares. If we told you we'd have to kill you.Come play chess with me, that will help a little.fantasypublishings.com I am goisbetter1. I put up a few free challenges and a 0.1BTC. If you think you've got an edge on me (and you probably do) please hustle me, I'll accept any reasonable wager.  Anyone else misread the title as "BadBear has left his position, consume him."? "We're not Linode!" Probably 90% of the people I talk to every day use bitcoin in some way. Maybe I have a biased way of deciding who to talk to though. Lol, since you know this is going to last 15 weeks maybe forget the crew and just get rich yourself?edit: I'm only trying to patch your system so that you sink alone, arrrr Even if it is all one person s/he is doing it for some reason. This reason might apply to more than 1 person in China and word is getting out somehow. I couldn't find the btcchina order book, can someone post it or at least give some stats? We gunna see a blowout soon? Site is down, working on it. The implication being that... someone stole a bunch of coins and then bought more coins on a chinese exchange? That happens? I'm still using dollars for some things, is it safe? This seems like a very big deal. I wonder if it is direct interest in Bitcoin or someone figuring out how to get a different flavor of funny money for their ChinaBux.
Congratulations FZB!Does anyone want to loan me some shares?Is this appropriate to discus here? A serious bug at firstbits.com was just brought to my attention and I've turned the site off while it is investigated and fixed.I don't know how long this bug has existed, but I suspect it could be a few weeks. This means you should NOT USE FIRSTBITS that you got from firstbits.com until you or the person who gave them to you double check at blockchain.info.I'm very sorry for the inconvenience and I hope it doesn't cost anyone any money. I don't expect that it will because I -think- the bug is only causing it to not return addresses when it should. Seals With Clubs is Bitcoin poker.Seals gives away .05btc every hour and often has much larger prizes in free-to-enter tournaments. In active games I have three and can click "continue" on any of them to go to the game board. I won a game!If anyone wants to try this but doesn't want to bet I'll front the .25 and you can just send me the winnings if by some miracle you beat me.Or we can play for real.I've got challenges up. This is pretty cool. A site like this would be fun. Let anyone post an item, starting price and velocity. I think high starting prices and relatively fast drops are best. Gives people time to see it but also has some intensity to it. I don't know anything about this site.Balance ought drop immediately. You are paying to play, and if you are lucky you might win money and it will be added to your account afterwards. This tourney is over, but watch out for more.I'm glad you are enjoying the site. Lol, when someone wants multiple confirmations for less than 4 digits you should just make a face at them.   We have a new late night promo tourney starting tonight. If you win the 1am ET "Hat-Trick Jackpot Tournament" 3 times in a rolling 10 day period you win the jackpot. The jackpot will contain 100% of the rake from this game. The entry is 400+100 (that's 500 chips which is 0.5BTC) so 100 chips from every player every night adds to the jackpot. Get some early wins in before the field gets huge! Haha, in the event of any future promos requiring poem submissions early entries will be accepted. If you've put your Seals username in this thread you should already be registered (you can check the list of registered players in the software), no need for the password.It was too many to register manually :-)Next time I'll have to make it harder, write me a poem about Seals or something. The fee page is not so useful. A lot of that info could be put in ranges and it would fit (I think in like 20% as much space or less). Ex: 100-110 fee 110-120 same fee 120-130 same fee is just taking up space. Combine similar imo. I made another game.0-conf probably good for this, especially for now. Really? It is still in my pending section and nothing in active.edit: ah, it logged me out, but didn't tell me until I clicked reload. Longer sessions is probably fine until there is big money flying around. And clicking anything that one would want to be up-to-date ought also do the same check the reload does.PS your move No problem. I'll be here a while tonight anyway.I am goisbetter1 btw You want to test with me now? I want to play this crazy new 3-1 night chess. I expect BitInstant guys will get the word out well, probably just giving it a day or two to settle, there were a few bugs and fees displaying incorrectly. So the sender was able to get it to you but it faded out before it ever got to me? Must he have been directly connected to you for that to happen? I guess you are well connected so that is reasonable.This one looks legit to me: https://blockchain.info/tx-index/6555201/64ab57b94e159d6f090bf5c835098c08430b818d1488ebb9e213fbdc91863d1b
When is it ~7%? Is it always ~4% in US? Oh, people can't see my game? Why not make the default to challenge everyone?I like the idea of kicking back full commission to the person who puts out a challenge to everyone.  Awesome, I don't see this on the site though, it's def implemented? I must be missing it on the site.I sent coin, how long does it take? A patent on trading things at their market value, nice, nice. It is not a bug. It is not normal for everyone who happens by or joins later to know how you've been doing. We weren't able to turn it off until recently that's the only reason it was ever showing. Gotcha now. What might it mean if blockchain.info has heard of an unconfirmed tx, but I haven't and neither has blockexplorer? Missing a few hands in a freeroll isn't so bad. Maybe you'll miss a hand you would have busted out on! I love it, 1% is a legit spike now.But how is a release of coins related to dollars buying up some bitcoins? Evo is a boss. Watch out if you see him at the table. There is no password (well one you'll never see). That's just to keep out the riffraff.I'm registering each of you directly. You ought be able to see yourself registered. Don't unregister. I totally think that for everything not bitocin related (likely wrongly). But for bitcoin it's like, ok, there are maybe 50k users and 500 makers who are crazy busy so there must be endless ideas that there just hasn't been time to make happen yet. So much brand new going on here. I was selling some coins to a guy in Starbucks and it was awkward because he was late and my laptop battery had died and I accessed an instawallet with too many coins from his laptop so I needed to send them to myself... but I didn't know any of my addresses since they are stupidly long. BAM FIRSTBITS. Now I pay hosting fees and make no money, but girls are writting them on their skin so one day it's all going to work out.But really, figure out how to solve a problem for people and you'll proabably do well.The Starbucks story is not made up. Firstbits actually occured to me while the guy was still there and I blurted it out and he wasn't impressed. I can't remember exactly but I don't think my first notion of it was very well formed. Thanks Spike. PSTers are always welcome, but -must- show up earlier. :-) Post your Seals username in this thread to be registered for a 3BTC Texas Hold'em freeroll at 9pm ET on Thursday. You must do this by 9am ET Thursday to be SURE to get in, but likely I can get some latecomers in.Feel free to also post how much you love playing at Seals and how excellent you think Seals support is. Yeah, it would be like magic. I mean Bitcoin is like magic sort of, but no double spending and no trail just seems like fairy tales. Obv I'm very interested if someone can explain how this could be possible. I expect to hear, "Fiat? I earn and spend coins"I don't know if "I work for fiat to get coins" is particularly different than "I provide services for btc to pay my USD bills" I mean they are different, but both help in their ways. I guess it's going to be hard living for you know OP. Are you at least keeping back some of your money/income for food? I guess that would mean something is worth more to you than devoting resources to Fukushima though, which seems to contradict your message. Maybe you mostly meant that Fukushima was more important than anything we might be using our money for though. I've also had good experiences with that one. Heh yeah.Not just when you buy bitcoins either.And the biggest criminals use the freshest dollars!
Why does it matter if you give the tainted coins back instead of whichever your client sends? What is Bitcoinica going to be able to do to untaint them anyway? You figure they know someone who has 18k on hand who doesn't want to keep 18k on hand? I'm not saying no one will do a private 18k sale, but that sort of person will probably be passing that demand right back into markets you can see. I think they are both pretty rare (by which I mean people lose cash 1000000x more often that bitcoins). If there is some loss-per-use-imbalance against Bitcoin it's because people have had way less time and practice with it. The Sunday 60BTC guarantee game has had coins added every week for a while, good value. Don't miss it, 6pm ET. Some pretty heavy shit would have to be going to for them to confiscate IRAs or gold. But when they want to confiscate IRAs it will be 100% success, no chance to keep it. When they want gold it'll pretty much be people turning it in voluntarily for some kind of payment. Gah, thx, how have I never thought of that.Odd effect. If games dependent on the hash of blocks become popular it could actually start to hurt pools. Hurts bigger pools more than smaller because what you give up is something like your power/pool power times reward.Player-miners would just need a little but of code to let them set rejection criteria and then start cashing in their teeny edge. 49,00BTC?http://www.nestorgames.com/#unitydeluxe_detail And he ought only have hashes of passwords.Link me to more detail on the "EXPECT MASS LEAK" message? Lucky generation! They just might get their free money. Ha, around the time I closed mine out it was unclear whether shorting would get you sent to Gitmo or not. What if someone said "Hey, I'm making up numbers and writing them in this book". Fraud? Bitcoin. Gold if you need a hedge. Forget about putting government money into government companies on government terms. Peak government is here, it's a bad time to buy in. If bitcoins are so valuable to you that you won't spend them near the market rate on stuff you want then you should buy more coins until they aren't so precious to you. If you never reach the point where you'd rather have a dollar or a thing than a bit more coin I'll be very surprised. But if you do, then you should just start working harder or smarter to get more coin. Working harder/smarter just -might- involve using your only asset (now some bitcoins) to get some other thing to improve your bitcoin getting ability.Short answer: People actually want lots of things and balance them as they like. It would be very cool if everyone saw a tip come in realtime. But no worry about double spends here imo. I'm still nearby. BUMP. Haha, there is time wasted for sure. But the time wouldn't come back if I pressed Send anyway. You are probably all wondering how I avoid posting hateful things so well. The truth is I haven't actually written 4772 posts here, it's more like 10000. I just write the post and click on "Home" instead of "Send".  A .001 is a millie. A kilocoin would be 1000!But the unit to watch in 2020 is the mike, .000001. you don't know, but you know. My thinking here was that probably only one person would come in after my early bid and I didn't know if I'd remember to come back and 1-up them. So I gave them a chance to choose peace and just take a half chance by playing 16 and leaving me the top half. But in fact I was here right before time and no one else was involved still so I took the bottom too.I have a game in mind I want to try, gotta think on it a tad more though. Now I have some seed money for it!
Confirmed. Thanks!1C1F5G7xm8odoDGP8ajZZHCfKCPZDS2zFb More like that probably. If merchant waited 5 minutes then an attacker would not risk his block unless he expected to gain more than 25BTC from the merchant. You could just wait based on size of the deposit, but as mentioned the ability to do many of these in one block ruins that calculation. Waiting 2 blocks is starting to seem to be best in a lot of situations imo. Give me 16!.5 coming momentarily.... Well someone needs to make up a funny transcript then. Specialization and trade ftw! I paid .5BTCI want 185. Yes, the people want the firstbits so they can write them on their bodies.Bitcoin seemed to take a lot longer than the other chains to load up even though it seemingly isn't pulling up much data for the first page.Also you could default to Bitcoin since the majority of people will want that. And then put links to the others on top, bottom or side. How could someone not reopen bitcoinica? It's like if your golden eggs get stolen are you going to kill the golden egg layer? Yeah, I'd be surprised if there was enough natural market for this now, but getting it ready is not a bad idea imo. I might make some market really wide after seeing a bit of data.  You will know the winning number and we'll be wondering weather you will pick it or not? I might be misunderstanding. 'Fun' doesn't seem to describe that.This game clearly favors the last plays and that makes for a boring week (with maybe an exciting end with 10BTC available, I guess we'll see). It might be cool to design a game where there was some incentive to move early that slowly faded and some incentive to move late that slowly emerged. Maybe cheaper bets early and more information emerging later. Like the sum of the last digit of block hashes or something. That was my first thought and it's probably true, I dunno.But obviously (right?) they wouldn't say they wrote it if they didn't so it isn't 'fake'. There will likely be some brief downtime around 11am ET Monday. Absolutely. It doesn't matter if the traders care about what they are trading their offers can only help us.  It's going to be a lot more awkward to buy a super yacht with coin at $1 than $100. If you could do it without your wallet file then so could anyone. If you find those addresses somewhere don't have funds sent, you won't be able to spend the coin without the corresponding wallet.If you didn't permanently delete it then put it back. What if I give 1000 chips for 1 satoshi on my backgammon betting site? Does that make bitcoin somewhat divisible and worth somewhat less? What if everyone did it and everyone thought in terms of milisatoshis? Essentially the bitcon network would just impose a 1000 unit minimum on transfers, would that really make the system worth more? A lack of ability? Possible I suppose. It is possible and appropriate to edit the title now.
In 2010 there literally was nothing but speculation that later there would be something. Now there are some things and a whole lot more speculating about future things which seem ever-more possible.  How could someone else borrowing money to spend on what they want be theft? Oh they're going to take from me to pay it back? That part does sound like theft. The new coins each day are being absorbed by new demand and the price is still for quite some time. Assuming new demand keeps showing up at about the same rate the halving will have a strong effect. The only way I see this not happening is if a lot of current demand is thinking this way. In that case demand would drop around the halving and people thinking like that will start to unload.But I think it all gets swamped by the demand that's going to show up as people realize that bitcoin is here to stay. If you are having trouble connecting to the poker software try logging out of your web account and back in. This seems mostly to be a problem for ubuntu users. We're working on a fix. Thanks for patience. We're having some trouble. We're working on it. That sucks, sorry to hear.What OS? Was your wallet encrypted? Did you ever back it up anywhere? Could a backup have leaked? Give me liberty or give me.... sustainable development! Better be by October. If it doesn't do it by October it's going to be a cold winter for me. Some of us need to understand and I think there is large benefit in making that simper anywhere reasonable. But we're going to be asking most people to believe in magic and it's going to be fine because they've been doing it all along. Of course. Honestly anything else sounds like a cross between a nightmare and a joke.Respect to the people who get their hands dirty helping with the crossover. I do it by accepting bitcoins :-) 184 Meni is right. Right that it doesn't matter I mean. I don't think it's really dishonest though. The fee schedule is right there. Maybe it is dishonest like labeling a candy bar .99 and refusing to trade it for 99 cents is dishonest (demanding to collect a tax fee that wasn't included), actually that's pretty bad I guess. GLBSE is way less bad than that, the fee is explicitly mentioned on site unlike at 7-11. I've thought a lot about how to play this and I just can't.I can't say for sure that not playing is the right move (with the money added I'll try to watch and get the only move in right at the end though!), but think about this:Same game, only 2 players allowed 1 move each. Do you want to go first or second? Same game 3 players allowed 1 move each, do you want to go first, second or third? I don't think uncertainty about the number of moves changes the badness of going early, at least not much. You are pissed off at bitcoin? Would you get pissed off at pizza if the delivery guy never showed up? I mean, that's awesome, but they'd probably have to move right?  Do you already have an account at Seals? The only thing easier for me to donate than bitcons is Seals chips! Haha yes, the cards are dieting. They needed to be smaller to fit for Omaha and it's all set up to have one card image so now they're all smaller. Maybe if we ever send out those shirts we'll include a magnifying glass.The half hour is PLO Hi-Lo (aka PLO8) will leave it about a day and then back to Hold'em.There is a 150 buy in PLO game on the hour now. Will leave it unless it runs infrequently.The donkdown.com 10BTC freeroll will be PLO tonight. Doesn't really matter that most of them are. Eventually someone will see $$$ and buy or control existing biz to have a bitcoin backdoor (intended) for pure extra profit. Eventually it will be expected and old biz will adapt or die.Might be mad money right now for working as an affiliate for a bunch of sites and taking coin. Sites won't have to know a damn thing about bitcoin.  Hold'em will return, just showing off the new games. Two (well three I guess it would be) bonus games isn't going to happen. Do you prefer rotating games or back to good 'ole hold'em for that?Either way there will be some Omaha freerolls and bonus tournies in the evenings over the week or so.
I'm not sure of anything, my understanding is shameful given how long I've been here, but here's a thought.As mining becomes more memory intensive the job can be split up. There may be unions of miners who each hold part and make payments to each other based on the balance of queries vs answers. This would result in the user having to pay the miners cost. Maybe instead of 'unions' it'll just be supernodes that you can buy a subscription from.It is the future tx issuer who wants that info available, not the past user. And if it becomes arduous to have that available he'll have to pay to have someone pull it out of the archives to make his tx confirm.  Thanks, looking into it. You must only have read the first thread. The second is an abomination after about 2 pages. My bad, fixed.I set up some 25/50 and 50/100 games now. Just wanted to make sure it was working for everyone first (and that I didn't screw anything up too badly). If you want anything particular else just ask. There are lots of possibilities now, limit omaha, omaha hi-lo at various. Seals will be going down for 30-60 minutes in about 15 minutes. Yeah, and we're passing little tiny notes compared to bit torrent's flood of high quality porn. It will be easy to avoid censorship. I'll post my transactions in the comments on propaganda articles at freedom.gov! And I'll have juicy fees attached!  I think it must be fair since we all have the same position and choices right now. Of course it could be that the right move is not to play and it seems to me (I've not thought carefully) that when you pick a number someone will come in and choose one number above you reducing your chances by a lot.The sums are certainly not equally likely.16 can happen in exactly one way, disregarding order.18 can happen with 1 2 3 4 5 8 or 1 2 3 4 6 7.The numbers in the middle have many many more ways of happening.I actually think that makes it a potentially interesting game.I think things like this need a seed to get the ball rolling. Take a cut so that if you make a fun game that people like you can get your money risked and more back.If you don't mind I might try to run a different version of this before long. If you want to try again though I'd rather not butt in. Check_status, may I please have your SSN? I think price stickiness refers to certain types of prices on (usually) short timescales. When there are strong economic incentives one way or the other prices will adjust. So I don't think it can be invoked as a serious factor when talking about whole economy destruction.Other than that, the idea that people will always hold off on buying because their money will be worth more or (equivalently) prices are expected to be lower is empirically wrong. The amount forfeit can be HUGE too. Like walking hungry into a burger place that has a half off sale on their Big Juicy Burger tomorrow. Or renting a hotel room on the weekend. Getting something today really is a different and more valuable (often) than getting it tomorrow and that keeps things moving very reliably. I know you have a Seals account! The hourly freebie is riskless. The half hour is good value, more in prizes than players put in. There is a 10BTC freeroll sponsored by donkdown Wednesday at 10:30pm ET.  The Sunday 60BTC usually has money added. The nightly cryptgolfer and the B2B have extra prizes beyond what you get for winning. So if one person has 90% of share and one person has 10% the 10%er kind of has the other guy by the balls. You should make sure to be that 10%er. Or maybe you buy 60% from yourself and don't even have to send that 1 coin ever. For others, I wouldn't worry much about buying anonymously. If you are paranoid it should still be plenty good enough to buy at Gox and cycle the coins you get once. This would protect you from, hypothetically, buying from Gox, they know which coins belong to you, now you send to a person who ends up being law enforcement or other dangerous group and Gox tells them who bought the coins. But if you say send them to instawallet or other and withdraw over them course of a few days it's nearly impossible to connect. Put a few more hops and it's a lock imo.If you don't want anyone to possibly know you use bitcoin that might be harder. You should prob not buy with digital fiat from a stranger you don't trust to keep your secret in that case. How many are you pretending to want? Want to tell more about your the size and frequency of your normal receives and sends? If they are too small and too fast there might not be much to be done.Sending all coin to one address might not be optimal because then all of your coin will become 'new coin' very often and that causes fees, because that's what a tx spammer would do, send the same coin over and over.Someone else probably has a better idea than me, but sending to yourself something like 2BTC chunks might be good.If you plan to increase volume even more and speed is not of the essence you should look into finding or having made a SendMany script. That will let you make a bunch of tx at once for a fee that is only slightly larger than a normal fee. Those are good. If you can wait till they pile up another option might be SendMany.  We'll be going off-line briefly within an hour.edit: scratch that, this has been delayed. You are in luck! asap is the expected arrival time. :-) Seal's new look is up. Let me know if you find any bugs.Next up, Omaha and Omaha Hi-Lo. Lol, I'm really sorry, I totally thought this was the chess thread. And I thought I was derailing THAT by talking about chess variants. 
Really? You don't know if you'll accept btc? I must be misunderstanding. The GUI is like the driver's seat of your car. The details of the engine will not be apparent from there. It's a little more nuanced than this.If you get 1BTC at an address and then another 2BTC at the same address and go to spend 1BTC it will not send all 3BTC, only 1BTC.The input on any transaction is actually a prior transaction not an address. It is all of a previous transaction that must be used at once, the remainder sent as change. Ha, thanks. I am full of ideas, but I don't code.I could support my chess variant idea with some money. Cool. A few more thoughts.I hope you plan to take a cut, people who offer free services tend to flake out as the project gets old to them. If you will be taking a cut you might offer prizes that soften the blow of being a perpetual loser. Like a weekly reward for most games played or most games lost or most money lost.I do think you should let people play for free to try it out. Maybe even in the beginning give a faucet type amount to any winner even for a free game to get people's attention. Lol, I don't doubt (ok I doubt it a little) that it is finally ready, but if saying it will be ready when it isn't could cause legal problems they'd already have plenty. Sure, sorry to derail your thread. Going to do it one more time.You should look into the state of chess betting. People don't really do it. Yeah, in the park in NYC a tourist will pay $5 to say they got hustled or whatever. It's completely different that something like poker. The weakest player will know right away they are weakest and drop out and that will continue. I also don't think chess noobies would be very interested in my idea, but stronger players who feel they can adapt better than other strong players. And you don't have to worry about bots unless the money gets very large because there are no bots programed to move the night 3-1. Making a new variant every so often keeps the uncertainty around longer and people can convince themselves that they have insights into it. Also everyone will be learning faster so again they can tell themselves that yeah, they just lost, but now they understand a lot better.Ok, I'll let that go now. Let me know when it's up and running and I'll donate a little to some stronger player. No inflation since 1982? That's longer than I've been alive and I'm sure the price level is higher than when I started buying things. That's a really good idea! Betting on chess is not so popular because the best player wins a very high % of the time. I'd be interested in chess variants that involved some luck. Possibly better than luck would be a new variant every day or week. New games make everyone a lot weaker and the outcomes will be more like when two noobies play which is closer to even results.This would also break all existing chess programs and anyone cheating would have to work really hard.Crazy ideas:You can't move the same type of piece your opponent just moved.Nights move 3 and 1 instead of 2 and 1.Pawns can't capture the queen.Pieces can't capture their own type, pawns still can.Win by checkmate or checking the enemy king 5 times. The website might have brief downtimes over the next few hours. The games will not be interrupted. Since a lot of changes are going to affect good and bad miners alike he was probably referring to that sort of change. So 4 random customers send you money then you pay hosting. If one of those 4 cares they'll see that... you spent the coin... maybe... or maybe you moved it to another wallet you control. Dude, this forum is a string of 1s and 0s. So is wikipedia and redtube. And gold is just a bunch of stupid electrons and protons and so are you. I get tons of 'free' traffic from my sig and thread. I want to find your site and can't that's a bad thing. Holy crap. In 8 months Seals has done 7398 transactions.  Yup.There are two possibilties, both bad, but the impossible one is less bad. lolTime machine: Convince Satoshi to pick an arbitrary expiration.Change it now: Just terrible. Wrecks confidence in two ways. Savings are less secure and require work to maintain AND you don't know how much less secure because whatever voodoo the changers did might be used while you are on extended vacation to reduce the time even more. Maybe you don't have $4000 for that huge tv, broken arm, or complicated laser eye surgery but you really want it so you put it on a card. That's a sale which the vendor would never see without people having access to credit. Of course as regards OPs specific thesis I guess it will lower costs, people will spend less and get less perhaps. Wouldn't all rights mean exclusive use? But you already sold it to one guy? Does that person have the source? The victim experiences this as a tx that just won't confirm correct? The tx doesn't entirely disappear? 
Not to be negative but people who sell certain things really benefit from people using credit. Of course you could potentially have a bitcoin denominated credit card in the future, but there goes the low/zero fees and irreversability.  Taking people's coins is not the same as taking coins that no one controls. Since you can't tell the difference just let it be. You should contact mem and/or mc_lovin about maintaining the gambling section.  Seems obvious now but I'd completely overlooked it. I was thinking that you could wait and see if you hear another with the same inputs.  Right now it notices the repeated use of the same inputs and ignores it right? It could ignore unless it was related to a payment to your wallet no? In that case it should change the tx from 'unconfirmed' to 'warning' or similar and ignore it. By ignore I mean don't pass on as you normally would. I didn't read it all, but I'd suggest a title of "wait 30 seconds and you're in the clear" Nice, if you get it up I'll give at least 10BTC to hand out. I think this is double nice because people can send the millies to performers too. I think there might be more strategy if you let people pick the same slot and made them share the prize. Then there is a tension between the more likely numbers being desirable but not wanting to split. Being first on the best number that doesn't get doubled up on (will depend on the number of slots a player expect to be bought) would be ideal. This is interesting. There is strategy, but I don't think it is to pick 16 first! No, I have nothing. We're just scheming. Hmm, faucet in a box.Could make it so that many people can sponsor, just associate an address to sponsor in the wallet that pays out, then show the sponsor who is actually giving the millie. Rule could be to show the sponsor who has the most credit and deduct the credit from their amount while they are showing. The largest sponsor will show until they are equal to the second largest sponsor and it'll start switching between until there it gets down to the third then it would switch between the three and so on.Back on topic, someone should stream these videos: http://bitcoinmedia.com/patronage-bitcoin-and-scientific-music-my-story/ That is smart.Seals would sponsor that for a while if you want.Man in general that is a genius idea. For anything that has variable coolness and you need people to check back frequently just make sure they know there will be free bitcoins.I suppose I kind of did this at Seals. In the beginning of course there were no games. Having a freeroll every hour kept people coming anyway. Very nice. Next up: secret Channels. If you want to try some play money PLO and O8 visit sealswithclubs.eu:9087 Sweet Jesus that is some fee. +1The internet too, 100 years minimum before I'll be comfortable using it.  Must essentially be transaction insurance right? That's cool. Sheesh, looks like half the asks are gone since yesterday. That's BADASS and I'm not talking about the Bitcoin Advertising Association. Might be cool to mix education and 'menial' online labor. Like they teach you about brain structures and then you practice your knowledge by actually learning. Maybe use pay to sort out surpluses if needed. It would be cool to have something like coinworker, but more advanced, like maybe you need a some skill and/or to take a 5-60 minute lesson.
What's that other saying... "If you grant exceptions for the crimes of the overclass they can comfortably commit crimes in plain sight"? Is that right? Yeah, I didn't see the other reading at all until pointed out. I think if you know the person at all you probably pick the right reading automatically.  If you want poker, SealsWithClubs.eu has action. Poker! Oh, I misunderstood, thought you meant only bad replies come fast including this one. I get it now. I'm not saying that the price being high is best for everyone, just that if it was higher I'd be richer and build more Bitcoin stuff. I'm probably not the only one like that. In a global sense the price has to be higher for a lot of businesses to join in. A total 'currency base' worth less than $50M isn't going to work for thousands or millions of large Bitcoin businesses. Adoption raises price and price raises adoption possibilities so I'm not saying that we need to pump it up or something in order to get wider adoption, only that the two will come (or not) together.Somewhat unrelated, I always try to get good deals on labor and labor always tries to get good deals from me.  That was a useful reply no? Ohhhh, results oriented thinking, 2+2 forum must still be down... ZING.Bitcoin wins in silly results games. 100%? phffft, 100x Write the check to cash, take it to your bank and if it's good (maybe even if it isn't who knows) they'll give you cash. Give cash to SanFranco (SanFricite?) Trying this. It gives a 'preview' but it is still in boxes. You ought show exactly how it will look.Also just take 0 confirms, no one is going to screw you in this spot. watching Seems odd, what version of Bitcoin? Yes, I get chat, no video though. See 2 channels now. I see the channel, but clicking it does nothing. SR does that but you can 'finalize' early. I don't know why exactly, but I think people do it with trusted sellers. I'm watching. Someone come show off. Ok, "https://sealswithclubs.eu" will work. I'll get the others fixed soon. Anyone having trouble is probably using sealswithclubs.org, that got screwed up somehow. Try "https://sealswithclubs.eu" directly. Sorry guys, I don't know why it is down for some. Looking into it. I can pay for a lot more development on my bitcoin sites at $20 than $5. I earmarked 1000BTC for development, advertising and promos for Seals. At the time that would have gotten me $15k worth of value, by the time I used the bulk of it it got me about $3k in value. The value of Bitcoin is the health of Bitcoin. 
The spike happened on the 10th.... so people ought be picking the 9th? That's the day the price spiked up over the current price. So assuming steady price till then, that will be the day. Pool membership is dynamic. A pool that goes down gets smaller because people like money. I have, and also Bitcoin buttons.http://crizzlesbuttons.ecrater.com/Crizzle is awesome, email to get a bitcoin address. Yes, give me more details when you can. One possibility that comes to mind is that you got a different version of flash. I know there is a linux flash version that doesn't work. You won't get a majority for some arbitrary change like that. But majority isn't the standard required for that type of change. You need the people with the stuff you want (dollars, services, goods) to want your wacky coin.  Are you still unable to connect? Everything seems fine from here. To be fair they are only paying with  But.. bitcoin is going to go up 100% per month, so we'll get fewer coins back? Oh ok.I don't want them catching criminals since that would involve, well.. lets leave it at "catching people I know". The marginal buyer may be enticed to wait for the huge supply when he sees it coming down the line. Not to mention speculators will be pulling out.Still it's a long way off imo and I'm holding some metals. Good service is worth paying for, if you come up with something people want/need just charge them for it. Especially when it is money related people want to see that you can prosper by playing it straight. MyBitcoin.com offered a nice free service... for a while.I bet some people would be interested in having you automatically dollar cost average over the month for them. You take the lump up front and dish out coins you buy each day at the market rate.If you could take CC and set yourself up like those gym memberships you might really have something. Maybe even start buying coins for people after a week or longer wait.A ton of people on a bitcoin drip sounds good to me. How's that work out for you? The Sunday 60BTC Guarantee Tourney continues. Last week it only got 21 players so there was a good amount of money added. Only 2BTC to enter, Sunday at 6pm ET. You can't 'buy' it. If it is worth $20B and somone 'buys' it for $50M then someone else will come along and 'buy' it for $100M and so on. But that won't happen since you don't get to keep it for $50M and anyone with $50M will know that. You used to be able to make them 1 character even. Wow, someone is super bitter.http://gizmodo.com/5905394/nsfw-reddit-women-are-getting-naked-for-bitcoins I'd imagine attackers can check bitcoin keys a lot faster than they can try to access instawallets. Short ones will become more vulnerable.Ah, I was just trying things out and it seems you can't make a new wallet with your own private part anymore? Is that intended? That's smart. Well all they are going to be doing is catching criminals, right? But since they get to pick how to do that and who is a criminal and they even get to change it as they go "catching criminals" pretty much means doing whatever the hell they want.
Lol, this article. Ladybytes didn't start DeCrypto because she was banned, at least the author admits confusion. And nice choice of pics... They write firstbits on their bodies ok? It's hot. So you want them catching criminals but not defining 'criminal'? Who ought be doing that? Guys, guys, don't worry about it, no need for a big campaign about this one, I've got it under control.<<TROLLFACE.JPG>> Games can be watched by anyone, but results are not easily available afterwards right now. I can and will fix that though, then anyone can make any statement about our tourney results and you'll know where you can look for the results. Thanks but I still get nothing. Maybe I need to restart browser. Nope, didn't work in another browser. Video hasn't worked for me for a while. Others still get it going? If they post before hand that 90 days warning is their policy can you use the service and still complain? Also, $10 fee? So it is ok with you to take all of the small deposits? +1, just agree on a rate or an amount of coins with your trading partner. How much difficulty would it be to make deadlines at a certain time instead of midnight?If I put up a statement like "A player who's username starts with A-M will win the Sunday 60BTC Guarantee at Seals" 90% of the action would happen in the hours leading up to the start time. I can vouch for this guy. You won't be disappointed.  I would think many marginal miners would actually leave during an attack not knowing if bitcoin will go a going concern, probably the doubt will be reflected in the price and the decision will be more or less automatic for some. Power held in reserve by people with a stake in Bitcoin might come online, but there is no reason to think a random miner who turned his rigs off when the price dropped below $7 will run to turn them on when Bitcoin is in trouble and the price is lower.Still I don't think we have to worry, 'they' will probably spend a year discussing whether mining ought be made illegal, a year implementing regulations and then make a futile effort at enforcing before realizing that they needed to be mining themselves (now illegal though, whoops). I think in this case the network effect has diminishing returns (so maybe not a network effect?). Imagine two exchanges one 10x Gox size and one 1000x, what is the spread and does it matter for 99% of people? They'll care way more about customer service and wires that take only days.It seems to me the benefit of being with more traders is not dynamic at all and quickly hits a wall. I also think it is a bad idea, though I wish them luck. But I don't think they plan to make any games. They are going to go to game makers and offer it as an alternative to ads or charging. I'm sorry, there was something wrong with it. Fixed now, and temporarily has 200 added instead of 100. Failed games? What do you mean?edit: Ah, it looks like it didn't run a few times. Were you the only one registered? It needs two to run. When that happens you don't lose your money, you either get to play the next one or you can take your 50 back by unregistering. That would be quite a sight. Kind of like a human constructing and designing his own power plant and data center.  Do it! People will make market for profit for sure. Lol, I want to own it not to use it. Does that mean I'm in the clear or is that just worse? I could listen to this.I think more topics and move through them faster wold be better.The amount sold in a given period equals the amount bought.
A bunch of .01 or .001 is not optimal. Probably a collection of UNIT * n^2 up to about average expected transaction amount would be good. But you could customize for reduced number of keys or reduced average or max change.For example 100x .02 and 100x .01 is going to be strictly superior to 300x .01 unless you make hundreds of tx for amounts between .01 and .02. I just had an idea. Make an instawallet with a "Double or Nothing" button. Just a huge irresistible button that either doubles your balance or takes it all. Take a 1% or whatever fee by giving only 49.5% odds. Have to publish the max amount you can handle covering, maybe make it dynamic. If someone actually wants to do this I could probably put up some cash. Interesting. I've been thinking about a site that would have the same sort of issues.My plan is to hash [my guess, salt, timestamp] and give that to the player. They also give a guess and win if they are close enough depending on the specifics of the wager. If my guesses are non random it is to my detriment this way.This avoids using a hash for the part that determines winnings since I was cautioned that the output of some hash functions will not be uniformly distributed. I haven't verified that, curious if anyone knows if/which are. If your bitcoins are way more precious than your dollars you should obviously keep buying coins until they aren't.  This is important so I'll be thorough, but the most important part is: Seals never stores clear text passwords anywhere.If you download the trial version of Mavens to check it out you may rightly be worried because there is a Mavens' data field for 'password' and if a user makes an account in the Mavens software their password will indeed show in clear text in that field.That is not acceptable so users never create Mavens accounts at Seals. They create Seals accounts which triggers the creation of a Mavens account with the data we provide which never includes a password.This is why you cannot log in directly to your Mavens account at Seals like you can at some Mavens sites. You must log in to your Seals account on the web and click the "Play Now" button which generates a one time login key for access to your Mavens account.Your Seals password (your only password at Seals) is always salted and hashed. Lol, it was a joke. I would 'like' it. If I was paid adequately. A price will emerge, if it doesn't it's free money all over the place.  Gox will never pay enough tax for that to matter. Maybe they'll pay off individuals with 'campaign' money. I don't know how that works in Japan. But also, Japan doesn't fight with Us gov after, uh, the incident.  Ding Ding Ding. I reckon MtGox won't have 80% anymore if they get shut down. People will stop using them if they shut down, so that takes care of itself.Government would be dumb (yeah, ok, a distinct possibility) to shut down a big thing they can control like Gox. It is small for an ordinary user (negative really since you forfiet the block reward), but could be arranged to be larger, a pool owner with 500BTC in tickets for example. I understand using MM now, but I hope someone will come up with a a bitcoiny way. I would like this idea (if the price was right  ) Right, a miner who plays more than 50 coin worth is incentivised to throw out a losing hash, seems like there should be a remedy, but I can't think of it. Using multiple block hashes still leaves the last one being the only one that matters from the player/miner point of view.It says the MM numbers come a few hours later anyway. Whoa, I didn't know you were using Mega Millions numbers. Why not use the hash of a block 20 blocks after the draw closes?  Don't be a suckkkka, don't save dollars. No excuse anymore. I'd love for the addresses to come 'used' so that they have firstbits already. And of course then you could display the firstbits. I've got a bit dime for the first person to correctly label our position on that chart. It's gunna bubble so so hard, probably a lot slower than last time, but eventually it will get ahead of itself again. I'd say different. If the process was just a little bit different we might consider the caterpillar to have been eaten. Ah, the problem is that the minimum deposit is .01BTC. The coins you sent are not lost but won't be credited until .0095 more comes in. 
Ah, ok.  No, even with unlimited size blocks there is at least one force, let me describe.Suppose all miners are negligible (less than .1% or so) and all are shortsighted and include any transaction at any price. Users will pay the minimum fee. Miners will not cover their costs and will start to drop out. Now each miner has a higher % than before. Maybe still not enough, but if not there will be no profit and more will drop out leaving a higher % still for each (in particular for the largest miner). Now this highest % miner has enough so that he individually can increase his own profits by declining some low fee transactions. This is because some users have a preference not just for getting in a block, but for a high probability of getting in the next block. A 1% miner for example can charge people for privilege of a 100% chance at inclusion in the next block, without paying what he demands the user has to settle for a 99% chance at next block inclusion. All miners will profit from the users who pay for certainty. This will start to bring some miners back in until the 'cover' the bigger miners are giving, miners who are thinking only of themselves. Simple math example:Everyone paying 1 satoshi. 1% miner rejects 10000 1 satoshi transactions and 1% of people choose to pay the 1000 satoshi min fee that one 1% miner requires. Now that miner makes 1000x100=100000 satoshis per block. Everyone else gets to continue collecting the 1 satoshi fees and the larger ones, the 1% miner doesn't give a damn about them though.It's even possible a really really small miner could have some effect, like why not pay 10 satoshis if there is even a little chance it will help. So a tiny miner expects at least 10% of people (or clients default settings will be set to) will just say whatever 10 satoshis then. That might not be trivial to change though depending on the attitude and incentives of miners. It would be good to commit to a scheme for increasing that right now before anyone is making their livelihood from artificial transaction scarcity. iirc Gavin had a pretty good proposal that had max block size set like 110% of the average size of the last X blocks. That could allow for really fast growth if needed without allowing crazy outlier spam blocks.  Sorry if I'm mis-attributing and/or wrong about the proposal.  Well.. yes the small blind on the smallest table is .001BTC, but you won't be able to get to a table for less than 10 chips or .01BTC. Which every you feel is the right number to put for consistency is fine. I just didn't want to make it seem like you could actually play with .001BTC. The ultimate test of the free market is not one innovation in the market. Bitcoin is just one thing, if the incentives are set up wrong that means bitcoin fails because markets weed out wrong ideas.But if you all drop out I'll fire up my CPU miner and take all the fees every 10 miuntes. A+BitInstant has my confidence.  I especially like that you can bypass the exchanges. Any chance of sending coins straight to an address instead of via email? That would be like the ultimate in safety and convenience. You say you'll try to figure out if someone is getting by the $1000 limit by looking at bank branches an IPs. If I go to one branch, do 5 transactions of $1000 and go home and access the 5 different emails from the same IP that looks a lot me and my 5 friends buying $1000 each and going to my house and using the same IP.Essentially all I'm saying is that some people who are doing less than the limit will get bothered (ID'd?) by chance or accident when you have false positives. Not soon exactly, but more games is part of the plan. Thanks that helps.I guess if my friends and I go together to the same branch and then go back to my place and get online you'll just want to ID us all and we'll still get our money? Where and when do you ID? Do you just make the assumption that 1 email = 1 user? I'm not debating the thing. Some posters are saying it is self evident, that infinite ---> everything happens over and over. That's not true. Even in 'random universe' if the space of possibilities has higher cardinality than the amount of time then the chance you'll see the same random thing twice is 0. Lol, bitcoin having a dollar price in 30 years is really optimistic (for the dollar). For Seals:Minimum deposit is .01BTC, min withdrawal is .1BTC, min bet is .01BTC, max bet 800BTC for now, well more if two players bought in full at the highest game and were both ahead on the table. Max that actually runs is around 40BTC buy in right now.sealswithclubs@gmail.comAll countries welcome.Let me know any ideas you've got about advertising. I'd also see about BitInstant sponsoring, but even if they won't advertising them helps everyone imo. Tell them it is used to feed hungry children (mine for instance) and if they don't accept bitcoin you know they hate children and want them to starve. Do they want to be associated with that? That might be right, I'd say about 90% of mine we're top 50%. How awesome would it be to dynamically change the buy/sell spread on individual ATMs to ensure that you never HAD to go get cash from them. At some point if it got out of whack with market rates you would want to do the arb if no one else was of course. But in principle you could drop off a super duty cage somewhere and just let it churn money for you with no maintenance.  There are an infinite amount of natural numbers, but if you count properly you'll never pass a number twice. 100 transactions ever isn't that unlikely. And probably by the time they are putting serious money in and then retrieving their backup they'll be past that. It is sends (new change address) and newly generated payment addresses (used or not, click that button 100 times and your backup won't work from that point). Maybe devs could change the default to 1000 if bulk generation can/is done smoothly now. But that's still not foolproof. ok, I'm sorry. I may be misremembering my experience with bitcoin-central. I realize you're just now getting control of instawallet. Good luck. Uh, all I know is that like a year ago I really tried to help get bitcoin-central going and support was unreachable and I had to stop recommending and using it. Sorry if he was in a body cast or something, but nothing was happening and withdrawals were unavailable for a suspiciously long time.
Thanks for helping them Jav and not just letting it die.  woah woah. Are we going to stop using Western Union, PayPal, iGolder, Pecunix and cash (maybe make them illegal??!). People are using it for drugs, and I bet terrorism too. Ah, the downside of not jamming bitcoin into the name. But surely you must have been curious, "Seals! Seals?! They don't have anything to do with bitcoin or poker!" We come up second for googling "bitcoin poker" now. If you like tournaments, don't miss the 60BTC guarantee on Sundays, 2BTC to enter. We sure are. 5 tables running right now, various stakes. Instant deposits. Bitcoins aren't being manipulated. You can write whatever you want on a site you control. They are, certainly accidentally, displaying the wrong thing.I'm irritated because installet is a great idea, but it does require trust and it's being destroyed. How can I show people the simplicity of sending coin on a site that is down or slow 75% of the time?I knew davout was lazy on bitcoin-central, but I assumed acquiring this meant he was active again. :-( You have one address containing 10 coins. you send 4 coins. What is the fee? Instead you send 6 coins. What is the fee? You can edit thread titles, you don't need to make new.  It's nothing new. Either it is just the EUR with a mask on because they keep the EUR to cash people out or they don't keep it all and it's a bank in disguise.  How could we possibly be early majority? You expect less than 1M users ever? What does this mean?I sell bad powders, get cash, take cash to bank, put in your account, get coins.Isn't that money laundering? How can you possibly do anything about that? That's not a real thing. If there was a deterministic way to tell how many transactions were out there and what they were then we wouldn't need the block chain.A big part of the reason a little piece of secret data can hold so much value is it's scarcity. I'd take a small chance on a currency like this if it was all that was available, but I put my life into Bitcoin.  Nice. Agree.I donate sometimes, but not to spread coins. Hell yeah.That's kind of a false dichotomy. If you figure out how Bitcoin can help you then you will do much better and have much more to offer. If you pour yourself into 'the good of Bitcoin" you'll run out eventually even if you are totally self-sacrificing. Profit is sustainable, loss is not. We've gotten 5 ring games going on several occasions recently. I think the Table Starter Bonus has helped. That money will drop for the current week pretty soon. If the coins are worth more other places they'll just flow to those other places. But if there are a bunch of merchants who really want coin and make it easy and/or give discounts then coins will flow in to your area. I hope someone digs it up too.  You get it from someone one time and now you have anonymous money that you can use to pay anyone anywhere right? That's way different than cash.I'm just saying if the chips don't require ID to use there isn't any way for anyone to be sure who is using it now. I see 10% fee. Though they use a 24hr average so you could pick up some value on a spike I guess, though usually not 10%.
But you can use any mint chip you get right? The merchant doesn't get any info from the device so he can't know if it is 'yours'. I guess they could make selling, giving, and losing chips illegal.  The Internet is like cancer, there's not going to be a difference eventually. This would be like the worst thing I could ever buy. Very tempting.The blue one is like a serious weapon right? 1300mW damn. Suggested thread title "How is it going? (Bitcoin Spinner)"In case you don't know if you edit your first post you can still change the title. "Benevolent weed" might be better than cancer. In your understanding, how does another block help secure the chain?  Thanks for the link to Seals. SealsWithClubs.com is wrong but does forward to SealsWithClubs.eu so it's not that wrong. What if something that makes it incredibly unlikely, but not 0%? The loss to the early bettors is almost the same, but you surely cannot intervene right?What if Santorum changes his mind or runs under the new party "Christians" after America undergoes a sweeping religious revival?If Obama falls down a 30 foot well and is unconscious but not yet confirmed dead do you honor bets made after that saying he will not be re-elected? Or gets hit by a truck and is in a coma, when do you pull the plug (on the wagers). What if he picks his nose and flicks it on a reporter?I'm having a little fun, but I'm also curious and it does seem like an important thing to know. This is an important distinction. You don't NEED to use the bitcoin network directly either. I wonder how long it would take to get in a block if I posted a tx with a nice fee right here in the forum.But beyond that, all the interesting stuff isn't in the chain anyway. I was also thinking thoughts like this.Can you imagine if Bitcoin had this much press months BEFORE Satoshi dropped the code? It's not a fair fight, but we're gunna crush it. Huh, I wonder if that will be enough incentive to grow a huge ass internal Bitcoin economy. I'm thinking... yes. I don't care what you say. I'm going to think of it as a Girl Scout cookie. No, rakeback period ends after the tourney, midnight ET Sunday. It comes by Wednesday, but in reality often early Monday.But there are new 4 person 'Satellites' to the Sunday 60BTC. If you win you get the 2BTC entry, but you don't have to use it for that. What? You can just do that on demand?Not done reading yet, but very nice work. No promise, but no plan to change.The 60BTC guarantee on Sunday at 6pm ET will hopefully be a regular thing too. 2BTC to enter.  SealsWithClubs.eu is the active poker site. Everyone welcome. Freerolls every hour. How so? Can you get the webpage at least?  And now he's made a Bicoin ad!http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pZ7H1aaQce4 I think all that should be posted in its own thread also. Good work. The site is back up, sorry about that.
Maybe we should record every time someone hashes a block whether it meets difficulty or not. Wouldn't want to throw away and electricity.But seriously if you waste something it doesn't help anyone to keep it around let alone pay you for it.In order to help you have to to build on the highest block. Donkdown.com freeroll tonight at 10:30PM ET. Minethings.com freeroll Thurs at 9pm ET. Passwords available on the sponsoring sites.On Sunday the 15th is a 60BTC guaranteed prize pool tourney, 2BTC to enter. Thanks for pointing that out. Why is there only 10k on the buy side? Where is all of the natural sell side? Someone shopped this and did it that badly? To varying degrees "bitcoin denominated money" is not a complete substitute for real bitcoins. The amount and quality of BDM will be determined by the market. If people somehow value BDM that will obviously never be repaid "deposit 1BTC and get 10 happy coins fully redeemable for bitcoins!" then there may well be tons of it, but that crap won't affect me much. A major difference from what we're used to is that when people get burned by bad BDM it is on them and the whole of users don't have to pay via bailouts. This will give very strong incentive for people to hold their own real coins or thoroughly vet providers of BDM.  Bryan the Icon Micon made a new video.https://sealswithclubs.eu/howto.html How does that even happen? That still doesn't explain why he pees zebra trees. So if one player leaves at any point the hand is stuck? Or is it less strict than that?  When attackers get a hold of a normal CPU they can use it to send email or (I guess) sell it to someone who will use it to send email. When they get a hold of Bitcoins they can use them for tons of other things, they won't squander the coins they find/steal on something worth less than the coins because they didn't pay for them. Just set the price above value and almost all spam would stop.But still 99.999% of people don't have coins so you'll have to see and whitelist all unknown address email anyway... so not workable now I think. Not really. Once you grow into a place having it scorched doesn't put you back were you are, it puts you fucked.Obv some people will make it, but 'we' will be fucked. I'd be down for paying for some series like:"How does bitcoin do what it does?" mention each major dependency"Peer to Peer Networking""Public Key Cryptography""Proof of Work"Just watched one, he is good. Ben Milne is Satoshi and controls the relevant domain. Big game in 27 minutes. 1BTC to enter 100BTC in prizes guaranteed. Deposits are instant. The vast vast majority of people would rather pay 2 bitcents than figure out how to spoof a 0 conf. Your downside isn't even the 2 cents it's at most 2 cents, that assumes a 100% chance that the attacker would have bought the thing if he had to wait 1 confirm. You will absolutely lose 10% or more business for making people wait 10+ minutes.  I have no love for the Times, but this is unfair.The downside of a lifetime subscription is that existing users can't exert any financial pressure on the provider. Normally if quality suffers some existing users will buy less, and just the threat of that keeps quality up. There is a reason we don't see many "All you can eat forever" diners. Granted content consumption is very different.Another downside is that no one knows how long 'lifetime' really is. How long do most brands last? And this is a downside for both parties. You can't charge nearly what 100 years of good content would be worth because no one believes you'll really produce good content for 100 years. But people will rightly be reluctant to pay even the value of 1 year upfront. Some people mean 'backing' to mean a central authority promises (lies) to give you something else valuable in exchange for it. Bitcoin is not backed in that sense.But in our case Bitcoin is the valuable thing itself. I almost think some people would rather a promise to pay bitcoin instead of bitcoin itself. Afterall the promise is 'backed' by somthing. Same thing with gold. A paper dollar used to be a promise that you could get gold, gold is not a promise to get anything and that's why it's better.But somehow without central promises gold can be exchanged for stuff and so can bitcoin. Seals is very newbie friendly. Freerolls (prize awarded but no charge to play) every hour on the hour and cheap tournament runs on every half hour usually with 10-20 players.Today at 4pm ET is a 100BTC guaranteed prize pool tournament too btw. There is a lot of confusion around bitcoin an anonymity. I think it stems from confusion about anonymity mostly. I don't know the right word... but anonymity is the sort of thing where everything has to go right. If one step reveals your identity it is revealed the other steps don't matter (concerning anonymity anyway). So the statement to make about bitcoin is that you don't have to reveal your identity to use it. You might, probably will, but that's not about bitcoin that's the other stuff you do. In the first year the inflation rate was infinity! But the price went up! Economic madddddness.
Propagation is free now due to the tiny kindness of strangers. It is reasonable to think that it won't always be that way. But the problem is not hard. The person with the info wants to share it and the miners want to hear it. Maybe you learn about the 50 largest miners/pool and send direct to them and any small miners who want to hear pay a token fee to one of those. The fee has to be near zero because the small timer has 50 options (more really as they can buy from anyone who has a good supply). Also any public place that a bunch of users decide to send tx to will end up being monitored by miners.And you don't need all miners to hear about those complex tx, if you are willing to wait a while, 50. 10. 1% would even work. If people are set on buying X dollars worth of coins every day regardless of dollar price then a double makes sense (with some other probably false assumptions). But if people want X coins it all depends on their elasticity of demand and it could be a much bigger increase. I think the first is much closer to the truth, but I think that in addition to a supply decrease we'll experience a demand increase over the next year (and the next and next and next...). I certainly didn't think that. I appreciate link posting. Even though that article is pretty flawed I didn't mean to be critical. People, unsurprisingly even writers, are having trouble understanding. I was just pointing that out. SrslySirius joined us for a while tonight. My favorite video:http://srslysirius.com/videos/party-at-the-doj-music-video/ The 1am ET Back to Back tourney is popular, it got 19 players last night even though the jackpot was recently won and the prize is small. We're trying and it's working. Consistently over 50 players on in the evenings.  Yeah, no. That would be like buying a bunch of credit cards or checkbooks when they came out hoping to make money. Think purse, wallet, bucket (that only holds garbage incidentally) not gold, bitcoin.  It seems to me that GLBSE or similar can offer real value without verifying companies in any way whatsoever. Let the companies figure out how to build reputations. It might be by levering forum reputation, already running other longstanding business, meeting people in meatspace and pitching your ideas then telling them that they can invest via GLBSE, etc.As long as the market is clear that they make no promise except that they will care for funds in their control and provide usable software continuously it seems fine too me.Now if someone found a way to filter for 'non scams' that would be great, but it doesn't have to be the same entity as the market.To avoid what is essentially spam the exchange could charge a largish fee or deposit for companies before they can make an offering. For those who just want a quick summary:Bitcoin is a substitute for traditional money, not just CCs and checks but Yen, EUR, and USD.You should set up an ewallet, people can send you money there and you'll generate some for free, it won't make your computer go slow.Bitcoin is too buggy and won't replace current money for 30 years.And my own note:We're going to need Bitcoin education classes in every city within 2 years or there are going to be some confused folks bouncing around. Pictures of Satoshi?! The 100BTC tourney is this Sunday at 4pm ET. Just 1BTC to enter.There is a 5 player 'sit-and-go' tournament available until the big game that gives you just enough (1BTC) to get in the big one. It costs .2BTC to play.Monday at 9pm ET is a 3BTC twitter freeroll. Follow @sealswithclubs for the password.Starting today (90 minutes from now) the high hand in the Pond 10/20 game will get bonus chips. 1000 chips for anyone and 2000 if you are on the current weekly leader board. Keep at it!Lots of good stuff coming up. Very nice. I thought the worst part is the example of the park for contracts. First, as described you still have to trust the holder if the amount is reached to do the right thing. Second if he has coins of his own he can send to that address to trigger the opening. If it is true that you can write scripts like that it's pretty cool, but a bad way to use it. What should have been mentioned there is that you can give three or more trusted community members the keys so they all have to 'sign' off on any transfer.The first comments read like they are from 2010. This is getting way off topic, but...I used to think that about prison. Now it's clear to me that many of the 'criminals' on the inside are there for the protection and/or service of the criminals on the outside. It's a bonus to them that many degenerate inside making a nice excuse to keep it all going.  The tone of the article is a little off, but it raises an important issue. If bitcoin is socially considered "nerd money" that won't be as good as "amazingly awesome money". I guess I can take that down now. It is a great ad for BitInstant which I highly recommend. It pushes the login too low any how. We're working on better design. Anyone near Naples, Fort Myers, Cape Coral want to get together some time this weekend or next week? Just a precaution. Supposedly it is safer from the most aggressive government.We have a new (bitcoin accepting) host also, in Iceland. Besides potential shopping heists. A picture is forever even if instawallet or other provider is not. You never know when an image will go viral and bring income for a long time so using your own wallet or something like blockchain.info where you control the keys is a good idea. The C word drives me nuts. You can do good or bad stuff with capital, obviously, really really obviously. Right now it is nearly always mixed with violence and it's terrible. But come on, the violence is he problem, not the stuff. 
Time travel, powered by Bitcoin. Shopping is getting pretty good, also for shortened addresses just one letter change makes a world of difference. It is a valid concern.I expect the future will be unbranded content delivered via a site that has profiles etc. Even I'll fall out of love with cardboard rectangles with firstbits on them eventually.Writing on skin might help somewhat. Bounty Tournament Thursday 10pm ET. 1000 chips (1BTC) to enter. 750 goes to the prize pool, 250 goes to your bounty, no rake. And also Bryan Micon who's been promoting Seals for some time now on donkdown.com, playing as donkdown. While this gets built girls will be doing their own bitcoin thing on existing sites. But this could become Bitcoin Porn Mecca (no offense Muhammad). In addition to the obvious girls profiles it can have guys (or viewers I suppose) profiles that show (optionally?) who they pay, what they want, when they want to watch live shows, etc. You could easily (for a lot of coin obv) get tons of girls exactly your type asking when they could preform for you. Scott Fischman, two time WSOP bracelet winner has joined Seals. He plays as emptyseat88. 20% seems totally fine for a site that has -tons- of content. It's really nice to be able to think of something and go get it for coin or to browse through a bunch of neat stuff you haven't seen. But right now you aren't really able to make that kind of offering and you need people to help you. That makes me think free or cheap to start is the way to go. Maybe leave the fee, but give rewards to the providers of the most downloaded material?But otoh, there isn't really any competition to speak of so you can price pretty... aggressively.But on the third hand, you invite competition pretty quickly if you charge too much. What do you think about using your software under different branding to sell porn? it seems to be a growing thing the last week or so. reddit.com/r/girlsgonebitcoin if you didn't know. If you divided by the 4th root of 2 every 52500 wouldn't you be producing at the same rate as the old way for one block every 210,000 and producing fewer all other times leading to way fewer blocks? What is the right number?To restate everyone, this isn't happening. Fantasy is fine. I wonder how much thought Satoshi gave this and what his main reason was. I think it was kind of a fairness thing. Whatever it was I think this decision more than most involved his guessing about how (time line etc) Bitcoin would be adopted. Maybe all files are encrypted and someone else sells the keys?Like you (person who has some reputation) says "file 00456 on bitcoindownloads.com" is the next comic in this series. Send X to address Y for the key". The site with the file has no way to check without buying all the keys which seems too much to ask and the seller is not selling any content. Seems too easy.Sorry for the slight diversion OP. Good luck with the site. His objection (I think) is not that you have an edge, it is that it is unknown. Making bids yourself (which no one could detect) would be easy and pure profit for you. I don't think it's 'wrong' to run a game like this, but no one ought play it, there are better gambles for sure. Here's a thought. In addition to a warning about typos losing money. You could choose whatever length is 'near impossible' to generate to be the 'secure' firstbits. Probably 11 chars would do, now if there is a typo the space is so large it probably won't map to another address in the chain. Granted 11 is a bit rough to remember, but maybe not if there is a word to start it out it is easier than a phone number. Display like this maybe:1jamie54jr3hpP5mWdrkQ4BzruSa3wVRTOr, maybe just note that more chars can be used for more security against typos. Wow, learn something every day.So is this a client implementation quirk or a protocol quirk? Seems like you are saying it is protocol level since you say we can't change it, but it seems to me like "initializing it's block database" is a client specific thing. Obviously you need 50%+ mining power to have made that change and it seems like, uh, not a priority at all. Ehh, why? Well.. I dunno about setting up the camera part, but if someone pleasing to look at can get a live cam set up and is willing to play with the (mostly) guys I will gladly gladly hook them up with chips.I'm imagining "I'll fold if you touch your left nipple". This could be good.Also if there ends up being an active live cam site I envision an invitational strip poker tournament.Oh, it could be so good. I'm thinking I put up big prizes, free to enter, 'rebuy' tourney where girls pay to get back in by removing more. Cashing out is totally fine. The onus is on bitcoin merchants to give you what you want for your coins, like that property company in Vegas. More will come I'm sure. But right now MtGox usually has what people want. You need a full chain for firstbits lookups, you can use a pruned chain if you are just mining. This is another good reason not to include it in the main client. If other people can print money it saves me misery? I guess because I could borrow it if I wanted to buy all the normal overpriced things gov and bank will lend for? If we're going to use an easy money lets at least be fair about it and each print the same amount, eh? Girl is naked and has a marker in her hand?edit for elaboration:compare:1. go to instantfirstbits.com2. write your firstbits wherever appropriateto1. go to instawallet.org2. go to coinad.com3. copy address from instawallet to coinad4. wait an hour (maybe more, just keep checking)5. go to firstbits.com copy and paste address again6. write your firstbitsIt isn't even close. The difference for me and probably you is remembering to do whatever we needed it for an hour later. For most people it's the difference between doing it and not. Do people really have mining gear and reliable electricity in places that this would help? And won't a phone call when they need to check on or make a payment be all they need if not mining? Damn that's good, I put it up on Seals.You are more than welcome to make something for Seals.
I don't think it should be in the mainline client. Mainly because a typo causes lost coins and 'bitcoin' shouldn't take risk of blame for that. People should at least realize they are doing something more on the edge. Counterfeit collars don't exist either, if they are counterfeit they aren't dollars :pYou could trick someone into accepting something that isn't actually a bitcoin, that's really what counterfeiting is. Don't let your guard down. I understand wanting to be bitcoin centric, but borrowing in terms of coin is going to potentially leave you (I know you know obviously). The cleanest way to cancel the bad effects of borrowing coin would be to go borrow some dollars and use them to buy the coin so you'll be sure to have it when you need it. No, you could get totally screwed going long 10:1 if the price drops even a bit before it skyrockets. Even 2:1 isn't what you want, plus that would require more hedging capital. You need an option to buy coins at or near the current price in 5 years time. That's not going to be easy to get because anyone who will promise do that for you won't hold them or be able to afford coins if they skyrocket or else they are holding them because they expect them to go way up and will charge you a lot. For your case I would borrow dollars with an agreement that you can pay them back with bitcoins at the market rate. I don't think anything else is going to match up perfectly with what you want. Maybe someone could write a script that moves coin out of that wallet and to her?  Yes, running a business can be a way to convert some USD and labor to many coins. Funny looking model to authorities also.I don't quite follow. You can play at Seals from anywhere. sealswithclubs.eu edit: and you can have fun for cheap or free if you like. Freerolls on the hour, cheap tourney with extra added on the half.  Even disregarding the 'who', why would someone stake anything in the second copy of the same thing? Obviously a third is coming along to screw you. Obviously baring large improvements.  Trying a new promo out later today. 4-6pm ET in the Pond 10/20 (0.4BTC to 2BTC buy in) game the high hand will get 2000 chips (2BTC). Seals accounting is bitcoin based. We have no ongoing dollar costs and just buy some when we need to pay for work from someone who doesn't want coin. It's happened twice. Promos, ads, server all bitcoin payments. 2 of the 3 are even denominated in coin. The food was really good though, I'd eat there every time I was in town if they'd just hand me the 5-7 digits it takes to get the job done. Reusing should be no problem, laminate a few business cards. We currently wait 6 confirms before giving a firstbits as a reorg is the only way a firstbits will get invalid, but even 10 minutes isn't nearly as good as, welcome you're address is 1blahblahblah.... and your firstbits is 1blahb.It would cost like .01 to mark a million addresses, the problem is fees unless you wait and do them bulk, which is another delay.Premade is the way to go, you could have a free service with charge for premium firstbits. Yes I can, that's what I'm doing now. Er, I assume they think it is in their individual interest. Ok, me me me I'm a merchant.Maybe it is a clue that people are speculating that it's going to get a lot bigger? They don't spend money for no reason you know. He just means pick a point in time marked by block number. It might work, but you get a flood of newcoins that way (maybe not terrible I don't know). In the way I mentioned you get new newcoins whenever they are worth more than a bitcoin (because people will 'convert' bitocins then). But since bitcoin has no such feature it is a one way street and eventually you'll get the goodness of newcoin (whatever that may be) and the wide distribution of bitcoin and network effects. They actually didn't accept them at all. They said they didn't have the app. I said any bitcoin address would be fine, and she didn't know what that was. I tipped an instawallet address, curious to see if/when the funds are moved. Or you could title the thread "What happened when someone started another chain" :pMy brief answer is that barring a revolutionary improvement it makes sense (from BOTH their own selfish perspective and the perspective of others) for each person to join the largest network if they are identical or similar. It would already require a large improvement that was not possible to make to the existing bitcoin network. The cleverest way to bootstrap (handle initial distribution) imo would be to allow people to buy in to the new chain by destroying their bitcoins in a specified manner to 'move' them into the new chain. But really that is just a way to allow people a one-way ticket into a breaking change version of Bitcoin, not a completely new system.  What else could he say? "Here you go. This is money, no flaws, enjoy."? Even if the protocol was perfect it would still be a monetary experiment, no one knows what 6 billion people are going to do with something before any of them have even looked at it. Anyone in Orlando want to get together. I'll be arriving in a few hours, maybe staying a few days, not sure.How does Dicks take coin? Will they give me firstbits? I don't have a phone with scanner thingy. They have wi-fi? We've got a table stater bonus running. All 2 and 3 handed play gets 50% rakeback at the end of the week. 100 (.1BTC) chips must be earned to qualify, it isn't hard to do.
Right, I was thinking it would be fine because he'd have a 'master document' with the days stamped docs, but people won't want to pass around the master so they'll go to his site I suppose, but that sucks because now you need him. You don't have to trust him, but you need him, or at least that doc. Still it could be useful, you could push torrents up every day with the day's stamped docs. Doesn't seem like it would scale well at all though. Trades on Gox (where the 'speculators') live don't show up in that stat at all.I've made over 6000 'real' bitcoin transactions. I saw some of the MO damage. Tornadoes are insane. You can't get it down to 100 or 1000 or 100000000. You'll have to do more than 1000000000000x more work, so the amount of time you have doesn't matter at all. There is a solution, not that hard!Just need an instawallet clone that sends a satoshi (using SendMany for low fees) to addresses in advance of giving them out.  Nooo, they have to use firstbits. Just tell them to go to a faucet.edit: really this is important. firstbits on skin is awesome sexy perfect. web address is not. I like it very much. It's a pretty flexible tactic."Oh, no I can't let you do X for free, let me pay you.""Well, I can always use more Bitcoins.""Bitcoins?" Are you really sending wires for very small amounts? I would think giving the option of Bitcoins at market value or MtGox dollar code would be vastly superior in terms of cost and ease. Someone correct me if I'm wrong, but pruning is just the act of a miner forgetting something they don't need to know anymore. The tx will still have happened and still be in the chain and any service doing lookups of hashes of documents for the purpose of time stamping will be smart enough to not prune. Or maybe you can mark it in some way that lets timestamp checking services forget everything else and remember only the non-financial tx.If people are worried about the size of the chain, maybe a way to do it is for a company to accumulate documents to be stamped, hash them all together and just include 1 hash per block/hour/day. What on earth would you do with all the corn? Spread it around to other people immediately? Why 99.99%? He's paying whatever you want. Sell half or 1% for more riches than you can every use. That really not likely since the next block would be worth about infinity * 50 / existing coins. It would be the most solid secure valuable block chain based currency even imaginable.  He'd be totally screwed because as I sell my 104th to last coin I'll have such vast riches that he'll have to make high level physics breakthroughs and sell me trips to the past or distant galaxies in order to get more. I think you are right, except that it isn't contrary to the spirit of freedom. It costs what it costs to use bitcoin, very low now, likely more later. But anyone can get access by paying only the legitimate costs, no licenses, permissions etc.In addition to BitPalish companies any WOT of any kind that springs up will be able to save fees too. Be it as small as my family or a large Bitcoin OTC style thing or Hawala. Yes, it is legit. Very sorry, I should have posted a notice about this.It isn't as smooth as I expected. We are moving to .eu and .org and .com will redirect to .eu. Do you load up million dollar wallets in brand new releases? Others don't either. That's a good question. I'll fix it now. It'll be 250+10. I just checked, one of my instawallets that I've only funded from another instawallet does not have it's address in the chain.Letting the user choose is pretty important as it can cause confusion or prevent the normal verifying of payments. Suppose you and your recipient are both using instawallet and the recipiant loses access, you cannot prove you actually paid. Or the recipient is a jerk, and sees the tx isn't visible and claims it never came. Instawallet does the same thing, minus giving you the option to put it on the chain. Actually, now I'm not sure, maybe it's just that it puts them on the chain and accepts them with 0 confirms. I thought it was because Mark likes salmon?
I should change my example uses of firstbits. Good for remembering and saying your address over the phone, and writing them on your naked body to solicit donations.Something to remember is that a typo means the coins are gone. Make sure it is very legible and no one could misinterpret it. Someone should really make a wallet that has built in vanity firstbits generation for a nominal fee. Thanks dooglus, that is all correct.Of course you CAN deposit and gamble your own money too :-)The best thing to do with your 50 chips (imho) is to play the half hour game which costs 50 chips to play and has 100 chips added to sweeten the prizes. Suppose my some magic you could get the space of hashes for the last block down to 100. You'd have to do 100x as much work as everyone else. But really you can't narrow the space in any meaningful way whatsoever. Not only do you not know the details of the inputs of the previous block, you don't know who will find it or where they will start looking in terms of nonce. Not really. If he moves a few they might be some of the only ones he has.I really doubt he lost them all, that would be pretty hard to do considering even after it was obvious they were going to be worth -something- you could still get them daily with a CPU. Seals has a free poker tournament every hour with a .05BTC prize. There are larger free tournaments from time to time. If you aren't excited for the drop you should keep more coins until you are. Local currencies are based on fallacy. "monetary leaks"! aka getting stuff into your community. Kindness doesn't tell you whether to send the eggs to Dallas or Houston. Where would all the paper go?My brother owes me 30 million bitcoins. Does this affect you or bitcoin?I agree. What is the highest tx fee this miner has rejected? What tx fee would he need to reject to be an 'attacker'? I'm browsing and it goes from 15k penthouse to 20k vacant lot. Of course the lot is yours for a lot longer. Uhhh, freaking awesome. Are you responsible for this? He was (clearly) talking about a time coming soon when total tx fees may make up 10% of the reward miners get for mining. Not 10% tx fees.Go for it. Or maybe you could just read the discussion, that might be more your level. 2013? I dunno if he does, but he ought limit it to that or lower per month. Good idea. Change the name. warning all, it's a girl showing girl parts. http://imgur.com/EEpdN I knew girls took their clothes off on the internet, but I didn't know they did it at reddit. One girl seems to like to write on herself, if she wrote her firstbits there I'd feel compelled to put some bitcoins in her address. It's probably like most other wallets where that is your deposit address they just generated and the funds (you've been given credit for .01BTC worth of them) are not allocated. Sure, it does work with that caveat. BitLotto works on that assumption and even tells users which webwallets are ok.It's probably a good standard to have keys assigned to accounts and even blind the site administration to them, iiuc blockchain.info does that.
Puhlease. If people don't like deepbit's decisions they'll move to a pool they do agree with.  wtg LA, ignore this bitch to the ground.They get a lot done by leveraging implied violence. 1BTC freeroll in one hour, 11pm ET. Trying out a new format, it's a HU tourney. 500 chips, half a bitcoin, for first. Indeed, making the definitely wrong assumption that everyone has the same costs would mean that even small tx fees would exclude tx excluders from profiting. I would think the 10% number mentioned as a possible near future amount would do a lot of good.  That is interesting nelisky, did you maybe give your IP a long time ago to be one of the IPs to add for people trying to connect without IRC or whatever? That would seem to give credence to the botnet theory as IRC activity might get some attention. How much faster is he getting it by not including tx?Indeed, maybe offer something substantial to be a part of his amazingly difficult computations. Or wait for one of the countless generous miners who are willing to do it for free. No doubt. And it took 1000 days for a very substantial amount of resources. And it could be done in 2 days (now hours?!) by one weak machine. That isn't failproof, people use Gox or any wallet to receive payments from others. I guess that's why you mention the dwolla number, but some people won't have a dwolla number and in some cases an attacker could have been paying a person dwolla and then switched to paying them coin straight into Gox.Also a webwallet or service provider would have a lot of "other people's" keys. OP, do you have a general problem with helping people record things they already know? Sheesh, he's talking about recording info he already has access to and making it easy for other's to do the same right? Don't send blocks or tx from your own IP if you don't want them to be connected. You'll be able to request only your own, but that isn't available quite yet, hopefully soon.You can watch and save other's and your own if you leave the table open and then use the "copy all to clipboard" button at the bottom of the hand history window. If fees remain the same or increase then level the impact of the fixed subsidy halving will actually be less each time. 1000x wow, so now we need 16 more bits or something to get the same security. Care to elaborate? Totally. But actually we aren't close to $10 and I don't think $10 is anything special psychologically, at least not compared to $1. I gottcha OP. Around $1 there was a lot of stickiness imo. When it broke all the "a bitcoin should be worth less or about $1" psych it went up a lot. Why did you think it would go that high? Because it was moving up? Now it'll never go up because it went down, right? Does it hurt Gox customers? Will they care enough to go to another exchange?What if Gox or someone else said that this is what they do and offered lower, 0 or negative fees since they could make money that way. Would it be a problem? Something Mike Hearn has mentioned before is that in the future people may just pass around unconfirmed tx and only when it's for something fairly important will someone bother to pay for confirming all the tx that their 'important' tx has as inputs.I guess that scenario assumes pretty high fees. Seals is BACK.2BTC freeroll at 11:15am ET.
Umm, so with what 5 computers they can do 30 blocks a day, but they don't want to spring for 5 more?In this bizarro universe they make $5k/day and have a super awesome more efficient way to find blocks, but aren't investing that money in it. O K. I don't think that's right still. Imagine this game (I know if isn't  close to the mining situation just an example of clear TOC).There is a $10 pot. Any of 10 players can take the whole pot at any time. Every minute the pot doubles. It is obvious to everyone that if they can all agree they'll make a fortune. Otherwise nearly nothing. But they can't expect everyone to trust everyone else so they all grab for it.Mining is pretty different, if even a few can agree they can prop it up. I don't even expect tiny individuals to do that. I expect somone(s) to buy up some significant enough amount of power. Probably there will be plenty of miners who'd rather not be subject to the whims of difficulty and variable fees and will sell for less even that the expected return to reduce variance.  They can sell their power to someone who realizes it will make more coin by working together. @meniIt's true a tiny miner will simply migrate to a pool that takes all fees. However, in the all tiny miner  situation where no one has pricing power the tiny miner doesn't mine at all. But he has cheap/free electric, nice GPUs etc. So he offers to sell it to some smart guy. Smart guy realizes that buying the power of 4000 tiny miners will give him pricing power and profit. It happens to start raising the level of fees across the board making it harder or more expensive for him to buy more miners power because they can better profit on their own now. No, that's my whole point. Anyone who wants >99% chance of being in the next block will pay higher fees. Especially if the fee is like .01 on a 100BTC tx.Even needing to rely on this pricing power phenomenon seems unlikely to me and it's just there as back up. Already we're paying miners fees so that non-mining nodes will take us seriously enough to pass the tx on.There are many other things like this that can happen. Maybe some subset of people will be appalled to receive a tx that didn't have a fee. Uncertainty about who these people are may lead to a .0001 (don't hate me for being a freeloading jerk) standard.Maybe a lot of miners won't keep a complete chain and will be unable to easily verify small or old inputs. You'll need a fee if you don't want to wait for the one generous soul who keeps the whole thing and charges no fees. Seals is down for scheduled improvements. We expect to return by 10am ET. If a miner breaks the rules then other miners won't build off of their block (because they are worried (rightly) that other miners won't build off of their block) you don't actually get paid until your block is 120 blocks deep. Mining a block without including tx isn't really 'bad' but you can do that and all you miss out on is any tx fees you could have gotten. I'm not at all sure that there will be pricing power in the bitcoin mining market in the future.What I am saying is that if low block reward and low tx fees make people start abandoning mining then the remaining miners will start to pick up some pricing power. This will allow them to raise prices on people who are very concerned about getting into the next block or two. The now higher tx fees and the low barrier to entry you mention then brings in more miners reducing the pricing power from running away.The only part I disagree with is the constant returns to scale. In order to exercise their pricing power the bigger percentage miners have to decline low tx fees. Small miners get to take the large and small fees.Brief example. Suppose one 10% miner and countless tiny miners. The 10% miner guesses/experiments to determine that if they refuse to include tx with less than .01 fee 8% of people will pay it to keep their chance of getting in the next block near 100% instead of near 90%. This costs the 10% miner all the small .0005 fees, but the make much more this way because 100 times .0005 is less than 8 times .01. But the small miners still get all the .0005 and they get the .01 fees. The big miner does it because they would get more than otherwise and the small miners get a free lunch out of it. There are financial incentives to small timers getting in on mining whenever anyone has any pricing power. That's pretty damn good. I understand that magic could probably do better. Didn't you hear? Everyone will be done mining when the reward drops and we'll live at block 210000 forever. +1Show me Venmo to online poker in minutes and I'll be worried. Suppose power is not concentrated enough for the effect I describe. Miners will fall out for lack of profitability leaving few miners each having more pricing power until there is enough pricing power to charge higher than minimum fees in at least some cases. Now more negligible miners are enticed to (re)enter taking advantage of the fact that there are now higher tx fees floating around and they can also take the smaller ones. This keeps us away from complete centralization.  If I have 75% I can refuse to build on the small companies blocks and they will never stay in the longest chain. It is actually reasonable to think they would know bitcoin by now. They have anarchist/libertarian literature in their storefronts. I'm not actually near any of their locations now. I'm not going to use that letter, maybe I'll write one sentence. Maybe it'll be their fourth exposure and they'll look into it now. I'll add some specific to them stuff for sure before sending. Glad I put it here first, thanks for the feedback. I haven't sent it yet, please critique. Also feel free to adapt and use.-------------------------------------------------------Maybe you're already familiar with Bitcoin, but just in case I want to give you a quick overview. You'll probably find it interesting at least even if you decide not to use it now.Bitcoin is peer to peer money. No banks are required, any user can send bitcoins directly to another user without permission and without restriction. No one at all has special privilege with regards to Bitcoin or the Bitcoin network. Bitcoin is code that people run on their computers. It is also the name of the network that emerges when those computers are connected.Bitcoin is a different currency, not another form of dollars like PayPal or Dwolla. It's value is set only by what people are willing to pay for it. Recently it's been fairly stable around $4.90/BTC, but historically it fluctuates a lot.MtGox.com is the largest exchange, in the last day people traded about $200,000 worth of Bitcoins there. Bit-Pay.com helps businesses integrate bitcoin and if desired sell them automatically upon receipt to avoid exchange rate risk. Bitcoin.org is the 'official' site and has links to more information. I'm not an expert, just an enthusiast but I'm more than happy to help you find answers to any questions you have. It doesn't really matter if payment processors mine themselves or buy mining services. It would be like if someone said "In the future no one will make cloth" and someone responded "Yes clothing makers will make cloth because they need it to make clothes". The fact that people demand cloth to make clothes is the reason that cloth will still be produced, but there isn't any particular reason why cloth and clothes makers will be one in the same. And it doesn't matter weather there is many or few clothes makers.What we do know is that there will be demand for blocks, maybe a lot, maybe not, depends on a lot of things.Here is another angle, I'm not sure how relevant. Another party that wants there to be a lot of honest mining power: Miners. If you make a block, you only get paid if it is still in the longest chain 120 blocks from now. Issuing a tx from your coinbase (can you even do this?) with a high fee will give more incentive to an honest miner to quickly mine off of your block before someone comes along rewriting yours in order to collect the fees from the transactions you included or just to remove them for some nefarious purpose. But when a small player can make 300 dollars a block for processing payments an ASIC will get you virtually no chance of solving a block anyway. I don't think guessing numbers is really helpful since there there are so many unknown variables. There needs to be a good theoretical game theory type reason why it will work. And I'm pretty sure I know it.Miners are all different sizes, this gives some of them pricing power in terms of selling "get my txs into a block soon". If all miners are very small and all use the "accept all with fee rule" many may indeed drop out lowering overall power and difficulty. This will make it easier and more likely for someone to gain a pricing power ability. The existence of someone with pricing power ability raises the profitability of all miners causing more small players to enter the mining biz and reducing the possibility/ease with which one party can get >50% (which may not be disastrous anyway, but still makes me uncomfortable).For example, suppose DeepBit changed policy to only include tx that had fee >= .01BTC. Some people will not care because they can with high likelihood get in a block within 10 blocks anyway. But the few people who need near certainty of getting in within an hour now attach a .01 fee. All miners profit from this in proportion to their hashing power except DeepBit. DeepBit profits (or maybe not if they pick the wrong price) by less depending on how many of the .0005 fees they no longer get.Interestingly this means that an individual mining at DeepBit will want to leave for solo or a smaller pool when DeepBit makes this change. I don't claim to completely understand the equilibrium. Some very interesting things can and will happen. Suppose DeepBit wasn't a pool but one entity with a lot of hashing power. Would they "split off" some of their power? This would be the same as using a probabilistic method of determining which tx to include in order to give users incentive to add more fee for better chance, but not completely give up the small fees. I think the right strategy depends heavily on the "willingness to pay distribution". If it is a smooth curve a many tiered solution is probably most profitable. If it's pretty binary then the profit maximizing solution is probably simpler. missed one :p I don't think 'free' is a good way to advertise it. It isn't always true even now and people assume there is a catch anyway, which there really is. I don't know the best way to say it, but the reality is pretty good. Hyper-low? Usually free? Awesome deal? 
Ummm, seems big to me, If you had $100 to invest then buying at 1 cent means you can retire vs at $4 you can buy a decent new car and go on a vacation. Idea for two premium Omegle features. I think they'd only be fun if just a few people had them, so maybe you could auction them or something. Merge. Talk to to different people and when you click "Merge" they start chatting with each other without knowing you've been replaced. With some thought I think hilarity could ensue.Hijack. While watching a conversation, click "Hijack A" or "Hijack B" to take control of their side without the remaining party knowing there was a switch. It would probably be good to let the person booted continue watching and maybe even open a chat with them. Ohhhh... just open chats with both with neither knowing and you can abandon one if you want or tell them you've stolen their new friend or whatever you want to do.In general I think offering nice social services for free and selling godmode is a sweet model. Can you show the code/file/db that is a dollar? I think that makes even less sense than showing a bitcoin.If you count Wells Fargo database as being a dollar then you need to count MtGox bitcoin balance database as BEING a bitcoin in the same way, which is absurd imo. This is not a complete answer. If the network is healthy the payment proc will just mooch, if it is too weak there isn't anything he can do anyway without spending more than all of his profits (unless his actual mining power will bring him profit, which is what is in question). He's going to have to pay the others. Maybe a tiny miner will include all those tx for a small fee, but the tiny miner won't likely get a block soon so if the payment processor wants high assurance of getting in a block before X time he needs to pay what the most expensive miners are demanding.Not really. There might be thousands or more banks and payment processors and there will be no central body keeping anyone out. All you need to get in is to be competitive with the existing services in some way no artificial gatekeeper. That would be cool, like unicorns who crap skittles. Think about it, if mining is profitable no matter how inefficient you are it's endless free money and all resources on the planet will eventually be dedicated to it.It's wonderful as it is, the amount of resources dedicated depend on the worldwide demand for the system and the supply is anyone who can provide the service we need cheaper than average. To me it's more magical than (impossible) free money. You can buy a bunch of clicks or views and only add them when you want. It is cheaper. Even if it was identical, now new bitcoiners can get roughly twice as much.Even if it was identical we now have redundancy and are less likely to be stuck without a service like this. It's not that simple. You never know if you actually have 49% or 51% and if you choose not to build on others blocks you risk doing work that doesn't end up in the chain later on and doesn't get paid. Monopolistic mining with a narrow margin is a risky game. Also while you might break other miners after a short time you don't know what those with 50-500k bitcoins saved up (and maybe some healthy dollar profits already taken) will do. If they want a sig just sign your own name. They aren't going to turn down the sale at that point even if you write apple horse happy. Doesn't that just mean that people who want more ads up have to make more accounts now?I don't see how it was an unfair advantage, they are paying more for the privilege right? You'll get them back, it is run by a legit guy, used to post here a lot.There is action at sealswithclubs.org I always thought 82 cents should just be interpreted as an 82% chance at a dollar. But gaming commission blah blah big brother. So you give Slush the money and he spends it on some sexy downloads, the porn site operator dutifully returns the coins to Slush because they trail back to a theft.Boomerang coins!The blockchain only shows that coins came from other valid coins, it is completely devoid of moral information. Awesome going to try it now. What is the absurdity in considering Bitcoin a currency? What does that mean? You support violence on people for having or sharing information about crimes committed by others or you don't support that violence, but don't want to say? Also people keep quoting "40 years", nothing special happens then. It's closer to 140 years when the reward is rounded to zero. Tell me if I'm addressing the wrong issue.You are worried that all miners will accept all transactions with fees resulting in everyone paying the minimum fee which will cause very low difficultly resulting in easy 51% attacks.First, empirically, not everyone is accepting all tx with fees now. I don't have data to cite, but I've seen it.Second, there is a solid game theory reason to decline some tx with fees. Assume you are a miner with 1% of total hashing power and everyone else is currently accepting all tx that have fees. If you raise your min accepted fee to say .001 anyone who requires their tx to be included in the next block with probability higher than 99% must pay at least .001. Even if you lose out on countless .00000001 fees the tiny fraction of people willing to pay to increase their chance of getting in the next block will increase your profits.This might seem to imply that bigger miners (1% say) have an advantage over insignificant miners, but this is not the case. While the smallest have no pricing power whatsoever they benefit from those who do. They will also be able to collect the .001 fees that were attached with the 1%er in mind. Wow, very nice. This needs to be on the website. If I could be two people I'd be Bernanke and Satoshi. How could you lose? It's the ultimate epic hedge.
Lol, it makes no sense. Why would he like goldmoney.com? How is bowing to government pressure not 100% baked in to that pie? What are they going to do let government take all their customers gold and go to jail? I suspect Casey is involved in some way or has something else clouding his judgment concerning that company. This was not clear, a natural reading of "FREE from funding fee" is that it is free to fund. Also you say the fee is charged to YOU right after saying it is FREE to the customer. AND all this was in answer to a question about something that would be competitive to Dwolla which is free for transfers under $10 and only 25 cents for large transfers. Do you also use TrustCash? Does it cost $0 or $10? Just because there are illogical people on the internet doesn't mean they are your awesome professional competition. (I'm not Charlie or Yankee in case you were wondering.) Blocks will always be produced, it's just that in 130 years they won't get any NEW coins. They'll be rewarded only by transaction fees. The first Back to Back Tourney was great. 10 players, first place was 1500 and if Al wins again tonight he'll get the 330 in rake from last night plus tonights rake. Come bust him and keep it growing. Faucet, Slush, Bitcoinica, Coinworker and Trade Hill, leaves 3. Do we know any more? But also some could have had multiples.  You must win two consecutive tournaments to get the prize. The rake from the current night's tournament will also go to the prize.The rake is 33 chips per player and I'm going to round up for simplicity, 100 chips for every 3 players. So if there are 12 players for 10 nights in a row before someone wins back to back the prize they will get (in addition to winning first place twice) would be 4000 chips = 4BTC.I don't know how long this promo will last, but at some point I'll announce that it will be over the next time someone wins the prize, I won't cancel it while there is a standing prize. New promo tournament starts tonight, very early tomorrow morning actually.Back-to-Back Bonus Tournament: Daily at 1am ET, 300 + 33 buy-in. 100% of the rake from the tournament goes to the progressive prize which is paid in full to anyone who wins this tournament twice in a row.  Nice. That can't be done now, but I wonder about a system that let a tx essentially say. "This input can be used for any tx as long as the coinbase transaction of that block has an output to [recipient address] equal to [amount].Feels like there might be problems with it. Multiple people paying the same address in the same block...? The number of confirmations should be custom. For some things (an exchange) 6 is reasonable, for access to a cheap download it completely wrecks the service and ought be 0 confirmations. For most things that are being shipped customer should get a message that they are paid after 0 confirmations and the merchant should get the go ahead after 6 or whatever.But I haven't even used it, maybe the definitive solution already allows this. My ad is still not up, do they go up manually I guess? Is mine all in order and just waiting? User freemoney. Does Dwolla still work with Gox? It's cheap and only one other account to set up. How much faster will it make my Jamaican run? He's pretty fast already in case that matters. This is to be expected really. Scammers (usually) have short time preference and we're just getting started. People who are building good brand equity and reputation will make a buttload eventually. A small thing. You should consider accepting 0 confirmation transactions. This is not a situation where you are going to possibly be ripped off, worst case scenario is that someone gets a few cents worth of free service. And it just isn't going to happen anyway. 0 confirms where appropriate makes bitcoin more useful and satisfying too imo. (And it would give a slight edge over that other very similar ad site that takes hours to put me back up after I expire). I just bought an ad, username: freemoneyIt seemed the price per click was the same at 100 and 1000 so I don't know if the 80% discount for orders over 200 clicks was applied or not.edit: of course I'll take the 500 also. I bought some Bitcoin buttons from http://crizzlesbuttons.ecrater.com/It's great price, nice guy, fast service. It isn't set up with a Bitcoin shopping cart, but he definitely wants coin orders.Direct link to Bitcoin buttons: http://crizzlesbuttons.ecrater.com/search.php?keywords=bitcoinI'm wearing the ancap colored Bitcoin one now.
That's not true. For example we need tons of staff and huge secure buildings and trucks to secure dollar transactions. When we switch to Bitcoin we save are wealthier and more value is stored in Bitcoin than previously was stored in dollars. From a more individual perspective we are wealthier when we move our commerce into the Bitcoin realm because we save tx fees. If you take a withdrawal from Seals and don't like the coins you can send them back to the address they came from and you will not get credit to your account for them or you can send them to a deposit address and you will get credit for them. I imagine this will be how most sites work, so be careful.Likewise if a friend sends you coins from a webwallet and you return them to the sending address neither of you will have the coins anymore. I'm pretty sure you can share stuff you own and it's the selling they get panties bunched about. Cite/reasoning on the legally a store of value claim? Is there a definition of a store of value somewhere? Is a gold coin a SOV? a cow? I'm visiting St Louis really soon, maybe for a few days to a week. Anyone want to get together? Meal or drink?I'll be ordering from GrubGo for sure. I can buy or sell coins too if anyone is in need.Also, tomorrow in Indianapolis? Tennant doesn't pay.Lock him in the basement.'ello guv'ner. You obv shouldn't. I wouldn't be comfortable leaving much unless I saw a reasonable long term way for them to make profit.Seems like a possible place to use multi-sig. Love showing the mBTC, brilliant. I'll look into it more as soon as I can, but have you tried turning any antivirus and firewall off? Very few people have trouble, but 2 others have emailed me recently with trouble though maybe you are one of them.  Get your 2BTC ready for today's tourney!April 8th, (Sunday 4pm ET again) will be another 100BTC tourney, but will only cost 1BTC to enter. Welcome roomservice.We used to give free chips to new players. It was easier to stop that than to get into IP banning wars. Deposit amount as rakeback is a good idea, but our rake is so low it will take forever. :-)I like the more players idea too, will work on that. I've talked to crosby quite a bit over the last few months, I expect he'll do what he says and hope he can get what he needs. Idiot court would probably rule that they have to give the file back. Googling "instawallet clone" gives seemingly full instructions. Someone really should do this. If it is a reputable person I can promise some advertising money from Seals.I've been using instawallet to show new players at Seals how Bitcoin works. I think it will make them more comfortable buying coins to play with. That story about the bricks isn't the issue at all. If the stolen coins randomly show up with a third party and you have full knowledge and power to give them back to the rightful owner then fine. But what will actually happen is that goods or services will be traded for the coins possibly multiple times and instead of the person with faulty security taking the loss it will be a random bitcoin user. That makes no sense, it just moves the loss from those with weakest security to bitcoin users at large. I figure that it would make sense to keep the same info up there, otherwise you'd lose the traffic. Unless there is something better that could be there. Do you think the same on dollars?Let's say I videotape a break in and make sure to shoot every serial number of every bill they steal. Then 6 months later you get these same papers direct from a bank in exchange for your paycheck and I present the video. Forcing you to give the dollars once sucks, but if it is the general practice people won't risk working for a paycheck or using a bank. Even if you don't care about what is 'right' any exchange/wallet that appears to randomly take users deposits on claims that they came from a dirty source is going to go out of business. If taking the coins was standard practice Bitcoin would be unusable. Even subscribing to a service that tells you if coins are known to be dirty doesn't help because thieves will turn them over before anyone gets a report in many cases. I didn't watch it. It seems to make sense that gas would be getting more precious over time. It makes no sense whatsoever that dollars would be getting more precious to match. So the change in the ratio of their values isn't a surprise to me. This is not the right thread for this, we should move. The person is not known unless 100% of bitcoin services ID customers. No one needs to prevent it, and the data is not all right there in the chain, the most relevant piece in this case is in this thread. Thefts are not usually known in the first minutes after they happen. It will be trivial to switch the coins before they get the taint. Someone else will hold the bag (and they'll be kindly informed after it is too late by your spiffy taint client).
That (surprisingly) looks really good expect for the name which is absolutely terrible. http://www.reddit.com/r/news/comments/qb9mv/on_saturday_february_18_paypal_began_threatening/c3w9hdylink is bad in OP. This just in:Every single organization in the world now accepts Bitcoin donations, well over 100 million of them. No effect?But yeah, early to call it 'critical'. Yes, it can be strengthened.  Ah, yeah, not going to get 'all of them' by any means. There are still [sick huge number] divided by 58^5 [aka small number] of address. No protection at all, the coins belonging to that address would be lost.I think the best way to think of it is this:If you eventually find a collision (millions of years with any reasonable amount of resources) the expected amount you will find is [enormous number of keys, call it 10^20] divided by [total bitcoins] = less than one satoshi (tiniest bitcoin unit).Compare to: Regular identity theft, car accident on the way to the bank, etc. I can't see what on those charts makes it look like an adjustment is overdue.  I didn't realize this was from SR. I guess it's mostly a marketing thing then? I'd understand wanting to keep them separate, but they aren't doing that so I guess it is a matter of "launching" being better than "now we do guns". No, it is every 2016 blocks which takes 2 weeks on average. Wow, that's great.I ain't gunna shoot anyone, and no one shoots me 'cause I got a gun. Why would you be sending encrypted transactions? Don't you want miners to be able to put them in blocks?Also if you are afraid of the government protecting you to death for encryption make sure you don't accidentally link to an https site. Asking people to upvote something is against terms?If you mean posting an advertisement post, obviously don't make it an advertisement just make it something interesting (to libertarians) that happened recently. Maybe link to that story about SR selling guns now that came out a while ago. I would really not stress about this.Most sites/companies fail anyway. This doesn't look like anything special and the people running it didn't consider their name very carefully since it's more likely to hurt them than anything.Someone hears there is a place to get guns for bitcoin and wants to check it out. They end up at your site and realize whoever told them it sold guns was just an idiot.Maybe when ignorant people complain to me that bitcoin is used to sell weapons I'll take them to your site and show them what bitcoin actually does.I really hope you don't waste any time dealing with this, but If you do rebrand, stay away from 'flower' ok? I wouldn't worry too much about the name and certainly don't change yours. We don't even know if this site will be around in a month.The confusion is probably bad for you on the whole, but it isn't all bad. As mentioned nearly everyone will end up on your site before finding what they seek. The authorities are incompetent at keeping us safe and wealthy because they aren't even trying to do that. If they raid you 'mistakenly' it won't actually be a mistake, it'll be an excuse. I am planning on coming. There was already a fairly big article about SR selling weapons now.  Seals is growing. There is some action almost all the time now. So if an unknown person buys a gun from an unknown person should violence be done to either? Put another way, is there anyone at all who you would hurt for the act of buying or selling a gun? Do you want to define the privileged class who gets to defend themselves and enjoy themselves? Or maybe we can just let some special folks do that for us too? The March 4th 100BTC tourney is coming up.It's this coming Sunday at 4pm ET, 2BTC to enter.
Don't they both involve freedom to do what you think is right? Freerolls on Seals too! You are missing a big part of the decision equation. What will other miners do, what will the difficulty be? If the btc/usd stays the same and 60% of hashing power drops out you'll make more money.The question you should always ask yourself is "Am I going to be more or less efficient than the marginal miner?"If you pay a reasonable price for electricity and value the time it takes you to manage your operation you should probably stop at some point unless you want bitcoins and have trouble buying them. You might wonder if Smashwords should simply switch to a different payment provider.  Its not so easy.  PayPal is designed into the wiring of the Smashwords platform.  They run the credit card processing for our retail store, and theyre how we pay our authors and publishers.  PayPal is also an extremely popular, trusted payment option for our customers.  It is not feasible for us to simply switch to another provider, should such a suitable provider even exist, especially with so few days notice.This is why you don't marry an evil bitch. I don't think it's a bad idea, surprised at the negativity.LoveBitcoins is not insurance but it is a commitment. I suppose really all it does is make it unlikely that the site will be a small scam, it could certainly be worth 100BTC to set up something large.The insurance company would have to solve the trust issue itself, but some people here do already have some trust and selling/renting it doesn't seem bad at all. For example I could probably start a store and enough people would be willing to trust me for a small amount that I could get reviews etc. But I don't want to start a store, so instead I talk on the phone with some guy, hear his plans, take a deposit from him and tell people that if they get screwed it's on me. Now he gets a faster start, people have more peace of mind and I make a little money.Regarding Bitcoin eliminating the need for trust, I completely disagree. Bitcoin lets us have money without third party risk, but there is still the need to find trusted trading partners. Sorry to be short. The silly part is the cashier waiting for the coins she accidentally charged you incorrectly to get 6 confirms. Obviously no one wants to wait 6 confirms in any situation.Waiting any confirms at all in any small value situation where you can actually see the person is just rude and unnecessary. If a guy is willing to walk off without paying why both pretending to pay first? To get a 10 or 60 minute head start? Where you going to run after him and try to fight about it? It makes zero difference whether  cops get there 1 hour or 2 hours after the fact to take your report about the stolen groceries. Lol wut In addition to the previous points every block empty or not makes it one block more work to rewrite a particular previous block making the tx in them a little bit more secure. It seems rare that you'd need a cashier to have access, just pay give them watching only access. Multi-sig is for when multiple bosses need to sign off and other cases like that. Jesus is starting to sound prescient. Let them have their money, we'll use ours. When your team of 6 billion finally finds a collision on average you'll get 21 million bitcoins / total number of addresses. That'll be exciting. I'll keep my wishes for safe car rides. It predicts people won't pass around info for free, but we do. They could just as easily write that bittorrent doesn't work because people have no incentive to share. It's like those 'studies' that determine that bees can't fly because their wings aren't long enough. You are correct, looking into it now.blockchain.info can help you in the meantime.edit: cron failed, should be all caught up now. That makes sense Spike. Probably my first idea there would be best done by just having an existing host add "gate this file with BTC". I expect those names to be worth a good amount in the future. Maybe $100k+ when Bitcoin is way big, but that might be like 100BTC only. This wouldn't be a problem if I had dollars to invest, but I only have coins. So I should only do this if I think the Amount of bitcoins the names will be worth is going to go up, and... that doesn't seem clear at all. ~350BTC? Does it seem reasonable to get that for it in a few years? Suppose a bitcoin is worth $4.50 in two years, what do you think the domain will be worth? Really hard for me to tell since I think $4.50/BTC in two years is the least likely scenario ever.Another thing to consider, and it makes this a clear no to me instead of a slight no, is the future of domain names in general. If there is an IP crackdown it could spur a new system pretty fast. It's a technical problem really and a good solution might be found at any time with the right motivation. Just tweeted the same thing from the bitcoin horn.And added Armory donation thread to my sig. I'll be donating (again), just deciding how much. Keep up the good work! It's only been about 5 blocks, but it's 10BTC and has a .0005 fee. It is not large in size only one input.The only thing unusual I can see is that the change address is the same as the input so the sender was not using the standard client. Ohh... I'm reading this as meaning it's input is unconfirmed itself is that right?http://blockchain.info/address/d3c9db1d8cc75b44e610990a6e0e106d2c14ecdaedit: It just confirmed, I'm still wondering if anything strange was going on so I'll leave this open. The model I'm thinking of might be risky and not good, but here it is.You let people put stuff up for free and download for free, this will get you a big base.You let people charge if they want and take a decent cut out of it, more than the bandwidth costs you covering for all the free hosting you do.If the free is getting to be too much you could limit how much free a user can get, maybe they pay for a premium account which gives them all the 'free' they want.-------------A different way would just to provide the plumbing and no audience and nothing for free and take a very small cut. But I think this model will be fairly easy to copy and it'll just be a matter of who can provide cheapest bandwidth. But still there would be some first to market advantage. Would you expect people to hold and handle and send your cash for you for free? MyBitcoin did this though and I'm sure many others do and/or will.
Agreed, lots of people are totally out of this world and it won't affect them at all. iirc it has few features and high commissions, but since it is open source maybe you could add features, promote, get high volume and charge less.I don't think it had search of any kind, you had to be linked or go through every item, and even had to modify the url to do that.Maybe that's not the purpose though and I'm thinking of a different kind of site. A site with lots of various content but with some of it for pay. Oh, another good feature to have is "open this for everyone when X BTC is paid to 1j4kju..."  Make it like a regular file hosting site with options to gate with bitcoin payment. Maybe have a "one time" per payment option and a "permanent access" option. Uploader sets price, but you take a % and have a min fee.If you emphasize uploader accounts people could use their "channel" to build a rep by posting some free content and some gated content. Are you going to police content?  If you are going to have a fixed rate that changes, why not just make it change to what it will cost you to replace the coins/dollars plus a fee? As long as there is one actual market even if it has onerous AML crap anyone who can trade there can run their own "not really an exchange" site.  https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=12428.0 In this thread Mathew and Atlas bicker. I dunno what you are up to, but it smells. Actually hurting people because they say others should be hurt is... ironic?And how is this actually going to go down, will there be an intermediate step where a chief tells minions to go do the arrest/kill as needed? Maybe the minions get paid (200BTC?) too? CanadohPaxum? This has been taken care of, but I'd still be interested to know who is in Vegas and might want to trade either way in the future. Yeah, the vast majority of the time that you find one of these incredibly unlikely collisions the address is empty anyway. A check is not possible. Your software doesn't know everyone else's private or public keys, only a subset of public ones. You can't even reliably restrict people from making duplicates of the known ones (in the chain) because Bitcoin is open source, people could just choose to keep the key by removing the check. You have a much much greater chance of dying on the way to a bank and never getting your money than losing it to this insanely unlikely coincidence. If you aren't very convinced of the astronomically small likelihood of a collision use vanitygen to try to make 10 chars of a key match and then try 15.  Not much time left. Support the fledgling bitcoin textile industry. Would you like to tell us about a site where we can trade bitcoin options? I believe intersango had about a year with no fees, everyone didn't move there. As was mentioned, the depth is the problem. Instead of having no or low fees they could write a bot to make market and hedge on Gox essentially just moving the action over. Gox gets the fee from them, but that will end if people prefer Intersnago service. It's clear that Gox has bad service, but we don't really know what Intersango service will be like when it is 10x bigger. Meet on the strip. $200-$500 cash today or tomorrow. PM to claim it. Ah, nice, welcome. username? This could be helpful, I'll keep you in mind.
You mean you think it's a good idea, but want your thread to stay in general discussion? Maybe we leave one thread there (stickied for a while?) where people can announce their Local thread, "We're still meeting in Orlando at Whiskey Dick's, here is our thread." Delete 'em. Hypothetically, if someone was able to bypass your security features how would this affect me? wm, your add says bitcoins but your homepage does not? brand new? going to mention coin soon? You can use Bitcoins to play poker from anywhere in the world with internet access.The price is way too low. The total value held in coins is less than one small street of nice houses. If someone attacked me and they died maybe I would fly thousands of miles away to someone I wanted to attack anyway and use the previous attack as an excuse.Nawww, that would be crazy. 1 in 100,000? You wish. Try 1 in 100.Assuming you are talking about audits. Would be willing to ship to Aus, but don't know the cost and would want it covered. 6BTC would be a good price for a Mobius scarf.  There are some city specific threads popping up in General Discussion. They don't have a good home. Making a USA section in Local would encourage more I think and help show where the Bitcoin action is. Yes, a mobius scarf. If someone wants to commit to buying it at a good price you can choose the color too. And I should mention again, March 4th 4:00pm ET is a tournament with 100BTC in prizes. Everyone on the Top 30 list for February will get free entry, all others can enter for 2BTC. The Nightly 8pm ET 525 chip buy-in has not been getting much action. So, starting Friday Feb 17th, anyone on the current Weekly Top 30 list who plays the Nightly and does not place will get their buy-in refunded. There is no way to lose.*Krill earned do not count until the next day when they show up on the chart.*Refunds may take some time (1 hour to 1 day usually) to be paid, but you do not need to request them. If you were on the chart and lost the nightly you'll get your buy-in back.This is like a freeroll every night for a small amount of ring game play. Would anyone be interested in a knit mobius strip? Sorry to be all logicy while you're emotional, but if most of the participants are speculators then a speculator probably bought your coins, and if he wasn't there you'd be selling to the next lower bid (unless it was a speculator busily burning (raped actually) also). Ah, you can't really put the starting squares in the very center because every new area is bigger than the sum of the previous areas. You can put them on an edge if you go up, right, up, right, etc. Instead of up, right, down, left...If you call the area of each of the first squares 1, then the area marked 6 in that image would be 4. In reality the first two squares not being square changed a lot. There will be a more perfect specimen available eventually, but this one has character. The smallest squares are uh, not quite square, is that what you mean? Two sites a hadn't heard of recently used the horn. CookieEater.com and Crizzle's Buttons My favorite part is smaller. https://bitmit.net/en/trade/i/859-hand-knit-fibonacci-squares-dishtowel/pics I usually hate the "one guy" "manipulator" crap, but this has to be one guy right? How could two different entities exist one that wants to sell as assload at 5.21 and not a penny lower and one who wants to buy an assload at 5.20 and not a penny higher? Unpossible.But why would one guy spread it at just the fee spread and not 2,3 or 5x the fee?
There is a chicken/egg problem with growing bitcoin use, but "ohhh, bad people use it" is just a chicken problem. I'm not convinced. If Bitcoin demanders have a low elasticity of demand then their difficulty in getting it will push the price up.Now, I'm not talking about the price showing on a Paxum/BTC exchange, obviously that price has to fall, but now that people can't get it via Paxum they move to the perfectmoney/BTC exchange or they decide to pay me enough to get off of the couch and meet them.Maybe I'm missing something, but it seems the effect is mixed. It'll always be hard to tell because when they really start cracking down will correlate in a few ways to a real demand explosion. It seems like you are saying miners will have 0 pricing power, is that right?Miners can have pricing power as long as anyone cares about the likelihood of their tx being included within X blocks. If a sender insists on a >95% chance of his tx being included in the block then any pool or miner with 5% or more hashing power can charge whatever they like. If a sender wants a 99% guarantee of getting in the next 2 blocks he must pay more than the cheapest 90% of mining power requires. This is because if he pays less than the fee required by more than 10% of the network he won't get his 100-(p^2) chance.Besides all of this we've got decades with a non trivial subsidy. It's not improbable at all. Faster growth happens every single time something goes from not existing to being large. The forum had way more than 100% YOY growth the year before.But this is a just forum about Bitcoin. When Bitcoin is the only money used anywhere the vast majority of people will not talk or think about it.It used to be that every bitcoiner used the bitcoin.org forum regularly I'd bet it's 10-20% now. It's hard for me to tell what this sort of thing should do. If it's harder to get coins you ought be more reluctant to give up what you've got, right? But if it's harder for others to get started it will lower demand. But on the third hand, if it's hard to get them in 'formal' ways then people might pay extra when they find someone who can supply, so maybe you can charge more for them if you do mine or earn them. In addition to the two weekly 15BTC tournaments for the top 30 each week there will be a 100BTC tournament on March 4th open to all, but free for the top 30 of the month.The action has been growing the last few days, there are two full tables right now. http://bitsend.rowit.co.uk/ I think that's a mistake. If the only way to get it is to pay $5 then it's a $5 item and everyone knows it. But if there is a .0001% chance it gets dropped by some tough enemy then it's an awesome rare item that you can have for $5. Thanks. Ha, nice. Do you lose the original if it isn't spent when you make the new identical one? Because when you spend either now it'll be marked as spent? Did you press the back button? I think the message will be there, maybe it is browser dependent I dunno. But also how much did you type in <20 sec. Oh.. you could have an epic PM written in another window and just happen to send it right after posting elsewhere. Nice 10% isn't bad on a small amount, and I see you don't want to go over $500 anyway. And.. I guess people already have solutions for larger amounts, a $50 wire fee doesn't matter so much on 1k+ orders. Do you expect high fraud still? Or is the 10% mostly for your time? Do you actually have games? Showing them might make people more likely to sign up. I don't get the business model, advertising? If the games are not enough incentive I to keep people around I don't think a tiny payment will help.There are studies showing that small payments are often worse than free. I have anecdotal evidence that confirms this.If you think the games are good and you just want to get people to try them you might do something like, "Try 3 games (for 10 minutes or more each) and get .01BTC".  They probably won't call them dollars, things will just happen to cost the same number of dollars as blizzard bucks. I'd think the big ones might want to avoid a bunch of .000004 sends, since they have so many miners and such frequent blocks, but the smaller ought put payments right in the generate since they have less trust and the payments would tend to be larger and fewer I'd think. You can send it anywhere in th world in seconds with near 0 tx fees. How is anonymity close to the best feature? Anon can be lost with a simple mistake. Fast, cheap are almost all of the value. Even most of the 'anon' value isn't from people not being able to figure out who you are it's from you not having to prove it before you use it. My PP has been stuck for months, they know who I am but have some more identity related hoops to jump if I want my money. A customer has a tx that seems to not be broadcasting. How does Multibit handle this? Will it go eventually? Should he reload... what? And try again? So now someone rash who likes big movements has a ton of money sitting in Gox?
Seems like a good idea in that it gives users incentive to get people to come to the site and view the ads. But won't paying straight per post (either directly or statistically) encourage lots of short low value posts? I don't see a simple solution, unless you already have member or post rankings in the software or something like that. So lame, denominated in dollars (right?) but not redeemable for cash. It's like denominating accounts in gold and not giving the gold, who would fall for that, oh wait. Yeah, make sure you guise don't eat at McYonalds. Their packaging will get you sued. If your connection goes down and you don't suspect your customer could cause or expect that to happen then you can just take the tx and broadcast it later. People used to take checks as a matter of course. Trusting in a random one-off situation where the person would have to be ready for just this sort of opportunity is orders of magnitude less risky. Also if you are in the habit of taking the tx and broadcasting it yourself the buyer doesn't even need to know that this is their rare opportunity to scam.  Once there is a general solution similar (granted more advanced) tech could be used to obfuscate or even spoof the style of someone else. It's not a matter of convenience or time because you can just trust them. Are you worried that this person has mined a block and is just waiting for you to hand his coffee to release the bock and get his 50BTC reward plus his payment for coffee and doughnut back?  If you are mostly a gov money person wanting to buy a few coins in the future you might think you are a bitcoin enthusiast who wants a lower price.But anyone who has restructured their life around their bitenthusiasm is going to want a higher price.It's just arrogance to think "Buy Buy Buy because blah blah blah" posts or the opposite will have even one cent of an effect. And if you are long term optimistic on bitcoin growth it makes a lot more sense to build relationships and share ideas here than to try to talk the price down (futily imo) so you can get a tiny extra bit of coins when you cash your next fiat paycheck. We might find that we can agree on some axioms then it would be straightforward logic from there.  Burt PM'd to let me know about this since I'm in his sig. This is what I wrote to Burt:Ugh, sorry to hear. The only trade we did was very simple. I needed a craigslist ad posted and it wasn't letting me use my phone to verify because it was a prepay phone. Somehow when he did it for me he didn't even need a phone (different IP or area or random I don't know). He said he felt bad taking my money for such an easy job and that'd he'd do another if I needed it.Only one person, slider1978, asked if he was trustworthy and I replied "It went fine, but it was just a very simple job, no trust required." I can vouch for Seals. :-) Bitmit.net? You got outbid I think?nevermind 250 is the buy now price. Where is your bid? I'm pretty sure people own a lot more computing power than govs and corps, even if they don't they certainly have more disposable computing power. And thinking they'll just buy more is silly if the premise is that it won't be profitable to mine.I guess a agree that 5% inflation would make mining unprofitable, but only in a roundabout way. A 5% subsidy is way more then the current schedule starting about 12 years in, more subsidy might seem to make mining more profitable. I mean they'd get 5% of all wealth forever, you'd expect 5% of world resources to be dedicated to mining. But that's absurd, but it removes the reason to that gaping value hole will make sure people don't demand coins. Bitcoin was that money people used for three weeks in June right? I'm a judge! Two possible meanings of that. Off-chain accounting could go smaller, but we can only settle (for now) to 10^-8. The protocol can be modified for extra precision, I don't know how hard of a change that is. So it's fair to say that Bitcoin as we have it has limited precision. I don't use bitcoinica, but that directly contradicts Zhou. He says positions can always be closed, * means you can't borrow to lever. For example, a miner could send all generated coins to the same address and sign the tx with that address. Likely a more elegant way exists. If you mean you don't know if they'll have X hashing power in the future, yeah, of course. Yeah, I'm just messing. But seriously, in ten years I want some chump to start bragging about his first issue of Bitcoin magazine to me and I whip out Issue -2. Send the first when it is ready, label it Issue -2. Or hurry the fuck up with B&N and make Feb Issue 0 and Get Issue 1 out in B&N next month.
I would vote for libertarian, but it has no chance of winning. The infrastructure needed depends on what you require as basic functionality. I can't buy design work from a guy in Hawaii for gold without a hell of a lot of infrastructure. 99.9999% of people are out of my reach in regards to trading using gold without any infrastructure. Granted in the 0 infrastructure word gold still exists and Bitcoin kind of doesn't anymore. But for anything resembling the real world, Bitcoin infrastructure grows to exactly where you want it nearly instantly "Hey guy, download Bitcoin". edit: I see you already said most of this.      maybe up, maybe down         maybe stick it in my pants                                          / \                                        / | \hard choice (not really) 5 million yen doesn't buy what it used to, mtgoxlive is shit. I'm totally getting out of my depth here, but I think it's all good because multi-sig has been built in all along. Your client might not be able to fully understand the requirements to spend those tx, but it doesn't matter, it can see that the inputs are greater than or equal to outputs.edit: now I'm getting lost, won't users need to know if the right criteria has been met in order to tell if that tx can be a valid input in a later tx? Bitcoin? How does it work? It would be sufficient to get all headers and then fill in with only the full blocks that you actually need. The implementation might be a little bit complicated, but you won't have to trust your source still, you'll be able to check that the block has the required header, and so know that it fits. (I'm not 100% on this actually, someone please confirm.)My understanding is that those BIPs can lead to miners accidentally making blocks that won't be accepted. Users don't need to get a new version. So it's a black hole for demand somehow, but not supply? It's obviously not a 'closed system' either. It doesn't have to pass everything somewhere else to not be closed, it has to pass anything ever to not be closed. If I passed you a block in which I awarded myself a 100BTC reward for generation, you're client would just be like, "Lol, no. I don't care who else accepts that, I don't". Same thing if someone tries to give themselves 50BTC for block 210000. Obviously your own non-mining client can tell what is and isn't an actual Bitcoin transaction, that's how you know you've been paid even before a tx gets in a block. The tx has to have a history that leads back to a valid generation, has to be signed correctly etc. Depending on what rule changes you are talking about it doesn't matter if 95% of miners choose to switch to say 50BTC reward forever. The power is with the merchants to reject the false coins. It is interesting (perhaps worrying) to consider how cheaply one could pick up a lot of mining power. If miners are somewhat narrow-mindedly interested in short-term gain they may sell their power for a small % over the coins they get. How many would mine empty blocks only if the pool gave a 10% bonus? If the pool got 50%+ it could decrease difficulty by ignoring others blocks and building only on it's own. I strongly believe enough miners would bail after all they want to actually send their coins right? But with soft totalitarian rules it could conceivably be a problem. For example, very high fees with fees returned to registered members somehow.I don't think any of this is likely, just thinking aloud. I <3 Gavin, but that's an odd choice of example. The encryption procedure didn't actually remove the unencrypted private keys when it was first released.edit: <3 is a heart right? It's not in my normal vocabulary. When there is law (and oh boy there is law) men are not free to act to solve their problems. Freedom is no guarantee, but in the current situation would be free actors are stopped at every turn. If you could get people to make a huge change like moving to an expiring protocol then the whole point would be moot you could get them to switch to anything. yeah, maybe you should open a site and lend money to people to buy coins. Also try never to run out no matter how much people want to borrow. Is it a promise to reject any block contains a different transaction with the same inputs? That might leave the miner off the real chain forever no? But otherwise what does it matter? They'll mine the tx unless another gets in first? Not much help really. The bottleneck in TOR is just that more nodes are needed? More of the special exit nodes specifically?Can exit nodes be configured to only help customers who have signed with a certain key? You might find as you grow that using SendMany will save you some fees. You might send every hour for example, sending 15 tx at a time for only about double the fee of sending one singly.  Coins aren't branded with signatures in some permanent way. There is no difference between sending coins by signing with one sig or with two. If you get sent coins that used to be encumbered by A or (B or C or D) or (D and E) it makes no difference, whatever the inputs were have no bearing on what the outputs can be.In general though if the government passes a law requiring us to wear shoes on our heads it isn't safe to assume people will actually wear shoes on their heads.You need something more convincing than "the government will tell us to hand our money over". Getting our gold money took generations, and now we have so many more advantages. Can you do one huge bitcoin? Like 4x taller? You have literally zero idea what you are talking about so Standard Transaction Federal Union.
Not positive feedback...But seriously the gov can build up a good reputation too. Not that I think they are yet, and even when they do it'll probably be to watch and learn mostly.Hitting random bitcoin users would be pretty lol. Are they going to admit it's some random bitcoin or TOR user? Hope people figure it out and get scared? Maybe messing with high profile users would matter some, but does that scare people really? Yes, this vote isn't like political events where some people decide that if a person gets X people/delegates to say so then they are the president or some other title. This vote is for finding out what will happen, what the actual state of things is. This is the real life it's not just fantasy. A picture of this ad would be awesome. LeNMwv7ms9sbBnkAfGrJu2HaurdrwHgdzN highest in TOP or HOT?and at what time? I won't ever sue you no matter what. Maybe he stole dan's talk, name, height, voice and face. In the future that'll be so easy you'll need to sign your shit so people won't believe the impostors. Lol, that's fine, just don't give me credit. Kim seemed to want a ton of shit. But you could be richer still leaving nothing to be seized.  living on couchesworking anywhere I pleaseholding private keys I prefer Standard Transaction Federated Union. I didn't take any pictures, and there were no real dolls involved. I was telling a friend I hadn't seen in a while about my poker site and bitcoin, and another guy overheard us and said "Bitcoin?! That's real?". Lol. He'd seen it on The Good Wife.This is what I'm talking about. People gunna hear over and over till it's in their minds. You mean if there were two miners one having 10BTC and one having 5BTC the 10BTC miner would have 2x the chance of their block being accepted? What is the mechanism for actually deciding? Still hashing, but accept lower difficulty blocks if the block is signed with a private key that holds coins? A new block (data containing mostly transactions) is found on average every 10 minutes. You are catching up a few years worth right now. If you disconnect for a few days you'll have a little bit of catching up to do.Right now this is a reasonable thing to do, eventually most people will use a client that doesn't need a full record. Along these lines. Does anyone think that legislators who pass bills allowing a creators copyright to eventually expire are endorsing theft? Does it become right to steal the creators work just because it loses legal protection? Would stealing a car become right if 300 old men said so? Does anyone here actively avoid using public domain works without compensating the creator? Guy isn't trying to figure the answers to his issues at all.Connect to all nodes? I'll just send the tx out of band to someone willing to relay it for me.Block chain too long for everyone to hold? Just request the parts you need from someone who has it. If it's so super big maybe you'll have to pay a little bit eventually, but even that seems extreme. Does he know about headers? Sure, everyone is important in different ways.The 50%+ only applies to miners though, if one dev out of 1000 convinces the miners the change is good it happens. And as long as there are some users who continue using it then the changes protocol continues to exist as a real/used thing.  Yeah, if you told this guy in the year 1300 people would have 100+ books each he tell you it was impossible because you would have to have 19 scribes sitting on your kidney. Old man thinks we have to live only on the dry part of the surface of one planet for ever. Old man is wrong.Did he just say "stop immigration" as one of the ways to get zero population growth? Maybe he thinks the browns will starve if they can't get to the promised land. If the miners refuse to switch it doesn't work. The devs can't force anything.
There will be more, stay tuned! Social contract, no record of it, and you (supposedly) agree when you are what 0 years old? Also, the main way to learn about it is from internet posters. WTF This is the most practical. You are going to need some of it in dollars anyway right?If it was reasonable for the company to earn some revenue in bitcoins maybe mention that you'd be willing to take them as pay at market value. Perhaps eventually you can get them to commit to an amount denominated completely or partially in bitcoins instead of just paying the dollars owed via bitcoin. The only tablet I have access to also does not have flash. I know some players have used tablets though and it does work. It would be awesome to see a table up on the wall. Take pictures if you can. If you get it going I'll make you guys a special freeroll or give out some chips. Mike Hearn has suggested that in the future people may accept 0 fee 0 confirm tx for reasonable amounts and only when they total something significant attach a fee which cannot be claimed until all the dependencies are also confirmed. This kind of lets the receiver pay.But really we're talking about occasional tiny fees right now, it doesn't seem like a problem. This was ~30 hours ago right paybtc? I was testing my admin controls. That won't be happening anymore.If you see tweets with no price rise it's (hopefully) because I tweeted from the account itself. Could be related. Can I get Lasik for bitcoins somewhere? It's taken care of. Reason was that OP doesn't have internet dollars and I only have some I only use for emergencies. $1M is kind of a bad example. With Bitcoin you'll move the market against you, with PP you have some solid chance of getting it frozen or taken.For $100-$10k Bitcoin kicks ass even if you have to come in from the outside. If you've already got coin it's great from a few cents up. Everyone should have a little bitcoin revenue stream imo.  Anyone help us out here? This. Plus even if you manually add in a 21M cap, you'll get: 50, 50, 50, 50, 50, 50, 0Seems like trouble. Earn coins, spend coins, win? Bitcoin Horn is sponsoring a tournament at Seals. Follow @BitcoinHorn for details and the password. Follow @BitcoinHorn to get in a freeroll at Seals. More giveaways coming. I was testing some things last night including price override and changing the decay speed. There was one tweet that didn't go out because it was over the 140 limit. We'll have a check on that soon and not let you proceed when the message is long. You have video of 80 sexy girls saying "bitcoin"? I don't think you need to hire any of them, whenever you need more girl-factor just pick a random clip of girl saying "bitcoin" and splice it in. Exactly. The supply is only half of the equation. If buyers of coins are very price sensitive then when less becomes available they'll just buy less, a slightly higher price will stop them in their tracks. If they don't care much about the price their demand could push prices very high assuming we're somewhat balanced when 7200 are coming in yanking out half of the new will have a big effect. I'm glad Satoshi's step 1 didn't involve government.
Toward the end of getting more followers I'll be tweeting some giveaways from the BitcoinHorn account over the next few days.Follow @BitcoinHorn For sure. Please follow :-)I'm not going to buy bulk followers or anything so the number may not seem impressive for quite some time, but they'll all be biological human beings. Now you can tweet (to a growing audience) without even making a twitter account. Go to BitcoinHorn.com, enter your message, pay the current price and the message will be tweeted immediately, no confirmations required.It's brand new, I'd love some feedback. The current HOT formula is [total BTC / sqrt(time since post)] correct? This would mean something really old would be better off being reposted if there was a resurgence of interest. It could be (payment/sqrt(time since this payment) + (payment/sqrt(time since this payment) + (payment/sqrt(time since this payment) + ...So that if something starts getting paid a lot again it doesn't have the baggage of being old (which would just make someone make a duplicate posting anyway). In fact under the current setup (if I understand correctly) it would pay for someone to go around making copies of all content that was still getting paid but was somewhat old because their copy could get above the original somewhat cheaply and start earning the influx of new money on it. Right, people are worried that new stuff will get burrieds in a deluge of "asdadjh" and "Eat my butt" and "xxxxxxxYYYYYY" spam postings. If you want to see the new, even the low ones without seeing the totally useless 0 ones a checkbox would be good. This would also give people (posters and others) incentive to make that first tiny payment to distinguish a post they like from the trash. Reposted from newbie section: This is a friend of mine. If a mod will move to Marketplace that would be great. When will payments go out?Is it easy to show the upvote address before the poster gives the payout address?Or simpler, a checkbox for "send my payments back as upvotes". They you should not bother doing the payments in the chain and just give 5x credit and take the whole thing as fee. Also, post awesome stuff on coinsmack.com. Regarding this whole innocent until proven guilty or the other way around, how about we just leave it up to the individuals involved, but imprisoning an innocent person is punishable by the same imprisonment. It's not right at all for someone to be more reckless with another persons freedom than they would be with their own. Not just judges either, working for a facility that uses rules that lets them jail innocents is recklessly negligent. Maybe you can't check out the history of everyone who is locked down, but can certainly look and see if the procedure can lead to false imprisonment and determine if it's likely enough that you'll take the risk yourself. Throw in some poker at Seals, even if only the freerolls. I think charging even .001 for posting is bad. Finding great stuff and showing it to us is now a great way for someone to get their first coins. If spam gets to be a problem make a checkbox for "hide 0BTC items" That makes sense. I don't like to upgrade. I really appreciate the work that goes into new features and versions, but sometimes things go wrong and I want to stay months behind. I certainly see the value in the improvements being discussed, but what I need is working and my main priority is keeping it that way. That's great! Very nice. I think hopping works itself out eventually. People move to pools that don't use the vulnerable system and only pool hoppers use the ones where hopping helps and eventually give it up because everyone is doing it so it gets so little advantage compared to a set it and forget it pool. I'm not going to ask for a refund or anything, I think the paper copy will be worth a lot more than 1BTC. I'd actually kind of like 2 copies, one to read and one to keep in good condition as a collectors item.But.. it would have appropriate to mention I needed a $200+ phone to use my digital copy (aka code?). The phone I have cost like $9 and I don't think your code will run on it. Yeah, I paid. What do I get to own? That's not implied at all. Simply everything that is free (copying digit information) is going to be free. So sending me the digital copy isn't something you have in mind? Are you worried I'll show my magazine to people? Is it okay if I show the paper copy to people?
They you shouldn't have paid people 397BTC to do it. You are subsidizing that behavior. I'm sorry officer, it's in my motor memory only, you'll need to bring me my specially marked keyboard. "Early" would work for me. With up only you'll get things that a small subset really like no matter what other people think. This is good for exposing people to new stuff instead of just stuff that a good number already know and like and no one really objects to. It seems bad to have things that a lot of people love and a lot of people hate get lost in the middle.A neat way to not have to decide would be to Have "most up", "most down", "net" categories. I actually think I'd look at "most down" quite a lot. This would be great, but it seems like a huge security risk. Is there some way to make sure the site hosting the widget doesn't switch out addresses? It wouldn't seem so. If you had only traded once this month you'd have to (err.. or a somewhat equivalent amount of dollars) I don't know if it's the truth or not, but it's definitely an anecdote The more interesting your ad/product/service is though the more that other people will choose to help spread the word. So there is probably not going to be a lot of "Buy Hanes Underwear" ads. Another thought, I like that you can sort by Hot (most coin) and New, but eventually Hot will essentially mean old because they've had so much more time to get paid up. You could rename Hot to something else (highest, most, richest?) and make Hot mean [Coins/age] so new trending things will spend some time on top but drop as they age faster than they pay. And... I just went to looks again. This is what you do isn't it? Brilliant (aka great minds think alike). Are you taking 1 confirm right now? I have one, but it isn't updated.Updated. Good question, maybe that's why many people don't take 0.bitcoincharts.com/bitcoin and blockchain.info have a list of unconfirmed tx, I don't know how you'd use that info easily though. Oh... or you could give them the key and then later receive to that address and the coins would be taken by GoX? Do they do that? Constantly monitor and credit you? So.. your client was off, you redeemed a key at Gox, days later turned the client on and saw coins disappear when the chain caught up? That makes sense. Excellent.I'm noticing a lot of situations where counting 0 confirmations as good has virtually 0 risk, but people aren't doing it anyway. This is one of those places. [quote author=jago25_98 link=topic=58890.msg709096#msg709096 I think the problem with charging interest is that it's a compounded calculation - it snowballs. The human mind doesn't calculate that. It also doesn't calculate all the possibilities. Then also there's the addictive drug like effect. Hedge fund megastars will always have a lot to say about psychology... and often it's about using artificial means to enforce disipline... something people didn't have much of years ago. A set fee for a set time seems fairer. Perhaps there should also be a schedule for what happens if you can't pay - what exactly you will and won't lose. Lose your home? Donate a kidney? - if it's written down at the start at least everybody's clear on it. Are the Islamic banks actually doing this though or are the customers actually ignorant to what they're agreeing to? [/quote]I think borrowing is almost always a bad idea.But not because human brains can't handle repeated multiplication by a decimal number.There isn't any particular reason that money borrowed to pay interest ought be lent interest free itself. If this was prohibited or something all it would mean is that you'd have to go to another lender and pay them interest because it would be a new fresh loan. Can someone show a useful problem that can be broken into millions of parts? Each part having an answer that is already known so we know the solver did it and did it right? I mean just show one problem like this, maybe you can actually do it, but it should demonstrate that it wont' work for anything. Current 'work' has an amazing property. It can take an arbitrarily large and fine tuned amount of computing (on average) and still be instantly verifiable by everyone. We can all verify both that the work was done and that it was done AFTER the previous block.  Yes, I can think of several reasons for such a high apparent failure rate of Bitcoin sites.Bitcoin inspires people who haven't done certain things now to try it now maybe for the first time and also possibly overextend themselves.In older sectors a lot of non-fail sites have had time to build up so even if a similar fraction of new businesses die, there are a lot more established businesses (and these get more attention too)Bitcoin lowers the costs of entry. People can try riskier things because failing doesn't cost so much. But really it's probably a conspiracy. Bitcoin mining is useful. It would be great if it could do X, Y, Z or get me a drink at no extra cost, but how?  Apparently I can't even sell a couch without giving a phone number, fine I give it, lol, they say my prepay phone doesn't count. I'll pay .25BTC to someone who will post this for me. PM and I'll send you details and the post. You'll need a 'real' phone, I hope it doesn't have to match the region, that would be extreme. Is that why you don't steal?Have you noticed that people are still stealing even with the laws?How about we pay if they actually deliver? That's a pretty damn low bar btw. If I deliver you an unrequested service it doesn't matter how awesome it is, you don't owe. 
Maybe they do?If I bought a Ferrari, I'd be pretty poor. The site is down again unfortunately. I am in contact with our host and they are doing emergency maintenance.  Seals will be back asap. Sorry about the timing of your withdrawal, I had run them less than an hour before we went down. You'll still be registered for those games. I'm trying to figure out what is going on. We've always had immediate help from our host, but I'm not getting anyone yet. Is feedback given on every order? Is that when funds are released to the seller? If we just put more government on top they can make burning America illegal then we'll all be safe. Yeah, kind of shooting themselves in the foot every time they make their crappy currencies even less useful. Probably some won't bother turning off if their marginal costs are near zero. They'll find more blocks, but they'll be smaller value. The time distribution will even out somewhat if any miners are reward sensitive. Probably there will be some other problem that anyone can switch their miners to work on so the value of the next block will need to overcome that before it gets a lot of mining attention. If Bitcoin lasts a few decades, maybe less even, this will happen. The per block subsidy will be insignificant compared to the accumulating fees. Miners will be programed to wait until there are X fees worth of tx waiting and then turn on. This will change the time distribution of blocks, it will become more even. Blog bookmarked. Do you know of operation fabulous (bitcoin ad market)? Operation Fabulous is like a huge blinking sign that someone should come do it right. People want the service, on both sides, but it's way hard to use. There is no sort, info is hidden in inconvenient places, the forms are unforgiving. But it does work and I use it now. I get that you aren't really making that specific recommendation. It's pretty bad though, large miners have such an advantage that only pool mining will make sense and then only the largest pool will continue after that. Bad site, bad service. This is not true. There are unknown triggers. This means MtGox is not suitable for small amounts or casual users at all. Analysis based on the MtGox orderbook is worthless. 310k coins traded in 24hr and the price is sitting at a point that looked 40k coins away 24hr ago.MtGox order book does not represent all of the MtGox demand, MtGox demand doesn't represent all formal market demand and formal markets don't represent all fiat based demand, and fiat demand is not the only demand for coins.There are billions of people, millions who have heard of bitcoin maybe once and thousands who have figured it out. Demand is both strong and an insanely small fraction of it's potential. As much carnage as there was, it still makes me want to hold some funds on bitcoinica, just to go 2:1 long after any 15% drop. Uh-huh. Reruns of The Good Price. Force liquidated or not at some point he's going to be buying those coins back.All shorting does, with leverage or not, is allow individuals to sell before they buy instead of the normal buying before selling.
Yup, great thing about bitcoin. No matter how rich I get I can always fit it all in my own ass. +1 http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/monopoly More like standart folks who stole PP and prefer bitcoins. It was at least as high as 6th at one point. 6 to it, 14 through it. 33 to infinity and beyond. Anyone who runs out and buys bitcoins after seeing it on some show without doing any research is a lucky idiot. More stories now because more action now. Do you have multiple accounts accessing from the same IP? Probably not, so you don't get frozen. Wow, fast profit. I should have grabbed that. \\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\________/Everyone wants the coin, sellers do it cause they need to and don't wait. Anyone think much about what a law is? You can transfer the funds to another TH now right? So no trust (except trusting TH to eventually pay)? I believe it's about 1 in 4billion that you would typo and come up with a valid bitcoin address. It unimaginably more unlikely than that you would typo to an address that someone had the key for. If the person sent them themselves they can send from that address again to prove it was them.edit: But I guess it looks like pool payments. Are they for very much?It is not a typo, that is too unlikely.Even after Gox says it is not an error it is probably their error.Do you know for sure how the deposits are made? Transaction to bitcoin address (same every time?) or a MtGox Bitcoin code? A question mark in the title is appropriate unless you are announcing new order types. Tell them to buy their chips now, games are coming. Has anyone watched this show before? Do they usually base episodes around real current event stuff or make it totally up?  This is nice now while were all free and happy. But how firm is the agreement when he's emailed pictures of my broken face? And he's not immune to capture either. Plus if we're held separately we'll each deceive ourselves into thinking they still can't get the funds because of the other one being free and cave earlier than normal. Never know when the need will arise. The people who 'get' bitcoin or will anytime soon are mostly here. The masses are going to take 3-10 exposures to start taking it seriously. Mark one down imo.Get ready for 123678 wft-Bitcoin-is-a-real-thing moments over the next 3 months.
I don't think so, more like this.Spends go to addresses that require multiple keys to move. Every teller can have a watching version of the main secure wallet. Nothing need happen except when the controllers of the funds need to move them, then they pass around the transaction each signing it.  edit: Just one more problem Bitcoin solves. No more sticky fingered tellers. Right, repeated hashing is way better than what I said. It's a lot easier to be sure with other info like the receiving address. Given the easy and irreversible nature of Bitcoin transactions I sometimes worry about being coerced into giving up my stash. Leaving them in someone else's control is not a good solution, and the way most are set the attacker would just demand whatever it is I use to get access.It would be good to put my funds behind some work. The first thing that comes to mind is forgetting/hiding from myself the last ~5 chars of an encryption password. Then the attackers have the trouble of keeping me for a day or whatever and don't know immediately if I've lied to them about the known part. Of course they might just think I'm lieing about the whole thing in which case I might as well be.My idea is also weak because they will know when they've searched the whole space, it would be better to have average time of a day, but not evenly distributed so they'd only know for sure after whatever length of time I was willing to maximally wait to get to my funds normally.This also helps against drunk shopping and gambling and gifting. Different funds could be under different time locks as appropriate. Really, a setup where 1% of funds become available every hour might work well. There is a difference between public key and bitcoin address. The bitcoin address is shown when funds are sent, but the public key is not shown until funds are sent from the address. A bitcoin address is a hash of a public key with checksum added. That is a typical transaction. It used two of your received transactions which totaled more than the intended amount. Since it has to use them completely it sent what you didn't want to pay back to yourself at a new address your client made for you, we call it change. Awesome, I replied. The quest doesn't cost much if anything, and you can get free chips from the soldiers to start. But it might take some time, and there are only 3 full days so try it soon.There is 15BTC in each tournament and only about 10 players qualified for each so far.If you need help navigating or figuring out the games there are lots of helpful players around. It happens to start around the time I got here, but it's amazing to think how much came before that. Bitcoin was public for what 1.5 years already? I wonder when the first thoughts came into Satoshi's head? When did he know he could do it? It's crazy (and probably bad on several levels) how meaningful this is to me.Still cannot believe it got down to $2. It took a lot of discipline for me not to lever up at $5. Very cool. I put up a Seals ad too.Do you want minor bug/improvement reports here or somewhere else? Heh, I'm going to put this bucket on my head to prove a bucket is something you wear and not something you put lobster in. Is that 1.1M unique twitter users? If so, wow. I think this problem is my fault from speaking about 'the' firstbits of an address by which I mean the shortest, but maybe we need a different word of the longer ones. Addresses not in the chain don't have a firstbits. You can ask what it would be if it was added now, but that's dangerous to start talking about and working with because you don't know what else is in the same block for example. A firstbits address returns the first appearance of itself, that's it. The best reason for doing it like that is that people using more length than necessary (for safety or vanity) won't get burned. Unless there is a re-org a firstbits address will never change.When you enter a firstbits address we find the earliest address that starts with it. Lower block number is earlier and inside of a block it's whichever comes first in the raw data.When you enter a bitcoin address we look at all addresses in the chain (which you could also call "all addresses appearing before yours") to see how long of a starting string from your address is required to differentiate it from all others. Later additions will not affect it.I'm sorry for the confusion. How can I improve the explanation on firstbits.com/about.php? Or http://www.thebitcoinreview.com/site.php?site_id=731 No, not nearly as cool. Having worked with twitter before is not absolutely necessary, I think my idea will be easy to implement.
Heh, $74k wants to buy at one cent. Cheap Gox hack 2.0 bets? It's a little bit opaque about exactly what they do. Here's an idea.  Ask user to enter:1. Spread percent (maybe give reasonable choices)2. Amount (or omit this and just let them send)3. Give up time (this is when you move back into BTC at the current ask)4. Return btc addressYou calculate midmarket at some exchange to use as a center, post a bid at center minus 1/2 of their given spread, when that order is filled or partially filled post an ask at center plus 1/2 spread. When this is done return coins and profit minus fees.Advantages:1. Liquidity is provided.2. Small users benefit from putting their action on one account because they can have lower exchange fees than otherwise.3. Little knowledge is required. No account required.4. Simple pre-committed plan is not vulnerable to user emotions.I realize this isn't foolproof profit at all and it shouldn't be advertised as such.  It probably won't get a second glance. Yap stone, seashells, paper. It's likely that eventually bitcoin will be added to the list. I like it. And proudhon making bitcoin art instead of specutarding is the clearest buy signal I've ever seen. I'm looking for someone who has used the twitter api and can work with bitcoin.  I think it will be a short simple project. PM me if you are able and interested. He's trying to take control of the state power machine to make it do what he wants. That's statist. Regardless, I think you should use what you can to do what you think is right. I'll do the same. Great post. It would be similar to outlawing work in 2014. This is wrong.If a user wants a >99% chance of his tx being included in the next block he'll need to pay more than the minimum required by the most expensive 1% of hashing power. This means that a pool with 1% has pricing power with respect to that user. Oh great, guess I can't recognize bitcoin addresses after midnight. I'll get the first one in.edit: I'm a noob, didn't get in first, hadn't checked blockexplorer, only googled. Google ought learn to check strings for being bitcoin addresses so it doesn't have to wait till it crawls blockexplorer again. 1QBDLYTDFHHZAABYSKGKPWKLSXZWCCJQBXwhat's this? none Nope, guess not. Maybe it'll be exactly 6.91 for the rest of time. It would have been great if atlas had originally chosen "JohnGalt", then left, then we'd all be wondering at every atlasish post "Is this John Galt?" If you don't get to it maybe these ideas will give us 1amazonamazonamazonamazon5jw:-) If you type your address in to firstbits.com it will tell you how many characters you need. If it tells you "1" it means you are Satoshi. Or your friend could send you coin each morning so he doesn't have to be ready when you get hungry. Maybe not if the offline computer doesn't have an up to date blockchain to know which of it's addresses are funded? Maybe you could tell it, but that wouldn't be much simpler than doing as it's being done.Total guess here, please confirm. Don't forget to mention the bitcoin gambling. 
I expect your results will depend more on what % amount and % time you spend in coin than anything else.If you flip in and out in a way unbiased by price you'll do about half as well (or half as bad) as buy and hold, less fees. By #2 do you mean that people can get out in order of asking and you'll only be left holding the bag if you are late? Because not everyone can get out, that's the downside. Can a girl drive it (Auto trans)?How much do you want?Where are you? Bitcoin (and gold I think to some extent) are very different than oil. If Bitcoin gets expensive it holds a lot of value and that makes a good money. If oil gets expensive we suck more up until we ultimately find a different means to our ends. [Food, sex, work, play, disputes] are different for all people too, but that doesn't stop them.  One dollar isn't very much money though. At least they weren't 1BTC spikes. Is there anyone with an extra car who would be willing to lend it? It would work out best if you were in western PA, North Carolina, or central Florida. I'll need it for about 2 months. Nothing too fancy needed, just not falling apart.I don't know how much visibility this post will get so if you see it and can put me in touch with someone who ends up being able to help I'll throw you a few coins too. So not giving money to white supremacists is bad? I can only imagine the shit storm if Ron did give money to whities. Anyone in Orlando able to hook me up with an apartment and/or informal car rental for coins? Looking to get there end of the month. It says down now. Really you shouldn't worry about how much of my investment so far I'll hold on to, but how much value I (and others to a much larger extent) are going to produce and lock up as coins. I don't believe that law enforcement contacted them and said hey keep an eye out for bitcoin transactions that had inputs from this or that address. Bcc is blind carbon copy. But if a fetus is a person it already falls under existing laws against murder. Is he going to just let murder happen? Maybe (like nearly everyone) he doesn't think fetuses are -real- people, covered by laws against murder like the rest of us I understand. I was saying that for both of your benefits (my benefit really) to demonstrate my realness. You are missing the contribution, bubbleboy. When coins were trading for 6 cents and  the total value of all coins was under $1M there wasn't much incentive to build apps and businesses. There just wasn't enough value in the whole system. The injection of value made possible a lot more.And it isn't a transfer of wealth that's going to happen. It is wealth creation. If the value increases it's because Bitcoin is valuable. The new value will go to people in proportion to how quick and sure they are. They're within their rights like I have the right to sell dogshit soup. It's super bad to act like you accept bitcoin when you only accept some bitcoins. And the method for telling which ones they accept is opaque, and they aren't simply going to return them or it would be fairly pointless. It would be like a paper dollar merchant not just declining dollars they deemed suspicious, but keeping them and not delivering product.Maybe someone from this site wants to tell us if customers have an expectation of being paid only in coins that were never involved in a crime. Likely the risk runs one way only. Lose coins if they are deemed tainted by Gox, no recourse if Gox gives you tainted coins. Is there a procedure for reporting crimes? Are crimes of all sizes given consideration? Someone didn't send me product, this counts right? How about my cousin grabbing my instawallet funds?Really, promise to give it up and then actually give it up. While we wait for the Intrade of Bitcoin to be implemented anyone want to open a small position for me?I'm betting Ron Paul will be substantially higher than 2% to win the nomination at some point, I want to double or triple my money and get out. Anyone want to help? I'd like you do be around a lot so I can cut my losses or grab profit when I decide.On second thought, is there a way to transfer funds between users? Then I'd just be looking for someone who would be and sell for coin. That would be more fun for me. Mizery, do you remember me? We met in SF. I'm not a troll. I really don't think it's right to put people in cages if they won't pay for other people's guarding (whether they want it or not, which most probably do). More like how many times does MtGox have to get screwed by taking coins that don't get marked tainted until later before they go out of business.
So if I own property on the border can I invite people to it? Does any third party have standing? Can the come guard my property against my will? What if I or my associates disobey the guards? Nothing happens? How is Ron funding these guards?  Looking more now he seems better than anyone actually participating in the system could be. But the fictions of borders and the constitution are very damaging. Paper, maps or laws, don't give some humans special status. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7U4RgUh5G382:17 - more border guardsHe wants me to pay (for violence) to keep my friends from coming for a visit. That's like forcing everyone to buy one type of car, the government car and when I say stop forcing us to use the government car you ask me to redesign the government car. I don't want a system, systems suck, and using a government system brings all kinds of perverse incentives. In the future (I'm optimistic that we've hit peak government) there will be as many educations as there are people. The first time the value hit $5 it hit $30 within a month!  We'll see how much love there is if he tells me to do something and I don't. The more I think on this the more terrible it seems. So terrible that I don't think it will survive.What if I send coins to Gox that are clean now (maybe I just stole them and even the victim doesn't know yet) I sell them and get paid. Later the theft is reported, now Gox doesn't have enough clean coin to back deposits. I think I would only store the most badly tainted coins. Anything else is prone to become less valuable at any time. Clean one minute and then Bangcock police department links one of the addresses used in an input to an input to my address to some crime or 'crime' and I lose value.If a lot of people do the same there won't be much difference in value anyway. People can just stop using them. It's not like there are enormous barriers to entry.  Groups all over the world force bad systems into place. One of them is the best. Not surprising. What is that supposed to imply?I guess if you have time to wait you post an offer and if you care less about price and just want asap you go to the market. So recently the sellers have been more impatient? For some the taint will be more severe and more recent. Naive merchants like MtGox will only be catching innocent users because it is trivial to shuffle coins and/or use a merchant or exchange that doesn't hassle people. 1 person over 6B? 300M? 900k? 6? I like 1. Which is a bigger problem for you? Should you invest in dog or tiger replant?  Yay. Bookmarked, mtgoxlive is the suck of resources. Sure, it's just not 1-click yet, it totally could be. Instawallet is pretty damn simple already. This is better in the sense of not needing a trusted party. But instawallet is the stone cold nuts in convenience. Key passing will probably only get easier though and ultimately be the best way. A URI type thing where your browser can 'see' a key in an email or whatever and do a one click collect would be sick. This kind of possibility is why bitcoin wins. Instawallet!Go to instawallet.orgSend coins to the address shownCopy the linkEmail to personIf they can't or don't take the funds they are not lost, you can get them back easily.If there is a person you trust or want a 'petty cash' for joint venture it makes a great shared account too. I'm more likely to be robbed/killed by someone with a government education than someone without. Is this working well? Anyone use it and review?Am I understanding that you just deposit the cash and 4-60 minutes later you have cash on an exchange? I think the world would be better without violence. I'm not under any illusion that that is going to happen, but the right direction is to stop praising government violence as good. You can't have 'government education' without violence and the threat of. I'm completely against coercive funding of anything. If it has more value than cost someone will buy it. That said, I don't even think it's good to voluntarily fund an institution that makes kids (aka people) learn things against their will. My 3yo has learned so much (walking, talking, and drawing to name a few) with zero coercion. No one is ever going to coerce him to learn anything. I expect he will learn things he doesn't enjoy as a means to his own desired ends. I'm sure there will be things that other people consider very important that he won't ever learn. He'll probably spend lots of time learning things that I don't think are important. That's fine because it's his time.As far as details of what education will be like after the herding everyone to the same place is over I have no idea. That's a bigger question than "How will soup get made?" or "What will people do for fun next weekend?". It's worse than simply no one knowing the answer, even with full knowledge of everything the answer wouldn't fit in 10 million books.If you want to participate though all you have to do is think of a way to turn stuff that people value less into stuff that people value more, they'll happily let you pocket some of the difference too.
Which solstice is it at the equator? Nice post.I traded at bitcoinmarket.com before MtGox was open. The pizza buy was before MtGox was open too. The one that comes first in the raw block data is first. Sorry this isn't in the explanation on site. If you fund a school, tell kids what to think, teach when it's acceptable to hurt people and how to do it and then they do what you say you just need to mark it down as 'law enforcement' and not the violence it is, that's how violence is reduced by 'education'.The state's violence is so huge and pervasive it doesn't even make sense to count incidents. Some guy grew pot in 2006, today they lock him in a cage, tomorrow they'll do the same, they are wrecking lives every minute. And the place where they preach the virtues of this behavior is called a school.To say it all again, if you are hungry and take some food that's marked as a crime. If you grow some food and don't follow the rules guys (educated) will break into your house and that burglary will not be marked as a crime. Stats from the government about the government as so deeply biased they nearly useless. I don't think an increase in value is a problem. The thing you are giving up by double spending is very valuable to replace, the fact that you used to be able to get it at a discount doesn't matter.It probably does make sense for a merchant to have an absolute cap on the amount they'll accept instantly too and that can be dropped any time it is necessary.  No doubt, I wonder if he ever comes out. I think not, but eventually it'll be somewhat apparent. Most spaceships and all that.  Is this a joke? You are more likely to collide with a meteorite waiting in line at the bank than to have a Bitcoin address collision.  He's going to be the most well hidden billionaire in the history of the world. I think they ought be careful. Want to give your opinion about licensed gambling sites? trustworthy? Why not liquidate at Gox and give the customer whatever price they actually got? Looks good, I wrote once already. I don't remember to which address, what's best to write to to actually get read and maybe a response? Yeah, that's really bad. When you click withdraw bitcoins it's clear that you are asking for a transaction to be written to the block chain. That's your proof of payment ffs.There is even a separate option for sending MtGox BTC credits, if people want to save MtGox the hassle of actually making the transaction they can use that. Does coinabul not change their BTC denominated prices? If you want and buy on a drop won't you just need to buy more? Seems better to just do it now. Or if you want to wait, buy the coins now and buy the gold when you need to spend fewer of the coins. I'd be interested to know what the best deal is. Maybe a page of great deals.Ah, I think it was sorting by high price first by default, which gives a funny impression. 670BTC might be a great price on a 4000 page book though, I'm not sure. Really would have been nice to have some shots of the really early markets. $1000 would have blown the asks away and the spreads were usually 10%+.I'd like to see how thin the market was last time we were at this price.  The pictures look good. Don't need anything now, but will keep you in mind. I feel like I've seen really high prices on photos before, do you want to give ballpark prices?  It is definitely a mistake, the transaction was not very large and even a small fee nearly guarantees entry into the next block right now.  Fees are so low that 2 wrongly made transactions by someone swamped all regular fees. I think it was 2 transactions with fees of ~42BTC and ~171BTC.  The $3 is once a month. Okay, so you can pay for them today, but you won't get them today.
But you can't buy bitcoins with a CC today. is there a plain list of addresses for these things somewhere? Heh, so Seals is officially the best thing to do with bitcoin?Re: QR code. You mean people want to scan their computer screen because all their coins are on their phone? I guess that could be done fairly easily.  I like. I think of Bitcoin as a tool that has enormous enormous potential and already plenty of good uses.If you take a hammer to someone and explain how it pounds nails and how people are going to be able to use it to make cabins and tables and so much more they aren't usually going to care much. But if you know they need a picture hung, there's your chance.If you can solve problems with it and offer it at the right time in the right way I predict big success. People are trained to ignore campaigns and new money stuff so you are really fight an uphill battle unless you can help them somehow. Friday 12/9 11pm ET - 5BTC added for bounties.Saturday 12/10 3pm ET - 5BTC freeroll. Eventually we can heat the whole globe! Oh, wait.. I think the API is not showing recent (not sure how far back) addresses. Investigating. Cool, just curious. I only mined when it was possible with a pencil and paper (but I used a calculator of course). Do you do a lot of mining? <3except talking to the robot, except maybe it could be good I dunno. So this is how they take over, good to know. Shipping is included in the price to the US.For 3BTC to spend I'd recommend the 1000 poker chips and 12oz of coffee for sure.Also, the price of 1000 Seals chips does not change. It is quite a chore for now, but we got this far while providing less education and fewer services. It'll only be getting easier. I imagine a glorious tipping point. The final rush to move to the better money will be epic. Well, lesson learned I guess. Think about what you would say to someone asking what a dollar was. Would you mention the FED and targeted inflation and details about the dead presidents portraits?  Might be a little weird to do it cold, but if you want to get bold you could try to buy coins from random people. Just be like "I need some bitcoins, do you know anyone?". You'll get like 100% nos of course, but you'll up exposure and it's just odd enough an interaction you'll probably get a solid % googling it later. And it'll help them understand right away that bitcoin isn't a MtGox(tm) product, you can buy it from your peers on the street. Just mention it like they should already know it then answer the questions they ask. My business doesn't care about the rate.Slight exaggeration maybe, but we've never changed 'prices'. It only hurts if lots of people join and there aren't that many tainted coins. If all coins are tainted it's just another way of gov saying don't use bitcoin.Plus all of this first requires gov to explicitly endorse and approve the non-tainted coins. Ah, okay.  Might actually be popular with people who want to take coins and not deliver.Those 'tainted' coins aren't going to just sit there either.  People are going to take them to the clean/taint exchange.The government is going to tell people to freeze/take coins, it's already starting, just not particular coins yet.
Oh oh oh look at all this capitalism. Yum, can someone pass the permits with a side of going to jail for selling lemonade? Also, tax and restrictions for desert please.  You volunteering? Or planning on making someone else pay for that search? Just technically speaking how is someone going to not accept coins going to one of their addresses? Can't someone just spew terror satoshis to every address? 1 1 and 5 5s I like it.I wasn't paying attention when we hit 1 1, 2 2s, and 3 3s. 221333 before long though. Well, not long after the immaculate contraction. Nearly all the questions are getting answered well for free, so 'never' seems right. Haha, awesome. I don't know anything about the feasibility, if it is do it. If not write articles about doing it for the fun press. Fristbits!After that.. better wallet format seems good. Coin selection sounds fun, though in practice I imagine it'll mostly involve people paying a little extra in fees and having false sense of added privacy since they'll screw it up.Electrum already has the deterministic wallets working right? Is it possible and reasonable to have a feature where the wallet is cleanly deleted after every use and regenerated next time it is needed? Tells her he's going to pull out and doesn't?Has a kid in August? If .0001% knew about cocaine a show about it would probably increase use by 10x.Probably many will think it's a made up for the show thing. Later they'll be like "wait what, that's real what am I missing?" It'll hit 3 sometime in 2012.Here it comes.                                                                                                                          3 digits of course.                                      Haha, no.                   But maybe.  I don't have any stats, but want to mention what may be a growing type of user in the future. Last night I talked to a player who told me he had 80BTC but didn't know what they were.    He'd won freerolls at various sites and didn't even know there was bitcoin software you could use on your own. I don't think this is a substantial segment of users, but I expect it will be growing. I think the future is a bunch of merchants sending coins from their nodes and not a lot of individuals running them. I could be wrong, but it seems like a lot of people trust sites more than they trust themselves or just don't want any hassle. Maybe Electrum and similar will keep more individuals packing their own coin. Re: Collusion prevention in decentralized poker.I like the Rush idea. It doesn't even need to be one hand then shuffle. It could be 60 hands so you get a lot of the feel of a normal game. Or maybe it only assigns randomly and never moves you once in. This would let cheaters move until they bumped into each other, but if move behavior was public that might be okay. If accounts were free that history would be useless. Being required to pay an entry fee (to a random peer?) to be accepted by peers would make it free (or profitable in a sense if there were lots of multis) to play for single accounters (I'm imagining accounts being public keys) but costly for multis. You could do an all but one rule. Also you could require players post say 20% more than they can play at the table so they always have incentive to approve even a loss.  Wow, imagine how much it would crash the price if bitcoin was accepted everywhere. Here it is You created a new address every time you sent coins and automatically sent the change back to yourself. The first 100 times you did this by sending to an address that was in your backup, but eventually those run out. Ahahahaha. That was grabbed from MarginalRevolution.com comments, but I wouldn't be surprised if he trolls here most of the time. +1I have a feeling Professor Nipples is going to be feeling ill in about a year. have you made more than 100 sends since last backup?   You probably know more than one girl with herpes, you just don't know which ones.
I'll give just better than Gox rate for Dwolla on amounts over $100. PM me. Haha, indeed. Free as in free speech usually, but I'll take the free beer as well. Another thought is that you could have volunteer 'secret shoppers' actively testing things like response time and such. I voted for the second option. It seems good because if the only review a site has is from a first-timer it's the best there is to go on and should be shown, but if a site has conflicting reviews from a 'pro' reviewer and a first-timer the 'pro' is more likely to be correct. I suppose you'll need to watch for 'pro' shills eventually, but at least you have something of value to take from them, their account. Getting a key from the site sounds pretty bad. It still lets the site shill and depending on the service it would still be easy to get keys and post bad reviews. Not to mention be a burden for many sites. Anyone doing this or similar should really add just a bit of unique and random data. If a lot of people are choosing keys this way people are going to be trying everything remotely common. Adding your name and bank pin ought lock it up tight I think. What does it mean to use it as money? What if instead of using it as money you just say it, post it to a website, email it, or broadcast it to a peer? Are any of those things protected speech? Paying came to my mind too, but users are less likely to pay X than a new business that needs quick reputation is.I imagine a future where you sign nearly every posting (right click sign, easy as pie) and anyone can search the web for your other signed activity to make sure you are a person, and maybe even an honest one.Of course just like bitcoin addresses you can make a new one any time and unlike bitcoin you won't as easily connect them unwittingly. Of course you could merge identities simply by stating it and signing with both keys. Broadcast gibberish all the time. If a bunch of people are unloading crap into the same place and a bunch of people are all looking in the same place no one knows which messages are for which viewers. I have a solution to something that might not actually be a problem.Assumptions: Turning small amounts of BTC into dollars is a pain. Some people don't care about or even enjoy variance for small amounts of value. Suggestion:Run a lottery that takes BTC from players and gives cash prizes, maybe a check, probably a prepaid Visa debit, maybe even a widely coveted item. The benefits are:Only winners need to give info such as address and name and transaction costs such as mailing are reduced by 20-100 times.This probably gets around various laws also. You aren't an exchange. Call it a sweepstakes, no cost to enter, your ticket is your free-to-generate bitcoin. interbitlotto aka pure nappy cakes? What made him lose his nerve, what did he think would happen if he continued? Nov 25th, 26th, 27th, 28th the Nightly 8pm ET 525 chip tourney will have 5000 chips added.To celebrate Black Friday we have a 15000 chip freeroll at 3pm ET. After you win you should go shopping (or not, stay and play). Trying to figure if javascript and php is good enough for an idea I have, and if not, what language(s) I need.A player clicks something which modifies the database, immediately the values from the database that were showing on the page are updated, no page refresh needed. Another player who is currently viewing the same values on their page also needs to be instantly updated.What is it best and will scale well? Database of ~10k players, several hundred logged in, ~50 columns if any of that matters.And what about handling a "who pressed first" scenario? I don't really care if it is super accurate, just that it can pick one winner. I think this part is trivial, just want verification.Didn't want to bog down with details, let me know if more is needed. games, buttons, coffee (bitbrew of course), gold and silver (private sales), a stamp, gift cards, lots of gambling (darts, BJ, casino games, poker), mullvad VPN, minethings credits, countless small donations, many ads (operation fabulous and others) programming work, design work, server costs, paper money, gifts, loans, staking deals.That's most of it. Hoping to move food purchases to bitcoin vendors soon. Then rent and I'm done.Zero fiat monies were involved in the creation of firstbits.com. Very cool, will be recommending to people. Yeah, I like the crayon. Should do it more completely. Also the top image is pretty thick. All just my humble opinion.And I don't think anyone cares, but denominating in dollars really turns me off. Don't backup your spendy wallet like this. In the extreme it only needs one key, more is better so the 99% doesn't lynch you when they see your total, but whatever.A savings wallet might never be used 10 times in a lifetime. At first I thought this was 100% bad.But maybe not. If it's a bunch of wallets together lots of people have incentive to keep the file available, sort of anyway...But I wouldn't count on it and it seems better to put it in more reliable storage.Now if you could make the wallets not-easily-separable from some desirable content you'd probably be golden but it hardly seems like the most efficient way. Geez, why so many words?If I work 2 hours on a bowl movement and 2 hours on a sonnet are they worth the same amount? No, so you can't tell value from labor reliably.In an efficient market it might tend to be true I don't even know, but that doesn't really exist anyway.
He will be -delighted- to hear your are going with a child instead of him, be sure to tell him. A large bitcoin drop could kill you, but volatility evens out.It's not that hard to hedge anyway. And anyone serious only has a fraction of their bankroll on the table. It doesn't take long to get it back to dollars. if you have 10% of your roll on the table/in coins then put 2% of your roll short bitcoin at 5-1 leverage.I wouldn't do that because I think bitcoin exposure is +EV, but it's not a deal breaker for a thinking person. As far as I know. I like to think it is because he's so busy carefully attending to MtGox, but he should hire someone or close it down imho. I shouldn't have locked that thread without mentioning resolution, sorry.While service was terrible for months, Mark did fix my problem tonight.  Doubt it.  No, it doesn't mean that at all. If two people offer to buy my one of a kind time traveling Volkswagen it doesn't mean there is a paper Volkswagen. I've been ignored by KalyHost support for several months. The problem has become rather urgent. Does anyone know how to get their attention immediately? I've sent many emails and PM'd MagicalTux just now. Indeed, I had assumed all were visible on the page. Are there many not showing? How to browse them? Seals With Clubs was there but gone now. Are there restrictions? Crazy huh? Never any storms between storms either. I don't know what happened, but I really doubt they planned to steal from the beginning. When they opened all the coins in existance were worth one big pizza party. Anyone making bitcoin services back then was in it for personal/ideological reasons. It was a crime of opportunity imo.I think the main lesson is that people holding tons of money better be making tons themselves. I feel pretty good about Gox because they make 1000BTC some days. Tom had big responsibility, almost no pay, and huge temptation. Agorist means business without permission. If you want to accept dollars for a gambling business you can be stopped as soon as regulations change or start being enforced. The main danger in ignoring these regulations is the choke-point of banks. Using Bitcoin we can securely hold players funds and pay them quickly regardless of any third-party opinions or regulations.I forget that some may not be aware of the recent online poker developments. The major rooms had their funds seized until they stopped serving US players. Any remaining rooms serving the US have very slow cashouts, 1-2 months from what I hear.  Poker. You might mention that Seals With Cubs is agorist online poker, not really possible before bitcoin. How are you paying these magical destroyers? With new dollars over the $1000? Yeah, eventually Bitcoin is going to be so easy that it will feel like you can simply will your money to dance any way you like. The way money is now will not be believable to future generations (even if bitcoin fails). It's just so bad. I admit that I'm handsome, charming, wealthy, and smart. There ya go, forced it outta me. Admitting is so much better than claiming, eh? You can subsidize whomever you want.   For about the next two hours come to sealswithclubs.org, and ask me 'freemoney' for your noob stack. Don't even have to play if you don't like poker or gambling. But you do have to make an account and come ask me at the table.edit: stacks sent, offer over. The point is no one knows if you are playing or not. There is already a bitcoin lottery so secure that the operator could play it with no problems. You might be interested to see how it's done. It's nice that you want to offer something but it's not going to work like this.
We saw a quarter mil wall like 2 days ago.  Seriously unlucky if true.Please share the correct and incorrect address. You think they didn't have $200? What it's all been used to buy... what? If they have coins they can sell them on their own exchange instantly. Do you think they've used the million (?) dollars of fees and then millions more of customer money to improve the website?If you are just realizing that this is a possible thing, okay, whatever. But not getting you your $200 means they are slow and incompetent not that they somehow spent all the money. I mean even if they were going to yank the money out from under us it wouldn't show up as a delay on random small amounts. The security of a transaction after X time is already determined in a rough way by tx fee. It's pretty binary right now, but when there are lots of miners with different schedules your chance of getting in by any certain block will depend on fee.In the far future a large fee could actually have -some- impact on the speed of the next block too. So he can somehow buy $1M at below market rates? I think this is what he'll choose then and we've somehow established that huge demand pushes prices down. Oh, my bad. I was sure that it was the others won't forward it. So a modified client can flood the network? Everyone will forward? Reference to a thread about the current state of this would be much appreciated. You've got to be careful. The fee isn't 'imposed' to harm you. If you send without a fee when the current version wants it other nodes may consider your tx to be spam and not forward it..001 cent is pretty cheap to pay to prove you actually care about the tx getting processed.   This doesn't seem right. The inflation would be lower faster with a shorter doubling period.I think he just thought 4 years would be roughly the time to get the word out. I really wish it was either a smooth curve or more frequent small percent drops. I'm very excited about 210000, but I don't know if an 'exciting' event is what a new currency needs really.  You have 100BTC and are owed 100BTC. MtGox has 100BTC and owes 100BTC.MtGox debt right now trades at face value, that's just incidental and hasn't always been the case.  what happens if you make top bid pay full, second pay half, third a third, etc? If someone is doing nothing but traveling with dark windows and a cop feels he'd be putting life in danger (his) then he needs to let it go. Pulling a gun for having dark windows is major escalation. I don't think a cop has a right to take money from someone with dark windows any more than I have that right. But if they are really set on that style extortion then send a letter in the mail. You've got their plate number, name, address. This doesn't need to be done with a gun on the side of the road. No one would do that. Everyone loves mall bitcoin guy. Miners will want to hear about the tx, no? Seems not like a problem at all. What does this mean?If the split is resolved in less than 120 then the generator loses them. If longer than 120 then he might have spent them and the recipient loses them, but so what? The sender still owes however many coins, he's the one out coins if there is no ill intent exactly as if the split is healed earlier.Maybe I don't get it. I move a lot. I get short term places, often 1-3 months. As best I can remember in my whole life I've had electric bill in my name 3 times, no electric bill ~8 times, and electric added to rent once. This doesn't count extended stay type places that also don't charge extra based on electric consumption, in those I don't even know if they can meter by room.In most places you aren't going to get away with $100 more than the owner was expecting though.I think the long term equilibrium is low power consuming specialized hashing devices, but in the medium term zero cost to miner electricity is going to be providing a lot of the network power. I completely disagree that an officer is justified in pulling a gun on you for having dark windshields. That said I certainly would not shoot in that spot or encourage anyone else to.All I'm saying ITT is that anyone saying "never" isn't thinking.  Yeah, I agree. 'Never' is self evidently wrong.That's really convenient, no?Why magic rules here? If we said "When should you shoot a plumber?" would you say, "Never, if he starts killing you with his plunger he's not a plumber anymore."?'Profession' doesn't matter. Either you protect your self from dangerous humans or you don't. Really? Do you have no imagination? Cop and his partner break in your door. Cop kills your family then his partner. Explains how you are going to prison for the murders because the gun he used is unregistered and he's going to put your prints on it, not to mention testify that you did it.But he's lowered his weapon and didn't expect you'd have one inside your jacket.Never is bull. Happy first birthday!  You can get more than $750 from an ATM somehow? Or is that like the monthly max of ATM fees?Really I'm not going to be happy until there is a guy standing in the mall with pockets full of cash and a smart phone wearing a bitcoin shirt charging $2 for exchanges up to $1000.
Charge a random fee? Something between 1.5% and 2.5%? Even 1.95-2.05 would probably help.Why would you do this? You move all funds to one address? Of course that helps identify where the money comes from. Now you know it comes from some of your 1, 10, 100 customers. You'll never have so much traffic that that fact is useless.Are you doing this because you are paying your own coins until you build up a new large stash of deposited coins? Like seed money that happened to be in one address? Seems you could have mixed that up some itself. I've been paid. If it fails occasionally and they come around within a day to fix manually I can live with that. The support message should maybe read differently, though I'm not sure how exactly. Yeah, haha, anti-social bitcoiners.The chance that the guy you meet in starbucks to buy coins from is going to double spend on you is about the same chance that the barista flips out and murders you both. For $10k+ value tx with complete strangers you can wait an hour (or 10 min) to call it clear, or use a green address type service etc. This is no where near worth a breaking change. Was told a few hours for a Dwolla withdrawal at most. It has been 18 hours. I emailed support and got an auto-response saying they were too busy to help me, but maybe in 2-3 days. If I don't get my Dwolla tonight I'm not telling my customers to use Gox anymore. If you can't handle clicking a button or whatever you have to do inside of a day then take down the damn message. lol, cooking maggoty meat for 15 minutes, will add to my recipe book. Without even using your site I'm pretty sure you're the best option right now. It's not your job to be my fantasy site. Just saying what I would ideally want. Monday Nov 7th:Noon to 7pm ET ther hourly freerolls have a 600 chip first prize.8pm is a 15000 chip guarantee tourney, just 525 to enter.Midnight is another 525 chip tourney with 1000 krill bonus to the winner.Always, 1000 chips on Seals is 1BTC.  Okay, I'll be interested to see.To further elucidate my situation, which I think is typical of a reasonable subset of Bitcoiners, I'm willing to try new Bitcoin sites out because I can deposit in less than and hour, try it and get my money back in either minutes or hours. Now I'm more familiar with the service, more likely to recommend it even if I don't want to use it on a large scale, more likely to think of it when the urge strikes, etc. I have no intention of being a high volume trader. If that happens it'll be by accident after I've been having fun with small amounts that I can transfer back to my poker account on a whim.You are sacrificing one of the advantages of Bitcoin that I think is major. I don't think large traders like having money tied up any more than small traders.It occurs to me now that you are going to have to go to the market for coins so your situation is a bit more complicated than I was thinking. I'm starting to realize that my preferences are probably less common than I thought. I'm not even interested in betting dollars on stuff or holding an account denominated in dollars. Especially not waiting and paying a 2% fee for the conversion, which I realize you need to charge.  Yeah, most people lose or withdraw all their money, it's not that interesting.  Yeah, to read spec, you'd think everyone in the world already heard about, bought, and abandoned Bitcoin. But no. I do wish you well, but I don't expect a lot of Bitcoiners will accept payouts that infrequently. Is once a day too much to do manually? Are you doing cashouts completely manually? Like copy/paste, enter amount, doublecheck? I know you can have a much better system than that for a few hundred bucks, maybe even free. I totally get not letting it fly automatically, but it should be: see tx, click ok, see tx, click ok, see tx etcAm I understanding that all wagers are denominated in dollars? But you can bet on bitcoin price? He works at an ISP, how could he not have seen all those bitcoins floating by? I can see calling it no fees. If I understand correctly, I can offer -200 on something and someone can take it and we pay nothing to the site, is that right? As opposed to say, Gox, where there is a spread plus a Gox fee.But, damn, up to 2 weeks for bitcoin withdrawals?  So which is it? Never or when those pose immediate danger? 1 slot @ 4BTC I don't care about flags, I assumed someone who thinks cops are special might.  Why would the vast majority all decide at once that they were dissatisfied with the price? In reality some will and will either stop mining or stop selling and they will have an effect and the effect is to make it more profitable for others to either mine or sell. I'm trying to get some more action in the nightly 8pm ET tournament. Friday night will have 2BTC added, it's only .2BTC to enter. There are state laws, most ambiguous. But there are many things that are illegal in your bar that I can do at home or in another place. Few states have a complete ban on betting, and even then it's usually running not participating and the running happens in a different state. It will eh? So not just some tiny chance that trading your mostly broken moped for an old lawnmower will get you 'hurt' but certainty? This is news to most I'm sure. This seems to be a nerve for a lot of people, but the fact is if you fail to report a transaction even most cash transactions you will be completely fine. The IRS is bumbling and busy and watching porn and doesn't care about your $300 of labor or tools or toys, don't be afraid.
When you have someone give you a review they sign it with their key. You can give that to any prospective trading partner. You can hold/host it, but if you ever alter it one bit the sig won't be valid. Before you do business you look either for someone you know who did business with them or someone who is trusted by someone you trust. Well sure it's easier, but it's a big difference for people who care about the law, which I get the impression is still a lot of people. It is illegal to mislabel the financial transactions that USED to be required to fund accounts and pay winnings. Because of banking regulations the only way to get the transactions processed was to mislabel them. None of that means gambling is illegal, it means it's impossible to legally do it using dollars. This is suddenly a relevant distinction.Or maybe it is illegal and someone can point me to the relevant writings. I'm almost positive this isn't how it works. There are orphaned blocks and short splits all the time. If half the network is working on 160543A and half on 160543B this doesn't make it easier for an attacker to rewrite 160543. Someone who knows this stuff please confirm. I've never done that.It isn't. Do you have a cite? A credit card is not proof of age. I wonder if that's because the government said "pay your taxes and we'll provide R, Q, W, X, Y, and Z and you won't have to worry about them". The first monthly race is over and coffee codes have been emailed. A new monthly race starts today. And of course the weekly races continue with 30BTC given away every week. What? Bids building up represents money seeking coins. How does that indicate a drop? That is a good question. Took me about 24 hours. He just wiped his ass with your favorite flag and is raping your wife and yelling about how he's going to kill your kids. Who would stop them?Besides their profit is not what is that big it is 'our' coins they hold. That's why this is a bit silly to worry on. What are the chances any of those are owned by 1 person anyway? I agree.But maybe... Make levered bets on the price going up. Credibly destroy tons of coins with viral malware. Your coins and bets profit you greatly and you never have to touch coins with a tainted history. I think it's closed, but just in case, I'll bid:1 @ 3.5 I talked to a guy who said they were paying every 1BTC. I don't know why it's like that. But it would not take a year to make 5 for the few serious sites on there. Lol, "Hi, we're the government and we're here to watch YOU. Just trying to prevent fascism." Must have been in extreme state of mind. But always it bothers me when people are like "Oh, x will be regulated/outlawed and then close". Obviously not the case. And double dumb when talking about an entity that is already shirking laws. Okay, maybe SR decided it cares about regs on bitcoin use even though they don't care about regs on drugs, but 100% chance someone else will come along to profit by ignoring the laws. This is rather ironic. Learn the firstbits of one of your addresses, give it to the payer. They are often 6 chars or shorter. Firstbits.com.For verification, just watching them pay is pretty good unless it is a huge amount. If huge wait to see it in blockexplorer.
Yeah, gl OP.I agree about text, make it different (haha, helpful I know). Maybe put it above the coins and have the fog that covers the coins billowing out from below the text. Hey, thanks, Chief. This seems right, but also there is a huge difference on a netbook compared to a desktop. I think this is because it validates as blocks come in and machine speed matters. You are going to be rich.1. Buy coins2. Release code3. ProfitYour (supposed) software makes coins more valuable. There is a much better way to profit than selling the software. Lets call it the Satoshi method. I think I have some coins in there. Not sure if I have my password or not though. This is disappointing because I thought the guy was legit. Obviously stuff happens and projects end, but not wrapping things up fairly is theft.edit: and of all sites one like should should acknowledge the loss simple from delay. Dunno about the two of you but my memory goes back to 3 cents. Isn't a cigarette like super bad in that spot?Every politician creeps me out. "I noticed a huge control apparatus." <slow creepy smile> "I'd like to test it out on you this January. Please yank my lever or punch my chad." Robo, do you prefer Bitcoin over the others? For good reason? If yes, then don't worry. Your good reasons will make it the most desired and used. If no, then don't worry about Bitcoin. I don't doubt it, but a chart of the price since bitcoinica opened isn't evidence of that any more than this morning's oil price is evidence of the power of a turd. Thanks fsb, glad you enjoy the site.  No it's fine. The beauty of it is that even if it calls itself 'official' it doesn't have any special standing concerning bitcoin. If it maintains good reputation it will have influence with some, if not then not.It's not going to be anything more than people working to provide guidance, education, whatever. If it turns out that it works better to have a focal point org then it will do well. Next up: Price of oil since my last bowl movement +1 You don't have to assume that this doesn't happen, you just assume it isn't correlated with anything. Which still isn't right, but I don't think there is reason to believe people are moving them for no reason any MORE than they were last month.  Oh man yeah    and what if they make the drugs illegal too    what will you smoke before you post?Is it not clear that SR doesn't care about 'regulations'? Am I on drugs? That is interesting, but..1. none of those are super rare.2. I (and others I'm sure) eventually start mimicking after talking to or reading from someone for a while.3. If I were hiding I would make sure to remove my own previously shown idiosyncrasies, but not think of ones I'd picked up from others considering them standard. Lol, please. Like satoshi is going to keep hidden and then Gavin is going to use his real name. Clear? Transparent? Get it? Is there a current consensus on this limit going forward? It always worried me a bit. Miners may not want to increase later. I see all kinds of pressures in play, hard for me to work out. What? No, that doesn't help at all. You just buy the Gox code and use it to get coins then pull back the PP. You have to know someone who can either get you back or doesn't mind giving you free money. Very nice review, thanks a bunch.
Are you saying people will pay less to get coin without giving info to an exchange? Old guy on Jekyll Island: This might not work, you know most people aren't going to understand.Another old guy: I don't think that's going to be a problem. The look could use a little work. Maybe different shade blue headings? I dunno, not my area. It is missing SealsWithClubs.org. Maybe a whole gambling section? I really don't think that is too strong a word at all.I've been recommending them in the past, but won't any more and I won't keep a balance on there for convenience like a used to.Magical Tux other service Kaly Host has also turned to garbage. I've been avoiding saying it publicly because they've been good in the past. But it's been almost 3 months with no response from support for my account and for the account of a friend who I refereed there. It is bad to the point where he owes money imo. Right, I guess you need the enter number of page functionality for the time being then.Ultimately a filter for price range and other variables would be a lot better than a repeated guess and modify guess system.The site does look pretty good. Glad to see people who care about their bitcoin businesses. It's amazing how far things have come in a year.edit: That's not to say at all that people didn't care a year ago. It's just more appropriate to put time into image and such now that there are so many more potential customers. Why would people want to get to page 247? They don't know what is where and will be going in order usually right?If some category has that many results then people will want filters or search, not a way to look through 500 pages one by one. +1and could you imagine sitting around badmouthing the printing press? I really don't understand the hate. I vow (okay actually not, just a statement of what I do) to convert to fiat whenever I need to. This is because I hold my value in coins which is what I do because I think it is best (for me). I hear this more and more and it makes me nervous.If you have to take people's private information you do it upfront. It is BS to take money and hold it ransom. They know it costs them customers that's why the obtrusive requests come afterwards. Spot on. It's fairly dumb imo. But you could implant enough computation ability to do the signing of tx and just broadcast what is safe. I guess if I was going to be putting things in my body that weren't food a stripped down bitcoin node would be high on the list. Lol, follow the law and defraud people. USA NUMBER ONE! Sunday 3pm EDT tourney has 5BTC added. 1.05BTC buy-in. Uh huh. The most powerful people in the universe are going to buy the case, but mayyyyyybbbeeee if we just don't mention (anymore) that Bitcoin is money, we can still win the case. So this is a block on fiat transfers? So people will be buying coins to get their value off I suppose? Yeah, I know. All I'm saying is that if anyone wants coins and it is not profitable to mine them people will buy them instead. This will push the price up until it makes more sense for the marginal user to mine than to buy. All of this assumes some demand, but not any particular amount of demand. It was already like that for months (a year?) once. Maybe it was dead and rose from the grave? If it can do that then death is not so scary, eh? When the price to buy is less than the cost to mine people will tend to buy more and mine less. This will bring the price up and the difficulty down. They will meet somewhere. No one really knows where.If you are worried about mining completely stopping, I wouldn't. People have different costs and will not all stop at once. This will give the difficulty a chance to adjust. I just woke up, you have a response.  Yes, Bitcoin sellers only. I have two now, but feel free to PM me and I'll keep you as backup.
I need my customers to be able to get coins. I'm not going to handle PP. If someone who can be reliable wants to help then I'll help them help me. I'm not making things up or scamming, it's all true. We're staring a nightly tournament. The details may be changed, but for now it is at 8pm EDT and the buyin is 200+10 chips, which is .21BTC.The first one, Friday the 21st, will have 2000 chips added. I don't want to or like to use PP or banks. I'm also not selling coins so I'd need to buy them back somehow. I just want a solution for these people and thought I might find someone here.I would be willing to sell insurance for part of the markup. This would probably be best as it will keep me conservative with referrals too. I'm at a loss as to how the seller of the coins needs to be trusted. Regardless of that I am looking for a reasonably competent person who can provide service in return for a markup. But someone please tell me how we can be ripped off after the coins are sent. "Humans are evil" isn't really helpful. I thought I was up on what the PP issue was, chargebacks. I'm not saying I can reduce it in a general sense, just that I have a list and source of people I trust. If there is a problem besides chargebacks and human nature, I'm all ears. That would not -stabilize- the price. First it would move it way up as people discovered the development. Then up more as people speculated on how many other large games/companies would accept coins. Then down if time passed and more did not or up if even more if others were getting in. I wouldn't hold my breath waiting for stability. Can you tell me more about how someone selling bitcoins and receiving PP can do harm to the other party? I have access to a stream of (likely) trustworthy buyers, but can't sell to them myself. I am willing to point them to you for free if I'm convinced you'll service them promptly (like twice a day or more), charge reasonable markup, and always have coins available. I won't offer a guarantee for free, but we could work something out.My best guess on volume is an average of $50/day, likely volatile and growing. it would be good to have about 400 coins on hand to start since there may be some pent up demand.PM me if you are interested.  Lol, for Halloween I'm going to send random people bitcoins. You know, just to scare them. The price (theoretically) is going to reflect people's expectations, so if the number (whatever number) comes in lower the price will (sometimes) go lower. I'm watching. This seems cool. I've been wondering why the 7M coins aren't all on my site. I mean don't people want to win more coins? Yeah, sign me up for that. Seals is back up and the 5BTC Hyper Turbo is on. If you previous registered you'll need to do register again. I have no been able to reach the dev and can still not figure this out. Very sorry, we're going to be down a while longer. Seals is down right now. Emergency downtime for the host caused a problem and my trying to fix it has caused another. Hopefully our admin can fix this in the morning.   There is a pretty big difference between having a big pile of wealth and having a machine for systematically robbing all productive people indefinitely. I think it changes the whole world to end that machine. It would take some people out of the parasite business and into doing more desired stuff and it would let the already productive people enjoy their own gains and possible be incentized to produce more.Sure it would be nice to take back ill gotten gains. But goddamn that would be messy. And if you make one misstep you are essentially a thief. Thanks Badger. It's always nice playing you.Don't miss the 5BTC Hyper Turbo Freeroll Saturday 3pm ET. I was wondering about this too. Generally is writing over a file a reasonable way to delete the original? I assume not. Can users do anything to make the original more gone? Pretty clever. The top <3 seems wrong any way I read it though. Fiat loves Bitcoin? Or greater than 3 of them? I'll kick it off. 1 spot @ 1BTC.I don't see it, is this for a week?
Do skins actually handle money? I was under the impression that they were just like, well, the face and skin, advertising/promos. And the 'real' site held and handled the money. If not, then this seems like a reasonable plan. I'm not a fan of AJ at all. But come on, you think he was was like, okay, I want to make money talking on the radio, lemme pick a topic that'll make me a lot of money, I know, anti-gov rhetoric, those people are numerous and wealthy. You will abandon it to me. I'll be buying every coin for my collection. How sweet would a full set be? So are these altruists finding 5 an hour going to stop now? Pretty much everything grows exponentially. A 2% bond does. There are lots of useful ways to graph things and a log graph is one. How could bitcoin thrive at 1 dollar? That doesn't give 10000 people enough for a small house or everyone in the US enough for one meal. Bitcoin is a little toy at $1. Does this mean I can trade forex without ID and reporting and stuff? You got it. I think the 100 offer is done now, pretty sure we're up to 10. Are you stuck in a well?  Very cool promotion. This is cool and will be done imo. But the killer app of bitcoin is not going to be paying people who you could hand something to anyway. It's got to have to do with the fact that you can send it just as easily to Egypt as Japan as 3 miles away. If the right size is smaller then so be it, but I'm always rooting for higher. I can make way more awesome stuff at 100 per than 5 per. And that's a completely healthy situation.  Bitcoin is mindless. Why are you wasting your time? People are not going to change the rules. Just make a new currency and/or borrow coins. We've had lag troubles over the last week, but we have reason to think it is better now. I dunno, sounds like you are speculating to me.   That is all that a pool currently does. If I can get X power by doing Y. How am I not going to be able to get 2X power by doing Y twice? How could you possibly tell the difference between two people doing Y and one person doing Y twice? Not to mention (again) that the pool is actually just a bunch of people separately doing Y and sharing results. Can you explain the reasoning for having a "parents died of AIDS" orphanage? I mean if there were extra spots would you let other kinds of orphans in? Or does it just happen than most orphans are of this type because that's what poor parents die of most of the time and mentioning AIDS gets more sympathy?  I'm really having trouble picturing this. Like other species will wear uniforms and boss each other around? I'll bet that there will eventually be some gang strong enough to claim local supremacy but not strong enough to mandate a money and will just go with the flow and use the natural money. Luke is not saying bitcon isn't good to go. He's saying the times shouldn't be used as times.
That guy isn't in the bitcoin community (unless he is satoshi I guess) as far I understand. He was questioned because he is English and at a crypto conference.But still not answering and laughing doesn't mean anything. Even saying that "I wouldn't tell you if I was" doesn't mean anything. I thinking speaker obviously means that Satoshi wouldn't tell you, and obviously he wouldn't. 0.001 is a millicoin - millie0.00001 is a microcoin = mike What? This is just wrong. You think you would want 1 more dollar just as much when you had a million as when you had 2?edit: sorry, I assume you mean law of diminishing marginal utility. Seems like some confusion here.If you mean stealing someones keys (which are not in the chain btw) then age doesn't matter. All that matters is how they are secured.If you are talking about stealing back coins that you previously owned and spent by rewritting a block to remove the spend, then is requires more and more work as time goes on. But it is pretty damn hard after one confirm since you have to either get lucky and find 2 blocks before the whole world finds 1 or you have to be very powerful (more powerful than the whole world) and need no luck. In that case the depth of the transaction you want to undo just determined how long it will take on average. Yeah, they got that shit from people obeying them all the time. Sucks now, but best to try not to support and strengthen them anymore imo. There is a reason they don't actually use that stuff on us all the time, it's not really all that profitable to do. +1You can see these at bitcoincharts, but another source would be good.+1 Or 49 were spent and 1 moved to wallet. Or they used SendMany and all of it was spent (slim chance I know). So they stole my parents stuff to make some crappy infrastructure in the wrong places and that is the justification for taking my stuff? Even if it wasn't mostly a subsidy for car manufacturers and large corps it wouldn't be them that I owe anyway, they are some oddly determined group who blows shit up and pays off anyone who might care to stop them. inorite, I heard some bitcoiners believe astrology too!That means bitcoiners are dumb and bitcoin is bad. I don't get it. Why do you need their permission, but they don't need yours? Yes, I'm sure there is a place for both of our styles. We're so different I guess we're hardly competitors. I do wish I could see your poker software. Do you ID people or just rely on IPs? +1 to all that getting 50BTC for block 200000 is just as much part of bitcoin as getting 25BTC for block 300000. If you think miners will want to double the payout for future blocks why wouldn't they double their payment now? And why not 10, 100, 1000x? Maybe they understand that merchants provide 100% of the backing and won't accept non-Bitcoins?Miners don't change the code I run. They can choose to mine bitcoins or something else, I'm only accepting bitcoins though. You should go solo just for the thrill. It's like a free casino. Wow, that is a crazy stat, think of the huge loss of the early adopters, glad I wasn't one of those. I'm spending over 200/week. My job is to figure out how to get more for less, not how to burn through my capital faster.If you want to increase bitcoin usage and value then do this. Take your relationships from the dollar world into the bitcoin world. Whenever you can meet one of your recurring needs with bitcoin move enough to cover that need for a long time into bitcoins. The ultimate goal is income, savings and spending in bitcoins. And if it is forced and artificial then it won't last. Find ways to profit using this awesome new tool. Saving 3% from not having credit card fees is fine if you were already able to make a profit before, but most should be looking for huge new opportunities, things that weren't even possible before. I'm certainly biased, but your top poker site doesn't take bitcoin wagers and bans a bunch of countries. Can you even play there to check it out? I can't. Writing something that will find any/all.I definitely prefer the same or previous rule, but is it worth changing if it changes many FB? Very cool, glad to have a separate implementation.One little possible wrinkle though. We have been ordering two transactions that would otherwise have the same firstbits if they were not in the same block according to their appearance in the block data (first to appear being first). We are investigating switching to giving them both the longer firstbits. An example:Block 1:1asd1234567...Block 2:1asd2fkkkgrt...1asd2sqp434...Currently 1asd2fkkkgrt... would have FB of 1asd2 and 1asd2sqp434... would have FB of 1asd2s.It seems like it might be better to not need the extra rule of tiebreaking with order of appearance and instead to give each the FB as if the similar address came before. In this case giving 1asd2fkkkgrt...  a FB of 1asd2f. It seems more elegant to use a rule of "String required to differentiate an address from all addresses in the SAME and previous blocks" and have nothing about order in the block.Very sorry for not addressing this before or publishing our exact code. Would like your input on this issue. I assume you are calculating them independently? 
I sure as hell don't need any more jobs. Very cool! 9/26 - 7pm EDT 1BTC added tournament, .05BTC entry.Weekly and monthly krill races are still on, win some coins and some coffee. Over 30BTC in prizes this week. Bookmarked. Ah, got it. I was thinking more like super-secret covert exchange stuff. I can see how those geocashing hunts are fun. And everything is better with Bitcoin. Wouldn't it make more sense to dead drop the dollars or gold and sell the location for coins? I mean how are you going to send the old money without linking the buyer and seller together anyway? It's a little bit extra work, but it isn't expensive to prepare thousands or hundreds of thousands. Use SendMany to do a few thousand at a time sending 1 satoshi. Someone was even saying that you can prepare to have addresses with 0 output, but it hardly matters.Maybe this is anti social behavior though since those get logged forever. Wonderful. Very glad it's helpful and easy enough for a drunk to use. :-) 9/21 - 7pm 2BTC added tournament, .05BTC entry.Weekly and monthly krill races are still on, win some coins and some coffee.Leader Charts Very nice.Have you thought about making a firstbits input option? The scan looked really easy and smooth, but might be good in case a scanner/camera was broken or just not working. What is the current back up plan? Typing the whole address? Send a text and copy/paste? Also with firstbits you could just have the server say it. You would then have to retype the amount, but since they are typing a tip anyway maybe not so terrible.Anyway, this is really good stuff, congrats. Since I started buying exclusively from myself I've had a lot more business (fewer pencils though). Wow, DMCA with permission. Crazy rules they must have nowadays.  1BTC Freeroll tonight at 7pm EDT.The krill race is running. It's still easy to get in the top 20. The board is here. I'm not sure if I mentioned the monthly leaders get free coffee from BitBrew. Maybe this isn't where the community is. You don't think it is relevant to Bitcoin that other methods of payment might have problems that Bitcoin doesn't have? Or maybe not Bruce.Anyone who wants to buy a pizza should call that place directly and ask if they'll take coins. All you need is your private key(s), if you put them in a cloud with a slightly shorter password than the key length you still have to keep your key with you and safe. If it is much shorter to the point that you can remember it then you are giving up safety. I don't think there is anything to be gained here. That is crazy. I think they are $50-$100 here, but you can't reuse them, at least not give to another person. Bitcoins(s) is putting it generously. They claim to have 1 Bitcoin in the "vault" right now. You need to save wallet.dat somewhere safe. Ideally multiple places and encrypted.You do not need to have the software running to receive coins. Kind of like email, you'll find out about it when you come back.Your addresses aren't really changing, it is just making a new one for you often. You always have the old ones. Using new ones all the time makes your transactions harder to match together.
Lol, wut? A licence plate costs 7k? Will do.Monday 9pm EDT is a 5BTC added rebuy tourney. 0.1BTC to enter and rebuy.The first weekly krill race has begun, the top 20 ring game players will get prizes this week.  Another practical point is that there is not one exchange rate even to dollars, different places have different prices even in equilibrium because of the difficulty or ease of getting your money. Not to mention having the devs pick an exchange to tie the client to is ridiculous.Now I'm sure at some point there will be an exchange that tells you the amount of whatever currency you could get for your coins and have a one click button to do it. Maybe there will even be a desktop program connected to an exchange that will tell you how much of their cash you could get for the bitcoins of yours that you are still holding at this second.  Is this in order to have your daily limit increased? Or have they locked you down completely? Did you do anything unusual? Seriously, if you want to keep even distribution just spread it out evenly and stop having transactions at all. The 20 top players for the week (Monday to Sunday) will get bonus chips.Prizes in chips (bitmills) are:1st : 5000 2nd : 30003rd : 20004th : 15005th - 7th : 10008th - 10th : 75011th - 15th : 50016th - 20th : 200 I have some gold so that if bitcoin is somehow destroyed I don't have to get a job the same month. Cash is just something I need to convert to for a little while it isn't any kind of investment. I got rid of my IRA that held mutual funds a while back, I don't have any "in system" assets now.At $15 I thought it was about to go up. At $11 I was pretty sure it was time. At $8 I knew we were at the bottom. And now I glad to say that I'm positive the lows are in, for whatever that's worth.At these levels I'd like a little bit of leverage. Some $10 NOV options from a trustworthy source would be a great investment imo. Also I notice that bitcointalk.org is listed twice.  Nice.Can you add my poker site?SealsWithClubs.org Search for "Bitcoin Days Destroyed" I got rid of (most of) my fiat if that's what you mean. But I don't think it was 'lost'. Lol, coincidence, I think not. No contact in 3 days, has been 3 weeks total.The title needs a warning. A long thread with no scam label might trick more people.update: Dollars that were purchased 3 weeks ago were refunded via Bitcoin today. So while I would not recommend using the service the operator is not a crook. You might be right, it would raise the cost of the scam, but it might make the payoff greater with a false sense of security.This is not the right place for the thread. If talking about the rules of a forum is not Meta then what is? Number of post is a terrible proxy. Plus is gives incentives to make throw away posts.I'm all for exclusivity in the marketplace, but not with some easy to game metric.Maybe do people with 200 or more now and whitelist others manuall.Also manual removal so that people who make Meta threads in the wrong place can't post here anymore. Saturday is a big one, 6.675BTC Freeroll at 3pm EDT. Oh yeah, it is sick awesome. I want some [A and B] or C action please.  Some costs are dollar. I don't know what you consider this though: I emailed about an ad, got a price in dollars, said "can I pay in bitcoin. is X BTC good?" they said yes. Is that bitcoin or dollar? I never intended to give dollars and I am not committing to paying any dollars in the future. In this case I didn't commit to paying future bitcoins either, but in other cases I have. I have one ongoing dollar denominated cost, settled in bitcoins weekly. My other venture which is mostly on autopilot now was 100% bitcoin costs, and no revenue (yet). So if we want to play HU I guess it'll be at betco? Looking forward to playing you in the WCOBP though. I do all my accounting for both of my businesses in bitcoin. I am literally using it as a unit of account. And not because I'm some kind if stubborn idiot. All of the money I have to invest and all of my revenue and most of my expenses are set in Bitcoin. I think you were trying to say that it isn't your unit of account. 
You should try seals first. I send you some chips if you ask at my table, I'm playing now. Freemoney there also. Yep, instant deposits. I'm playing now. 1.6BTC freeroll in an hour and 50 minutes. Friday 9pm EDT Threesome Tournament, .333BTC entry, 3 players per table. This is ridiculous. If people like your product better than coins they'll give you coins for it. Is your theory that every bitcoin business has failed and every one in the future will?   Um, part of the free market involves figuring out what happened and who is good and bad to deal with. It isn't magic paste. Bruce "Huge news from the conference is another conference" Wagner isn't really a great source. Seriously someone point out a difference between saving and hoarding please. I'm at a loss. No? He took my bitcoins it seems. I thought I withdrew, but I can't find the tx, maybe I didn't or maybe he didn't pay it. 15 months ago I sure wasn't worried about bitcoin crashing back to $5, pretty strange year. So this one time I thought about selling people some crap they didn't need and including bitcoins to entice them to buy it. Needless to say, this is the good version of that crappy idea. Should be very greatly appreciated by many. Can we discuss saving vs hoarding here? Someone I trust told me they had part of a trade reversed two days ago on MtGox. Coins were in account, then not, trade was at a reasonable price, like $6, only part of it was rolled back, said something like "error in trade matching". 4095 chips in the pool, about half goes to first. Tuesday 7pm EDT. I think he waited to sell my coins and is not going to pay me unless the value goes back up.  What the hell are you talking about? I'm in like 5 forums at this minute. Would you call power provision a natural monopoly if my computer, heater, and washing machine were all powered by different companies? Just a month and a half until I can buy all the coinzzz! Cut out the middle man. Hey mom, I encrypted this bitcoin private key with your PGP. Decrypt it and use the import key utility built into bitcoin v1.2.04. Download = noCosby+Download= lol hell no Uh yeah. Is there reason to think that it takes several people to receive bitcoins and not pay? I'm sure there is some amount you could have that would fix this problem.
Watching this. I would absolutely not do business with this man. I'm currently hoping he is incompetent. I think a Mod should flag the title or something. I would not recommend a scammer tag yet. 5BTC+ TTR starts in an hour and a half, 7pm EDT. After that is the Mine Things freeroll. Look for good cash game action too. I'll help you start anything you like. If it was really cheap and they were really hot I'd have to try it.  Besides the Forum <> Bitcoin observation, think about the endgame: everyone everywhere uses Bitcoin. Are we going to sit around being excited about it? Are we all going to have one big conversation? Will it all be on one forum? Of course not. We aren't there yet, but the process of wide use and the distribution of the conversation is already begun.I really really loved this place a year ago. And it only 'sucks' now because it was completely successful.  The "Take the Rake" Freeroll will have over 5BTC in the prize pool on Monday, 50% for first. This tournament is at 7pm EDT on weekdays. The prize pool is variable because it is 25% of the previous day's rake. We had some good games Sunday, so it'll be a good one. Also the 9pm event happens to be a freeroll too, but make sure you visit minethings.com for the password. Usually the 9pm will not be free anymore, but it will be fun. On Tuesday we'll have a .05BTC rebuy, expect a jam fest. I don't think so. Getting the runaround on other stuff from this guy. Sounds like Peter Griffin. "I'll give you $100." "No" "80?" "No" "50?" "No" "ten cents?" "Deal!" I'm pretty sure people like you are already priced in, thanks anyway. MineThings.com is sponsoring a freeroll Monday 9pm EDT. To get in you need to make an account on Minethings.com and get the password. There will be 3BTC and 5BTC worth of MineThings credits in the prize pool. It seems pretty bizarre that I can't start trading by sending you some bitcoins. And am I blind, where are the options? We've got 3 handed 100/200 going, that's 20BTC buy in. Where is this guy? Finally caught up. Glad you guys like it. If you are looking for more freemoney, I spend my days in my poker room now, SealsWithClubs.org. The database is the block chain. It is rumored to be roaming the wild. Grunching: so they can pretend they don't have it. I'm looking for the guy running Bitcoin. Just have him call my cell 728-6744. Most of the games at Seals are low stakes, but I am willing to play higher if anyone wants to. Anyone anytime up to 20BTC NL. I'm available almost always between noon and 4am EDT. You can let me know in advance to make sure I'll be there if you like.Deposits are still automatic. Cashouts every few hours, auto coming soon.If you would like to be notified when higher games start just let me know how and under what conditions. link redirecting somewhere else. I'm in your room, checkin' out your table. How do I get listed?
Bounty Tournament: Friday 9pm EDT 100 chip entry, 2000 (2 Bitcoins) chips added for bounties.A bounty will be placed on all players who's avatar color is the same as the player in seat 1 on table 1. If this is only 1 player then there will also be a bounty on players that are the same color as seat 2 on table 1. If a player who has a bounty on them wins the tournament they will be awarded their own bounty in addition to the first place prize. The size of the bounty will be 2000 chips divided by the number of players who have bounties on them.  Web Hosting. Does Ecommerce mean online retail? Fixed now I think, was from their source going down, probably their bitcoind. Used to be able to do it in regular client. There is no requirement for confirms on an input. In fact your client will use your change with no confirms. I guess in the event of unconfirming tx the devs did not want them propagated. We're all going to be mining in one pool oh no.....Yesss, there is another pool, more diversification. Ah, no, uses your time. Don't go by that. All the more reason to get the clock up quickly. Oh, the way I was trying to do it would use your time with an offset for zone. Gotta get the dev to do this right. I think she usually wears a shirt and probably looks like a pretty normal person. Yes. Actually got a clock working on the top bar, but without modification it shows user time so I took it down. I need the dev to help me. It is coming.edit: and in the mean time click on the tournament will show the local start time. But that only helps once registration is started. Wow! What a claim. Fallen since Jan 09? Since Jun 09? Since Jan 10? Jun 10? Jan 11? Not likely! Yes, I counted 8, you are number 9. Chips coming up.I recommend the 10 chip buyin with 100 added every 2 hours on the half. It is an asymmetric bet in USD too. They should just agree to swap the other's preferred currency in the future at today's rate. Bitcoin doesn't need 'this' internet. All it needs is storage and communication. This internet is where our boat is parked right now, foundation analogy is not good. Glad you like it. If you have any suggestions or just want to say hi I'm in the games as much as possible. So Bitcoin can be like major world currencies if the total in existence is $1.50 x 8mil = $12mil? Don't think so. Not saying it won't drop, but if it drops it'll be because it's crap, not because it's a major world currency.  Sending now. Gunna count these and see if I'm done yet, but either way yours will come. We're having a rebuy tournament Wednesday 9pm EDT. It will have a .02BTC buy-in and rebuys and 5BTC added to the pool. Always gets me too. I forget I paid someone out of there and it doesn't say the amount in the email so I'm like, wtf, gotta check this out. Oh right 1.25 coin. so will they pay me in coins? 100 chips sent to toer and crayola.  Thanks for pointing that out. Pretty bad mistake, glad it didn't cost you the big one. Probably will cost others. :-(I am going to put a server clock on the site and in the client soon.
BitBrew 10BTC Freeroll in less than 3 hours (9pm EST) That's no going to be possible. Unless you put it in a different universe someone is going to move data from one to the other, and then everyone is going to do it. What is awesome is that the parts that need to migrate will and the parts that don't will use the legacy stuff. The planet will eventually be a hodgepodge of all sorts of systems using each other for maximum benefit each data flow going where it needs to in order to not be stopped (either by censorship, error, whatever).The existence of a free network will make others much more free too. What is the point of trying to block something when it will simply move to the free net?  This is going to happen. Details when we've got them. You can follow us on twitter now, SealsWithClubs. Or search bitcoin poker. Yes we should. Maybe we can work out a special bitcoinduit round. There will be a 10BTC freeroll Monday night at 9pm, thanks to BitBrew! Come check us out and win some prizes.Sunday's freeroll schedule will be the same as Saturday. 3pm, 5pm, 7pm, 9pm. This Bitcoin thing is starting to take off. Three more freerolls today. .5, 1, and 2BTC. Plus a turbo freeroll every hour on the hour. Very clever, but can that really be all the domains that have bitcoin in them registered in a month? Dude, the internet is going to be in everything. There won't even be a distinction. We see the web mostly through one 20in screen, but it's leaking out and getting everywhere.Keeping things where they we're "meant to be" if you even knew that is silly. If light bulbs were meant to read Shakespeare until 10pm would you not use them for anything else? Using things in new ways is awesome. That works for me too. Move out of China? I get the site just fine. Thanks so much, fixed. MIDNIGHT MADNESS tonight (end of day friday EST) .1+.05 buy-in and .1 added to the prize pool per player.Daily freerolls still in effect at 7pm and 9pm EST. Negative blocks are the roots of any imaginary chain. Wait, maybe I have that backwards. If someone is happy when others around them are happy and not when they are not then it doesn't matter much about other stuff. I'm totally 100% self interested, one of my main goals is to be with happy people. Screwing people doesn't get me what I want. Way to go. That doesn't make any sense. If people can sell coins for 25% more over there then people would buy coins elsewhere and sell them there until there was equilibrium. The only reason I can think that they don't is that it is hard or impossible to withdraw fiat money from them, is that the case?  This is interesting to me. I thought I heard they stopped taking new customers and merchants, this is not the case? Bitcoinduit.com is sponsoring today's (8/31) 9pm EST freeroll! They are adding 5BTC so there will be a total of 6BTC in the prize pool.Also, you can play immediately now, no waiting for confirmations. Zero is enough. Let me know if it takes more than 15 seconds. Withdrawals are manual for a while longer. I'll try to get them done once an hour during my day and evening. Please complain if it takes over 8 hours.
Good luck, until we're at the same table  Coming up! I agree it needs reworded to emphasize that legitimate funds will be paid and reasonable notice and explanation will be given if at all possible.   I put up an ad for SealsWithClubs.org last night, very smooth. I even made a mistake and fixing it was easy. I am surprised how fast my impressions are being used up 15k in about 8 hours. I guess this is because people hit the site over and over looking for the jackpot? I have gotten some clicks though. Sent. Chips sent. Enjoy. It is our full intention to pay back any legitimate deposits or winnings. It is not our intention to pay the amount listed in your account if something is recorded in error either accidentally or by malice. We will attempt to notify when appropriate, but there is no guarantee on that either.The nature of cash business on the internet is such that we often may not want to report to a scammer or cheater how we know that they stole. This could make their next attempts harder to detect.Will adding the ability to record an address to pay the funds from idle accounts fix that issue? We are not going to keep unused accounts in our system forever. I am not just an employee with this site. It has my full backing. I will always try to do what is right and best for the players and site.Feel free to ask more questions. Meh, the forum isn't about Politics either, but it makes sense to have a place to talk about it if people want. Though I guess a line should be drawn somewhere. We don't need a Pokemon subforum. Another thing to keep in mind is that what used to be 'news' and interesting to bitcoiners has changed a lot. It was huge to me when the first gambling and then first poker site came out, now even a new exchange is like "whatever, we'll see what comes of it". There can't really ever be endless big news because what feels big will just change. I think things are progressing just fine. Each big wave of new people contains a few gems that will do something great and that lures in the next wave. The 7pm freeroll had 7 players. The 1BTC freeroll is in 45 minutes (9pm EST). Agreed options will let much more information get priced with much lower transactions cost and much less money tied up to express the same positions. Or SealsWithClubs.org! Thanks. I'm playing with someone now. I should mention, you can see how many players are logged on and tables are running from the home page, it's right at the top. [/quote]To bad the average joe doesn't know any better and maybe actually doesnt want to know any better cause this system works for him.[/quote]Yeah, average Joe doesn't care if there is another site using a traditional payment method providing the same thing. The more unique the product is the more motivated Joe will become. And once he becomes motivated to figure it out one time it'll be easier the next. Sealswithclubs.eu has been offering Texas Hold'em and Omaha bitcoin poker for almost 2 years. Some of our promotions are:Table Starter Rakeback - 50% rakeback on all 2 and 3 handed ring game play at 6 and 9 max tables.Hourly Turbo Freerolls - Completely free for anyone to enter, three prizes are awarded totaling 0.05 BTC every hour around the clock.Double Krill - Earn krill (player points) twice as fast from 2-10am ETKrill Freerolls - Earning krill earns you entry in up to 4 recurring freerolls with prize pools of 0.5, 1, 2 and 10 BTC. Haha, no problem, I can outbid you.   Newbie who has been manually given access to the rest of the board. If a thing is very widely provided and the customer has a preference against bitcoin they will likely go elsewhere, people with somewhat unique products are the ones who have the best chance at converting reluctant customers.  Nice.I bet you don't lose 99% of current customers at all. But if you do, getting 99% more would be a cinch!P.S. F PayPal.edit: just looked, people not too happy over there. Are these people who were actually paying much? You guys should link to your favorite Bitcoin show.
Sure, I guess I had another dubious assumption: that a higher gold price would lead to more people doing more dodgy things trying to get gold. /end sidetrack from good thread. Automated Bitcoin payment + discount = I buy. Agreed, sounds like a good plan. You can still earn coins, but you don't have to worry about cashing them out to keep them safe. You just have to keep your in game stuff secure. I'm not seeing a single change though. Am I missing it? I'm looking for $100-$300 (you pick) in Bi-Lo gift cards to be sent via mail. I'll pay on receipt of cards, but lock in at Gox current rate. I used some of my gold to get a week of PLUS, but I don't see any of the features? What's up? Need turned on somewhere? That is some irony. Dunno if I could get behind compulsory free market propaganda.  Cool, lots of crops rolling in now. I don't need the service, but I am impressed.  Uh, yeah, but it should show the total production less the amount being used up. Instead it shows a lower base number less the amount being used up. I now have 6 farms producing 5 each for a total of 30 and have a drain of 13 yet my net is only 4. Their donate bitcoins button is broken. They serve to raise the gold price, no? Seems like an exercise in futility. I just realized that my crop production is way lower than it should be. I have 5 level 1 farms and a level 0. That should be 27/hr, but I only get 14. edit: To be clear I only get 1/hr after I pay upkeep. It's not 27-14=13. It's 14-13=1. So is a block 100 pixels = 1BTC? or a block is a pixel and costs a bitcent? Wouldn't the merchant be more likely to know who much they spend on CC and related fees than you or we would? I thought that was strange too, but really is running a 1/hr deficit a problem if you have hundreds in reserve? New block chains are nearly free; anyone can have an unlimited number of them for almost nothing, what is valuable and scarce is a network that can withstand attacks. The rational play is for each individual to join the strongest network. Changing to 3 minutes or 36 coins/block is completely inconsequential and even if marginally better in some way does not make up for 1000x weaker network.Inclusive depth would be better. Go around and find every offer to deliver something in return for coins. You'll capture a lot of it by summing the markets, most of which is MtGox. Otoh there is a lot of 'unannounced' depth. Whaddya think about Zeitgeist?  Started working, no noticeable trigger. Seems like you ought want several from each person at various times and days of the week, no? You might also have more luck if you are flexible on the amount. I doubt many people want to bother with a $1 transfer. (Nearly) all or nothing imo. My bets are down.
Slightly different than before, but still no good. No link to actually upgrade the thing.  People actually implemented it and got actual money frozen. It's not that it's 100% impossible, it's that you'd have to charge a mark up so high people will be better off opening a dwolla or other account. In addition to this PayPal can and likely will require that you keep a % of sales in the account.  Surely not BS. In kalifornia I got a decent smartphone for $125, maybe $150, no contract required, I bought minutes and data from some second rate provider cheap, can stop anytime and keep the phone. There should be a $50 smartphone already imo, $80 is far from unbelievable.  Sometimes the option to upgrade something is completely missing. Was gone, back, gone again now.edit: Back again. Improving cropland (and everything else) tells me "Not enough food. Improve cropland." I don't actually have enough resources yet, so maybe it will let me when I do, we'll see. I wouldn't mislead outsiders as to what they are getting into. Just embrace what you (we) think is a better way and attract people that agree.What I think would be most fun would be allowing everything to be bought and sold for bitcoin credits on your account and not worrying if people give stuff away or trade for other currency out of the games system. I would expect a lot of people buying things with the expectation that they could use the things to make more stuff faster and resell for profit, essentially a skill game played for money, with a sort of built in freeroll for everyone.  I'd call it 101% of bitcoin cap. That could mean a lot of things. Trading coins for dollars seems lame, but why are dollars special? He's going to trade the coins for something, can't eat them afaik. Is it more impressive if he buys walmart giftcards instead? Better if he has someone buy food for him with their own dollars first then gives them coins?I think the best realistic statement would be "I'm only going to trade my labor and product for Bitcoins and I am going to save any excess value in Bitcoins." The details of whether you buy dollars yourself to get goods or have another person handle that is pretty inconsequential.  ohh, you just acquired this game? I assumed you'd had it and were just adding some kind of (bit)coin functionality. So you are planning on allowing all the 'one-way' transfers people want, most of them I assume would be sales for bitcoin? are you even going to add the "sell to so-and-so for X bitcoin" functionality explicitly into the interface? I don't think that's what he's planning, but even earning only coins would be pretty cool. Paying a few major life expenses in coins would be impressive imo, but it's kind of silly at this point to insist the power company takes coins directly or else it's a fail. wth @ this thread.Is stopping mining immoral? Is starting to mine somewhere else immoral? This is only an issue because amateurs get all in a tizzy about not getting paid during a disconnect.  Honestly, when you said T-shirts for 1BTC. I was like "ok, I'll take two", then I saw them and I"ll pass. I don't want a giant record with a joint sitting on it. Now if that was what I wanted your version seems quite good. If the government started mining from a block before the one containing his tx and that new chain keeps the lead and doesn't rerecord his tx the coins will not be there.  Giving it a try, looks pretty cool. Generally though I prefer games where rules are enforced by the logic of the code and I don't have to do a lot of work to ensure I'm not f'ing things up. It's like a chess program that lets you move the rook diagonally and uses a moderator to 'punish' you for it.For example:I have no idea if this will actually be a problem, it's just not a great rule setup imo. Is merged mining for real? Uh, what? If Pattaya is not a desirable place for people to meet then it just won't happen. If it is desirable then wtf do you have to do with what they want to do?Are you worried that you'll accidentally go and not like it? Right, when the value/price of Bitcoin goes up they have lots of reason to buy (they are richer,more bang for 1 coin, etc) when the value/price of Bitcoin goes down, maybe offer a small discount so that you still get sales, otherwise you will tend to accumulate coins at their high price more often than their low price. It would be awesome to make the scammer mark invisible to the scammer so they keep on longer than optimal with the same account. I dunno about that. How would everyone know when it isn't on their front page or news section? Would it make sense to have sales when the value of the coin falls? You'll get to pick up more at the cheaper rate than most shops will. Eventually the expectation of sales when the value drops will keep people from worrying about the drops as much too.
Okay sure.Insuring (promising to repay if the coins are lost) depends completely on the amount.But doing "Procedure X" on 1 coin costs the same as doing it on 10000. It doesn't penalize anyone, they just do something cheaper and less secure because it's only one coin. If you charge a percent for something that has a roughly fixed cost then someone else will come and offer it at a fixed cost and take all of your high amount high fee customers.It costs the same amount to move 10000BTC as 1BTC and everyone knows it. Buffet begins buying GPUsNetwork doublesBuffet can't double spendBuffet mines legitimately to cut losses?Profit? Nobody knows how tall of a fence we need. The taller it is the more people will feel comfortable and join in as merchants, customers, and savers.Nevertheless, I think letting the new chains have a subforum is fine. They will be canaries in the mine. We'll be able to see how double spends affect people who are actually trying to use a currency and how much power and in what exact ways attackers come. The equilibrium is one chain imo and there is nothing compelling enough to make it not be the oldest, longest and strongest chain. So you're saying 1% are interested?! Win. There is a buyer for every seller, er, more accurately the exact same number of coins are bought as are sold. Are you saying that sending change to a fresh address is useless because some people will publicly announce their address and reuse it? I think declarative statement form should be enforced. You can't agree or disagree with a question."Disagreed will win this bet" is devilish.edit: n/m I see now you can make the answers what you want. Lots of potential imo. Spent tx would need to not be pruned (by some miners), not a fundamental problem, maybe highers fees eventually to give miners incentive to keep an unpruned record. No doubt.Bigwintime.com is available! Charge the exact amount of the payments?Really though I don't get why and how you are paying people and doing the work of holding their coins. Maybe it makes sense, I just haven't investigated your model yet. It's only manual to get them back right? Sending into cold storage should be as automatic as a withdraw, right?There is a delay in getting the coins out right? So it's manual, but you can do it in batches, right? Not that much labor to do it 2 or 4 times a day. I mean what are you saying? The coins held by you and not in cold storage are vulnerable enough that people ought be willing to pay to make them safe?  Lol, did you stop taking new versions at the worst possible time? Looks very nice.Not so important for this, but for more serious stuff it isn't good to ask people to claim a payment/donation after it's sent as anyone could watch the chain via blockexplorer or similar and make a bogus claim. Not quite though. Suppose there is task X that is worth 100 units to you. Without Bitcoin it would cost you 200 units to accomplish, so you don't do it. With Bitcoin it only costs you 60 units so you do it and profit by 40 units, not 100 or 200. Bitcoin makes you 40 units better off and likely makes your partner better off by some amount as well. It's true, no problems. There are lots of reasons someone would prefer not to share their transaction history with the public. There are some violent folks out there with strange triggers. Bitcoin - Can't touch thisBitcoin - As solid as love Dirty coins ---> You? [yes you but no one knows] ----> You? [maybe, maybe not] -----> You? [could be, or no] ----> You ----> OthersOthers: Hey where did you get this coin.You: Um, dunnoOthers: Go checkYou: wtf, leave me aloneOthers: No really, go figure it outYou: Okay, it was one of those damn pyramids
Yeah, it seems like just a way to rewrite a small fraction of the possible firstbits.I guess you can't make the length of the name and suffix parts variable because then you can't convert both ways. So you have to pick the same length for everyone, meh. I swear I've seen this somewhere else before. I think he ripped it off. .001 is a millicoin (millie).000001 is a microcoin (mike).00000001 is a nugget 10^-8ten to the negative 8th powerten to the neg eightneg eightnegate"Gimme those negates"hmm, nuggets?"Eighteen nuggets for a beer? Outrageous"  No. Well, it's less susceptible to be written over from the beginning, but that doesn't matter. Any real attack will work off of a recent block so current power is all that matters.This is why clones are silly. Unless something way better comes out (and then we'd all rationally port to it) it makes sense (from an individual and group point of view) for everyone to join the strongest network. http://www.godaddy.com/gift/gift-cards.aspxI'll pay 7BTC for a $70 card. Offer good for a few hours. PM me to commit and get email.You send first, payment when I get the card. Need a little rep, no brand newbies please, sorry. Yes, every 210000 blocks the reward halves (rounding down when needed) until it is literally nothing in 140 years. Imo it is the only way for this tank not to leak value and thus be a worthy place to store value at all. It is technically okay to have unconfirmed inputs, old versions allowed this from the GUI. The newer ones don't. I can't remember the exact justification. If you want to get credit you get a new address generated just for you by PMing theymos. I agree, the fix/workaround for dealing with a Malicious Power would just get worse and worse if they kept the power. And if they ever got it I do think legit mining power would drop as you say.Obviously a price increase adds strength, but it isn't the only way. Profit motivated individuals will innovate and find more and more efficient ways to get the reward getting us more bang for the buck. Some innovations will be copy-able by Malicious Powers, but some will not, like masses of people in cold climates getting nearly free mining electricity because they would pay for the heat anyway and people putting "owned for other reasons" hardware to work mining when idle. That just means there is some extra (probably growing) multiple of cost for the attacker compared to the costs of honest miners. We decided to strip case sensitivity because it is much easier to say your firstbits if you don't have to say "one, capital t, lowercase r, seven, capital f, capital z" but only, "one, t, seven, f, z".We keep the "1" for the same reason complete addresses have the "1". It lets you know what the string is. Also if people started using firstbits for namecoin or some other chain it could get confusing. It seems to me that time would be better spent making it newsworthy than pestering reporters for attention. Get something interesting going on, get a list of people to notify, notify them.  Lol, yeah, things that no one wants to keep are super valuable. Lol, I just mean that online it's easy enough to copy paste a full address. IRL you lose that ability, but firstbits comes to the rescue. It's true, but I got it done anyway. Cents sent.I'd love to hear about anyone using firstbits in the 'real' world. Plan:Get $110,000Send to MtGoxPlace huge buy orderPray it doesn't get boughtProfit? Yes! This is great news. I'll finally be able to get them all.So you expect that people will bring them to the exchange of my preference and sell them to me for exactly $0.00? Or should I budget a few bucks to get my millions? Please inform. Add the Bitcoin "B"? Dunno how that would look. Are colored names, for moderators and donors, a possibility? Not just in the "who's online", but on the side too? Easy to run in Ubuntu? If so mark me down.Oh, I have graphics issues. Eff it, too cheap to pass. PM coming. I'll give you a coin if you take a video of lighting some things on fire from >10 feet away. It does that, right?Eight months for you to get it?!?! was it carried by a team of ants?Why did you want it and now don't?
So 10 gets green now? So the insurance will be really cheap? The board doesn't give the redline, it is from your browser (is it?). Right click, add to dictionary. The network absolutely is doing computation. If it stops computing what it's computing of course it could compute something else. It can't compute some other thing at the same time. I bought hosting, domain name, developer (a good one), and graphic designer for my site, firstbits.com, all with bitcoin. Guerilla logic. I love Satoshi. I love Bansky. Therefore Bansky equals Satoshi. Owe you some coin.Post or PM address. So far we're not making any profit!   So we can perform and then sell tokens for bitcoins? It is for a poker site, sealswithclubs.org. I'm looking for a seal (the animal) showing it's belly. On the belly is a tattoo of three clubs (like a caveman's club) arranged to look like a club (playing card symbol). The seal is wearing sunglasses. The seal is grey.I'm looking for good work and probably a few drafts. If you can do it let me know and offer a price. Haven't got the new data yet, but clearing out the old let it run, so I think I'm fixed. Thanks trying now. It says:Exception: NSt8ios_base7failureECAutoFile::read : end of fileC:\Program Files (x86)\Bitcoin\bitcoin.exe in AppInit()Then when I press OK I get the same thing again and then it tells me that runtime has terminated the program in an unusual way.I'm guessing something important on my machine is corrupt?Bounty added.  This is not the owner of mybitcoin. Lol, I'm glad this isn't how people interpreted the second website. OMG, the internet is breaking into pieces! Um, what is saving normally? I didn't realize that. That at least makes it interesting and it makes sense that some would want it at that price. I'm positive teppy would not let his game mine on your machine without telling you. Something must be wrong, it should not be using that much thinking juice. It just occurred to me that you could ensure different coins by giving up the time promise. Essentially one would run a 1x 'pyramid'. You could let people choose a "give up" time too where they just get their own coins back.
Your dollar price is bad too. It is easy to price in bitcoin, silly reason imo. Maybe you can negotiate a lower price from supplier. Good luck. Yes. Do you still torture kittens for fun (like Satan)? If you actually know this is going on it is free money for you, how is that annoying? That doesn't seem right. Were almost all of your pots all in? I'll investigate and see if it's taking rake correctly. It should be 0 up to 40 in the pot, 1 up to 80, 2 up to 120, etc. Inflammable doesn't mean non-combustable.  I'm sitting now. Yeah, it's getting ridiculous. Should I start a thread in Bitcoin Discussion about how people should only get to start one thread and then get approved to start more based on it's quality? NO, I should put it in Meta ffs. Private people borrow so much because it's so damn cheap, just like if blueberries were 90% subsidized we'd have a hell of a lot more blueberry juice. People calling themselves governments borrow so much because they aren't going to pay you back with actual value.OP mentions people will lend with no interest in Bitcoin because they will be getting more valuable coins back. Wrong. Holding the coins yourself is much less risk then letting someone else use them and maybe pay back, the lending that does happen will be at interest. That sucks. The cops are not going to help you. Ruxum is awesome and even in private beta they already have .1% of exchange volume. Just gotta wait and see what deposit and withdraw options they'll add. I don't get how this is about Bitcoin at all. One company that doesn't even use Bitcoins made a promise, now we wait and see if they keep it. It seems obvious that Dwolla would get scammed from time to time, their promise of not passing on the chargeback is what made them valuable.I don't see why TH waited two weeks. Not because they have some obligation to tell us that they might be getting ripped off by Dwolla, but because I would stop accepting Dwolla the first time it happened if I didn't get a response from Dwolla. How can you go on bleeding money like that? I don't see how you can reliably stop it from happening, I'm under the impression that normal confirmed transactions are just being pulled back. How can you tell which to believe now? It would be cool to modify the client to use 1 new change address when the amount sent is roughly half of what was in an address, 2 new addresses when it's roughly a third, etc. The change amounts should be random but roughly equal. This would make it really hard to guess any better than chance. Also putting a way to SendMany in the main client would let people obfuscate even more by making designer transactions. Is this really going to be a problem? It seems obvious that Dwolla will end up eating this and not let it happen in the future. Otherwise Dwolla is pretty much done altogether. If Dwolla is done that will suck for a while.  The transaction might include some coins that were spent and some that were not making it difficult to get to the unspent ones. Plus accidentally sending bad coins is pretty annoying to sender and receiver. Maybe I put this in the wrong place. Move to dev and tech discusion? I almost spent some coins during a rescan without thinking. This obviously can cause problems, right? I had a spend that wasn't refound yet and it probably would have used some of the coins that were already spent. Should there be a warning now that rescan is automatic? Thanks, will look into it. Anyone want to meet on the Las Vegas strip?  Yeah, my point was that what people want to save is what has value, what they want to get rid of does not. The ultimate equilibrium will depend on the value of productive uses of dirty paper that has already been printed on. What happens when everyone wants to get rid of dollars and get and keep bitcoins?  Say to him "Geez, I guess if it were 100% guaranteed to rise in value it couldn't work." Maybe he'll get it. In case you don't, it's a completely self exploding argument. If the increase in value is what makes it fail then it won't increase in value therefore that can't be the reason for the failure.Anyway it should be obvious that people will still want stuff instead of saving it all until they are past dead no matter how good of a deal they are getting for saving. If I multiply your savings by 100 every day how much would you spend this week, month, year? Probably 0 right? I don't think so, you are going to buy more than ever in your life. If you keep spending even when you get near infinite annual return I don't think whatever amount Bitcoin appreciates is going to bring people's spending to a halt. 
It can't differentiate change. Really there is no such thing as "change" you are just making a payment from 1 address to 2 addresses 1 of which you happen to control, maybe. Or maybe you used SendMany and paid two employees at once. No, every time I make a .04 donation to bitcoinporn.tumblr it reads 200 coins moving because I'm that rich and that's my change.Bitcoin watch should take that stat down because it doesn't mean anything other than "Maybe there was more movement today or maybe someone with a 10k address made 200 payments"Also 6.8m is not 10% it's about all of them. I can vouch for the integrity of the operators. And having played an hour or two the software seems good and stable. We will post the code soon.I don't plan to change the algorithm called firstbits at all even though there are no other implementations that I know of. It's a neat idea (decentralized transferable aliases), but I like the purity and intuitiveness of firstbits. It would be strange to call something "firstbits" if 1mike7 returned 1jkaF92... I think you should work on your idea, but maybe find another way to encode aliases in the chain. It seems like it would be ideal to be able to pick any conforming alias and associate it with your address via some transaction. Then the rule would be the first to make a valid claiming tx gets the requested alias.A (probably bad) example would be send 11 satoshis to an address then send any amount within 100 blocks and that amount is your alias. You could convert the number to whatever base is all lowercase or lowercase and numbers or whatever. If anyone ever tried to make the same claim it would just be ignored, only the first would count.To be clear, I am in favor of other people making other systems, just not calling them firstbits. Anything calling itself firstbits should use our exact algorithm and opening the code will help people do that. "Mercenary miners" are totally fine imo. They are selling us coins and security. Really there isn't anyone anywhere selling something better  There is no reason at all that the people with hardware and tech skills need or should be the same ones who provide the value to coins by desiring and holding them in the face of high offers. Interesting ideas hannesnaude. I worry about some people implementing the change and some people using the 'pure' system. Calling it something else would help avoid confusion. It's also possible to make a system use something other than the beginning of an address. The end of address is obvious, but other things would work. A (probably bad) example would be to use the block number plus number of the transaction (listed by id, or alphabetically?) so Satoshi's addresses in the gen block that has a firstbits of "1" would have a BlockRankNumber of 1-1 and the second address in the most recent block would be 137009-2. This would probably lead to people packing blocks with even numbers 140000-1 might be a coveted spot, lol. Sorry, this is off your point, just wanted to say that there is room for a lot of different shortening methods. Flavors of firstbits are fine, but confusion would be really bad for the original and for spin offs. At any given time there is a set of people with a desire to buy at certain prices. A seller generally tries to find the highest price and satisfies it with a sale, now that is desired and the highest desired price is a little lower. Make sense? It's pretty easy to see inside of one market, but the forces exist beyond any one meeting place of buyers and sellers. I'd be interested in seeing the results of a [Bitcoin] / [liquid gov money] poll. Mine is >1. Would you actually invest resources in Bitcoin after that kind of precedent? Any system where that is possible is not going to hold any value.The "paper rich" issue isn't any different for "late adopters" either. In aggregate they cannot all cash out to the some other currency at the current rate either. All exchange rates are a reflection of marginal value comparisons.The people who are hurt by not being able to sell lots of coins at the same price as a few coins are the people who have a lot so the incentives are right for individuals acting in their own self interest to distribute coins more evenly over time.   We don't all need to switch at once. Sites just need to be clear. I already play poker for bitcents and it's no problem. It any place where it could cause confusion, like the withdraw section it lists the amount in BTC too. A dragon's tale has been displaying bit mills for over 6 months.Saying normal people will never understand and use fractions is .98 BS. A cent is a fraction of a dollar and people use those just fine. People follow recipes that need 1/8 cup of sugar just fine. Some people (not even that many) break down at the word "fraction", but they use them nonetheless. No one is entitled to space on bitcoinwatch or any other page. I don't want to see 8 or 10 or 20 digit orders and I appreciate bitcoincharts shielding my innocent eyes from the obscenity. P.S. if anyone is interested I'm buying coins. 800BTC for .04 cents. Please relay this offer on any relevant websites. Bitcoins in a wallet sent directly are cash. If you don't trust someone to hold a suitcase full of cash don't give them an equivalent amount of your coins to control. If you need them to simply initiate reversible transactions use a system that can do that on top of your cash. It won't be hard at all for major business deals to get okayed by 6 or 20 people if necessary. A normal sized business will probably pick some amount of operating cash to allow each agent to use directly and another amount for which any transfers will be incomplete without the owner/manager signing off on at the end of the day or whenever. Also "smooth out" is not the same as "hold exactly still". Things in the real world change and prices reflect that. The better and more quickly they reflect that the better plans we can all make.In terms of Bitcoin price, if Bitcoin is ultimately going to be the main money in the world then signaling this as quickly as possible lets people rationally start building the infrastructure that will be needed. If it is going to fail and be worthless knowing that in advance would save lots of effort and resources. Whoever can tell us the truth (or be most accurate) will get paid, people who mislead with wrong predictions pay that bill in money lost from trading. New dollars coming in dilute the value. This is why Bitcoin is capped at a known amount and no one has a special place, unlike the dollar and it's lords. I don't know exactly, but he hasn't resorted to starting threads in Bitcoin Discussion about other posters like you. I was actually just intending the little one to be near where they ask for bitcoin donations. The big one might be good if there was a whole page devoted to bitcoin or an article or something. By all means redesign and remix. And I still can't find contact info, am I blind? I don't get it. If people agree to pay a certain way then paying a different unacceptable way doesn't count. They can negotiate to get the PP back and I wouldn't play hardball, but why would you accept it as the agreed payment when it is not? I said "if and only if". If you gotta nit, nit better. That's right. The answer is to use the current power method instead of the persistent shares. The very first pool did this, but that didn't win out for psychological reasons. People hate not getting paid because they disconnected for a minute, but it doesn't really matter since it evens out so fast. Serious profit maximizing miners will move to current power pools as soon as this effect starts to show. My best math teacher said that if you ever wrote "obviously..." or "clearly..." you could just as easily write the supporting statement. Do that. Your argument will have this form: A thing is a currency if and only if it satisfies these requirements.... Bitcoin does not satisfy this particular requirement... therefore it is not a currency.
Setting up early only matters for an exact tie. Makes much more sense to undercut by .00001 than to make sure to get your order in days early. Businesses depend on loans because they are artificially so cheap right now. It would be like if there was an enormous subsidy for blankets for a decade. Everyone would find all kinds of ways to blankets because they were practically free. Ending the subsidy and making people pay whatever the right cost is for blankets is clearly the right thing to do even if it shakes up business practices for a while.There is nothing wrong and plenty of things right with people needing to earn before they spend. The flip side of expensive borrowing is that you get very high interest in real terms for working and saving a while before you spend. Instead of grinding away at a job for decades and having your savings devalued you work harder and spend less up front and in a year you have plenty of capital to get started.It should also be noted that the bitcoin economy is not in a steady state. Right now the best play by far is to convert old economy assets to bitcoin. Later when most are in the bitcoin economy this explosion will be over and the new profit will be picking things that appreciate faster than the general economy which means committing some coins to stuff. The coins should be there when you load in the backup and rescan. Doesn't really matter how old. Congress doesn't do fast trillion dollar bailouts? Since when?Deflationary bank runs are for real money. You can say that what is coming won't be technically a bank run, I guess I would agree, but it sure as hell won't be deflationary. Because of the FDIC the next bank run will be different. It won't be a mad dash to get dollars, we can get those for sure. It'll be a dash to get value for our dollars. There is and can be no guarantee on that. I suspect people who have no more room for cans of beans and toilet paper will try to get some of their wealth through the crisis in gold and bitcoin. That's not the first question. Bitcoin is a money, you can get it from anyone who has it by doing anything they value. One extra way to get coins is mining which secures the network. Miner get paid new coins. Do not mine with a CPU it is just a waste now because GPUs are so much more efficient. If you aren't interested in computer hardware then don't bother mining, I don't. You don't need to worry about mining if you don't want to. It's how we buy security for our network. The miners process transactions and get paid new coins. The devaluation itself wouldn't pay the debt, the trilllions of dollars will still need to be handed over.It isn't like this is free either. Defaulting like this costs the powers their money faucet. Hyperinflation may happen, but it won't be because they prefer it. Is a receipt enough? Won't you also need to show that you never withdrew the coins in order to prove you were actually stolen from? You say he lost them, but surely it's not final. How long has he been trying to contact Tom? Something is going on, but I don't think he's stealing random accounts or that this will never be resolved.I was able to access my account and withdraw funds tonight. I guess 5 people are confused or never intend to sell. Another cool effect is that you'll actually be able to get faster service with a higher fee even once the fee you were going to pay guarantees inclusion. If you pay .001 you'll get in for sure, but if you pay .1 maybe you'll make the difference for 10000 miners and decrease your expected wait by 30 seconds. There probably will be some roughly known point at which all available hashing power is on and extra won't help or at least give greatly diminishing returns. So watching the basket of fees will be part of excellent fee strategy. How about in 140 years? Do you think people will mine if they get 0BTC for finding a block? Or maybe they'll wait until there is a fee offered causing the effect the Atheros is talking about. Um, it is not perfectly stable and anyone reasonable looks both short and long term. Are you missing the point of the original post? Is 10k supposed to be a lot? One market does many times this every day. If someone wants to get less money by selling in 1 minute instead of 4 hours all the better for buyers. Also people who are prone to selling 10k coins at a time likely would have sold them at $1, $2, $4, $8, $15, or $30. Since they declined to sell a single one of their remaining coins you can probably chill out.So how does this work, am I supposed to wait a while after my pump posts to sell or do I do it right away?  Should be clients only. Afaik you can't tell if a client is mining and you could mine on 10000 machines and only appear as one node. I think it says somewhere that this is fine. Look around the site. Merchants aren't going to jump right in on first hearing, but they (some at least) do listen to what customers are asking for. I would be careful not to push anything even 1 second beyond what people want to hear. Just say "Have you thought about accepting Bitcoins?". If they are interested they will ask more, if not it'll just sit in their minds for next time someone asks or they hear it on NPR.  This is great. I got chills back when I first realized. I think we'll start to notice it to a small degree in 10 years when 6.25 is the base reward. The free electricity people won't stop, but a good number of people will and we'll be able to see it in slightly more even times between blocks.Actually, it probably depends on what it does to hardware to change the load on it constantly. If that's bad for hardware then we probably won't notice it for longer.Secondary uses for hashing power will influence things too. Even if you have free electricity you might switch between bitcoin and namecoin based on the accumulated fees waiting on each. It's the same as Bitcoin in that sense. You don't have to have the chain to use Bitcoin or FirstBits, but you can, and that's what will keep the data providers honest.
You mean if there is a mistake? The coins would be gone. Can you think of ways to improve? It's not a complicated thing, maybe something open source could be written that would use your own copy of the chain? If it ends up that you need to trust a party for look ups it is still better than other shorteners because anyone who can follow the simple rule can join and add redundancy. Obviously you can't just go trusting any one though. Hopefully some people with related business who already have trust will make conversions.  I think the convenience of being able to remember and say enough info to rebuild an address is too much to just pass up.I know there are risks. Can you help clarify them?  10It's my one year anniversary, that's why. Deal!I'll take the oz of gold if that wasn't clear. Yes It might take 6 confirms plus a few minutes. Let me know if it takes longer. Trading can be closed for you on the weekend. Just don't trade. The software is not configured to pay a % fee. The various versions have diferent minimum fees, some none, some .01, the most recent I believe has .0005. That is less than 1 cent. Pretty competitive imo. Some tx will even be able to avoid the min. Large tx and old coins do not look like spam so the network will forward them even with no fee. It works now. We've improved our method of writing from the chain to our database so this can't happen anymore. From now on you should be able to get your firstbits once your address has been in the chain for 6 blocks. Mybitcoin is legit. The Madhatter runs bitcoin2cc and I used to think he was good, but after buying from his site bitcoinsextoys.com and getting the free shipping (only shipping) which turns out to be 4-8 weeks (surprise) and not getting my package after 8 weeks I can't recommend doing business with him. In fairness I haven't used bitcoin2cc. Does uncleared usually mean that you cannot spend the money? Because you can technically spend 0/unc, but not in the GUI and you can spend 1/unc. Maybe it should just say 0 confirmations, 1 confirmation ... 6 confirmed, 7 confirmed.... As it is it seems like there is something magical about 6 when there is not. Redeemable codes are fine. It's the irredeemable ones you should worry about. Some people think so.   Oh, well, I'm sure someone will do the real version eventually.   Maybe it's easy to store gold for .2%/yr until the gov charges you 2% inventory fees or extra blah blah tax, now you have to fight the government head on when they know where your gold is or break your promise. We've done promises, screw that. It's a good idea in the sense that I want to watch the videos, but bad in that some idiot is going to damage themselves and there are going to be 6924 articles about how Bitcoin will make you cut off your bits. The vast majority and likely all that have been looked up are fine. If you happened to have an address that was very similar to one that was left out and your address was newer than the one left out then it could have given you a wrong firstbits.I would be surprised if even one was given out incorrectly, but I recommend everyone recheck because it's not something you want to have wrong. What I really don't like is having to remember the goddamn zipcode of the house I rented the last time I changed my debit card bank info in order to buy a pair of fucking socks.I want to: Pay, give the address I want the thing (if it's a thing) shipped to. If I ever get into mining I'll queue up all my non essential transactions and give them all .1337 and .666 and 3.14159265 fees.
You could mine a block yourself.   The site is fixed and back up. Cents sent. I am responsible for FirstBits.com, sorry I didn't know about this thread until now. Firstbits addresses are just an idea. The site is a sample implementation of the rule. The details of the rule can be found at firstbits.com/about.phpThere are already plenty of good Bitcoin address shorteners if you want to trust someone to maintain their database and server. What I am hoping to provide is a way to have shorter addresses without a central point of failure. Right now we are the first and only place to do firstbits look ups, but I hope that won't be true for long. We are going to release the code really soon so it will be a snap to see that we do look ups correctly and even to make your own copy of the site. Hopefully this alleviates any worry that we would maliciously give out incorrect conversions. Unfortunately we recently discovered that our database (essentially a list of addresses and the block number in which they first appear) was missing part of several blocks. We took the site down to recheck the whole database and add some checks so that it can't happen again.Given the number of missing addresses and the number of look ups we've done it's unlikely that even one address was given wrong firstbits. If wrong firstbits were given that would still not have resulted in a problem because we would have made the same mistake converting back. Now there is a warning to recheck your firstbits. We're very sorry for the inconvenience and any worry.   Good post. I was an online player and will be again eventually. Well, I guess I already am, I play some at betco.The exchanges make great choke points right now because there is so much wealth to be converted. But eventually people will just live 'inside' bitcoin earning and spending without needing to convert. People who must convert will find a dealer much more easily than they can find weed. Right now there are only $100M worth of bitcoins spread around the world which means there can't be many deep reserves in each city, but when it is $100B there will be plenty of local liquidity. And I don't just mean geographically local. Everyone will have a cousin or brother in law who needs to or can go the opposite way.This is a way better situation than PS or FT where there is one place where your cash is. Hit that point, done. With Bitcoin they get some inconsequential amount of flow and then they have to deal with a more dispersed trading situation. I'm going to be in Vegas from July 13-20, maybe longer. I'd like to meet some bitcoiners.  I'd like to get this to whom it may concern at wikileaks. Anyone know how? Is he referring to himself as "my client"?  That's where the black hole comes in. He'll use it to streeeeeetch out the first page. Just to play devil's advocate. If everyone playing the lottery was doing it in pools then we wouldn't know the future of lotteries after lottery pools fell. Maybe people would switch to going alone, maybe they would quit.Regardless, 'pools' the idea aren't going anywhere. Some particular pools might, but that's as relevant as a few office lottery pools being canceled.  +1 more to the OPCome on. Is that granny's requirement for using paper money? Proof that no one is making more by magic? Granny doesn't have your suggested paranoid fantasy she'll use what you tell her is safe. The people who care if Bitcoin can be counterfeited are the people who know who to find out if that's actually possible everyone else always uses their trusted advisers. How could I think that after what I said? You quoted it. I don't think affiliate programs are bad. I think hiring every person on the net to be your affiliate makes you look bad because the most visible affiliates will always be the most obnoxious. Bah, that's another thing. Lower fees if you pick a spammer to pay? I do think campbx is better than TH, but using the same terrible promotion method makes them appear at a glance to be the same.If you want a bunch of affiliates, fine. But everyone? Maybe some draw the line somewhere before random spammers who uses leaked email lists?Anyway, is this pointless to continue, they've already decided to do it. Doesn't anyone else think this is trashy? Now we can have campbx spam everywhere we get TH spam, awesome.You know what I associate TH with? Emails in my box from the MtGox leak.I'm not saying all affiliate programs are bad, but automatically making everyone one of your 'affiliates' is reckless. It's no good to affiliate with everyone. Most people aren't competent to give you a good image, let alone the worst people. "Google" isn't working on it, but a Google employee is working on it during paid time they have for independent projects. So it's not just code hosting. I was just going to report this fail. The last thing you want people to see would be that you are gaming the system... to get them to see your thread about gaming the system. It's like a self referential fail. I'm not saying it's wrong to influence something like this, but it's counterproductive when it is obvious. Maybe you should try a search term that returns good pages and already has a base of searchers - "Bitcoin". How easy is it to look at what you are mining? Won't people see that they are working on a different block number than the current one? And shouldn't some people notice that they found blocks that don't show? I agree the consequences are not dire and I'm not saying it's wrong or dangerous to use deepbit. I'm just saying as a non miner they all seem roughly the same, but since one has so much market share it must really be good in some way.I was going to rebut the "takes a long time" point, but I just realized the 50% is a bit less magical than I thought. Sometimes it'll be quick (coming back from 2 confirms), but those are roughly the same times it would have been possible to double spend with 49% anyway.  Lol, I'm going to get a bunch of addresses tattooed all over and tell everyone I meet that it's practically necessary for using bitcoin and they should do it too. Saying there is no difference between 49% and 51% is somewhat misleading. At 49% you might get lucky and have a double spend accepted sometimes, but at 51% you will absolutely always be able to get a transaction rewritten. Regardless, even if 50% wasn't specially, which I think it is. When do you think is the right time to talk about about this? When one kid turns on a CPU since he could get lucky enough? Or when I have 90%?I don't mine, but deepbit must be freaking awesome for fully half of the network power to not care about the chance that feds show up with weapons to deepbit's house. This wouldn't permanently damage damage Bitcoin, but it would be annoying and it would damage reputation.
The thing to know about this is that if it was foolproof any simpleton could apply it make vast wealth. Maybe there is some way to profit on average by reading charts, but if people were able and willing to write that way down for you the opportunity would already be gone. Volume is the total size of trades that have occurred over some period, usually 24hr with bitcoin stuff. Depth refers to the total size of outstanding buy and sell orders.Why are you buying and selling? You need to figure out what your edge is, there isn't just free money available to everyone who trades.   They are uncommon, but more common here than most palaces.  Start 30 second games?But really this is why sites have a normal time and a time bank. Sometimes you need extra time, but that's no reason to give every time. You can move all in for less.  How does it normally work when valuable domains expire? Is there a known second when they become available and the person with the best internet connection and a lightning script gets the name? Remember that decentralized currency.. what was it called? Yeah, I remember, people stopped using it because the government told them they couldn't write it's name down. Yeah, do that.Let us know how it goes. If you are asking me, I generally am referring to the original post if I don't quote a different post. It looks like I agree with your point. In order to spend the coins that have been sent to one of your addresses you need the corresponding private key. An online wallet holds them for you or you can hold them yourself. The risk is that if you lose them you cannot access the coins. If someone else gets the file (wallet.dat) where those keys are stored then they can spend them and you won't be able to. Putting that file on a thumb drive is safer if there is a chance that your computer could be compromised. Encrypting wallet.dat is a good idea too, then you can back it up in more places without worrying about it getting taken, provided you use a really truly strong password. The more I think, this is really counterproductive advice. We don't want a bunch of shitty merchants because everyone knows people are dying to get rid of their coins. We want solid products offered by professional merchants. We want stuff so good we'll happily part with some of the best money ever created. I don't tweet, but it's a good idea. If you want to pull a third runner up I'll give a bitdime. The reason the rich are the tightfisted is that anyone with a loose grip doesn't have much left after a while.If early adopters were splashing coins around like crazy it would be easy to get them and they would be worth much less. I do see that warning sometimes, it is helpful. I did just have missing cards right after I got that warning. I don't know if they would have appeared just by waiting. When I reloaded they hesitated a second, displayed top before bottom. So maybe they would have displayed if I just waited. I guess you know me. <shrug>When are you going to stop sodomizing kittens? I'm a little insulted that you would suggest that I'd be willing to misrepresent something I was selling. A broken bitcoin won't send. If you need help there are people willing in Technical Discussion.  Sorry to continue the derail, but:Every Bitcoin is always hoarded by someone.The less prejudicial way to say that is that every coin is always saved. My offer to sell will hurt the person who wants to accept it? Is this different to you then if I offer to sell grapes? I have a lot of coins. Do you think I'm taking value from someone?
It does once you have all of your essentials met and still have some savings left over. What are you going to do with them otherwise? Look at them?Supposing Bitcoin does become the main world money what it 'needs' is people to acknowledge that as quickly as possible. That is what will get us where we are headed with the least wasted time. So, if you are right about Bitcoin becoming dominant the biggest reward now is for converting your savings to Bitcoin.Once you have that vantage point it might be easier to understand why people will buy luxuries with coins - it's the only way for them to get luxuries because they only have bitcoins left. And if they were right they'l have lots to spend.Once we are in 'Bitcoin world' the deflation will match the increase in the rate of production and you will only get paid for waiting to consume to the extent that there is more to go around in the future. I absolutely agree. With a 'normal' rate of increase in stuff produced the money printing class can siphon off a lot of wealth. If the rate falters and the printers don't slow down then it is revealed in the death of the currency.I think what is happening now is not that our productivity or rate of production is slowing down, but that we are producing a higher ratio of things they can't get. I am vastly richer than people in my relative position were in the recent past generations, but you can't squeeze nearly as much out of me because more of my wealth is leisure time and free information and access to you guys 24/7.  In a lot of situations spending now instead of latter is stupid and inflation incentives that stupidity. People ought be taking resources for themselves at the latest convenient time, not asap and inefficiently holding. If there is a fixed monetary base and deflation that is a signal that there will be more stuff in the future. If there will be more stuff in the future and you can wait you ought be rewarded for not preventing others from using what is available now. Mattress stuffers are savers; you have to double them too. That's why "decimal moving" or renaming is totally fine. It magically covers everyone no matter where their coins are.  I have a feeling it's all connection caused. That's no reason not to improve it though. Connections will always hiccup to some extent and in order for people to play for serious money the software needs to be able to handle that. The rebuy button disappears when I fold, every time. That is usually when I want to rebuy.Consider the 5 a donation  So you will report some transactions to third parties without the user's permission? Central bank printing would do exactly zero if every time they doubled the monetary base they also doubled everyone's savings. Think about it. I don't care (not that it matters what I think) if you want to promote your blog, but to pretend it's a thank-you gift is weird. No problem, no offense taken. Damn, I hope that doesn't become standard. Thanking people with a (broken) link to your blog and a request for donations?   I should have realized right away to take the site down. There are at least two addresses 1samr7 and it's change that will "reappear" before current blocks at some point in the future. This means that any new similar address could be told it's wrong firstbits address by firstbits.com until this is fixed. You should not need to send from an address for it to get in. This is an error on our side, probably having to do with that missing public key since it's never happened before. But the public key should not be necessary.  It's encrypted, you can put in anywhere and you can trust any intermediary or any number of them, you don't need to log on to your email to do this. Most of the places I go let me pay after I eat. In the real world almost no one will look you in the eyes, eat your food and pretend to pay you.It might not be fundamentally hard to double spend with 0 confirms, but it's pretty hard to do it without the merchant hearing about your second spend right away. Since this money sucks I guess you'll have a lot of armed guards making sure no one ever refuses it and merchants will get constantly screwed taking money in the evening on the day of expiry. Sounds like the perfect tool for making society more violent and hateful, look for the US to roll it out in 6-12 months. I just had a conversation in which the most brilliant economist to ever walk the earth explained why the value of bitcoin was going up 100x this year. Unfortunately, I can't remember any of his reasons or even his name. Should I start a thread about it? Something strange is going on. I'll investigate.edit: The only addresses in the chain I've found that firstbits.com can't find are 1samr7 and the change address from that same transaction, other addresses from the same block work, including the generate address. I can't see anything unusual that could have triggered a bug. OP is sarcastic. Are there people who prefer a coin over $15, but then days (or minutes?) later prefer $10 over a coin? "moving the decimal" in that way is fraud. What people can get cheaply is bitcents or bitmills. 
I'll keep an eye on it. Schoolsucksproject.com is relevant to this discussion. Very good podcast imo. That sounds awful (and way better than the US). So if you want to buy more education you can't buy it from the people you get most of your education from? Or you aren't allowed to buy extra from anyone? Either way sucks. I'll still pay if you stick it on the side. Try searching for the address at blockexplorer.com. All I can guess is that you grabbed a different one than you though. The address listed at the top of the Bitcoin client changes on it's own so if you grabbed that one and payed to it you might not have noticed that it changed on you.I just checked and the generate address from the most recent block is showing it's firstbits, so our database updater is not broken. Are you saying that someone could lie? This is big news. Can anyone lie or just certain people? Should we trust everyone without thinking? Please tell us more. You think it's right to say that people care about things even if they refuse to work to fix or save them? I'm not saying that people never lie. You will certainly meet people who claim to care about something, but if they only devote other people's resources to it they are just using the issue as cover.There is no 'case' I can make. The way I tell what people care about is by watching what they do so I'm just always right on this. What is your way of telling what people care about? Listening to what they say? Nice. How about a set of "Bitcoin Blocks" they could have the actual block number and transactions inscribed on them. In fact you could make only 1 of each block so every one would be unique and the chain would get "distributed" all over the world. Obviously the blocks should link together, but only with the next block in line. So if I take out the checkpoints that means it's suddenly decentralized.  I can't believe the weird shit people fixate on when they hear about bitcoin. A hash function takes any arbitrary chuck of data and returns a fixed size chunk. It's a one way function, you can't get the original data from the output. For bitcoin mining you hash transaction data + the hash of the previous block + a nonce. You hash over and over iterating the nonce each time until the output is lower than the current target. It is easy for others to verify and then they add your valid block to their chain.IRC is just used for hearing about other nodes, it isn't vital it's convenient.  Caught up to this point. No promises from here, but I'll try to check in and keep going for a while.I would be very interested to hear about anyone using it in the real world. So far I've mostly used it for sending between machines in my house in stead of emailing myself. I did use it in one in-person trade. I had the guy read me some of the address form his wallet and then I showed him what came up and he verified it was the right one. It was a little awkward because I had to ask for a used one though.I imagine a good use would be integration at point of sale. A little screen displays a QR code and the text address. If you are using a web wallet w/ firstbits integrated you don't have to take a picture you just start typing until the full address shows up and you pay.I should clarify, you'll either have to see a bunch of wrong addresses popping up as you type (suboptimal imo) or type one char more than the firstbits to indicate that you are done. In the POS scenario I just mentioned the retailer doesn't even know about firstbits except to make sure that they post an address that is in the chain. But they don't need to look up their firstbits or mark it in a special way. If people care about it, which they clearly do, they will voluntarily devote their own resources to solving the problem, maybe even try to convince others to join in. Whenever someone schemes about how to get my stuff in order to solve a problem they see I know they don't care much about it. When someone really cares about something they devote their own resources. It's easy to spend other people's money on garbage plans. Maybe your government doesn't like the dollar, but if the people in your country actually didn't trust it then your government wouldn't have to make a law against it. People would just refuse to accept it for payment.This is an important distinction because it could happen with bitcoin. When an old fat politician writes down that we shouldn't use bitcoin anymore it will mark the point where lots and lots of people trust bitcoin more than the dollar, not the opposite. And I use mullvad when I do. I can't even tell you the other things I buy. Then I bought some design work. Then I hired a programmer.  And the time I bought a domain name, firstbits.com. Then there was that time I bought buttons. This other time I bought coffee.
One time I mined a block and bough a piece of gold. Of course not. So gold can facilitate electron flow, if that counts as intrinsic value then something that can facilitate trade flow counts too, unless electrons are somehow more valuable than trade. Agree, the bar might be a little higher to get started, but instead of getting great content for free you get to be free, so that kind of compensates. Bitcoins: Too valuable to accept anything else as payment.Seriously, it's merchants who decide what to accept as payment. I'd buy steaks with my dirty socks if I could. Sure there is a pressure, but it moves everyone to a point where a bit of extra coin is worth as much as a bit of extra dollar to them. If you are in a position where $15 is worth less to you than a coin, buy a coin. Then if $15 is still worth less to you than a coin, buy a coin. Keep going until you have so few dollars that dollars are just as precious to you as coins. Now you are ambivalent between spending dollars or coins. If you greatly prefer spending dollars to coins you are making a big mistake in your allocations. x7 I've been thinking about a "comes with Bitcoin" model. People who already sell something could either toss in a trivial amount of coin or have a premium version that comes with a good chuck. Examples:An etsy store that sells a stuffed Bitcoin Bug and comes with a bit dime.A cam girl who sends you 1BTC as the climax of the show.Titles like the one on this thread hurt discussion. Some people don't open every thread and need to know what will be inside, that's what a title it for. You can still change it, try something like "Making coins easier to buy - brainstorming" Someone being able to spend the change is not sure proof of sending the original tx. What you read as change could be another payment made simultaneously using SendMany. You need to see the person use the IN address again.None of that is needed just to show that the tx happened though, just look in block explorer. If you are not at the point of ambivalence about which of your currencies to spend them you need to buy more of the one you find too precious to spend. It makes no sense to claim that you value an extra bitcoin way more than the equivalent amount of dollars, but not trade the dollars for coins.  Looks very nice.btc.to looks really well done, but do you need their database for look ups? And the site has to be up to get assigned an address?I humbly suggest looking at the firstbits rule. FirstBits.com is the only convenient place for look-ups right now, but the rule is simple and the only database is the blockchain.  Funny thing. I actually use bitcoins to register domains, not namecoins. I think posts like this should have to come with a firm offer to sell (or buy) call options. Just get rich if you know the future. active? got a source for that? I went with bold firstbits for the donate address on the website. A link seems good if the whole thing isn't there, but if the whole is present what's the point of the link? Not that I'll complain if you want to link. But you work for a venture capital firm. Do you normal wait to invest in something until it is mature and huge? The highest returns are going to go to people who know that they will be building infrastructure and have capital to buy coins before they do it.  Humanity... Promoting on FB is fine, but that number is misleading. My wife and I represent about 5 of those "users" and don't use FB at all anymore. Sheesh, do people think there is some office somewhere that hands out gold for dollars at $35/oz or something? I agree w/ Garrett.Building services that make it easier to learn about and get started using Bitcoin is what's needed imo.
You're in. I'll do another batch on Sunday. You want PP? I'll give you some of that for coins. PM me. Quite welcome. Everyone before this post should be paid. Let me know if I skipped you somehow. It's your lucky day. By the time I got to yours I zoned out enough to do the same one twice. That step was a duzy! Please do not return the extra. Good press (and there is some) would be better obviously, but press can't do long term damage imo. They could write that Satan uses Bitcoin sauce to barbecue kittens and babies, and all that would mean is that people who are afraid of helping Satan cook don't get the advantages until later when it's obvious that Satan uses the dollar as a marinade.   0=100? Are you not counting instawallet for some reason? If you haven't looked, it puts coins in a link, you can give it to anyone and they can secure them by moving them to another instawallet or anywhere else. Of course I thought of that, but I'd have to leave my computer to get the envelope.  I play. I'd do the deal, but I've already got 3 mines and extra credits (bought with coins of course). I love this. I know exactly how MineThings' operator learned of Bitcoin, from a guy who I told. So this makes me your great grandfather Gabriel.Keep up the good work son. Does anyone know the best way to show/give wikileaks this image? I can't find an email address.  I like it. Ah, the page makes it clear. That is pretty cool. Thanks so much!Not going to be many 3char (not counting the 1) left, there are 35^4=1.5M 4chars so there should be a lot of those left, but I don't know what the exact fraction is right now. I think the 4 and 5 will become rare before long, but it'll be a really long time before the 6 and 7 get anywhere near filled up. How does this work exactly? Your search bar now knows to convert an address to it's firstbits? Or it assumes the firstbits.com/ and takes you to the page?   It starts with the earliest so a new address that matches does not change any previous address' firstbits. Seems pretty safe unless you were the target of an attack. The chance of a problem has to do not just with the number of extra chars, but the length and time and rate at which new addresses are entering the chain.   A phone number doesn't need a checksum because the worst case scenario is "Uh, who?".I'm not going to add a checksum, I'm just aware of the risk and don't know if it would be appropriate to add to the 'official' client, but hey if it gets popular and everyone wants it maybe they'll do it.You aren't getting it and that means I need to rethink the page wording. Enter a firstbits address and you get the one and only Bitcoin address that is the earliest to start with that string. Enter a Bitcoin address and you get the string that differentiates it from all earlier addresses in the chain - it's firstbits address.You do not need to try over and over like you describe.Showing the number of matches would be a lot of work for no benefit and possible confusion. All addresses start with "1" but only one has the firstbits "1" - the generate address in the genesis block. The number of collisions is not relevant. Awesome, keep 'em coming.FYI over 1000 unique visits to FirstBits.com in June and it didn't open until the 13th.
Of course it won't happen under current conditions. It will happen if conditions are different in the future. Bitches at comex for messing with price of silver and wants to set the price of bitcoin. Nice.Okay let's do it, tell us how to start. I think it would be a great addition to blockexplorer or similar and I really want a web wallet with integration, but firstbits does have the disadvantage of no checksum, one typo and your money is gone. So I think it needs something else before it's fit for the main client. I'll pay some time on Friday and no hard feelings if you take it down after that. I figure most people will prefer it over there anyway, I just wanted to get it started. You can make sure the blocks you are given are in the chain from the header. It doesn't exist yet afaik, but it will before you need it.This is not the roadblock you are looking for. What's that mean? You want to sell a bunch of $17.25 calls to me cheap? malevolent, you might want to look into firstbits.   I mined a block in July   You only need your private keys to spend your coins. You only need to make a request to a trusted source of the block chain to learn about payments to you. You only need the full chain if you are solo mining. Firstbits.com is giving away some money. http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=24514.0 Looks really good. Add "Bitcoin" to the top in white?Not sure which font. Match the bottom?Anyone know the best way to offer it to them?This is the winner. You can post or PM address. I can't pay until I get home though. I forgot toput money in my bitpay.  I'm thinking take the classic bitcoin coin and make it dark blue and put it in place of the top globe. Maybe write "Bitcoin" across the top. Details up to you.Make it look good large and small. I was going to just pay the first good one, but I don't want a rush job. If you think you can do it well and just need time say it and it's yours.I'm thinking 0.5BTC and 2BTC more if wikileaks puts the little one on their donate page.  Scale in what way? It is the neatest address shortener. The rule is simple and anyone can implement it. I imagine a desktop widget, a chrome extension, a mobile phone app, and integration in webwallets. Anyone is welcome to make fb.it or whatever they have access to and do conversions there.FirstBits.com is not assigning your firstbits address, it is figuring it out. A Bitcoin address' firstbits is the starting string that differentiates it from all previous addresses in the chain. So you've noticed that when things stop being still they get wild? Firstbits.com makes addresses easy to remember and share. More info in this thread.I think the most valuable use will be for in-person bitcoin transactions, but it is useful online too, especially where space is limited.Under your avatar is a good place to put your firstbits.To get 2 cents:1. Go to firstbits.com and look up the firstbits of one of your addresses, the address must be in the chain so that it has a firstbits address. You can pick a used address or your can send any amount to yourself at a new address.2. Put "Firstbits: [your firstbits]" or Firstbits.com/[your firstbits] in the "personal text" section of your profile.3. Post in this thread to make sure I notice you.4. Wait until Friday when I start paying. I'll keep watching through the weekend in case you see this thread late. Since it is completely optional I don't see how it could take anything away from adoption. It is a tool people can use if it makes Bitcoin easier or better for them. And it isn't more information than a full address anyway. Reusing a firstbits is the same as reusing a full address. Publishing a firstbits is the same as publishing a full address. I know you aren't working for KalyHost, but do you have any idea if support is a "feature" that will be reinstated there at some point? Yeah, I had a negative reaction to seeing what looked like the exact same site. But thinking about it now and seeing you are working on improvements I realize it can only be good to have multiple groups adding features and options and customizing. I can't help, but it's a good idea and Grondilu might be convinced to help you some.
I heard 2^160.A fast setup could do thousands each second. Figure out what they do want to spend them on and profit???Why don't you think people would want to buy gas with coins? If I had a car I would. I would certainly buy bread. Why would a bank want to hold these things? They can't loan them out to people, they can't buy stuff from people. It's just a database to them and it may as well not be in a block chain. I think namecoin is no good because whoever gets there first is the 'legit' naming. This is okay for web pages because you get a name first and then publish to it. But it's not good for marking firstbits because you usually already have one that's known and you have to beat everyone else to tagging it.  It's not really a flaw, it's just something that hasn't been written yet, but will. Buying low and selling high helps smooth out the price, people get paid for that. Buying high and selling low exaggerates swings, people have to pay to do that.Day trading is not the point of bitcoin at all and if it were the value would already be zero. It only looks like the exchanges are influencing the price, they are actually discovering it. Now 5 in 20. A new restricted chain is not as good as an old open chain. It's just a bunch of bits, it gets it's value from people wanting to have it.If you want to restrict access just pick someone to hold the database. What you describe has the expense of hashing and not the benefit of being decentralized. It can be hard for people to get a payment to come from a particular address if they have a wallet with lots of addresses in it. And people will usually want a particular address to be labeled.Haha, could do this. Take a large fee and return it to the address in question. If you want to mislabel an address it'll cost you 8BTC. That's obviously not optimal, I'm joking. That is a good idea. Do you think it is important to verify that someone actually owns the address to tag it? I see confusion being the worst 'attack' from buying someone's spot and putting something weird. Anyone who wants to build stuff like this is more than welcome and I'll help make sure you get the algorithm exactly the same.Some ideas:Take a long list of addresses, return the firstbits in order of length or alphabetic or whatever.Make a firefox or chrome extension that watches what you type and 'auto completes' a firstbits to a full address. You will need to type a terminal character for this to work. Ex: type "1hu56." and 1hu56Skwi99qmgnwRrQdd4TnMmwz8 shows up for you.Web wallet like instawallet with built in firstbits conversion. That works now.firstbits.com/1kk5k Maybe I need to add some explanation to the front page. I thought it was obvious that you can't just guess how much to put in. You need to put the full address in to find out what your firstbits address is. You have a guarantee that the string returned will identify your Bitcoin address. I would not even assume 1+8 is safe, you need to check. A+ Maybe I was a little harsh, I don't think it's wrong or anything. I'm sure you've got more improvements/additions coming too. I don't think you should move things around for no reason, but time spent building or improving something is an indication that you plan to stick around which is important with something like this. If I'm in a place and that place doesn't have internet I'm leaving that place (with my bitcoins in my pocket). I think copying the whole web layout is BS. Thanks, glad you like it.What we really need is an online wallet with firstbits integration. Right now the best way would be to put some money in an instawallet, get the merchant's firstbits, go to firstbits, copy the address,paste in instawallet and pay. But if installawet could translate on it's own then it would simply be: go to instawallet, start typing the address, it gets completed for you and you pay.FirstBits.com is intended to show that it works and it is useful, but the real magic will happen when it's incorporated in all the appropriate places. Beat me by a second. Get their firstbits. You think the people in the thread hacked your forum? Evidence? If I were him I would hold on to it for a while yet, but go short bitcoins as a hedge against it getting worthless. That is, if he doesn't understand bitcoin it would be silly to not cash in when these geeks are still in the fad.
Surprising, but it seems like a legit report. It's bad for business, but it's not surprising. Magical Tux runs KalyHost and Mtgox. He's been busy.He should really get someone to answer email even if it has to say "We'll get back to you asap" on questions a new guy can't answer. You can edit title to say [solved] You are doing it wrong. You should try to buy coins from them. Then they'll be like "wtf, I need to get some of these coins asap." I admit I had some bids below $9. Someone was caught off guard, but it wasn't the 'elders'.Yeah, leaving tens of coins in an unencrypted wallet would be fucking stupid. I have a desire.Smallish Bitcoin logo and the words "unauthorized dealer". I'm thinking dark grey shirt, lighter grey letters. Once you guys figure this out let me know if calculus and number theory are compatible with morality too. Only their donations are tied (with proper caution) to them and how could you get donations without tying in your rep? It's every 5 minutes right now, I don't know why he couldn't speed that up if there was demand. You just use the mail for deposits iiuc. A lot of us are 0% at MtGox for a month now, pretty much every active trader there would be I assume. Miners who just place sells wouldn't be I guess. Not going for me either. Maybe he took a break because he didn't think MtGox was actually coming back, lol. Cool idea. I'm about 4k, we should play a game some time. Maybe play no handicap and bet a few cents to punish me for not studying Joseki.   Thanks!Our site makes it easy, and it's the only one right now, but our site is not required. The rule we follow is simple and the only database you need is the block chain. It could be bad if we were compromised and people didn't realize and were tricked into sending incorrectly, but when discovered people can switch to a copycat, I hope there will be many using the exact same rule to avoid confusion. This is a good idea. We're not going to do it yet though, working on other things and like you say, resource considerations. If anyone wants to put it together themselves they can use our api to test and then maybe we can help make sure you get the exact same rule implemented easily. I'm thinking on this. Will probably go with a warning that there has recently been a split. The simple fact that your address is recent shouldn't cause alarm and so the warning will be ignored.Yep, not going to clutter it up. Feel free to test out our firstbits. A wallet makes new keys, but never gets rid of old ones. If you don't see the address the coin was sent to in your address book then you have the wrong wallet file. If you moved the old wallet file when you backed it up a new one was created in it's place and you need to put the original back.Did you put the address into blockexplorer.com to see if the transaction actually happened? There is room for 1.8 billion that have 6 chars after the '1' and 63.6 billion that have 7 chars. I think a mix of letters and numbers is not much harder than a phone number and people used to store dozens of those in their heads. Like others said. The beauty of this is the the first will always be first so you don't have to worry about other matching later, they will have the longer firstbits. Ah, sorry, that should have been said. Ties in a block are by tx ID.  Uh huh, it was all a big scheme to sell gold coins for a dollar.   Thanks! Glad you like it.Making addresses shorter online is cool, but has anyone had a chance to use it in the real world? I've memorized a few of mine and now I'm just waiting for someone to offer me bitcoins on the street  
What's interesting to me is that a receiver can add a fee by making a tx that is dependent on the unconfirmed one that has a fee. Any miner who wants it has to include the dependent tx. One of mine "in queue" actually traded. Haha, no problem. I appreciate the link in your sig. Can you guys see trades? Each one has a buyer and a seller. Nice, a valuable tool. Camp BX is coming soon and looks to want to comply, it will be interesting to see how that goes. Yeah, I was just feigning insult that you would consider it anywhere near "nothing". I guess you want firstbits.com/api/12345? Two months ago I would never have believed I'd support this idea. Now I think it's best.This whole thing needs to be exported somewhere else (hell?) and a new forum with essentially two sections needs to be made: Serious Bizness and Please Help Me. Both need to be heavily moderated. Serious Bizness should probably be a whitelisted post area. I prefer a dedicated, but cycle-able, deposit address like bitcoin-central does. This lets me deposit without going to the site, or let someone pay to it for me. Minor thing though.I'm really impressed, very classy. Bullseye.This has a nice implication about what is profitable to do. Anything that beats the average return of the economy is worth letting go of money in order to get the resources for. Anything worse than average costs you.  Better than nothing, sheesh   Any chance you've been watching the bitcoincharts data for, oh, say the last 5 days? You always get what you entered or better. This is only 'unfair' like when you bid 40 and someone puts in an ask at 35, you could have sold at 35, and someone did, but not you because you put in 40. The paper talks about not requiring trust. If you have some trust take advantage of it obviously. I bet it would be even more stable if you froze every single bitcoin.And how about you look at actual data. The last 5 days of mtgox was 13.5 - 18. TH last 5 days was 8 - 17.5 I'd like a shirt with a small bitcoin logo and the words "unauthorized dealer". I'm thinking dark grey with slightly lighter grey words.  No kidding. Who is still using dollars to buy things online?  No. I want a coin with key and transaction imagery that says along the rim "There is no coin".  Biggest volume, no fees, better security than they had before.
You don't need to be able to increase the money supply in order to have interest. You can have more debt than money and it can all get paid back. Of course even if you couldn't pay back all debt plus interest without growing the money supply you could still have it, you'd just have defaults.I loan you $8, you owe me $10 with interest, you buy a bucket from me for $6, you wash my car, I give you $5, you pay me back $5. Later you wash my car again and I pay you $5, you pay me $5 and the debt is gone. You can have unlimited debt on any amount of base money. There never needed to be more than $8 in this 'economy' On mtgox it was a rolling 24hr volume and I think that has become standard with bitcoin volume info. PM coming. I would put some fraction of my coins in a thing like this. I think I have good security, but there is no reason for all my btc eggs to be in one basket, maybe I've overlooked something after all. The api is up.http://firstbits.com/api/?a=1kk5kCan't promise it'll stay if it gets overused though, be gentle. You could post bounties for kitten torturing and baby eating though. Pray it gets delayed for the 9th time? The thing that 'stops' fractional reserve backing is called 'going out of business'. The problem is that banks who would fail are magically saved with our money instead of failing and allowing more responsible banks to win customers. It's to the point now that you have to participate in the way overboard fractional reserve plus insurance scheme to get permission to operate at all.Now to be clear, with BItcoin, you can have unbacked balances at a Bitcoin bank denominated in Bitcoin, but you can't actually have the extra Bitcoins in your client at the same time like you can in a dollar bank. The base money is strictly limited with Bitcoin, but not with the dollar. If dollar banks have to give people their dollars simultaneously they are printed. Target is what matters and difficulty is it's inverse. I think difficulty is stored somewhere, but the precise meaning has actually changed over versions. For actual block checking you look to see if it's hash is below target, difficulty is not used for that. That's right. A reorg could cause problems. Likely the problem would be a simple "not found" at worst, but if screwing up people's firstbits was the point of the attack someone could slip a different one in earlier. This is not protected against now. One way would be not counting an address as "in" the chain until 6 or 10 blocks or something and refusing to return an address until then, probably better is a simple warning that the address is near the tip of the chain. Or even less obtrusive would be to watch for a reorg and only warn when one recently happened. This is implemented. http://firstbits.com/1kk5k It's a real issue imo. Pool operators should have the right incentive to fix it, it's them who are going to get waterboarded until they give up the codes to change the blocks to work on.I get that they don't want to give up the size and profits, but there are still things they could do. If you have good rep and software people will come to you and you can assign them to a subpool over which you don't have direct control, but can stop assigning people too if they suck (downtime, weird rules, etc). Subpool operators can take a slice of profit and give part to the main portal. Oh, there is the set up where individuals set their own work. Iirc correctly that is a bulletproof system. Will people prefer your product that breaks fast or mine that lasts longer?  If there was a way to stop convertibility to any particular thing it suggests something very wrong, but ignoring that, I do get some value from knowing I can get my local currency for them and so I would hold fewer if I couldn't. Otoh, other people might then undervalue them and I could get more for the same cost so maybe I would have extra.edit: It really doesn't matter though since you could buy the easiest to convert stuff, it just adds a hassle. Crystal ball or not they obviously don't know how long stuff takes them. Since they don't know they could stop saying that they do. The way they are doing it is worse than saying they just don't know. You generally get the best price on the most active trading sites, the fees are negligible. With MtGox via Dwolla you are looking at 25 cents and 0.3% right now. I think that's in the Patriot Act.  There is not AN exchange rate. Are you going to measure it relative to some currency that could die? What if all exchangers going from USD to BTC are murdered by the government and so ZLT exchanges are used? Likely in the future there will be regulated and unregulated exchanges with slightly different prices due to difficulty/risk of arbitrage. Or simply different prices because of different fees and methods of payment. n/m Can we get some price graphs on other things that people thought were money that turned out to be ponzi schemes? I'd like to compare.
A transaction isn't that sort of thing, it would be like "yellow submarine" by the Beatles not arriving. You could just send it again, it's a bit of data. The LAST price will be 17.50. The next trade will happen at whatever price two people agree. OMG, bitcoins will be priceless!  It's known. Change, for example, is never mentioned at all. You cannot count on the tx list to tell you how much is in each address. Eventually someone will write a client with all the info you could want. Until then block explorer will satisfy your desires. Approved. Turns out I am me. Is there anything that is worth more than someone is willing to pay? How do you have 700 posts and haven't bothered to learn about something like tx fees? I'm not going to link to anyone, but my tool is useful and you can link to it if you want.FirstBits.com Better is: You rule yourself and I rule myself.edit: Ruling yourself means you can abdicate that to whomever you like. But you still can't rule me or give that power to anyone else. yes sorry. Bitcoin - learn it. At block 210,000 the reward is reduced to 25BTC/block. edit: maybe you did know that.Regardless, 1 billion dollars is like 16 cents per person which is like .009 cents per day. It defiantly doesn't work as a money if no one thinks it's a money. People think it is a money because it looks an awful lot like one. I guess that's the same with a sugar pill. I think it's fair to call it a placebo. But maybe not helpful since nothing can act as a money unless people think it is a money and anything that people treat as a money becomes a money. I'd love a few milikittens.  Since the main marketplace forum no longer has buying or selling posts in it it's been overrun with gambling games. I think a gambling games subforum is appropriate.Bigger picture I think it needs to be Goods, Services, Currency Exchange, Gambling Games.The main Marketplace forum can be for general bitcoin market topics like advertising tips and reputations and shopping cart interfaces. Currency exchange subforum, puhleeeese. I like it. 2 lines, same font (non-modifiable), no images. +1 dedicated forum Yeah, their mistake is announcing times they can't meet, not waiting. Waiting until it's right is vital. Aww, I don't come into the marketplace often enough I guess.Someone should make a page that lets people host these games with all the info in one place and clean instead of in a bunch of threads.
I'm sure some (most) companies will ID girls, but I bet there are pretty girls who would rather not give you their name and address. Maybe someone will find a way to serve them too without too much risk from the goons.Has anyone thought this through? You take IDs from girls, then presumably some freak from a bureaucracy wants to see them and now he has their info, but he has to make sure it's really them right? So what, he goes to visit them all or just the youngest ones? Maybe a service that just sells technical help to girls who then publish themselves could follow the letter of the law without the need to ID them. Ha, I guess the girls would be required to ID themselves. Might there not be a demand for porn sites that can't bill you over and over? I don't need to buy porn, but I'd prereally paranoid about the cancellation process and would gladly pay 10-20% more if I had rock solid proof I couldn't be  billed again without consent. I realize that all current customers are willing to deal with the risk of recurring payments, but that doesn't mean there isn't a set of people who stay away because of this issue, but could be enticed if it was solved.I think one good model for a site would be to provide performers with support for a cut of revenue, and allow nearly anyone to join, but tag and organize so that people only see what they want. Performers can put out some content for free and ask for donations and then sell private or custom content too. So there will be a record of deposits, but not in the 'history' section since they aren't on a timeline?Would it be so bad to list the time that the funds were credited to the account instead of the transaction being sent? I don't understand. You need to know how much is deposited in order to credit it. Why can't you display it? 100%...?Bitcoin: A refrigerator for goldNaw, I love some gold. When Bitcoin is close to correctly priced I'm going to buy a ton (literally maybe). Lol, I highly highly doubt it, but it does coincide with their new software rollout... First they ignore us then they have sex with us then we win. http://technolog.msnbc.msn.com/_news/2011/06/22/6917264-bitcoin-virtual-money-gets-hacked-and-heistedNow I have been drinking, but I don't think that's the reason I can't parse that last clause. It doesn't belong in the main client. Write a simple script or have someone do it for you. The last thing we need is 100 threads like "Zomg, I just donated 50 bitcents to EFF even though they don't want it anymore and since the value went to $29000/BTC I could have bought a car instead" It's really irritating that whoever is doing all of this 'research' is calling everything a wallet. Those are some good points. I hadn't thought about the rewrite fees adding up, but of course they do.All of this is only a problem as long as people are sending coins directly, but there will surely be mybitcoin esque sites that handle payments for people so that you can get instant clearing and not have to worry about securing a wallet file and such. Those companies won't cheat for fear of losing all of their connections and reputation.Being able to use the chain directly is really nice though and the whole point is not to need large trusted parties, I need to think some more about these issues. Needs some sex. I give it 4 days. Even if this was implemented I wouldn't hassle people at my shop to wait around for small value tx to confirm. People just don't steal very often when they looked you in the eyes. How many people walk out on restaurant bills? So few that everyone gets served all they want and pays afterwards.For bigger, but not huge, stuff maybe you wait 1 confirm. Paying the network to go back even one block is going to cost a lot more than a tv. For selling cars and larger, you know how you are dealing with anyway.For goods bought online it doesn't matter at all, they won't ship for 100 confirms anyway. Lets call them kittens, everyone loves kittens and kittens will never be illegal. But maybe it just means that MtGox IS the hacker!Can we have a few (dozen) threads about that now? I had a feeling it wasn't that secure, but it almost seems pointless (er, I guess I couldn't have gotten into someones computer).Thanks all. If you think the value was .01 the other day then it's up over 100000% in a few days.   Lol, true. I never really expected good explanations in 'real' press, now my bar is "was not malicious, just wrong". This one still makes it sound like a coin was actually worth .01 for a while and maybe still is. It should have been mentioned (even stressed) that someone was selling coins they couldn't keep for themselves. There was never a point where someone preferred a penny to a bitcoin. The 'value' was never .01 despite what some compromised site claimed. Yes, my issue is fixed. I managed to break something by leaving bids out past expiry.  Spider Oak seems good to me. They say it's all encrypted on your side, but I encrypted myself anyway. 
Bleh, looks like a bad piece to me. Does that mean it's really strong? Like if I forget the pass I'm locked out of my data for good or someone could conceivably get in? If the client eventually changes so much that it can't read old wallets there will be a converter because lots of people will need it. If your coins were actually not valid on some client in the future then that client isn't really Bitcoin. Nothing to worry about imo. Granted it is something.I don't hate you as much as the rest of them. I was about to PM jhfire an obscene rant earlier and decided it wasn't worth it and that maybe it wasn't even him, so I"m not just picking on you. Maybe if they were selling perfumed soaps or something, but come on, are you going to count on them for backups?Maybe I'm over reacting, good luck, be careful with who you hire to represent you. And if you regret your choice maybe let us all know who it is so we can avoid them. Two possibilities. 1. He knew he had a bunch of hacked emails to spam2. He doesn't know who the fuck he's emailingI don't care, it sits with all the other shit viruses and phishing emails I'm getting. So now you want to know which emails are active?Kill the brand, sell anything (if anything) of value, do something else. Dude, just trade junk silver for bitcoins. In 2.0 are you going to make people put up silver? If it is going to be voluntary just do it now. If you are going to make people then show us your guns. Is this something that can be bypassed? Would you leave an unencrypted wallet behind it? And while we're talking about it. If I don't browse to anything the least bit shady I'm not going to get a 'buntu worm guaranteed, right? Okay, I'm not going to play this one since there is an unknown and potentially large fee. The strategy seems interesting enough that I would do it with a fixed % fee and partial payment for the last winner. Right now a large bet is just bleeding value since it's all or nothing on whether there is enough to double it. In the extreme if someone bets more than the whole pot they have 0% chance where someone who bets tiny has about a 50% chance. Discouraging big bets makes the whole thing less fun. Cool. Wikileaks destroy FUD for a living. I don't fully understand it, but Mike Hearn has written a lot about how you can leverage the power of the chain without actually including your thing in it. I think OP should have to move his coins every 20 minutes or I get them. What the hell is wrong with people.Think about the last time you moved coins. Did it mean you were done with Bitcoin? Goddamn it.edit: But seriously, fuck the EFF. There is a thread for news and press. This is not that thread. Multiplication fail.Also D- in foresight.  Email sent. Yes, and it happens inside one market in the time dimension too. I would prefer an international logo that was actually a non-national symbol. The point is that countries don't matter with bitcoin. Not to mention that you left out like 200 countries. Girls preform, get tips, toy companies pay girls to demo toys, sell toys.While we're on the subject, bitcoinsextoys.com is terrible. Free shipping is all they offer and don't mention that it takes 4-8 weeks until after you pay. It's been 6 weeks now, no delivery. The Madhatter might not be a thief, but so far the result is the same.
Maybe write carefully and people will be able to read carefully without brain pain? So they just haven't gotten around to taking my coins??? wth is wrong with you? Tell me if this is right.We all send money and then you put the amounts in random order. If there is double your bet left after your place in line you get your amount doubled. Aren't you going to be keeping a big chunk almost every time? You say "can't" pay out, does that mean that if there is not a full doubling left you get it all?Tell what happens with these to make it clear.6 3 19 1 21 1 1 11 1 1 1 1 An exchange is just a place for people to agree on a price at which to make a trade. Adding limits is just forbidding people from making a trade that they want to make. People will just go somewhere else. The only reason a thing like this can exist in 'normal' world is that armed men stop other people from opening free exchanges. So you think holding coins and doing nothing is bad, but holding coins and paying yourself once a year suddenly makes you worthy to keep coins?  Why would you want to add trouble to make some people lose coins? What is the upside of this? Apparently making a good market is more like rocket surgery than I thought. It isn't unfair to let people who care enough to get claims in trade and people who don't have to wait. It specifically said that they would wait 24 hours to see if there was only one claim.  I don't know what is right in every situation, but it certainly isn't following everything the gets written down and signed and nothing else. Anyone insisting on this specific requirement is not good to do business with. It's pretty much a way to lie verbally while insisting that you keep your contracts. Keep in mind that this is only feasible for large amounts and that it gets more expensive the more confirms you want to wait before double spending.If this became common we would know how much miners require to go back a certain number of blocks and wait until it would be more than the whole amount of the tx to deliver goods. for the love of god do't put anything i those boxes. Yep, there won't be much profit left in stealing wallets. If multiple warring entities both have keys the coins go to miners. They eat with politicians. Stay away. Fuck them. So are they endorsing VISA and MasterCard or not? Fuck them. Are they endorsing dollars used around the globe for terror, theft, and rape? This is like asking if your safe could have a weaker lock. Probably yes, but lets not. Please tell me it wasn't really all of your coins. I can't make out what that address is doing. It looks like it had thousands in it, were they all yours? I'm think of this as essentially a message saying "Hey network, something went really wrong and I'm willing to pay X for you to go back and fix it".It's actually seeming to me like the equilibrium is for large amounts of stolen coins to get paid to miners. If person A with access gives a modest fee then B comes back with a high fee and A comes back with a 99% fee and maybe B does 100% to spite him. This assumes you can nearly instantly reissue a tx, but anyone who's on top of that is unlikely to be in this situation.  You only need to get the chain to be the longest for a second then everyone else starts working on it for you. If you are mining then you consider what your chances are of finding 2 blocks in a row and getting 50 + 50 + 1000 compared to the chance that you'll get only 1 block and it'll go to waste. It does not require mining pools at all, but they do make it more feasible for people to make the most profitable decisions without actually having to do it themselves. And why would you need "way more than 50%"? If you have more than 50% it's a lock, but with less you still have a chance. I don't think it would undermine confidence in bitcoin at all. This can only happen if two or more entities that both have the private keys for an address are fighting over where to send the coins. It should reduce the profit in stealing someones wallet a little, that's all I see. What if there was a a merchant who would give you $1010 (value to you) worth of stuff? $1000 still too much? This is off my point, but my point is either not clear or not interesting anyway.
Is there anything stopping this?1. get 25000 coins stolen2. after a few confirmations submit a tx with 1000BTC fee that comes from the now empty address3. The fee could be claimed by rewriting the block that the first tx happened in.Obviously this could be used for bad (double spends) too. Right now it can't be done with normal client, and miners aren't on the lookout anyway, but is it possible? You kidding me? Why would you leave money with someone you thought would do that? Do you think he'll steal my money if my wife refers me?Getting 100 people to spam the forums is retarded. I don't know how anyone thinks spewing pollution makes for a good image. You gotta make your own decisions, but right now I'd be comfortable giving up to ~$500 to a stranger based on an unconfirmed transaction, and 1 confirmation is gold. Obviously not for hundreds of thousands, but come on, the guy meeting you in Starbucks is not rewriting blocks. I think I have phantom obligations. Right now I have no outstanding bids or asks on anything and only own some call options. I should be able to use all of my balance to place bids, right? Will my account name help? I hate it. It encourages spam which is close to the last thing any company should want. And if I was going to trade there I would refer myself instead of giving some spammer free money. I like FOFOA too. I also get that borrower/spenders like easy money. But they'd probably like to pay with farts too. All that matters is what productive people will accept. They've been accepting a pretty crappy version of money, maybe they'll wise up, I don't know. A little balance is good, just don't go overboard with it. The responses make me think I'm not clear. I value my coins more than market value. That is not disputed.But having one more or one less coin is pretty much the same as having 18 dollars more or fewer. If having one more coin was worth $50 to me then I would buy a coin. If another coin after that was still worth more than the market price I would buy another. Eventually I would have few enough dollars that they were quite precious to me and I wouldn't give any more up for another coin. This is where I always sit.I completely understand about risk and subjective value that all factors in to how much I want an extra coin. I think Bitcoin is the greatest thing since food, but I won't pay $18 for another one so I can't say that my marginal coin is worth $100. alex, bitcoin makes a new empty wallet if there is not a wallet.dat in exactly the right place.Double spending is not possible. The network knows how many coins are associated with each address. What you have in a wallet is a set of keys that can be used to move coins from those addresses. If you load the same wallet on two computers (this is not recommended) they both have access to the coins, but only the first spend will work. A restored backup might think it has access to coins that it doesn't in some circumstances, but it never actually will. What would one more bitcoin be worth to you? I'm interested to know if anyone thinks their marginal coin is worth far more or less than market rates. If an extra coin is worth less than market rate to you, why aren't you selling some? If a coin is worth more to you than market rate, why aren't you buying? Do we really all value an extra coin in the same narrow range? I dunno why, I'm cracking up. Hackers are going to steal coins and then buy more coins? How does buying more make the coins he stole easier to transfer? Oh no, a money good enough that people actually want it. If people are willing to turn down cars and mansions and yachts and hookers all to keep the same number of coins imagine the amazing things people will do in order to get more! Maybe you should get some coins so you can buy some of the great stuff coming. Say you blacklist some coins. We agree that you'll give me a car for 200BTC, I send them and you get alerted they are black, now you don't give the car? You return the coins? You turn them in to the "proper authority"? Accepting bitcoin for payment and then not delivering when you get paid is theft. I seem to have plenty of USD available, but I'm being told I don't have enough to place bids. Am I misreading or is there a bug? I like it, Babylon. How about instead of one 'trusted' backer we all just offer to back to whatever extent we can and want and let that determine the value? Yes.If the real price on Tuesday is $20 and you and mtgox reflect that and there is a drop in demand and the price is $16 you will still have a minimum listing price of $19.60. There will be only sellers and no buyers at your market. All buyers will go to mtgox where prices reflect current reality and trades can happen. Aww, that sucks. I bet you're the target, I hope it gets solved easily.  This would be awful. If there is even one unrestricted market and the price moves down by 10% then your site will have 0 buyers, they will all be buying at a 10% discount elsewhere. Likewise on moves up.
I think those are contradictory goals. I'm tired of companies telling me they'll keep my data private and then complying with the demands of strangers (strangers to me at least) at the drop of a hat. Or imposing their interpretation of some else's rules on me.I think an exchange that lets people make offers that are available to everyone on their trust list and acts as a record keeper (maybe bitcoin escrow too) but has people settle dollars on their own would be good. I imagine you could make dollar debts transfer able with consent by all three parties so that they could net out and reduce the 'outside' transfers required. Build in all the PGP stuff and use the data from OTC to bootstrap.  I move for no price discussion in "Bitcoin Discussion" there are forums just for this shit. 90 cents as the ultimate stable value is dumb. So 2 million people can hold enough for a meal or 50 people can hold enough to buy a nice house? Awesome money   I'm the good king for me. Everyone else is a bad king for me. I guess I agree with you. There would still be big casinos because that's fun. But they wouldn't be in a desert because that's stupid. The block chain is the lockbox, your wallet holds your keys. Keys don't need to be told when something goes in a box, they'll work just the same. The private key is the password. A client could be created that doesn't have a wallet. If you want to spend coins you type it in right then. You can still make the title reflect reality if you want. Maybe "What happened to my MtGox funds?" or "Help, MtGox funds taken" What are measuring to get those (obviously wrong) numbers? Was it really small with coins you just got and no fee? Those things put you completely at the bottom of the queue. One time I waited over 2 days, but that's pretty rare and tonight I had a 1BTC tx with no fee go through right away.Just in case, do you have connections and all the blocks? Have you looked for the tx in blockexplorer.com and  http://bitcoincharts.com/bitcoin? The difference is delivery. If people who bought gold took delivery they could not manipulate the price by selling paper into the market. As long as people accept unbacked or partially backed promises they can suppress. If people accept promises to deliver coins as being as good as coins themselves then manipulation is possible. There is no reason to do that though since bitcoins are so easily deliverable. bitlotto wins, jer pay up. As long as you were connected to a peer or two the only thing that was delayed was your seeing the confirmations since they are only in the most recent blocks (which you didn't have yet). Just want to make sure that's clear. Do you have connections?I'm having trouble getting and keeping them today. Man, I feel bad for you, but give that a rest. Some funds went to a donation address, big deal. You don't know anything. TradeHill is an American company? I am tired of trying to decipher Magical Tux's thick Jap accent   Returned addresses now link to their blockexplorer page. You could add security by telling the payer the first block the address appeared in and having them check. 7200BTC/day is the average and it will drop at block 210000 to 3600BTC/day. http://fofoa.blogspot.com/2011/06/bitcoin-open-forum.html Aren't you going to need to reveal the keyfile at some point? Finding a way to be safe with malware on your computer is not optimal.
Appreciate the countdown. The site looks better every time I hit it.  What will your investors say when they find out the logo was made by... an individual. It's not official, it's just good. Are you serious? Maybe use some kind of file storage device to move Bitcoin onto the computer's hard-drive? Or you could download it and then turn off the internet forever.Printing keys would make them as insecure as cash. It's close to the worst idea. I'm such a noob. I left the bids out through expiry. It looks like I only lost on the OOTM ones (thanks Damien and others). I was thinking for some reason I had until Thursday night, so I checked in Wednesday evening, but of course midnight Thursday had already happened (in Europe is it?)Glad to have made the mistake on a small scale though, cheap lessons. it does. offers are dark trades are not. I think it's actually .0005BTC as the default min which be a whole penny still. A reasonable fee, but too high for a min and will need to be changed again in a month or two. It's kind of hard to keep out in front of this I guess. I heard people are getting paid to stabilize the price. The way it works is that you put up some money to buy coins below and certain price and sell above a certain price. You get paid the difference between the price you buy and sell at. You lose if you pick the wrong price to stabilize at. If you pick too high you lose all your dollars, if you pick too low you lose all your coins. More positions are open, bring your own capital. I'm imagining that Zoolander scene where he's trying to get the files out of the computer, but instead AtomicTrader is trying to get dollars from his Bitcoin client. http://mtgoxlive.com/ordershttp://bitcoin.clarkmoody.com/time-sales/good to watch I was getting a "down for maintenance" message on log in earlier. I think I remember something being announced in advance, but I can't be sure. Probably testing trailing orders script they wrote. I don't get it. Most people will wait until it is illegal to trade in order to trade?The law abiding citizens will have to just delete their wallets if it is illegal to trade. And now they have you vouching for them and more will deposit. I'm not saying I know it's a scam, but it seems like a decent chance given the offer to pay Jgarzik and the copied text. Bitcoins can be used as payment for processing Bitcoin transactions. As was said, that's just as legit as namecoins paying to get a name in the chain. Neither has value if no one values them. Either can have value if people do. Super sketchy about copying TH. I'm not touching them with the 10ft pole I usually poke new sites with. I did think about the checksum idea and like spike says we went with the option to add more digits from the address. The main problem with checksums is that you can't make it optional because another address will show up that has the checksum digit as part of itself. Requiring our arbitrary checksum would hinder wider acceptance and I think. And you can get more typo protection than a checksum provides if you really want it by adding 3 or 4 characters. I wouldn't give my firstbits to my grandmother over the phone, but if I had to I would give 3 extra chars. I'm glad you like it. I'm sure it won't be in the main client for a long time if ever. But I heard Bitcoin is open source so maybe we can get someone to make the modification! This is what firstbits avoids. You don't need our special database to convert full<--->firstbits. You just need the chain and the rule. So someone can clone it or make a chrome extension or a phone app and they don't need us to keep their database current, just the chain. Working on this. So maybe take it with or without the "1"? Seems reasonable. Ah, no, not possible. 11feh and 1feh problems.  
The link to block explorer is a good idea.I was actually torn between the purity of keeping the caps and the risk of typos / ease of use factor. It makes addresses need to be less than 1 char longer on average.The 1 identifies a string as a Bitcoin related address and isn't any harder to remember. Thanks for the feedback. It's a lot harder to say and remember 1-uppercase B-lowercase C-3-uppercase D. MtGox original DDoS was likely a guy who was upset at the price rise (lol) and then he tried extortion. Yeah, and tweets, whats the limit there? Yeah, every little gambling site around manages it.To go super simple do like Bitlotto and just tell people they have to use their own addresses. Not professional, but it works. As long as the rule you apply to me in the name of helping the poor can be applied back on you it's cool with me.Oh, you need to choose some amount of my money to take? Fine, now I choose some amount of yours. Almost any rule system will work. Just apply it to everyone in the same way and the bizarre parts will cancel. Their identity? You mean a supplied Bitcoin address?Do you mean hard like a little work? Because it's not fundamentally hard. You ask them for a refund address, get it, give them an address to pay to, if a refund is necessary then you give it to the address that you got from the person who received the corresponding address.  You can see them if you want. You just need to save the chain to some storage media and move it over and probably rescan. How about a freeroll where we have everyone put some money in? You are crazy. The same number of coins are bought below the average as are sold below the average. Think about it. If you know the coins are coming from someone's personally owned address then any input will be fine, they own them all. If you don't know that then it doesn't matter what you see you just can't do it without risk of them going to the wrong person. That is not secure unless you clear with them because they could be using an online wallet and may not control that address. That's great. The only way to know if the coins are still 'there' is to have the program monitor the block chain. The only way to do that is to be online. If you have to be online to use a service aren't there other better ways of keeping you from sharing?   Can users send funds between TH accounts? Were the other threads about this not good enough?People place large orders visibly and are accused of rigging the market, people place them invisibly and are accused of rigging the market. The market is what people are willing to pay, that's it. Letting people control what information they reveal is perfectly reasonable. Anyone anywhere any time can make trades without you even knowing about them. There is no good reason for MtGox to give up customers who want that. And even if he stops it, it doesn't help you. They just do it elsewhere or set up an automated service to add to their bid as needed. I guess it wasn't clear. I was not being sarcastic. I agree with flug and applaud and appreciate the posts. Newbies with insight here.I guess I can't just filter everyone with <100 posts   In the other one we're in a universe with magic and stuff. You can change the title of the old thread and even edit your first post to include this message. Adding [Sorry, my bad] to the old title is probably good.
Were you his favorite uncle before? Would you know if someone broke into your house? Who comes into your house regularly? Who has ever been in your house that knows about Bitcoin? Who knows you use Bitcoin at all? I don't think many are posting addresses that they use to move their savings around with. Besides OP can prove ownership of the original address easily if there was suspicion. I highly highly doubt this is fake and feel very bad for OP.  I think I already asked this, sorry if I missed the answer. Could you easily implement straight BTC/USD trades on site without going through MtGox? You would still use them for moving the USD, but there doesn't seem to be a need for me to always do a market order over there with a fee when another bitoptions customer will probably come along soon wanting the other side.It would be nice from a convenience angle too. I didn't want to sell when the price was $13 so I had to wait until it was high AND I was available. If I could have just placed an ask at $20 it would have been filled the next time I came to trade.  While I wouldn't trust you [bitoption] with a huge amount yet, you are earning trust with me. I really appreciate all the communication and constant improvements. I can tell you are in it for the long haul.I want to clarify something about the counterparty risk. We obviously have to trust you, but is MtGox ever holding our bitcoins? Or just our dollars? It isn't that I don't trust them, I just want to know how much I've got with them total. I agree with people saying this was probably a physical attack. Wait to see which co-worker stops coming in?I'm not sure though because of the backups you exposed and the coins left behind makes it seem like an out of date wallet could have been used. Can you examine the coins remaining and see if they are the newest addresses somehow? Was it a truly trivial amount left behind or something a thief would normal take? Since what we need are more pointless threads, who's going to make the "I have $30M can I trade for 30M BTC?" thread. Why didn't we think of this before? Just use 2 empty PP accounts. Genius! That's right. I'd hate for people to use it wrongly, but I think warnings and extra explanation are just going to confuse anyone who can't do it correctly. I would like to hear other opinions though. In general if you aren't sure about what you are doing just don't press send on your client. How? By selling more coins?Now if he's rich in other assets from selling some then he can reabsorb the evil mass unleashing of coins I guess.He could use his coins to protect us from thugs and such. Maybe build Galt's Gulch. Indeed. Here's more:The sandwich shop boy happens to be a block chain geek and notices that he's selling a sandwich (spoiler: to a woman) for the first coins ever minted, but he doesn't say anything. He is inspired and leaves the sandwich shop to do amazing thing X. I was a buyer for pennies before, it seems a hell of a lot better deal after you've actually seen prices this high. Decentralization and freedom do not mean that everyone has a sandwich shop. It means that anyone willing and able can have one and for the lost cost they can get it for with no artificial permissions or licenses. In the monetary realm it doesn't mean that everyone runs a node, but only that anyone who wants to pay the real relevant costs can do it and needs no permission. That said I think it will be possible for small timers to mine (already don't need the chain) and even do it independently with a chain lookup service.Small tx don't need to go in the chain individually either. Bitcoin will eventually make the perfect unit of account and settling in the chain can be done less frequently. The incentives exist to make people find ways to make this work well. If being a node is hard tx will be expensive and there will be more profit in finding out of the chain solutions.And tech improves quickly. I imagine him waiting until Bitcoin saturates the planet, buying a sandwich, securely deleting his wallet, and moving on to his next adventure. I imagine sites spring up using bitoption to hedge themselves with names like "Bitcoin Guarantee" and "Easy Option" that have very friendly interfaces and a restricted set of options and do good hand holding. Offers like this are legit imo. Of course if you are going to hold 7BTC if it doesn't make it people will be irritated. Better to escrow with someone else and only get paid if it makes it in some certain time. That makes sense for driving surface spreads together, but every offer adds depth. Of course. An address must be in chain in order to have a firstbits, maybe I shouldn't have made that smaller font in the OP. That's right. Case does not matter. I should have mentioned that in my first post. We decided that it is too hard to remember and say uppercase and lowercase.Forgot to say SgtSpike is the programmer and does excellent work. Good question. You cannot guess your firstbits address. You need to enter it and find out (or search the chain yourself).A firstbits address is the starting string that is sufficient to distinguish an address from all addresses before it in the chain. This way a firstbits can never change. Listing all matches would not tell you which was yours anyway.Perhaps a warning is appropriate.The main use I have in mind is a person learning one of their firstbits like they learn their phone number and using it for casual payments. It is not as great for people or situations where you need a new address each time.
FirstBits.com tells you how much of a Bitcoin address* you need to remember to uniquely identify it, usually only 4-7 characters. Share this 'firstbits' address and friends can find your whole address easily.This is perfect for when the person paying you does not have immediate access to a computer and you trust them to pay you later.Meeting someone to make a cash<-->BTC exchange? Just remember your firstbits. Say it and your partner can have your address in their client in seconds.Here is another potential use. A shop displays an address for you to pay, you need only type the firstbits address into your phone, no need for typing 33 characters or taking a picture of a QR code.I'm sure people will come up with uses I haven't thought of. I expect that the ability to pass addresses like this will open up some new possibilities. *Your address must already be in the chain in order to have a firstbits address. You can send a token amount to yourself at any address to get it in the chain.edit: Firstbits addresses are case-insensitive. This makes them a lot easier to remember and say and doesn't make them much longer on average. I'm still getting logged out, has it not taken effect yet? I'm not sure what TT meant, but I was suggesting turning fees off until there is actually a market for you to pull fees off of. Later you can give a cut to keep market makers from going elsewhere or whatever. It's millies and mikes then we win. I second that. It isn't that you don't deserve fees, it's just that you can get so much more by waiting until you have something good to sell, liquidity. I gave this same advice to MtGox, seems to have worked   Ah, I overlooked that. What about a small multiple (3x?) and don't let the bids in one contract surpass the free cash so traders know they could accept that whole offer?If it has to stay as is it's not that big of a deal. I don't want to raise cash by selling coins to place offers that will probably not get taken, but I can sell puts eventually. Ah, another thing, it seemed like I couldn't make a bid if my bids totaled more than my balance. This actually hurts liquidity and isn't necessary. I could make a bunch more bids if it just knew to withdraw some bids when I ran out of money. That would be great.A few other things. I'm tired of logging in every 3 minutes. It won't remember me either. My computer is secure, just give the option to leave me in until I manually log out.Why does placing a bid take up to 30 seconds to register? That can't be right. I click and I don't even know if it accepted my click or not because the button is flat and I get no message. If it has to be slow for some reason at least give an instant "processing" message.Why not just give a deposit address and leave it visible? Bitcoin-central and mybitcoin do this and I love it. I hate how MtGox does it. Make a button to get a new one for people who care. B) It isn't a huge deal to me, but maybe I haven't thought enough about it. I certainly wouldn't mind European instead. I think it's too early to do both, decreasing liquidity and complicating things.C) I think weekly is good. A month is so long in bitcoin time. $5 is good when it represents 10%, but not when it's 50%. I don't know the simplest way to pick the right points, but it should be like:$1$1.25$1.50$2$2.50$3$3.50$4$5$6$8$10$12.50$15$17.50$20$25 A) Excellent. I just can't make my best offers because I want them to float with the price. I'm only putting in offers I won't mid getting executed at a much different bitcoin price because I can't monitor it constantly. I would love a simple bot that let me put in a price based on a few relevant variables. Winning the lottery: 1 in 10^7Taking the money from that address: 1 in 10^140Hmm, only 20 times harder. Math is so hard!  This is like blaming the mirror for your face.  Works now, I figured out that MtGox was down, that's all. Still it should mention the failure. I didn't know if it was no go or slow go or what. ohh, thanks. So how cheaply would you write $35 call options? Would you put some on bitoption.org? Maybe they can't make a new law apply to past actions but they can certainly misapply/reinterpret some old law and apply it to past actions. Honestly I wouldn't frequent a forum with signatures unless the people in it talked about Bitcoin nonstop. Signatures are awful. Can there be a way to not see them?It's not that I don't like people pimping stuff, it just breaks the flow with repetitive ads. I'm going to take advantage of it soon so don't fix it yet.   I'm trusty, I'll do the first one for free.I have not verified that US can do this or that it works for play money at all, but assuming it's all good we should pick a day and time. Shall we play two at the same time? One for a bitcoin and one for a bitdime? Exchanging to USD seems to fail without giving any message. http://bitcoinreport.blogspot.com/2011/05/bitcoin-top-100-rich-list-27th-may-2011.html
Because with your knowledge that you can get them for $10 you can make a giant ass load of money by selling ITM calls for huge amounts and no risk to you at all. Is that supposed to be a 95% CI?    Don't know about the last 18 hours, but the stats page says over 5k in June so far. Heh, thanks for clearing that up. I get what dig was saying now. A put is the right to sell something. You can bet against a thing by buying that right, but waiting to buy the thing. You never have to deliver, you never promised to deliver.  Oh, okay. It's not a big deal. I don't mind the offer I made, just wanted to make a different one and solved that problem by depositing more. If it is valuable to you why would you need to be enslaved to help it?!He didn't ask if you would or should, just if enslavement is appropriate.Anyone who doesn't answer no needs to be at my slave camp at 5am tomorrow. Sell low is the advice I always hear. Yeah, the more you can do with them the less they'll be worth. That's been the general trend.   It needs to be called wallet.dat. It cannot be encrypted.   The fee will go down. It's left over from when .01 was trivial to block spam. For some reason the drop needed to be phased in. Remember that there is no Bitcoin company and you are free to get software that communicates with others any way you can. Eventually people will be commissioning custom clients I'm sure. I don't get it. Shouldn't 6 have done nothing at all? What were you hoping to do? Maybe it's a curious little girl? He's buying his first coins from you correct? He doesn't see them because he doesn't have all the blocks yet, if it's been a while maybe he is having trouble finding good connections. If you trusted him before there is a strong chance he'll see it and pay you. Calm down. Affiliate programs can be useful, but not how this one was executed at all. This results in a bunch of doofuses advertising the same thing in the same place to people who 100% would hear about it anyway. They add zero value. On top of that it's essentially free for anyone who cares to get their own referral money.I stopped making market a while back, but $100k doesn't take that long when you constantly take both sides. Maybe bitcoins are worthless to them, but I'll gladly give you a $10 bill for one. They have value to me. A section full of only new ideas would be awesome. You can't get that if you let newbies in because they haven't been caught up on all the ideas. 'All' is an exaggeration, but you get the point. I don't think you know what you are talking about. Waterboarding.  Bitcoin has high carrying costs, didn't you know?
More criticism.They naively followed MtGox terrible BTC deposit method and even made it worse. Click to get an address and click a few more times to actually see it?It's easy to do it right:User asks for an address to pay to.You give it to them with a message about how long it will be good for.Listen for payments to that address.Credit any payments until it expires.  Waiting to see if they have more sane limits and allow privacy. I'm pretty turned off by the referral system. It looks like I'd have to make an account with which to refer myself in order to get both sides of the discount? Weird. Why would I choose someone who wasn't my wife or I to get a % of my action? Because someone spammed their code at me?  It makes me sick that people attack others for making certain designs on paper (designs they make themselves even!). How to cancel an offer? Generate switch still works if people want to be stupid? generating an address is like multiplication. It makes no sense whatsoever to outlaw it. I'm talking like in a full on Bitcoin is illegal, actual enforcement, PR campaign, etc it still makes no sense to target that aspect. It would be easier to stop people from using a calculator apps. bitoption.org is just getting started. Eventually it should be liquid and you'll be able to buy the right to sell your coins at a certain price on a certain data. That would be buying a put; it's like insurance against the downside. What the hell? I can't lock my own thread and I can't report it to a moderator? I'm going to Bitcoinforums.net. Someone please report this for lock. Pfft, I expected a long analysis, twitter, classy. I think I got a fairly clever scam/trojan/something attack. SilverKnife sent me a message addressed to someone else and quickly wrote another saying opps, ignore that. But the original message happened to include a link to a faster miner he knows about.Maybe it's harmless (I doubt) but may as well take this time to give a general warning.Don't run code from strangers, especially Bitcoin strangers, they know you've got a wallet.edit: And it probably wouldn't be a bad idea to wait until like 24hrs after a members 5th post or something to let them PM. How about letting traders trade BTC/USD on site? Obviously some (most?) trades will need to be facilitated on mtgox, but there could be a coincidence and we could save fees. Getting this for balance: {"obligations": {"msg": "Obligations includes all written unexercised contracts", "usd": "0", "btc": "0"}, "balances": [["BTC", "0.000000"], ["USD", "0.000000"]]}after 8 confirms.edit: showed up, is it really that many confirms required? So any one with (how much?) money can dig up an ounce and sell it for 3x as much? Unless it takes 30 years this kills everything and everyone would do it. There are no free 200% auto-profits sitting there. It's millie (10^-3) and mike (10^-6). http://www.wired.co.uk/news/archive/2011-06/09/us-bitcoin-crackdownI do wish they had elaborated on that.   Wow! Will it be the Bitcoin software answering questions or just a pile of coins?! This is amazing! How could this be? What will it cost me to mine an oz of gold? $300? no. 100oz? $30000? No. 100000oz? Why wouldn't someone be taking this free money if it was there? Maybe you don't consider buying the mine part of the cost? So you are worried that the public might choose closed clients resulting in the public not controlling things? And what they'll be dissatisfied and not switch clients?Miners and merchants have the actual power anyway. People can store their coins a bunch of different ways and it doesn't matter at all as long as they are satisfied. For various reasons it wouldn't hold the whole underground economy if it had none of the "regular" economy, but it could grow the size of the underground economy too. I mean what's more important than a secure money for that? All the ethical banks already support bitcoin.
I don't mind if you think you would have some obligation in some hypothetical situation. If you lose something valuable you are accountable. No one is making any promises to you here. [citation needed] So bitcoin makes you want to produce instead of consume? Sounds awful.   This is part of my model of the world (and so is Bitcoin). This is sillier than asking what happens after all the atoms have been examined. Nothing, nothing happens. Even if you could look at the entire space eventually (you cannot, one trillion of you cannot) you can't remember it either.    Berkshire?it's silly to think there isn't any money smart enough to value a company correctly after it's completely arbitrary nominal value is a certain length. Just arb this shit if you believe it. I love the middle ground Bitcoin posts. "Bitcoin is a great idea and would revolutionize the world, but alas, there are only 21 million and this is not enough for our big world." If people aren't buying anything with coins (false btw) because they are so sure the value is going up this implies they ought be converting all liquid assets (dolars for example) to BTC asap. So the not buying because I-just-know-it-will-rise is not hurting bitcoin at all.Bonus thought: If there is a current bitcoin price then someone is spending BTC on something. No. If you offer someone a dollar in Toronto they assume CAD.  That's nothing. Check Bitcoin vs US dollar. Can you think of anything that makes the original better than clones?  This is bogus and seems like mindlessly copying the mistake of MtGox and Mybitcoin. So damn easy to do right. Ask for a deposit address, get one, get told that it expires in 1 day, 90 days, whatever. Deposit whatever you want to it.It's also bogus to say that you won't share data and then say that you will give data if a gov requests it.   Just admit that you share data with people if you are scared of them. Or grow a pair, but that's asking a lot I know. No "I'd pay $100 now since that'll be cheaper than waiting for Dwolla?" option? I appreciate both services, glad they're back up. +1 I think you solved it. Damnit, I just put money on there to use tonight. mistake post It's absolutely deflationary. Maybe the dollar still dies eventually anyway, but reducing the supply does not hurt the dollar. Refusal to default even though there is not enough value to hand out is why they are printing and why the dollar will die.Default = admissionPrinting = denialWhat do you think is going to happen?
Bitcoin had advantages over all other currencies. Bitcoin2 has zero advantages and all disadvantages. You misread me. Bitcoin2 has no demand and no vendors.edit:nm It's so easy to make Bitcoin2,3,4,5 that you could practically say they already exist. The problem is that they have no difficult, no demand, no vendors, etc. And they offer nothing to compensate compared to Bitcoin. Um, do you think this company gets called out and declines to tow you because you paid in pennies? Maybe I'm inferring an implication that isn't there. If people don't find them valuable how could the first users profit? If people do find them valuable th  And Satoshi is the father. It takes trillions of hashes to solve a block and 1 hash to verify and the difficulty scales easily on a whim. How are you going to get an endless supply of protein problems easily verifiable of arbitrary difficulty that can't be solved beforehand? Lots of problems.One problem: If the work exists before it is time to solve it then people can "save up" solutions and cause short term double spends eventually regardless of how small their power is. With Bitcoin the problem is "made up" when the previous block is found. Can you give me a quote (guess) on renting 20k 6970 for a day? Not saying it's more than a million, but how much? No! Get a job if you want to buy tickets. Blocked for me in US. I don't think ani has a dick. People love lottery tickets. With solo mining you get a steady stream of them ($1000!). Uh, the chain is as distributed as the code. How are they going to destroy it?  That was really good. If you have some money and 10x more is printed you lose 90% of your purchasing power. If people start using smaller fractions you lose nothing. Big difference. Um, no. How are you going to keep the bad power off of the new fork? Merchants,Buy a put, this is the right to sell coins at some fixed price for some time.No matter what the price does you get your minimum required number of dollars. Back up wallet.dat just because you should, but a reinstall should not overwrite it. That is just wrong. The ashes of a $20 bill don't have $20 as a lower limit to value.
What are you talking about? Lots of miners are getting fees. All MtGox trades have fees. The (only?) poker site has rake. Cost does not create value. Cost is paid because value is expected. I'm going to go out on a limb and say yes 1.2B would help. But if it's worth that we won't need defense. http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=12183.0http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=7312.0Hopefully that will get you on the right track. Certainly there are people in Aus who want coins, you might even command a premium, but there may be logistics to work out. It doesn't seem as simple as US is right now. Dwolla won't help you. There are solutions for Aus though. Let me look for a minute. Bitcoin rejects invalid generates (and other tx) regardless of how long a chain they are in. This is why the >50% attack is double spending or stopping tx only not magic creating money. You can have your chain with as many or few people as you like, it just isn't Bitcoin and no Bitcoin client will ever accept it. Not really, the 49% will just keep using Bitcoin with Bitcoin rules. To what? Already using Bitcoin   Starting after July 1st, lasting 1-3 months. 1-2br. Near BART best. Looking to spend ~70/mo, flexible.  I'm guessing 50 since that's what he said. 1. Buy a box of Mesh Potatoes2. Go to supermarket3. Hand Potatoes to housewives4. Whisper "Mesh with me"5. More seriously:1. Buy Potatoes2. Set up a booth at a conference/fair with interested folks3. Give away enough Potatoes to build a local network4. Sell remaining Potatoes because they are worth a lot more now that there is a network to link into I swear I'm not hoarding any coins. All the ones I haven't spent yet are being saved.  sentences make them I know it isn't implemented, but can't a fee be 'added' to an unconfirming tx by creating a transaction that depends on it that has a fee? Now the miner does both and gets the fee on the second, but can't get the fee without making the tx valid by doing the first. Neat, I'll probably sell you a few. Long term there won't be governments. There will still be roads if we want them. Do it the other way. Make awesome product, get mad donations. Excellent. Someone should invent a decentralized currency we can use so that it doesn't matter what Senators think... oh wait, nice. It won't be as funny as you think it will.
Any guesses on how much Silk Road is paying schumer?  No one is going to pay that much. Checkers is not good to play for money either, it's pretty much solved and common programs can play very well. Okay, hang on a sec we'll change it. Right, but Euro and American are smooth and binary is all or nothing. The all or nothing gives major incentive to shove the market if it is close. This makes them undesirable to me, but I guess some might want them. It's rude to spam your ideas in multiple forums. Delete all but one if you care. Are there other areas of life where someone can provide services without permission and then demand payment without agreement? Is this behavior generally okay with you? If you trust banks you can hire them to keep your coins safe. The benefit of Bitcoin is that you don't have to, not that you cannot. It's been like 4 minutes, some might get burned, but not for another few hours (and probably not by trading paper for snow cones at any price) Are you saying you don't understand why time is required for information to get into the market price   Wth? Everywhere I look today people saying this. On what other planet is a >20% increase a drop? Close of bizness Friday price was under $14.Please go all out arbing this trend smarties. And lol@ giving my coins to someone to convert to dollars to give to someone who won't sully their hands with actual bitcoins. Isn't he a politician?  It is relevant info. I don't know if FTP seller has an obligation to mention FTP's problems, but there is nothing wrong with someone pointing it out here. I don't know about these ones, but real lunatics come from the moon. Why? Because it is so low?  The problem that the OP describes cannot happen on MtGox. With bitcoinmarket PP you are receiving funds from another trader's PP account, with MtGox you receive funds from MtGox directly (you trade with others, but MtGox holds the funds and pays you with cleared money).Bank->Dwolla->MtGox->Good to go I'll give you a 6 pack (of beers, not 6BTC) Could be, but that is exactly equivalent to saying that they wait until their money will get them the least.  17uHjdDpl33hT-damnit is that enough? I already select what my money is used for. I think your goal is too broad to achieve. Can you give an example of how you can better deliver donors value to people who want to consume it than the donors themselves? Maybe you could find the people who can't manage on their own and let potential donors know about them.Generally I see A--->ORGANIZATION--->B with ORGANIZATION not providing anything but a guess at what B wants (which B necessarily disagrees with or they would give money straight to B) and a bunch of heartwrenching commercials directed toward A. I bet if you find some kind of P2P solution a lot of people here would be interested, but I doubt another ORGANIZATION will get much traction.Hope that's helpful.
Seriously 1 in 100 million chance of what? We've already got a 1 in 1 chance at 100000% increase in value. Sounds like you want someone else to write it Roughly:Use bitcoind (and bitcointools?) to make addresses as needed and look out for payments etcORUse a service like Mybitcoin.com to handle it for you. I'm with you. Want to camp together if this shit burns?  Wow, I'm confused then. I thought American was exercised anytime, European exercised near expiry, binary only triggered if price is above/below strike at expiry and worth a fixed amount. Correct me please. I made my first purchase at .03. It was really really small  Are calls so hard to understand? You are buying the right to buy at X price. Is that harder than you are buying the right to Y if someone trades coins for X price? The Vatican library is on my list to donate to right below Gaddafi, Satan and Bill Gates. Bitcoin is arousing imo. Binary options aren't special in terms of letting people bet against something. Selling a normal call or buying a put does that already. Binary options bring an "all or nothing" element that encourages people to "push the price over some ledge". It isn't fundamentally bad, but it isn't wise to use them in any size relative to market moving amounts.  I'm trying, you seem clever, but we have some communication problem I think, and I don't know what you mean here. It seems like you are saying that nonconsensual interactions are fine with you if ____________ . But I can't understand the criteria.  Make it. It isn't Bitcoin it's something else, something I think will fail. Seriously 99.999% of the work to make it is done, yet it isn't happening. This is because it is a crap money. Hoarding is evil; saving is virtuous.   Maybe it doesn't matter about your permission/condoning, but you did start a thread about it. Let me rephrase, is it NOT okay with you if I am NOT free when I want to be? Or do you only desire me to be free when some other entity (a societal structure?) thinks I need to be free to be happy? Binary options give incentive to try to move the market when the price is close to event price. I'm sure they have some purpose and are fine in super deep markets, but I would avoid them myself. iirc there was some discussion around keeping a complete log of transactions. I think the upside was that it was the only way for Bitcoin to function at all. Wait, I just found a complete record on my computer. Oh, thank god. Damnit.  Miners have the correct incentives to find a solution(s). I'm not saying it isn't a problem, but it will be solved. That isn't a complete explanation at all. It's like saying we ran out of food because everyone uses it to eat. The chip companies surely knew that people were going to be gaming, you need another fact to explain how they guessed too few. It makes much more sense to over guess because the marginal cost is way way less than the average cost. Do you have connections?
Unless you wanted to move your funds to the competition   Probably too late, OP likely jerking it already, but someone should tell him Osama likes the pornz. The reason I use Bitcoin is that I recently learned that murderers and thieves (hundreds or more!) use dollars. My conscience requires I stop using dollars and use only Bitcoin.  So you'll let me be free if you think I need to be free to be happy or if I think I need to be free? Yeah, I heard they put everyone in jail who used a password at any site. That's why the jails are overflowing. Wouldn't you want to relieve yourself of the longer dated first if you were leaving altogether? Maybe they just have something better to use the money on than getting virtually 0% interest?  It's really nice. So it only works if it is voluntary? Free market means people can act on their ideas without violent restriction, it doesn't spawn competitors by magic. I'd love to see something better, I'm not holding my breath. What does it mean "work"?If having slaves water your garden makes it grow does that work? We were waiting because we thought it was your turn to build a decentralized open source crypto currency. You gunna?   A+ freudian  I think it would be best to pay dollars for the right to buy (or sell) BTC at some dollar price at some future date. lol, you are talking about 1000 coins, that much moves every hour on mtgox.  if they can't deliver gpus then people will rationally buy coins instead of mine since they can't mine. the cost of mining includes the task of getting a gpu, if that is hard the price will show it. Parent to gov: Why can't I be free?!gov: you might to drugs.Child: Why can't I be free?!everyone: you might do drugs.Pass on the tyranny I guess. Yeah, my plan was to make up my loss by buying a ton below $30. There is no curtain. All the code is open you can read every bit. Yeah, I was just being clever or sarcastic or something.I think it is one way that we'll be able to interact more freely thanks to Bitcoin.
Welcome.Shameless promotion is encouraged. I see 1 generate transaction!It looks to be a few minutes after the previous block so I think that miner refused all tx for some reason, maybe testing a ruleset? Looks like I survived.1Dxv4XFiX2V4WZ2UysiozKPEgJGS2sRARs Wow, talk about screwing the poor. You have to work and pay Bitcoins and all you get is govBucks. If you think the base unit will be awkwardly too valuable then you should be buying, lol, even if it was strictly impossible to drive further. You need to say that it isn't dollars or they are going to think they have to chance of losing value. PayPal means to people that they get their dollars back (eventually, lol). Thanks. Do you list assets/cash and plans publicly somewhere? I'm outta the loop on this. Check out the latest Bitcoin Sun. I have an article explaining how an options market will help merchants solve this more easily. He wants immediate satisfaction. In person trades are great imo. This belongs in the marketplace though. What percent of the company do those shares represent right now? Bad move, going to hurt his diaper sales. How are you going to put power in the hands of people who refuse it? FlashBitcoins: Like bitcoins, but as slow as the mail. It isn't literally zero faith until it's all over. As long as there are some people still taking some amount for actual stuff it continues.  Do you at least include shipping in that high price? This is interesting. What happens if I have 50 fresh high difficulty coins and Satoshi sends me some of his early ones to that address. Will I still get full credit if I send you 50? [{"num_asks": "5", "best_bid": "None", "underlying": "BTC", "num_bids": "0", "num_active": "None", "strike": "12.0000", "closedate": "2011-08-04", "type": "call", "best_ask": "4.0000"}]So this means someone has offered to deliver a coin on Aug 4th at $12/BTC in exchange for $4 now and is willing to do that for up to 5 coins. Do I have that just right? https://bitoption.org/securitiesList Someone should point them to the BitcoinMan who's been wandering the streets of NYC. Won't they make less since they are turning away fees they used to get?
He was an ex-soldier. Our only chance at a peaceful world is if people feel safe as ex-soldiers and ex-politicians. If the only way to be safe is to align yourself with the biggest gang then we're going to have one damn big gang. Maybe after they've killed the people who promised them. That is no problem.You don't see the transaction because you don't have the latest blocks yet, there are 127704 blocks total, you should see this number rising rapidly in the bar at the bottom of the client. You've convinced me, I'm switching back to SETI.Wait actually I don't have any equipment because mining is a specialized task that I don't need to concern myself with because I don't have a comparative advantage there. "I hand-wrote block 0" So you are selling boys and girls? I'm not saying that faith can hold things together no matter what. I'm just saying that to a large extent the loss of faith requires the printing. Maybe I'm wrong, go for it. That's pretty ridiculous. Should he get a different version so he can save some? It's a 30 minute technical job. It's an impossible economic one.Users are faced with Bitcoin that has a well protected network with 400000 difficulty and hundreds of merchants and some good exchanges and the can get $100 worth of them for about $100. Now we have new coin with tiny difficulty, no merchants, no exchanges, and there is no benefit because you still only get $100 worth for $100.Same with new merchants and exchangers, which network will protect their payments, which has customers holding value denominated in it, which has a liquid market. The choice is easy.It's a miracle and it only partly has to do with the code. A lot of it is culture. You can't store value in code, you can only store it in people's minds.You allude to the other problem, but I don't think you see it fully. Anyone who does choose Bitcoin2 has to think that other people will be coming along for there to be any point. But a person who thinks that people jump from currency to currency when there is no significant difference between them must realize that people are going to be jumping to Bitcoin3. This means people won't hold much value (or any) in your chain and you won't get miners, merchants, and exchangers.  That's what I thought, so SHA256 needs to completely break to be a problem for Bitcoin? Is it right that it won't be a problem if it becomes a thousand or a million times easier to solve? People will just switch to the better algo and difficulty will increase like when we moved to GPUs. Exactly, this node wouldn't do anything differently than all nodes are doing now. I don't know about majority (simple fact lookup I guess), but point taken.So governments can print for a long time without hyperinflation, it's the loss of faith that causes hyperinflation. No government ever needs to print 1000x the old monetary base unless hyperinflation has already taken hold, the truly MASSIVE printing is caused by hyperinflation. But sure, normal, reckless printing could trigger the loss of faith that triggers hyperinflation that then triggers trillion dollar bills.  I just wrote an article about bitcoin on the back of a postage stamp. Space was really tight, so I think we've hit the big time now. But yeah, it's kind of dumb, but print adds legitimacy in a lot of people's minds. And it does open to a different audience.  The issue might not be excessive force. It could be excessive force against peaceful people. I wouldn't use an AM on these cops for this though, fwiw. It was bad, but it's mostly reversible. Can't undo this:http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/05/25/jose-guerena-arizona-_n_867020.html Comparing it the value the early adopters get to a tax is wrong. Most importantly it isn't forced on anyone ever, but leaving that aside it's still way different. Satoshi and early adopters don't get new users money/goods unless they give up some of their coins, if they do that then they won't get that obscene reward you mention. Now on top of that, when ever they do convert their coins to usable wealth, no one is made worse off. Who ever pays for the coins actually gets coins, they aren't paying to be allowed in, they are trading value for value, voluntarily, meaning that they think it's making them better off.You are more than welcome to try to monetize some other bits, but I think you underestimate the difficulty of doing that (like it's a super easy million bucks, but no one is doing it) and overestimate the cost of value going to early adopters.  Crying probably more appropriate. Laughing probably better for you. Everyone has different costs, there is no reason to think that a large chunk of miners will quit in unison. When a small amount do quit then difficulty will drop and some will come back or others will not quit. No you could bet on USD/BTC of 10.50 by sending 1.105BTC.
Erm, I can't. I may have overstated the point. Printing certainly could be the cause of a hyperinflation and maybe most are caused that way I don't know. A government that sat stable for a long time doesn't just suddenly printing instead of taxing for no reason, right? I am interested and will probably read about this more tomorrow, I'll let you know if I find anything decently convincing that agrees with me.  +1 for Mille and Mike. This thread WAS from the future. That isn't what happened to him at all. I question your copy/paste ability based on reading comprehension.  The first rule of Bitcoin is talk about Bitcoin. Cool. I'll be watching. I've thought about that (not 2.75M for pocket change because that's ridiculous), but the general idea of 'enemies' buying as a hedge. 1. It would be good for 'us'.2. They can't do it because admitting a chance that their system can fail is essentially impossible. (Also, hedging tail risk is not their idea of a good time)3. Anyone who can see that will buy more than "a hedge" and essentially be "one of us" Maybe google could display relevant results when users type "bitcoin" into the search field? That's great. Gotta watch out for overprint at a certain price and getting stuck with a bunch of "I paid 2BTC for this shirt" when USD/BTC = 28. Maybe just print as you sell. That's a good idea. The pool could not even exist until the attack. I think over time more and varied pools will emerge, with 144 blocks a day you could easily have 50 pools that average a block a day. But also pools could have agreements with each other to swap percents. Surely anyone with much power is smart enough to switch to individual mining automatically, no? The ramp up the reported spiked after the difficulty increased. It wasn't real, but only an effect from their bad formula. They assume current difficulty backward past the increase and get a wrong number until enough time has passed to get the inaccurate assumption out of their equation.But maybe something is going on now. Deepbit is gone? Where did you get your data on the ramp up? It wouldn't. You don't get adoption via restriction. Why is money that can be used in your town less good than money that can be used in your town (and somewhere else, optionally, if you want to)? You should not borrow if your productivity is less than the average actor in the economy. If you do you will pay the difference; your lender will pay if you default. They'll probably make write down the same stuff whether we take them out to dinner or not. Just ignore their scribblings.  If you buy coins once you have plenty of direct uses for them you'll get the convenience and protection from inflation, but you won't get paid for foresight. I like this. http://mtgoxlive.bco.in/orders Gibson dissing Calacanis and misquoting him as saying "Bitcoin is the worst idea ever" obviously got this from the "most dangerous idea" headline.http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qLpNGEXLUKY&t=2008s You mean I'll have another chance to buy below $5? Cool.
Yeah, but otoh, you might think of defaulting to try to shock people back into hoarding money. "OMG, the welfare fund is empty, maybe save a little in case this stuff catches value again." Not saying it would work, but in these situations nothing really is, so, try? When $1B dollars buys a house you promise a soldier $1B, later it buys a coffee, but you don't have it anyway. Print........ Actually priority is higher for larger tx which means that in order to get the same priority are a larger tx a smaller tx needs a larger fee. This is not hard coded it's just the default rule and is in place to reduce spam. I don't think it needs to be like that (some tiny min fee (as optional miner rule, not forced) will disincentivize spam just fine) and it will change in the future. You can make a system like that, and even call it Bitcoin, but it won't be Bitcoin and every instance of the Bitcoin software will know that and reject it.  1Mh contributes on average 1% as much as 100Mh. So, yes, you would be helping.If you don't like the unsteady results you can join a pool, but it really isn't worth it using a CPU. Yes, but I'm talking about LONGTERM defellatio. You will let us know as soon as you open it right? It's so easy to do I suspect you already have and are just loading up on diff 1 coins. It really is hilarious. The Death Star Bubble is bearing down on them and they point to this little thing and scream "BUBBLE". http://translate.google.com/translate?js=n&prev=_t&hl=en&ie=UTF-8&layout=2&eotf=1&sl=sv&tl=en&u=http%3A%2F%2Fsvt.se%2F2.22584%2F1.2439316%2Fny_piratvaluta_kan_hota_finanssystemenRick Falk Vinge to SVT, "There is no government that can blow you to save the state economy."Rick agrees, this will have disastrous results. According to Urbandictionary.com defellatio is "While a male receives head, something is done to make his erection disappear". This definition is not useful. Now I can't find a link, but according to Mises.org defellatio is "An increase in blowjobs today at the expense of blowjobs in the future."I think this points to an overlooked weakness of the Bitcoin System. It will suffer from major defellatio. This is bad by anyone's definition.Suppose you give blowjobs. Of course you get paid for them. But if you take bitcoin as payment you will get fewer and fewer bitcoins/blowjob over time. If you are rational (and I know you are) then you will do ALL of your blowjobs today leaving very few (or none!) for future days. Some people might suggest that this is not a problem, but I suspect that they just don't understand how important blowjobs are.I'm here to solve this problem, but actually I don't think it can be solved and the Bitcoin System is going to shrivel up.  Welcome.Stopping discussion is such a silly strategy.  "It's going to eat your monetary syst-I mean I like to play video games." Ahahaha, I hope that is what they are worried about. That's hilarious.  You can try whatever you want. But something like bitcoin with an entity that excludes people is not anything like bitcoin at all. We've actually been discussing a similar idea in our secret 'EA' forum. We don't think it's fair that all these new people are coming in after we took a risk on an essentially useless pretend currency. Newcomers have a much more stable market, more help, more services, a larger community, etc. Not to mention free open source GPU software when we had to use slow inefficient CPUs. So we're going to implement something called reverse demurrage. We signed each other's wallets with our 'EA' keys that Satoshi issued and only coins in these wallets will be free of reverse demurrage. Reverse demurrage means that your coins will be shrunk in transit. We're going to try a 5% rev-dem rate at first, but it'll probably have to be increased as we foresee more and more people coming in with ever faster hardware and ever more assurance of value. Please don't be surprised if we decide to switch to multiple reverse demurrage which will decrease your coins over and over as they pass through our nodes. But at least we're not trying to fork you. And what if someone bought all the inches!?! You.Will.Be.Assimilated.Earthling Pornviewing by time has to be more that 72% male.  That's what I'm waiting for I figure maybe I could learn to use it as is, but there won't be enough trading partners until it is easy, so might as well wait. How can this be? Are they running out of pennies?
If you really want to talk this with people who don't care to learn economics, just say:"Yes, if everyone prefers dollars over bitcoins then someone could theoretically buy them all. This isn't a reason to stay away since you can insist on being made fabulously wealthy before you'll give up your last coins.""No, deflation makes your coins more valuable. Back them up." The massive printing of huge bills is an effect of hyperinflation not (usually) it's cause. Hyperinflation is caused by a loss of faith in a currency. This can be caused by various things, massive printing is one of them and not the usual one. When people don't believe that their money will hold value anymore them immediately spend it on anything they think will. They don't want to wait and pay any price. Now if the government still wants to get hold of stuff they need more money than ever and they print it. It is already too late at this point. Eventually everyone gets it and no one accepts bills above their value as paper. The answers are convoluted sounding because the questions are bad. Try answering this one clearly:What if you get angry and beat your wife, killing her?Seriously, give it a go. They blocked a site that bought and sold coins for PP and a guy who did a lot of transfers publicly. I don't think their policy is to hunt down individuals who trade bitcoins. And if you aren't advertising then it's hard to figure that out anyway. Well, except maybe statistically when the community is small. None of that $50M (actually lower like you say) is in the system either, it's paid to people who sold coins, it doesn't go 'in' anything. What we do know is that there are 6.3M coins and none of each of their owners declined to trade them for $8.20, so they value them more than that, but we don't know how much more. Your order can't get resolved besides at the price you agree to. All this complaining is silly. Some people want to make offers you can't see, big deal. It doesn't change the fact that all you are doing is making offers yourself and that the only thing that can happen is that they get filled or don't. The Bitcoin "system" doesn't have you getting coins as one of it's goals. If you can convince anyone with coins to send you some the system will do that in a snap. Your problem is finding something valuable to exchange. It turns out that you can cancel payment on Bitcoin purchases really easily and you need to find a way to overcome people's worry that you will do that. One way is sending a wire, another is handing cash to someone, another is building a reputation/meeting people/making friends/proving your trustworthy identity and then using PP or similar, another is selling or doing something valuable. It's your problem and it's not that hard to solve if you want to.edit: My tone might be too harsh. There are people trying to find better ways. CoinPal was great, but PP shut them down. Dwolla can be used to get money to MtGox. Either way it has nothing to do with tech savy. My parents fed-ex'd a bag of cash. Cliffs: FDA says birth pools are a medical device, seizes shipment, returns shipment, says they still own the pools and "will be back".http://blog.cuntastic.org/2011/05/27/interview-with-barbara-harper/ Fraud protection is great, but the system is set up to lead to fraud and a need for fraud protection.The math has existed for a long long time to make it way way harder. I'm sure it's not, just having fun with the transitive property.mybitcoin owner = anonymousstoshi = anonymousmybitcoin owner = satoshi Are you serious? You couldn't find anywhere that said "Backup wallet.dat only"?   Are you spying on me? (wait, I guess not since you don't know what I'm doing). I give loans. Loans don't cause bailouts anymore than shoes cause dancing. Yeah, at first I was thinking PP then changed it to card because PP shut coinpal etc, but what about using FB to clear people to join a site like bitcoinmarket was where people PP each other. People trading without sharing the details with everyone is clearly wrong, OTC should be very ashamed. That makes sense.  That means it's probably Satoshi. I really don't like Facebook, but I was wondering if that might be a good fraud reduction check. If they have a sufficiently old and active FB account with details that match the card it is very unlikely to be a stolen card. Plus you could combine that with FB Bitcoin activism. Participating in the economy may very well make your investment more valuable. But it's like adding a poodle outside a bank vault. It's just wrong to imply the poodle is necessary to keep the cash safe. Crying won't help even if you do participate in the economy. Slow payment is a problem with the current system and a reason to get in Bitcoin and stay in. Anyone who can make it cheaper and faster to convert can profit so the incentives are all set right. After two more years of price increases are you going to change your mind and sell bitcoins for dollars? 
But in this fork they have to trust a central entity to keep GPUs out. Might as well just trust that entity to keep the books. They should have used this as a plot device in Farenheight 411."We noticed you've had a light on for most of the night. You aren't reading books are you?""No sir, those are grow lights. These are my hemp plants.""I heard you can make paper from that plant. We'll be keeping a close eye on you." I disagree with this claim. Why do you expect the value to go up? What potential do you see?  Yeah, I think that's better. Employment offers are solicitations for service and belong with offer for service just like requests for goods belong near offers for goods. I don't know why I thought they were separate. You mean like for pants or a jacket?I'm kidding! Really, I can't make either kind of patch! Would you join a pool that double spends? No, me neither. I like. check out Virwox? Currency ExchangeGoodsServicesEmploymentSomeone make it happen. If I want to buy chicken bones first I have to see if any are for sale, then I have to go to a different forum to offer to buy them. What the hell? This applies for everything, not just bones. If I'm just curious about what goods are being bought and sold, I have to go to two forums, why?The current setup is not good for users at all. It's simple to police, that's it's only benefit.I'm going to repost this in it's own thread later if I need to.  What do you think about people who invest in successful companies? Resource allocation matters.   Um, okay. Did you write to an email that Gates gave you and get a response from the email you wrote to? I wouldn't figure it was Gates otherwise. I don't care what the hell you do, but someone has got to change the marketplace somehow. It's like the worst possible version of itself. No one cares if you do drugs man. The email came from MtGox.  A so called "speculator" is not doing anything but making offers to sell and/or buy bitcoins. If someone is 'hurt' by this they need to watch out for butterflies imo. You mean there is no interface? Is that your next work? There is a trade off between speed and wasted work from network latency. If you have a new block every minute and it takes 10 seconds to propagate the fact of a new block then ~16.6% of work miners do will be wasted. With ten minute blocks it's more like 1.6%.edit: another way to say is that 16.6% of blocks found would end up orphaned because they were found after another valid block. What's the diff on the namecoin chain right now?
The pushing up happens as he buys, not after. I'm surprised there isn't something more damaging that can be done if you get enough nodes to change a majorities time. It seems like all he gets is a small chance to put a few false confirms on one or a few nodes. Lol, how are you going to do a timing attack? Nice. Any minute now...Are you saying requirements won't net out? That seems pretty harmful if so. It seems like that just means we need to leave more with you than necessary, am I misunderstanding?If I buy a put and sell a call do I need the full size of the call or my max loss?Any margining should be from a straight loan where the lender takes risk of non payment. I don't think people will care if you are the lender, but not with our money. Perhaps eventually you could come up with a conservative rule set and give traders with extra dough the choice of using their money to lend at interest.Do you have plans to get less dependent on MtGox?   They didn't say much besides "There is no record of transactions" and that's false. So it kind of sucked. I bet it won't. I bet they call it something else so they can shout over and over how they stopped QEing and you should hate the market for the prices rising etc. It was mentioned twice in the Press Hits thread.For anyone who doesn't know it's about 3 minutes with the woman who wrote the slate article and doesn't understand Bitcoin. http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/05/03/card-data-is-stolen-and-sold/This just makes me think "wtf is wrong with the people who run this system?" The best they have is "send the exact data that can be used for unlimited charges, then if any problems happen we'll all have a headache and roll it back probably" what the hell, it's so dumb.  Ah yes, this is probably true until there is reliable protection from viruses etc. Just because of the price or other reservations?at 1.2x I would take my chances with however long it takes at MtGox, hard to say though. There are a lot of people who saw the price move 100% on them while waiting for funds to move.  Does the guy in Singapore want to meet in person? Maybe agree to a small amount and then see if he wants to do more at a better rate when the cash is right there? Even if he doesn't at least you get some quickly.Good luck. Yeah, it isn't that bad. I'd like more features actually. Like choosing coins and importing/exporting keys. Why would the more tech savvy use a web wallet? Hmm, I'm not seeing where it says international wire on the site now. I guess send an email to info@mtgox.com to see if it is possible from Singapore, assuming you have a bank account. I don't even try for "not crazy" I'm working on "not too crazy". Clearcoin holds bitcoins until both parties are satisfied. That doesn't help you get money to someone who has coins for you to buy which seems to be your problem here.Can you not do a wire to MtGox? It's always nice to hear that other people are as distracted over it as I was. Don't feel too bad. I bought $15 worth asap and before I got a bigger chunk they'd gone up 100%. I think everyone always wishes they'd gotten more and earlier at this point. Hopefully we'll always feel that way. Probably like the dollar with a different name. But they may have worse, dollar seems more like purgatory to me. Conceivably in the future a thread could get so hot that you could never get in on a slow connection! I'm actually annoyed at it in general. Normally if you post right after someone you can still get "credit" for it, but with the warning sometimes I feel like I should delete because it's already there in about as good words, and I know that everyone will know that I should have known about the previous post. A money that encourages you to buy things under the threat of losing your wealth is not as good as a currency that pays you for waiting. It doesn't make you wait, it just pays you if you do. Child has 2 apples. Tell him eat now I'm taking half tomorrow. OR. Eat what you like, I'll double your apples tomorrow. Which is nicer? Also everyone coming in pretending this increase in value is guaranteed is a little silly. You should only worry about spending your deflationary money or not once you've run out of the crap money. And every bank pays for their own hashing to keep attackers out instead of all of us hashing on one chain? High price to pay just to restrict the number of people you can transact with and add parties that can screw you who incidently have a history of screwing you. "never traded much through the forums" and 1 post should have been a give away. Why a tiny lie? I don't know.
I loved bitcoinmarket back in the day, but not anymore.  What you do with your own money is fine. It only influences the market to the extent that you pay for it.The housing/bailout shit is totally different. They played the market in a bad way and lost and then stole money to make themselves whole. Yes, they made houses too expensive, people who did the right thing and refrained from overpaying for a house should have benefited by their saved dollars being worth much more, but instead new dollars were printed their deserved gains were taken and given to the losers of those bets.If someone makes bitcoins too expensive then they will be cheaper later and you will be rewarded by affording more bitcoins later. If you are wrong and bitcoins are currently undervalued because tons of people still don't know about them then you miss an opportunity. Make your best guess. What insight am I missing? Can't you just do very low tx fee with your family and friends to 'prove' you don't really need good and fast service? Then if you get it anyway no one is hurt by your riding because the tx is so cheap to process, if you have to wait that's a risk you take. If you can't afford the risk you pay more, the spillover benefit doesn't hurt you. In a tiny way it helps since people who use the same money as you benefit and you are better off when your (potential/statistical) trading partners are better off.I kind of hope I live another 118 years just to see the system keep working without block rewards. :-) Hmm, wait until it passes max neg int and resets and withdraw max pos int?I don't know why he made a new site and let it go to crap. Should have sold it for something back when he had a reputation.edit: Not trying to freak you out, it'll probably get fixed eventually.  Hmm, maybe making it norm friendly is a mistake. 1. Buy Bitcoins2. Make friendly software and sites3. ?4. Profit?Maybe people are doing this. If you look around and think so, try this:1. Buy Bitcoins2. ?3. Profit? Is anyone in this thread actually saying that if I pay someone less than X/hr they think it is right to use force against me?   Alright, you are just a tease. Lol, we'll get in a bidding war around $1/21000 per coin. I made a transaction a few hours ago with .01 fee and it is 0/unc, not in any block in blockexplorer and not in the list of unconfirmed tx at bitcoincharts. I did not look to see if I had connections at the time I sent it. I am bouncing between 1 and 2 connections now. I'm guessing that I had none or a dead end when I sent and no one has heard about my tx, is that probably what happened? It will rebroadcast forever, right?edit: Already in the unconfirmed list. I have 3 connections now. I should mention that I did restart the computer and didn't turn Bitcoin on right away so this didn't really take several hours, not sure exactly how long, but at least 15 minutes after I got the computer back on. For real, 6 hours is like a month in Bitcoin time. And 1% is like .01% in Bitcoin fluctuations. Absolutely, I don't need to pay a bunch of miners to facilitate trade between people I trust for more than the amount involved. Bitcoin just opens my trading world up from like 6 people to potentially 6 billion. How do any coins come into existence?  Haha, I thought they were a tad sleazy, but it's nice that they told you straight up. Verifying the validity of a tx is super fast and easy. Burying is more like it. The more and more difficult blocks piled on top the harder it is to dig them back up. Everyone is a criminal. There are 10k+ laws and you don't know them and can't follow them. Criminal has been synonymous with person for a long while now.Unless you mean something else by crinials. I don't know what it could be, but I also don't know how you can misspell a word you put in all caps. Wow, what a bold prediction. If the value keeps going down it will lose it's value? Holy revelation batman. Regarding exchange fees. As more and more things can happen inside the bitcoin economy you will need to pay the in and out less frequently. Also cheaper exchanges will tend to emerge over time. Is that Austrian division?   The free transactions is not a good selling point. For one it isn't completely true, and it isn't the breakthrough here.If you think there is already a good money available then Bitcoin will seem silly. If you realize that all the monies we have access to have huge failings then Bitcoin seems amazing. A money needs to be: divisible, fungible, durable, transferable, and scarce.Government money fails because they always debase it by printing more, it is not scarce.Gold is pretty good, but it is very hard to divide and recombine for normal people and it is expensive and risky to send it far away.Bitcoin excels on every feature. 
I think it could work if the fee is paid to the recipient and there is a one-click payback button. Desired bulk mailers will have no problem. And they can incentivise people to payback by removing them from the mailing list for not paying back. You could even have a payback double button that would draw from the excess you've got from not paying everyone back. Also you could drop a hint by not paying back your aunt's emails.I think it isn't a killer app though because it isn't a problem for people. Google seems to have solved it algorithmically. $10 EST$15 PST$20 HST Dwolla has specifically mentioned an influx of Bitcoin users affecting them.  Hard to justify using GDP imo. That's just a measure of what is spent in a year right? Or is it what's created in a year? Either way that's different than the value held in money. And the better the money the more value it can/will hold compared to total wealth. I expect to lose some money foolishly market making in every contract   Someone linked me to the slashdot in July. I read the white paper and forum and immediately new it was the real deal for money.If there is a fatal bug in this implementation I'm going to be pissed off :-) ZOMG 21 trillion Bitcoins. Bitcoin is broken. Title misleading too. There are plenty of other currencies that will die too. We're world wide.Even using all value held in currency is low imo. Rich people are smart enough not to hold a lot of wealth in crappy fiat currencies, but Bitcoin won't be such a bad default option. On top of that I think there will be wealth to be stored in Bitcoin world. But this just means a higher cap, not necessarily a likely scenario. This is way off base. I have no salary and a lot of coins. My relatives aren't geeks and have considerably >0 coins. It would have to be a pretty bad explanation. You can have a bitcoin. Can you have a ClearXchange? Any complete, honest explanation of Bitcoin will mention the fact that a Bitcoin is not a dollar.Aside from that you have yo log into your bank and the recipient has to be known to the bank (at least in some sense). At best normal banking gets a little easier.  MtGox hides that data. I don't know why. At least honor your word man. How can we believe anything you say now? (No need to answer) Might as well anticipate the increase though. Eventually 1BTC will be a good week for anyone. It'll be confusing to switch what a contract means. Better imo. Interesting. While I've watched the bid side wiggles, but not the ask. I guess this is a dark pool ask sitting below all other asks?haha, now it moves. I was roughly the opposite. Desperately looking for a good money. Learned some tech from Bitcoin because I recognized it was good money. I've been putting it inside one of the zeros because I like doughnuts. This was kind of handy, but now it's a drag. I'm on a slow connection and I just had to click post 3 (3!) times. I didn't see a way to turn it off, do we really need it? A quirk of this system is that if the price happens to be low and stable near the deadline it will be easy for late bets to win. Say it's been $2-$2.50 for a week it's easy money 1 day out (possibly to the point of bets only being limited by people's fear of you running with 10k+ bets, haha or fear of manipulation at the last second). But if it is more stable and high, say $21-$23 it takes multiple bets to cover the range. Not saying you should change anything, it's an interesting game. It isn't 'bad'. It's just that the value of bitcoin is it's difficulty and it's acceptance. A new incarnation won't have those things. Anyone coming in and deciding between Bitcoin and Bitcoin2 rationally chooses Bitcoin. Now if something totally different with new/different properties is created then maybe it has a chance.
This is interesting. I plan to play, gotta get some strategery first. Oh, absolutely. I'm not saying that normal folk should use tiny fractions. There will certainly be a general use word that emerges whenever more precision becomes common out of necessity. I'm just thinking that two currency codes for different denominations is odd. And no one is going to make one code 'official' anyway. I don't know if another currency code is needed. USD isn't going to get a new one when you need a billion for a sandwich."Want a 2oz coffee, Sam? That's 4,000 BUS (billion USD)"Hmmm, maybe it will come in handy. Yeah, it's good. Not my idea, someone in another thread. I'm still waiting for Mike and Mille (10^-3) cartoons (or porn). Are you suggesting that there is a television show where producers instead of viewers determine the content? Mark me shocked.  MicroBitcoinI'm calling it a Mike. BTCDD is better precisely because of it's difference with something like you describe. It gets at the difference between Satoshi unloading and noob shipping coins around all day. Uh, yeah. n/m. Shutting a pool down would keep difficulty low longer, there is an incentive. How about your mybitcoin account to theirs?If it has to be direct 0/unc are pretty good after 15 seconds. This is what pretty much every site that holds a bitcoin balance for you is doing. I have BTC credits at Mtgox. I expect it's fully backed, but it's still not the same as actual bitcoins. Betco gives you 100 cents for each bitcoin you send. They could call them chips and it would work exactly the same way. Lol, no way. How many staff do you think it takes? Do you see all the people in this forum handling bitcoin donations? Do they all have tons of staff? Are you kidding me? Haven't they gotten like $15k worth?I think this is from eating with politicians. Oh man, where were you a year ago? You could have saved us so much trouble.I for one don't want to starve to death, I'm done with Bitcoin. Drink the blood of the parasite! Don't become reliant on it!But seriously, you know why the walfare class has huge tvs and cars? They can't keep money in the bank without losing the support. They can have as many flat screens as the want though. Much better for them if they can save up value instead. Welcome. I'm surprised to hear that it's possible to be a financial journalist in a country that can't get mail to the US. Oh, I could be wrong, wonder what I'm thinking of. They did make billions in revenue and probably hundreds of millions in profit first. Seems like a buy signal to me   +1 for the magic. It's almost my 1 year anniversary with Bitcoin and I'm still amazed every day.
FSF and EFF and Singularity Institute and Seasteading Institute I can't tell if you are mocking me for real or for fun.It's like cow shit man. The price is really low because a bunch of people already have cows for other reasons. It would be dumb to think that the price of cow shit needs to take into account all the expenses associated with cows. Only the marginal costs count and we were at a low margin in the CPU mining world. I don't know why he discounts the cost of hardware, that seems at least as important. Maybe he was imagining only CPU mining and considered them "free" since we all have them anyway. This still requires new-fangled electro-technology to be hauled around with you. Here's the plan: All funds to one address, tattoo most of the private key down your arm, memorize the rest. Bam, money on your skin, money in your head. It's not smart business to be so sure. Are you seriously claiming that bitcoin WAS mainstream and now is less used?I think you are confused from the language. I'll respond to two chunks at random.Are you worried about your phone dieing while your out and not being able to spend coins? Theoretically all you need is the private key, so you should eventually be able to spend off of a machine in store with just your data, no power.There is no value anywhere outside of what people value. Do you think you have an example of something with value that no person values? Is this a suggestion to kill the trade page altogether?  "Free money" has a good and bad meaning imo. "Strength in numbers" is awesome. I used to think this too. I know these people don't have it all figured out, but consider this. If I come to you and promise to take care of your needs if you give me your schools, your roads, your money, and then make you buy an expensive license for everything more complicated than walking alone and your needs aren't met and you aren't making a move to give me back all those things and leave me alone then I'm going to make demands on you. These aren't people clamoring for the creation of a government (though maybe they have and would again I don't know) they are demanding something that probably doesn't total even to all government buildings and land let alone all past squandered wealth.Doesn't seem like the venue to spread bitcoin. It's kind of a thinking thing. His secret weapon should be suggesting how people could agree on a way to work together and then leaving them to do as they please. Sounds right to me. I like 1-1.  Do we know he's got that much? There isn't a single other person I'd rather have that much, anyway.  If you buy at $6 instead of $7 you'll have ~16% more coins. Which is meaningful at $147000. http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=423.0Some relevant discussion here. When do you imagine that the price changes? After Richee McGee has sold all he wants at the high price or as he is selling? The price always moves against you. More if you do large, less if you do small. There is no profit here, only paying more or getting less as you go. When you try to go the other way afterwards, same thing happens. Yeah, me too. Maybe I should go review what I wrote The "card wins for sure" was just a possible option to give if you wanted to guarantee to brighten someone's day. Christ, I just told you that I made the price go down by .0025. There was no profit opportunity. Small players make the price go down by small amounts, and there is no small profit made thereby. Big players make it go down by big amounts, and there is no big profit made thereby.  Oh, well my main idea was just email gambling games. The other stuff is all just variations that will maybe work with different models, whatever.
Ah, clever robots. These things are going to eat us if we aren't careful. I think a different strategy will become the norm soon. Buy a bunch of slightly out of the money puts. You will be guaranteed to be able to get, say, 90% of what you expect, but you can keep the upside until the very minute you actually need the money. All we need is a good site to trade options at and a really intuitive retail interface for merchants for whom currency speculation is not their thing. I bet we see it in a month or two. They don't get back into circulation. Any way to get them back without the keys would be a way to get other people's coins without their keys. At least with Bitcoin you can back up your money. It's a hidden file by default so your cat won't scratch it, er, your possum. Ah, right. Everything is different for the rich, none of my explanations or examples apply to them. I think the rich must be level 80 wizards or something. Are you sad that I'm not implementing? Don't be, I'm sure you can find someone. The inelastic supply of bitcoins is why it has 'market cap' of $40M and your idea isn't valued. Bitcoin can hold value, your system can't. Don't believe me, just do it. Maybe you are right and I'll eat my internet hat. It's extra suspicious that he's only got 1 post and already has multiple links out. If I'm reading the data correctly he made that signature and post and left in one minute seven seconds. I was imagining something like 2 sliders. One for payout and one for chance of winning. So you can do 30% chance at winning 1BTC for .3BTC+fee or 100% chance at winning 50BTC to give grandma a heart attack, but that costs the full 50BTC+fee. Maybe have no fee even and get your money from the shops you'll direct people too. It's probably worth a lot to have recent winners of Bitcoin dropped at your door if you sell ipods for bitcoin. Probably doesn't hurt to make money on both sides though. I put the idea out there because I'm not going to do it myself, but would like to see it done. I guess you've got some money coming your way then. I wish I was smart enough to understand how markets worked.I just moved the price down from 7.0125 to 7.011, but unsurprisingly the cheapest I can buy back for is still 7.0699. I'm going to have to wait for someone to put an ask out below 7.011 in order to make any money, and that is completely out of my control. The lowest ask could fall or it could go to 8.013 for all I know. Would a spammer make a question that specific? That seems a bit to good for someone who's job was writing a post that wouldn't get deleted.Did mod remove links? Yes, every bitcoin is always hoarded. And if you want a neutral word instead of a loaded one then every bitcoin is always saved. If people realize, as you did, that bitcoins have value then they will want to hold them. That much is right.It is a convenient abstraction to think of there being 'a price' for something, but actually there are just offers to buy and sell. In markets with lots of players and good liquidity the highest bid and lowest ask are close together. This is often true of the Bitcoin market at MtGox now. However, when a large sale is made these diverge. You cannot sell an unlimited amount without dropping the price, and you cannot buy back automatically at this low price, new offers will need to be made.Manipulating markets is costly. It can be very profitable if you can pay the price with someone else's money and profit with your own, but there is no magic riskless money to be made outside of that. That would be great. alt+2, alt+7 and I could look like a forum god, spewing knowledge.  Okay, I'm finally convinced, you can go ahead and do it now. A lot of people have been making gambling games and it got me thinking. Sell one time games sendable via email. Maybe you have the game on a site already, just add the option to pay for a game and send the link to someone instead of playing it yourself.This could be a tool for spreading Bitcoin. I imagine the site partnering with Bitcoin shops so a winner is directed to something fun to buy right away.Also I've always liked the idea of selling guaranteed winning scratch off cards as presents. A loser is lame and seems like a nothing gift sometimes, but a winner can make a day. Also you can give a lot more than you get credit for that way, if you're into that. If "afterburner229" have better code for us to examine we will be very pleased. Haha, if I was Alexa I would make that the default for every webpage until I knew different though. Wouldn't be surprised if that's what they do. Thanks. I should probably get in the habit of directing to links instead of banging keys for 15 seconds every time. It would probably be interesting to compare my answers to the same question over time. They probably get shorter and less accurate.  That is a good deal. I'm surprised to learn there are kindle books that expensive.
The rule defining a valid coin is such that when half are found the rate at which they are found drops by half, when half the remain are found, it drops by half again, and so on. This leads to there never being more than a predetermined amount, which happens to be just under 21M because of rounding to the 8th decimal.That flower is nice, but it's probably going to get old to people fast since it takes up half the screen every time you post. Does the tx have confirmations? If it does then you should have your funds by now. What are you talking about? Do you know some way to have a distributed currency without all this hashing business?  I bet he knows about the other currency symbols. I like how it has a horizontal line instead of vertical. Bitcoin is different after all. Vertical seems to imply hierarchy, horizontal implies fair, flat, peer relationships imo.  Yep, it's only up (or down to near nothing) from here. Come on. Bitcoin used to be mainstream? This is just silly. Absolutely. This means that you can create a new wallet with new addresses while offline, record an address, encrypt the wallet, delete the original, put it in storage, and pay to it whenever you want and essentially be beaming money into your super secure bitcoin savings account. It isn't quite right to say that you receive them when you download the block the tx was recorded in. It's more like that's when you find out that the coins are now in one of the addresses that you control. But the answer is the same, you don't need to be online when the coins are sent. This looks pretty slick.I'm constantly excited these days. I think people will be glad to give you PP for them, be careful to use someone with a rep though because PP can be charged back.If you have trouble finding someone send me a PM and I'll get money moved from my bank to PP for a small discount. What do you think about the dollar when we talk about said things?Is there some reason you want those things only to trade for government money? I'd really prefer my illegal recreation not go to support legal wars thanks very much. I think there is a bit more to a phyle than a shared money, but it certainly gives the possibility a solid boost. You think they wouldn't just get all the data and search, sort and analyze offline? I can see that. Even online an old symbol could have a different connotation, like, "We used Bitcoin before it was cool". So multiple symbols can all be part of the bitcoin graphic culture. Bitcoin is not a way to buy things without getting ripped off. It's a way to pass value once you are sure that you want to pass value. Other services can and are being built to help with problems like you describe.  Sure, but I bet one symbol will emerge eventually. It just makes sense to use the most recognized symbol in your stuff which makes it more used and thus more recognized until one is the "actual" symbol and one is at best, the "old" symbol. Just a feeling about what will happen, not a should or an ought. I somewhat prefer the gold too, but I think I like everything else about this new scheme. I think different colors will work for different applications and audiences though.Are people interested in gold Ƀ stuff?  Right now a fee isn't going to make blocks come quicker, but a fee does ensure miners have incentive to put yours in, a no fee tx relies on their generosity. Eventually the build up of fees will actually incentivise marginal miners to turn on or switch from another task resulting in a quicker block. I'm sure I didn't do it quite right, but I think it looks better than with empty space in the corner. Overall I like the scheme.  What did they say? I can't get it.
Isn't charge-per-entropy another way of saying "trade some money for the inclusion of data based on it's entropy"? Yeah, I guess it's the "tc" that makes it uncommon.  With a thousand it's as worth while as my 2 laptop CPUs. With a hundred thousand it's 4 GPUs.edit: Sorry, missed that you were talking feelings, calcs irrelevant perhaps. Generally if you want something and don't want to do it yourself you can pay someone. I highly recommend that strategy. A brain does not imply a preference for another coin instead of some pleasure or need. What is this singularly brained person doing for everyone so as to get their coins that doesn't involve any outlay for employees or land or training or food even? Okay, to be clear I'm not saying to spend up all your coins. I'm just saying that if you've come to the conclusion that it's such a sure thing that it is foolish to spend any then you need to be buying more.  I could imagine a person who can mine a few coins, but for some reason cannot buy any and perpetually has fewer coins than they consider their optimum amount. This person should not spend any. Okay, to be simple lets say you get paid 2X each week and need X to live. You put X into bitcoin right away as savings. Now along comes someone selling milk for BTC (at the same rate for simplicity). You realize, ah ha, now I put X + milk budget into BTC each week and make a little extra since I get the appreciation right up until the second I buy.I want to buy everything with bitcoin. Then I don't have to hold any dollars. Isn't it also reasonable to use your depreciating wealth to buy appreciating wealth? Are you saying that it's reasonable to spend your wealth on milk, but not reasonable to spend it on bitcoins, wait a day, then spend the bitcoins on milk? Is it more or less dumb to buy coins, wait a week, then buy milk?Under your assumptions shouldn't you put all of your wealth in coins and then spend sparingly from them?How is this a bad thing? Don't we all get rich if you are right? I think p2p has a pretty good image.If people are calling it "internet money" without snickering then we're doing good. But all those central database linked to the dollar failboat currencies have given it a negative connotation I think.GrassMerkleRoots money. I'll pay $5/BTC.I bet you tip generously since it's free fake money! Maybe you should. They bleed it by the billion.  I'll buy it if they block Shiva. Shiva... Shi.... shit. 1. Not yet, maybe people will value them that much someday2. All transactions are recorded in the block chain which every node has. The transactions contain no information about you, so unless you give away the connection between 1fhdjHFS98DKJjdksDS9euDH44 and yourself then no one knows it was you who sent 3.3BTC to 1HE9hd9ejwQ3QnvJKSL4LKccn. I don't know of any countries where small gifts to friends are taxed. It's pretty wrong to say that all governments tax all transactions. Governments are slow as hell.3. Sounds roughly correct.4. I think so. The extensions required are mostly ease of use in a broad sense.  Yes, but shouldn't there be a wealth effect kicking in? "I'm rich bitch!" and share the booty? Some versions are insisting on a fee for small or new coins. I just need to get a different version.  I think you have it backwards on the size though. Bigger is faster because it is less likely to be spam. I doubt it. Why the prohibition on bitXXXXcoin in that case? Easy enough to check. Try "bitc". Lol, do you have more than a drop in the bucket of anything ever? Maybe people are getting tired of you?I kid. I kid.I know a couple times recently I went to throw a little to someone, did a little calculation, decided on ~.10BTC and then remembered that my damn version wants a .1 fee and gave nothing. 
Hoarder: Someone who has done some work for the Bitcoin community and not asked anything in return. This is not right. You see transactions as 0/unconfirmed before they even get in a block, it's roughly instantaneous. You don't see this one because you don't have all the blocks yet. Cool, I played deuces wild for quite a while on .1BTC. Works well. Using a CPU will get you 50BTC about once a decade at the current difficulty. Most miners now are using GPUs and are in pools to get small amounts frequently instead of an occasional complete reward.Check out the mining section for more info. A poker site? Yes there is interest.  Another plan might be to make it wider than a bitcoin merchandise engine, like everything bitcoin to get people using it and then charge merchants either for placement in a shopping section or at the top whenever they would be relevant. Just throwing things out. Seems like a good idea. Don't forget though that people won't want to pay much until you have lots of eyeballs and you won't get eyeballs until you have something to search through. I don't know what model is best, but you might give a free month or something. People are going to be more likely to get a list and give it to you if they get something for free and then more likely to keep paying if it gets them some traffic/sales and won't require anything but payment to keep going. It doesn't make sense as long as people still follow the rule of "build off of whichever version of a block you see first", but if some people stop doing that then some possibilities open up.Imaging the slow version was offering the finder of the bock who built on top of it 1BTC. Why not switch over once you get the slow block? This could move the slow blocks chance of staying from 5% to 50% if half of miners were looking for this and it would be well worth it to pay that 1BTC.Once something like this is in place you have the option of working on the current block which has very few fees in it or redoing the previous block to get all those fees and paying people to work on yours instead. If the offering you'll need to pay (just enough to outbid the other finder) is less than the extra fees then this is what you do.I don't think people will keep working on old blocks and waste a ton of work, I think an equilibrium fee of about half the average fees in a block will emerge. At half there is no incentive to work on an old block because you'll have to pay more than half to outbid the other guy who is making the standard offering.I think this is cool because your tx fee would now indirectly go to pay for more and more work getting piled on instead of just the one block of work as it is now. Isn't the minimum fee just a default setting too? Won't people mod around that just as easily as the oldest first rule? Or do you mean to make the default client consider blocks with tx that have less than the minimum fee invalid? I heard your mother charges a minimum fee.  Just make a new block explorer. It's a really nice thing to have, would suck if it went down even for a little while. Good to have another. I'm in for 3BTC if it tracks BitcoinDays over time and updates with each block. Good for a month. That's what I meant. I think the passing forward will eventually happen. Imagine the future with no fixed block reward. A block with a bunch of fees is found and hardly any fee tx remain. There is not much reason to build on that block even though the block finder and the recipients of transactions in those bocks would like you to, I think a fee will be paid. When I thought about this before I thought the equilibrium would be 50% under the assumptions I was using. Okay, sorry for the hostility.There is a sense in which is already baked in. Miners can 'charge' whatever they want based on whatever they want. It isn't unreasonable that they could require higher payment for tx with dependencies that were way back in the archives, right? Is it actually a tiny bit costlier to look farther back?Even if there isn't extra costs, miners can still charge for it if they think that is a good idea. whatever, all my coins are unique and i'm not running anything that takes them for being old. you will be able to make and fund a bunch of instawallets a lot faster. Audio isn't great, but I can hear and understand. Fuck that. Somehow you realize it's shitty to do to him, but not the rest of us? I am interested in this.The offers make me think I don't understand though. Are the prices really in BTC? Why is 19.8667 the price for the option to buy 10BTC for $1? They all seem wrong like this.
Do you think the distribution will flatten out or bunch up? Well which is it? Do they have to enforce the law or just make an effort? Is standing up enough effort? Do they actually need to find a suspect? Think about it for 30 seconds? If they fail to meet this requirement you imagine then what happens? Do the police investigate the failure? Or try to investigate it at least?P.S. Do I get my money back if they fail to deliver? What you are going to make a cap, but sometimes raise and lower the cap? That's another way to say that your cap isn't a cap.Like the debt ceiling, lol. Counting nodes is a natural thought. But then you have to police it. It's not that hard to make more and more nodes. It is hard to make more and more hashes. It might be expensive if you were required to pay the full cost, but you don't have to. If millions of people are using bitcoin it'll be very cheap for you. agorism doesn't require a computer. It just means actually acting on the belief that you are free. The fee is going to drop by orders of magnitude soon imo.  It's not that talking about making something better is pointless it's that people keep coming in here and saying "Hey, cool thing, why don't you make it actually do something?" Sweet rapturing Jesus, it solves an amazingly difficult problem in the world. If you have an idea for simultaneously solving this huge problem and another please tell us, but just saying it would be nice is useless. I think he's suggesting you go read the quality ones. There is an exchange rate between apples and lamps. I wouldn't say they have a dependency on each other. I don't know the length of the number, but I know it's not a problem. Do you know schoolsucksproject.com? Brett is awesome imo, anarchist ex-schoolteacher explaining what I'm sure you know about school, but in an entertaining and clear way. Why not have it make pancakes at the same time?There is a reason for the type of work bitcoin does. It needs to be checkable orders of magnitude faster than it takes to solve and smoothly scalable. If you know a set of topological problems like this please share them. Oh, and it has to incorporate data from the previous block. And not just incorporate, but there needs to be no way to do any of the work in advance. Someone just make this endlessly created coin already.  How are new entrants going to push the price down? Won't they need to sell coins to do that? Won't they need to buy them first? Won't that push up the price? There is no duty to protect. Not in reality and not even in legal fantasy land. Deflation isn't magic. It is not the case that deflation--->goodness all the time. One could cause dollar deflation by murdering people and lighting their money on fire. This would not be good.  Deflation caused by a fixed money supply and ever increasing wealth and productivity is totally not a problem.Deflation is an effect of a healthy economy, it does not make a healthy economy. No, regardless of there being a higher offer to buy you still no that no one has been willing to fork over $6.80 to get that coin listed at $6.80. Yes, there is a piece of info you don't have. No, you are not entitled to it. No, it doesn't change the info you do have. You can't know how much difficulty is needed. It isn't like potential attackers are publishing how much power they could put together.  And you didn't go get your stuff? Were you afraid of the police or something?
I never generate, but I say leave it in a while longer. Maybe include a message saying that it is very unlikely to produce anything using a CPU. Even supposing that people are actually going to care about last when Last: $5.50 Bid: $5.80 Ask: $5.90 you'll likely just run into other dark pool offers. You may as well just make a thread saying "Hey guys I just sold 10,000BTC at $4.25"No one cares. Open offers matter. Inexperienced traders don't all have 80% of their brains on the floor. Anyone who is reading into this shit is just as likely to read into it the opposite way that you are hoping.  Go ahead, you can do it, you have my permission.  Maybe these guys who liked bitcoin enough to totally forget about it and then find 40kBTC on their hard drive. "Haha, do you remember Bitcoin? I heard a guy got two free pizzas." The spread is just the difference between the highest bid and the lowest ask that people offer. Generally more participants means those get closer together. The spread on Mtgox has been getting better over time. Ah, I get it. If it wasn't speculation we would now for sure. So since it is speculation we must not know and this must be the variable portion. ...Hair dresser takes Bitcoin.Hair dresser only takes Bitcoin. It's important work, but so frustrating to me. I wish I could write the magic to make him and others with the same idea understand.Yes, gold bootstrapped from useful good to awesome thing to barter to money. But that doesn't mean it's the only way!And how much non-money value does a thing need to be money? Is it enough for one person to have one small use for it?  There is still meaning there. When you see a bid for 10 coins at $6.80 each you know that at this moment no one with access to Mtgox values having extra coins more than that many dollars. Maybe there is a dark order at $6.82 so there is some info that you don't have, but that doesn't change the info that you do have. And you get the info for free! I remember days of $200 volume. $120k doesn't seem low to me at all. Bleh, advertisement for Ven. Wtf do people think? A private currency pegged to a bunch of government currencies, gross and boring imo. How could an offer mess up a market? That's all a market is, a place where people make and accept offers. GPU mining is where it's at now and even most of those join pools. Congrats on your score, you doubting doubter.  Hey old man, he said typical. Bring a couple hundred of your rational, religious, nationalists along if you can and then he'll be wrong. Why do you say that? There are only two things that differentiate a chain from others. It's difficulty and it's breadth of acceptance. I don't think any other chain will be able to bootstrap itself into value like this one. Why would someone who comes along choose a chain that had no double spend protection and no merchants accepting it when there is one that already has those things? Because they can get a higher number of them for the same cost? That's meaningless. I think that was misunderstanding. People are talking about starting another chain, which is still silly imo, but it needs to be done for learning purposes.There will only ever be one chain that is similar to the Bitcoin chain. It's where all the incentives point. Price drags difficulty not the other way. If people value coins more highly then people will pay more to mine for them. But people paying more to mine for them doesn't make people willing to pay more.  It would be cool to date new merchants so we can see growth easily. I'd guess the number of new this month is the same as the number up until this month.Each one used to be news and get me excited, but now they just keep coming. Yep it is natural, but scary when you think closer though. If I go broke alone there are people around to help me, but if we all go broke together we're super screwed. 
Seriously, someone solves a trillion dollar problem for a cost 6 orders of magnitude smaller at absolute most and there are still haters. Sheesh. It's like if I invented a teleporter that ran on one 9volt battery. EPA would probably shut me down. Much better to use 10,000,000 shipping containers I'm sure. This is a frequently overlooked point.A related fantasy is that no profit is real until you convert it to dollars. When bitcoin was very rarely used the main thing to do was talk about it and this is the only good place so a very high % of users had accounts here. When bitcoin is very widely used (imagine whole world) a very very small % will have accounts here. We are closer to the beginning still, but moving away.I think the point about older users becoming more comfortable and putting more value in makes sense too. Like someone who was just mining a little sees it in Forbes and decides to up the stakes a bit. Yeah, could make the payments total within like .2% of the right amount. I assume users are likely to get other peoples dirty coins. It's still useful, but it isn't as good as clean coins. It would be cool if the payments came from a mining pool or something like that. It would add the problem of what to do with the dirty coins you get in though.You currently make sure not to give people their own coins back, right? I'm sure it's around here somewhere, but you can use 7200/day as a really good longterm aprox. Gotta decide for yourself. But make sure you understand as much as possible and are comfortable or you are going to screw yourself by panicking on any downswing. No need to do it all at once either. This sounds terrible. I would pay whatever was required to have all my needs met for bitcoin directly. I bet it would be easy and hardly cost extra in about 3 months. To never touch another dollar would be sweet. Cumulative software downloads?Do we have unique hits to bitcoin.org?I also think it needs to be divided by coins in existence to give a clear idea. It won't be a slight effect. If that can be done then you should show us how. It's like saying "Hey, all that work you're doing to make medicine should make food at the same time". Yes, that would be great. Please tell us how to do it. Obviously MtGox is good. But there are people who don't want to see bids and asks and all that. They will pay a few % to see a rate and click one button. I think you've got it. Yes, it gets longer over time, it will be handled. There is math stuff that can reduce it to what is needed to process tx. If you are not a miner you can run a simpler version (which doesn't exist yet) that lets you safely watch for new tx without having all the old ones. If you are just a really casual user you don't need anything, you can just use an online wallet. There is even a web wallet in development that won't know your keys. Every transaction that is needed will be maintained by anyone who needs that info (miners mainly). It will scale fine and there is info about this all over. Check the wiki, scalability.  Yes, the test net is one example. Yes, the problem is that double spends will be trivial on your chain. The most used chain will always be the most attractive for 2 reasons. Extra double spend protection and wider use. So everyone joins the strongest, making it stronger still.There is no reason not to use regular bitcoin for your coop. It will be easier for people to pay you since they have bitcoins, not Aleqibitcoin. And easier for you to use since merchants take bitcoin, not Aleqibitcoin. Short story: Not everyone will keep the whole thing. Some will keep none, some headers only.  It's only two noobs and it's not like the site is crap that no one would make an account here to praise. Also, if Bernake keeps printing dollars until we we all suffocate are the police going to come help you? Seriously have the police been helping you a lot? It is nice that there are enough bitcoin users for them to notice. Hopefully it will make them less likely to block it. Who's working on Dwolla2Coin.com and Coin2Dwolla.com?
The pins look very nice, perfect size too imo.Unfortunately, the envelope was damaged in transit and 3 of the 4 pins were lost. Divergenta has offered to send replacements. A+ in my book! I think it's a good idea. I appreciate the public stands. I'm not doing it myself though. You don't see it but you're client makes a random private key which it uses both to make the public key (that you see and share) and to spend any coins sent to that address. People could only pretend to be you on the receiving side, which would mean free money for you.  I bought an ipad from a guy with 1 (maybe 2) previous sales and no feedback. He said he needed the money quick (the auction was just 1 day long) so I paid him directly. He emailed 2 days later saying it was in the mail and he would send a tracking number soon. Now it's been 10 days or so and no response or package. One of his other buyers now says no package yet as well. Giving away for free is nice to show how it works operationally and the faucet is good for that. But what will really be awesome is a mechanical turk for bitcoins. The work/bitcoin/buy things cycle will really get people going imo. It might not be suitable for you if you want to know who you are dealing with and want a stable relationship, but have you checked out operationfabulous.com? I think I was scammed. I don't blame biddingpond at all. I was stupid all around, mainly for not insisting on clearcoin. I just want everyone to know that no bad feedback doesn't mean squat. Accounts are free and you can scam multiple people before anyone is sure that the items aren't coming anyway. Dark pools are no problem. If it hasn't been said yet, dark pool trades on Mtgox are shown after they happen, just not before. This is more transparent to you than when someone PMs me and I make a sale to them. In that case you never see anything about the trade and that's fine because it's not your business to know what everyone is doing. There are pros and cons to making offers in private vs public. Neither chose hurts people, but public offers do help people a little in that they get an extra opportunity and a little info. Hi DERP,The stamp comment was meant to point out how btc has one of the good properties of gold in the extreme. You can put a million dolars worth of gold in a backpack, but you can put a million dollars worth of bitcoins onto a <1gram SD card.Bitcoin doesn't have an exchange built in, really nothing does. For a lot of things there is one major marketplace, for bitcoin right now that is mtgox.com. No matter what the price is there though you can choose to sell your coins or not at whatever price anyone offers you. Mtgox is just a place where people make offers to each other.The reason people value bitcoin so much is for a lot of the same reasons people value gold. They are both durable, divisible (bitcoin more easily so), transferable (bitcoin more so), fungilbe, and scarce. For different scenarios one or the other is more suitable, I have both. For most of what I do though Bitcoin makes more sense. It would be pretty damn silly to let your readers front run you, so yeah, I think so. Where is all the dirt going? Who is it being moved for? Oh, that's a lot better than I expected from the title.I thought it was going to be "No one hired me in a day, Bitcoins are a scam."Congrats on getting a job that pays solid money. I think you're part of the growing group that leads us to a great place.Can you say if the job is bitcoin related? Sick score dude, congrats.I bought a little tiny piece of gold for what would now be over $10k USD. I think I drank some $1k coffee too. It was pretty good though. This makes no sense. So people leave Bitcoin, won't this make bitcoins worth less? Tada, now it isn't deflationary and it works again.Price stability is a crap goal anyway. I want more for less just like you. Companies thrive when they do more with less. You can make more if you can build more with less. You can get through hard times if you can do more with less. It is good to get more, make more, do more, for less time, effort, resources, money. I assumed the same at first, but why not put them on the list? It's only an issue when there are big swings. I asked Jed a long time ago and don't recall getting an answer. I imagine it'll get changed when the whole site inevitably gets redone.  It's not even going to be all at the same time for each individual in most cases. And unless people are dumb they're going to try to dump during periods of influx of demand (I assume these will continue, what do I know though?). This will temper spikes.  It would be cool to link that to a pool and a gambling site. You spend 10 minuets letting it go, get .00001BTC then buy a lottery ticket. Or you let it go overnight, put it on 19 on the roulette wheel and cash out .02BTC when you hit it.Haha, or no pool and it'll just be a lottery already.  You kidding me? Trading off of a market is elitism? Wow, do you hate all conveniences? Should we shout orders to each other? Why on earth would you want to tie humans to button clicking?
It would be cool if you could lock the price in BTC. There are ways to do this without exposing yourself to much risk. Seems good to me. I'm sure there are pros and cons, but you could limit your exposure and risk by doing one item until it sells out. That way you can focus the whole site on one item at a time. Pictures videos and reviews all making one thing look great. You could potentially get to the point that people will give you special deals to pimp their product. You could archive all past items and send people straight to the source after your stash runs out. I guess a downside would be if you have a dud and have to mark it as a failure and move on. I guess you could go super cheap after a certain time, but you don't want people to get used to that or they may wait for it. You shouldn't be ashamed to be French because of this asshole any more than we should all be ashamed to be human because of him. I just hope stuff like this eventually makes it click in people's heads that our overlords are not looking out for us. Thanks. I know it's not standard stuff. It's always hard to think of the fundamentals of mainstream society being wrong. I've been reading Bitcoin comments all over the web today and it's amazing to see how angrily some people dismiss it without even thinking. I love the idea that people will end up getting paid according to how open they were to figuring out that this will work. More investment does not mean better investment. Only endeavors that make people better off should be using resources. A good currency is a guide for telling people what is creating wealth and what is not.  More jobs is not necessarily a good thing. If there is a way to accomplish something with less work is that worse?I think there should be exactly the number of jobs that people want. Currently we have mega distortions. People being forbidden from doing certain things and forced to do other things or pay a certain amount and not another. This results in the loss of jobs that people actually want which is tragic. But the answer is to let people be free to work as they like or need to and not to do things like manipulate the currency so they are too poor to stop working. Absolutely, and rightly so since that is exactly what he agreed to deliver. He could just as well have been handing them worthless or 1 penny bitcoins by the time the money came in. No one made him promise to honor the rate at the time of sale, but he did. No, he's saying he got the low rate that he agreed to. Nothing heroic about something keeping promises. If there is some way to solve another problem while you look for blocks then great do it and tell others how.If there isn't or you can't figure out how then choose a problem to work on.Don't go to the pants forum and tell them they should make socks. Haha, yes, you are in the clear. Tell me you aren't serious.I'm going to read your other posts now to find out. That's not what he's talking about at all.He thinks "I make a billion shares. I sell one for 1BTC. Now I has one billion BTC worth of shares." The problem only exists for people who think that way. Reality is you have a billion shares that no one is buying and 1BTC. It's still silly. If you set your own credit card limit you don't really have a limit do you? Bitcoin doesn't allow chargebacks in the exact same sense that the dollar doesn't allow chargebacks. You have to build something on top of the dollar, like PayPal, to do the chargebacks. If people want to pay for it then someone will make it for bitcoin. Watch out for what you wish for. Laws are nothing but promises of violence. We do talk about "putting X in BTC", but this isn't really what happens from a global perspective. Nothing gets inside anything except from one person's perspective. When I trade USD for BTC. It feels like I'm putting my dollars into BTC, but obviously someone else is taking out the exact same amount at the exact same time. Nothing is lost or sitting idle. The same is true if I work for bitcoins. My work still accomplishes the exact same amount regardless of how I take my pay. The reason most economists say that inflation is good is that it funds the government that pays them. It's really easy to overlook things when your livelihood depends on it. None of those things are dangerous to the bitcoin system. All of them could be dangerous to your coins if you use them incorrectly. Leverage is just borrowing to buy. If you borrow to buy and lose that sucks for you. If you borrow to buy and lose and can't pay that sucks for the guy who loaned you the money.All those instruments will strengthen and stabilize markets as they allow people to use bitcoin without taking risk that they don't want by hedging it away. A contractor gets half up front and half afterwards so he uses a little to buy puts now to guarantee that the coins he'll get later will buy him that new machine. He reduces his risk this way which makes bitcoin more valuable to him.Hopefully we will have good markets for this stuff soon. In addition to needing Bitcoin to dominate the currency world he would have to turn down buying mansions and yachts and space travel when he was a mere billionaire in order to preserve his stash in full. I don't think there is a problem here besides people confusing themselves by using mark-to-market accounting. I was just about to say that. Everyone in the US breaks laws every day. Some accidently; many on purpose. Unless the gov starts murdering smalltime users a law will have little effect. I'd bet that the guy who bought the pizza for 10kBTC is one of the 20 (or 20000?) who will be stinking rich. No one is going to be ridiculing him, let alone his lucky grandkids. Buying that pizza might have motivated him to ratchet up his collecting. And it might have helped kick start the use of Bitcoin as money.
I imagine software that lets your employees queue up transactions and attach a note and then you or someone responsible logs on and sends the batch out.  Fractional reserve banking doesn't increase base money, only credit money. We've been living in a bubble, protected from fractional banks collapsing by the FDIC and FED printing. In our world credit money is as good as base money because base money will be debased if credit money is ever worth a penny less.In free banking world there may be lots of new credit money, but that credit money will be a truly different thing than actual money. We just live in bizzaro world where the gov/banks make base money and they make credit money so they can keep them equal in value. But it's not natural for a promise to pay a dollar to be worth exactly a dollar when it's publicly known that the dollars aren't there. If you come in during a hand it catches you up at lightning speed. You probably saw that. If the speed persisted they were just really fast players. This is true. Clearly not. But maybe he will. That's not the impression I get. I think this deal just happened. Since you're here, want to tell us the full story? No way. There is a lot more world than the US. You think people in Canada, Denmark and Indonesia who thought they missed the bitcoin boat won't jump at the chance to get them at half price? I'm in the US and I'm a buyer on that day if I can get them at 50% of the day before.Even if everyone in the US obeyed and stopped using bitcoins there is no way price goes to 1%. This is amazing. It's probably best your wife doesn't get it or she might insist on getting some of those paper dollars.I can't believe you didn't even give them their 12k back! Maybe you can't offer too much without making them suspicious? How did you ever talk these people into putting up money for something they had no interest in? MtGox doesn't display bids more than ~33% from the last trade. Bids go all the way down. There is also the possibility of large hidden orders. And there are the other markets (small) and individuals (unknown, but large imo) Total guess, and not even really what I think would happen. But lets say US gov squeezes out 50% of US users. Not only is this going to be <10% of worldwide users, but panic selling will we gladly embraced by the unaffected users and the drop will not be so substantial. Another thing to consider is that once there is a booming internal economy the entrance and exit aren't so important.Compared to the US poker shutdown it would be like if there was no way to deposit or withdraw poker money, but we could still play, buy things with it, and transfer to friends and clients. It would suck, but it wouldn't kill it it would just make it a little less convenient.And since it makes it less convenient to get back to dollars some people would just keep coins and find coin merchants instead of converting and using a dollar merchant they used to like. Say I have my revenue 50% in coins and dollar conversions get banned. Now instead of converting all the time since it is hard I do all my grocery shopping I can from bitmunchies and use a newegg proxy for all my electronics etc etc. Of course there will just be tons of merchants by this time so it won't be that hard. If 100% of my income was coins I'd establish a relationship and maybe pay a premium to get money out for rent and parking tickets. That or move to a free(r) country :-) How the hell does Alipay make money? Alipay, PayPal, etc are just services that merchants pay for. They can be built on top of any currency. The problem is that all good currencies get crushed by tyrannical governments (Liberty dollar, e-gold). Now we have one that can't (hopefully). You can build something like Alipay on top of bitcoin if you want (mybitcoin, clearcoin). Yeah, if this wasn't your intention you can change the headline. I don't know exactly what you're suggesting people do though. No one can make anything legal, they can only stop hurting people for doing things. And no one is hurting anyone yet, so they can't really stop. Doing it right now. Pretty amazing that we can hide wallets in discussions about hiding wallets in discussions about hiding wallets in discussions, eh?My method is heavy on recursion btw. Come on. They aren't even hassling us yet and you're ready to start begging them to stop?Even from a good slave perspective it makes no sense. Everything is legal that is not prohibited, even officially we don't live in a permission-to-live society.  I used to make a little money doing this. I was taking PP risk though, I think that's why I was able to find small amounts frequently. I remember waiting up until bitcoin market would open to make sure I didn't get sniped, lol. All to make like 20BTC. Well, I guess that's worth something now, but it wasn't much then. I has half serious half sarcastic. I know he's been busy and is adding important things. I just want it to be faster, prettier and cleaner working.   I didn't realize this had a name.I think Bitcoin is part of the solution. Not as you described, but in a thousand indirect ways. The most direct I can think of is bloggers and such stepping forward on hard issues and seeing huge waves of support come rolling in. I'm throwing a few cents to math/science/tech stuff that takes coins, but people who share my fringe views get a lot more. It's nice to think that libertarian blogs and podcasts are going to have a lot better marketing budgets in the near future. So he went short and lost money, that means he pays now. A price drop isn't good for everyone either, people who are long get killed. 
Just because .001% of people do a certain thing because they have a promise from other thieves to move losses elsewhere doesn't mean there is a natural tendency to do it. Yeah, but you just bought and let it sit there  When do we get MtGox 2.0? I think Bitbills is cool, but not a good introduction. It looks like they have an issuer and confuses the point even more for people who aren't 'getting it'. Bitcoin might save the people, but it won't save the corrupt system. The first to let that system go will be the winners. I hope it's the common people. I hope the elites persist in denial. Do you mean buyer? I know they are all kinds of f'd up, but would they really try to get taxes out of someone in a year that they gave everything away? I would assume they'd just try to take their bite out of the receiver.  Yeah, always todays dollars. We're in the unfortunate situation of having the dollar as the best reference. But if Bitcoin is the money then 1BTC will buy a hell of a lot more than a 5br house in a decent area. In the Bitcoin-kills-governments scenario I think it's 1 or 2 orders higher. I would expect people to choose to hold a higher % of their wealth in cash (bitcoins) when it wasn't being debased and to be wealthier in general. Government claims responsibility for keeping us safe, fails, therefore we need government. Oh, yeah. I plan to myself when appropriate. I just think it would have had more impact on me seeing it placed correctly instead of in it's own thread about nothing. Have you looked in the wallet that contains the address that you gave to deepbit? I think I'm using a similar one, but it turns everything into discussions about anarchy vs. statism. How is it greedy to sell bitcoins for dollars? That seems like the conservative play. Let it ride is where the greed is. The site is confusing as hell now. You changed the stakes on a bunch of tables that kept the same name and same appearance in every way. The only way to tell is looking at your balance after you buy in. I don't think the price will go down unless it does go down. On the other hand it can't go up much unless it's headed up. What? It's safe to buy Bitcoin w/ PP. It's just not safe to sell bitcoin.  This is cool, but you could have waited and dropped it on a newb for it's first appearance.  lol, indeed. Why are you insisting that no company will ever be more profitable than the average of the growth of the bitcoin economy?It'll be hard to tell which ones, but you don't have to. If you don't have an edge at resource allocation just leave it to other people. The dark pool mysticism is silly. Dark pools move the price just like other orders after the fact, they absorb supply and demand just as well as visible orders. The only difference is that they don't risk moving the price before they get filled. It's hardly different than paying a kindergartener to click to make another order for 100 appear each time yours is taken.Less than $1/btc or more than $9000/btc in two years imo. How did you pick $9k? If a company cannot bring in more bitcoins than they spend they ought not be using up resources. They should be leaving them for others who have productive plans to use. Currently we have a system where you need to buy something whether you know what you need or not, whether you know what is a good plan or not, whether you know what is valuable or not. Holding the currency should be a general bet on the whole economy. Using it should be a claim that you have a better than average idea.
They will never stiff you 50 pieces of paper. That isn't what you should worry about. If you have rules about who you trade with and how then all of your exchanges have rules. I diversify. I'm practically guaranteed to lose some. But there is no way in hell I'll lose them all. If they only have 5x times they can only get it wrong 3 times (50-10-13-16.9=not enough to go again) no to mention repeated fees and the hassle of coordinating an unknown number of times.Strangers won't ever do this. And friends can settle amounts <10% of their free cash whenever is convenient.edit: But I appreciate the spirit. edit again: did I get the math wrong? I'm working on this as well. +.001 It's a good thing when it isn't news anymore. I has idea.Make a cool game. Nothing really to do with bitcoin, but maybe in the action puzzle genera. At some point have screens with a bunch of matrix looking random data. Mark off some of it in a subtle way. That's a bitcoin address. Make a minimal payment and unlock levels/powers/cool music/death star/whatever. I think you are right. It's hard for people to deal when they haven't experienced anything like this. It's just not safe to agree to pay coins you don't have or to do your accounting in one currency and promise to pay another and not hedge properly.If I promise to pay someone in coins I have the coins and consider them gone. If I want to protect my feelings about how costly work or goods are I can buy more coins so that the spend was essentially in fiat.Be sure in your own mind what you are doing. Don't think "I promised to pay 3BTC, that is $24. Oh, shit now it's $58." You never promised to pay $24. You promised 3BTC and nothing has changed about that. Those people's wealth is measured in dollars so that we can compare sizes. Their wealth is not actually dollars. When we measure their holdings in Bitcoins they will still measure well. Maybe not as well since surely some of their holdings value is deeply tied to the current establishment. Bernank et al actually derive their wealth from the dollar machine, they won't fare so well. Nothing is that simple.Not only will there be more bucks to chase bitcoin just like there will be more bucks chasing carrots, but there will be a large unmet need for a liquid store of value (there already is, but it will grow). So bitcoin benefits on both sides. That's funny. We met in a Starbucks, but I didn't have a phone and we didn't describe ourselves and there were a lot of people. So I wrote "Bitcoin" on a notebook. Blended right in, laptops everywhere. I could probably run an exchange service from a starbucks if I lived in a better spot. I really hope this the government's kill bitcoin plan. Oh, I thought you were saying that the enemy had some advantage from writing the code. They don't so that doesn't matter.Coming up with an awesome idea and implementing it so that you can destroy it instead of letting someone else do it and then you can destroy it is beyond me. If that's a good plan it's for reasons so subtle and amazing that I'll never understand. It's open source. People look inside at how it does what it does, it isn't a mystery or anything. Wait, where's the RnR? Who is John Galt?What is Bitcoin? He said Britcoin. A few good options:He puts in all the money and takes all the profit, less a wage for you (and maybe a small cut to get incentives correct)You borrow money from him, paying back up to double if you make that much.You borrow money from him promising to pay back no matter what and give him something small like 10% interest. Pfft. You can't wait 24 hours for each 10% rise?
Me too. My retirement is going suck balls and come late or be really awesome and come soon.Who am I kidding, I don't do anything resembling work now. Sorry for the delayed update.It went well. I went to my instawallet on his computer and copied the address from his client. He put dollar bills on the table.  Here's my conception of a normal bubble.Something moves up fast, maybe for legitimate reasons or maybe from government interference, doesn't really matter. Lots of people who don't know why the price moved up jump in and buy, others don't want to be left out and buy even more. All this demand can hold price up in the short term, but eventually the high price draws in more production. The price cannot remain much above costs of production for very long.A high bitcoin price does not increase the production of bitcoins. Demand could shrivel away, but that's not how bubbles usually pop. Once the bandwaggoning by normal people who don't get it or care to begins there is no stopping. A trillion is the number that has more and more zeros until you get bored. Public school, I assume?Sorry for being a jerk  You don't say why you think he got information from this site, or even what information he has. I'm suspicious. Okay, so someone can spend $20M to pause the network. It isn't dead and can be awoken for $1. "Still needed" as if anything has cost a penny in two decades.  Forgot to book this, want to do it now? Why do you think the network is dead if someone has half of the network power? Have you researched this at all? For sure. If it's true that you can sell bitcoins for more $$ if you call them millibitcoins then smart people (there are some around here iirc) will buy from people who call them bitcoins and sell to people for more by calling them millibitcoins.  .00000001BTC = $1 means .00001BTC = $1000 means .01BTC = $1MSatoshi was no dummy.  Did they go from 1/unconfirmed to 0 or from like 5 and 6? Currency exchangers exchanging bitcoins is a natural thing. I don't know if large existing companies are going to be quick on the uptake though. I don't see how bitbills helps things here particularly. I think bitbills fits a niche, but I don't see why travelers are more likely to prefer physical cards to actual coins right now and it shipping and keeping inventory at every location would be the hardest part of the whole thing. It's way better to keep $10M in bitcoins in one location than $10k in each of 1000 locations where some locations will sel out in one transaction and others will just sit there and you'll constantly reshuffle physical cards instead of taking advantage of the ease of bitcoin. I'm dying, that was great. Where did it come from?  Everything since that's the offer you've got to beat to get interest? Yeah, I think 2 weeks ago someone might have looked at the $6M 'market cap' and decided not to work on, say, another bitcoin poker site. But at a $33M level it's a little more enticing. If the bitcoiners are richer and more numerous then there is more profit to be made in serving them. Haha, worth it I think since I thought the same thing. Granted in kind of a "could it really be?" sort of way. Even a free hotspot usually requires you to give them data to get it opened up. This is obviously possible.Now what would be really cool is if there was easy software you could run on your home computer or router to give access to others for coins. Money doesn't grow on trees.... anymore                  Use Bitcoin Ha! Not me. I'm an occasionally rational extremist!
I think you are right about this.But not this. Fiat (as in backed by force, not by consensus) is the mechanism by which some gain at the expense of others. Having a group who can debase your savings is bad enough, as the overlords are farther removed socially they will abuse you worse and worse. But this power just doesn't exist with gold. I'm not talking about a gold standard. A government promise for gold isn't "as good as gold". I'm talking about free people choosing gold. I don't think they will choose gold now, fwiw, Bitcoin is just better.  Minimum wage is screwy. You can have someone work for free if you both want. Or you can have them work for a pizza if you both want, but you can't give them $4/hr if you both want? Get the hell out of our lives, strangers. Intrade has a new look. Wonder when they'll get a new currency   Even if the terrorist did bet on he'd be warning us. And even if he pulls it off anyway, he only wins money that people bet. Winning a bet would probably be the least bad thing the guy did in the day. Lol, even if it worked it would have the ridiculously bad consequence of making people shy away from every industry that is sensitive to power costs. Which is a shitton of important ones.  Smoking is bad imo, and people and fetuses will be healthier if they aren't exposed. Are you going to put women in prison? Take their time and money? Now it seems like you are damaging people and fetuses to me. I am not going to hurt you over it, that won't help. People want to do good when they can figure out how and if you want to make things better, help them. Generous man, he damn well better consider it at $40. I like it. Don't worry about Christmas, I'm pretty sure that's a bubble. If I wanted to promote war or torture though, I'd pick politics. I like it sherb. Didn't quote it cause we're getting a lot big images here. For real, I might buy a car and take a trip to see this. Bitcoin will allow as many markets with as many different rule sets as people want. The markets with good rule sets will be where people participate. It'll be much better than the monolithic monstrosity we're currently escaping.  Fair point.I wasn't really saying people should pay him. I was saying I wasn't likely to pay him until after he did a bitcoin show.I do agree and I don't donate to people who I have fundamental disagreements with. Informed/uninformed is a false dichotomy. You never have all the information and you rarely have none.  When I tip a programmer I just assume he's not a white supremacist negro murderer. I don't think I have an obligation to find out for sure, playing the odds is fine in my ethics handbook. If someone is paying people to live in CA, I'm available. I'm in. See you next year? Amazing to cut prices so deep so fast! This Bitcoin thing is crazy. It's nice to have a new coffee merchant, the old one had an attitude. OMG he's actually a Mass politician.Just so you know, you probably haven't actually received your punishment for being an official yet.  Children die from cars. Every day. Every day. Every day. Every day. Don't use that scare mongering, save the children BS. Or, if you actually believe that things that kill children are bad then spout it consistently at least.I haven't listened to this guy. But maybe if he did a bitcoin episode... Yeah, that might work as a proxy for people actually using it to trade, but we don't need a proxy since we're actually trading. Yeah, I think a lot of us will be 'manipulating prices' in the island market in a few years.
Often tx are not getting put in quickly if no fee is attached. Even at the new difficulty we have faster blocks that we 'should'. I'd guess that the people on this board have the best chance of anyone in the world of living to see 2200. Really? You've ruled out the possibility that he wants to get a lot of coins? Sent. Why didn't you PM me, bro? I'll take it if you want. Erm, when the g-men took down Osama did he turn into a ponzi? Also Bitcoin never has more than 21M coins if a system you are in ever has more you aren't using Bitcoin. It's like saying a circle might have a flat part. It just doesn't, if the shape you've got has a flat part, it isn't a circle. Then what are you complaining about? Bitcoins must not actually be scarce. Right. And even if they were for some reason there is a Generate tx in every block anyway. A new version will let the fee go down. It's stuck a bit high because of the fast value rise, but there is no reason a miner would decline a tenth of a penny fee. It is nearly free to include them.  Sure, but there is a place for one-sided-web-access-only transactions. I'm not talking about getting rid of the denominated cards, just another possibility.I think it would be pretty good since you could end up not destroying bills until they got large so the cost would be small as a %. Generate coins never have previous coins as inputs so it isn't special in that way. I would think it just used 0 or null or whatever in the place of the hash of the previous block and Bitcoin is coded not to mind. I know free transfers is a nice selling point, but really really cheap transfers is good too. Have you had delays when you attached a fee? Oh, yeah... and you could have unmarked bills. You could increase the value of them as needed and check the balance anytime. Might be more reasonable to pay .3BTC for an unmarked card than a 1BTC card. Of course all of these cards can already be increased, but people might look at you funny (okay funnier) when you insist that the 1BTC card is worth 45BTC. I think gradual decay would have been better, but not anywhere near enough for a change now. The only benefit the current system has is a slight easy of explaining to a noob, but if you are explaining the technical details of Bitcoin to someone who can't handle a little decay then you are doing it wrong. I don't think Kiba was saying that he doesn't care what people think. I think he was saying that he doesn't care which section this particular post goes in. Sorry, Kiba, if I'm wrong and being presumptuous.In general I don't think there is usually one right section for a post. If someone wants economic analysis of a subject or thought they'll put it there. They might put the exact same post in say project development if they are more interested in the logistics of actually doing the thing or want help or something. A good rule would be to trust that someone with 100+ posts knows about all the sections and made an informed decision about where to place a thread unless it is totally obviously wrong. Like a WTB in Meta, people sometimes mistakenly think they are in a different forum. Noobs though are more often careless, and also less likely to have a strong desire for putting it in a certain place. I don't start many threads, but if I do I know I want them where I put them.So, more deference to old-timers and more 'help' for newbies imo. And less moving in general, though I know some of it is just transitional. When the market is mature it'll be trivial to hedge that. Decide how much a drop would be too harmful, buy puts there. You can afford it by giving up some of your upside by selling OOTM options. You can't manipulate markets for free. It doesn't matter what tools you have, moving the price from where it 'ought' be costs money. They've got money by the balls right now and we're trying to fix that. Options and futures will smooth the market. I know it looks like they don't in the official markets but it's because everyone has incentive to get on the same side, ride it until it busts and get bailed out. That's not what we'll get with bitcoin, your losses will be yours. Job taken. Blazing fast economy we've got here. I'll let you know if it falls through and I need a new guy. http://www.survivalblog.com/2011/05/the_coming_bitcoin_revolution.htmlhttp://www.survivalblog.com/tencent.htmlBrief and favorable. I sent the first dime :-) Oh, okay. Shouldn't that mean I have .44 credit on my account? Oh, wait, it was mybitcoin. Let me know if he ever gives that to you. My bad. Bitcoin is hard for me, durrrr.
Cards have been getting faster long before bitcoin and it will continue, it's not news or a secret.It won't. More hashing power means higher difficulty, not more bitcoins (except in the very short term and we're talking <.01% increase compared to the stock now) or lower price.   I thought 'priority' only ranked free tx. I could be wrong. PM coming There are trillions of USD in circulation and billions of users this is not an indicator of a good system. Uh huh. +.00054 US cents is ridiculous. I know buying and selling seem like a reasonable way to decide a marketplace, but I for one am never in a buying or selling mood, so I always open both. But it would be helpful if it was broken like jobs, physical goods, virtual goods, services. Or something like that. I know Kiba just did a lot of work, I'd help rearrange, or we could leave threads where they are and let new posts go in the categories and not worry about old ones. I like this. It's much better in terms of feedback on what people don't want to see in particular threads, but doesn't go all the way to deleting which causes pain and frustration.Just have a button that says "Help hide this post" or similar then make it hidden by default when it hits the threshold, readers can bring it back with one click.  In the future there will be gold coins, silver coins, and coins. Hint: we use coins. Haha, yeah, what is the deal. I like how bitcoin-central just has an address and you can cycle it if you want. That channel has always seemed pretty convincing to me, but I just was thinking about the difference between those peaks. The first was on very thin volume. The orderbook completely emptied, if the guy who sold at .50 had listed .60 that channel would be at a way different angle, and I don't mean relative to now, but relative to the volumes before the peak. The second was more actively traded. So if you look for the price where a similar relative volume was actually traded and get a reasonable 'adjusted peak' you would see a steeper channel.  This isn't everything-with-a-block-chain.org. If you think there is lost of interest in discussing a DNS system then make a site for it. That said I prefer it all to be in one spot if it is going to be here.  Just 467.8 millies! Yeah, it isn't hard at all. You actually have coins and are having trouble sending them to MtGox? I have an idea for a site. It will need to keep a current database (listen to the chain I guess) and look up data for users from a list of all known bitcoin addresses and the block number of the first transaction to the address. It seems simple to me, but I don't know what language one uses for this. If there is one clear choice please tell me and I'll modify the title.It would be nice if the same person was willing to help with domain name and hosting stuff. If you have these sort of skills PM me and I'll share more details and you can make me an offer. I'm looking for low rates but not pathetically low. Looks very cool.A couple thoughts. Checking the balance doesn't mean much since anyone clever will wait until after the sale to move the coins and you won't be rushing out to destroy the bill normally. Even if it is virtually impossible to make a bill that could fool you, it won't be nearly as hard to fool someone who hasn't handled them themselves. This is more of a problem in the beginning, but it could recur as you change the design.The prices seem reasonable. Will they get even lower if you can scale up? Do you figure people will trade them at face value or retail? Smaller denominations coming soon?  no fee for personal unless it is out of country. Yes, I see you did. 1EidtUZpMbQ3S9aLD7kcYLxhfc7fFym86M is the address I paid to deposit. Did I give it as the withdraw address by mistake? Do they sell the metal or keep it as savings? Are they getting it from customers cheaper than they could buy it? It always seemed to me that it logistical difficulty made it more sensible to use the currency of the realm and then buy what you wanted to save in (and I think gold is a great choice).Are you spending metal at these places? Moving to Canada is in the back of my mind with the whole collapsing fascist anti-poker regime we've got happening here. Before Bitcoin my dream was to have relationships with merchants who would take my metals so that I could hold very few FRNs, but I don't know how to do it. Now I'm banking (pun) on Bitcoin and I have much higher hopes.
Surely a lot of gold was dug up when it was a great barter good, but not yet full blown money. It isn't a black and white thing.I suppose it's interesting that with gold very little is mined until people put a lot of value on it, but with bitcoin ~30% would be mined at this point with tiny interest or with worldwide acceptance. As is frequently repeated though, mining is not the point. I could imagine a scenario where Bitcoin is introduced, say, 17 years ago. And it is way too early for major acceptance, but most of the coins are mined by this point. And now it gets in Forbes as this long lost great idea to save us from government money and some people invest in GPUs, but since the reward is down to 3/block most mining involves going to computer graveyard and searching hard drives for wallet files. We would essentially remine the coins once we realized the great value. Point being that the 'forced' creation of the coins isn't a problem. They will sit with miners or on forgot hard drives from 2009 until the world 'demands' that they be found and released. It could have been more frequent smaller reductions if it had to be stepwise though. I'm excited to see what happens and I don't think it'll be a problem. But it seems unnecessarily eventlike.I think it'll be price up in anticipation and about 2 hard difficulty reductions after the drop then leveling off at about 75% of old difficulty and resuming a rise from there. They have to be. Security is just the difficulty of sending a transaction to multiple people. What you are paying for is literally the work that is going to be dumped on top of your transaction. I don't think we can have a productive conversation about this. If I buy something from someone there is no paper that restricts or undoes this in any way. It's fiction. I don't need a paper to own a car any more than I need a paper to own my shoes or my teeth. There was ownership long before paper.If I have a car and someone, anyone comes to me and says "Buy this sticker or I'll take your car" they are stealing the price of the sticker on threat of stealing the car on threat of hurting me. None of that reduces my original claim on the car. It's just me being stolen from.  A smart trader will realize the depreciation before the actual drop and bet on it in advance. A smarter trader will do it earlier. Many of us are so smart that we will bet it all on Bitcoin and none on Timecoin from the first block.But again please try it and we can lay it to rest with the experiment.  +1 CryptikEnigma  It seems disingenuous to start out talking about theft and then later question property. Obviously there is no conversation to be had about theft between people who don't agree that someone own their labor and what they produce.  I would say any term is better than supreme property rights. I haven't the slightest idea how that differs from regular property rights. I haven't been paid my cashout of .44 yet. Looks like it's manual, you going to automate?  It got pretty slow on me between moves. I think it should be near instant so you might want to check that. I like the idea, I'd play some with better payouts. I see it says "level 1" I assume that means you'll have different boards. Narrower and wider and different pay structures? Jeez, it's annoying and I don't like that he cares about interpretations of the elders scribbles, but it's not going to effect the market at all. You send and email you get your money fast. It's easy. It's not good to use that info for serious things like that. I can add major tx on the cheap. And even outside of tricks, how do you tell 'legit' economic activity from move my savings to a new wallet? I'm meeting a person in Starbucks tomorrow. I'll let you know how mission impossible goes. If I carve a little wooden toy top and trade it to you for something is it really your top? But I made it! That touches on a different point. Intellectual property and trademark laws are violations of free speech too. Obviously what they did to him is criminal, but he couldn't use the argument that he was only passing information.Anyway, I don't think it matters much. I'd almost rather they make it illegal so that people who don't care end up richer in the new society. I think Bitcoin overcomes any law. Enforcement requires a completely totalitarian regime, I don't think it'll happen. Yeah, this actually makes me think it's a bad idea or at least not worth it.I don't think most will neg people for disagreeing, but only for doing it in obtuse or hostile ways. Well, if that is true then maybe people will try harder to avoid losing trade rep. I dunno if it's a good proxy or 'fair', but maybe it improves incentives. I guess I'll withhold judgement for a while. It needs some limit for sure. Or else we'll find out who is most liked by the people who most like to give out ratings.I think it would be good to charge .1 positive rating for every rating you give out. Or even make the price go up with each rating given and drop over time.Gimme a minute and I'll think of something even more complicated  +1 This is cool. I didn't open the thread before because I thought it was going to be about chain letters, lol. Hoarding: The evil your neighbor does.Saving: The virtue that you preform.
 YesYesPeople who make loans already ask themselves this question. Is the risk worth it is not a different type of question when you are looking at 100 units of value turning to 90 if you do nothing and getting 110 if you lend and 100 turning to 110 if you do nothing and getting 130 if you lend. You always have to balance risk and reward according to your preferences and knowledge.I don't know the difference between hoarding and saving, but yes, every coin is always saved by someone. I kind of see what you mean by reducing the money supply, but that's not a helpful way to think about this. Is there a difference at a global level whether I am still saving a coin or if my hooker is saving it now? All coins are always being saved by someone.Savings doesn't reduce the supply. And reduced prices are good for everyone who uses things anyway.I don't know about you, but me and most people spend more when we get richer, not less. There is no spiral. If you expect coins to go up in value faster than everything else it is true that you will store all excess value in them, but it is not true that you won't consume anything because you think they will go up in value.  Whoa there. Where are you getting information from? Gavin has not presented to the CIA and is not scheduled to until June. The Forbes article is already been out for a while magazines hit stands before their date.https://mtgox.com is working. What are you talking about? There is no price data in the block chain. The fact that supply does not respond to demand is what makes it an excellent money. Carrots, for example, won't ever hold much value beyond their costs of production because even if people mistakenly think that they are money and demand increases because of this the price will not stay up because new production is trivial. Gold is better because supply can only respond in a limited way. Bitcoin is built specifically to not have it's value harmed by increases in supply. I got root(2) for winning the most!  Because 1000 is substantial and 100000000 is scary.Cents are tiny and worthless, use millies imo. Very much looking forward to shipping 3 mikes for a tasty beverage. I just played my first pay game and got ~31100 the tx has 2 confirms, but I'm not listed at the bottom. How long should it take? For the deadline it's just when the game was completed right? Don't need a certain number of confirms before midnight? Ah, maybe it's like he does have a hole card, and the second card is just the 'hole' card being turned over to see and then there is no draw because you have BJ. Pfah, any self respecting bitcoin rally is +200% at least.Parity would be insane, I don't think that happens again unless there is a tech issue or something. When you send a tx you can add a fee, it's in the options on the newest version. Miners can then put the tx in a block and take the fee, or not, up to them. This.And with the assumption that the cartel has only 50% you only need one guy to defect to break the strike. This is like the absolute worst environment for cartel behavior ever. Lots of participants, near perfect anonymity, very low barrier to entry. It all depends though. .5 for a game that lasts 60 seconds is different than .5 for a 6 round tournament over a few days. I guess the scores are timestamped and you'll send payment after the time is up? Is that manual or will it just happen at midnight? Maybe because a BJ will beat any other 21, so he didn't bother? Hmm, guess he wouldn't need the second card either in that case. That's cool. I only thought it was steep before I realized I was going to win, now it seems reasonable But yeah, lower might be better next time. Especially if the game has high volatility because then you'll need many entries to get your best score in there. And if price shoots to $10 are going to default and leave the $800 or are you going to cover it? Wow, when silver was at 49 I thought I had a lock. Not so sure at all now! For how long? Wallet tools would be cool. Especially choosing which coin(s) to spend. .01 is kind of a sucky amount to be handing out right now since a lot of small free tx aren't getting in quickly. Maybe do it like a sweepstakes? An entry for every friend who likes? There is already the faucet for getting people their first tiny amount anyway. Instawallet is freaking awesome btw.
I've played like 50 hands with no problem, but now I can't see the card images. Reloading did not help neither did opening them in new window. I just get the broken image icons.edit: Doh. Now it's down in the middle of my hand. Haha, how about money to the dumbest luckiest guy, I win that for sure.I was thinking double meant split. So I doubled my two kings! And hit an ace! I'd say a lot of people have no idea what a million will buy. Have you seen The Price is Right? People are routinely off by 20%+ when shown ~$50k worth of stuff. Most people probably think that $1M is worth about a million snickers bars.I don't disagree that people think they know what money is worth, but that's largely an illusion that comes from being around it all the time. Valuing things correctly even in the familiar dollar is not trivial. What is trivial is doing a division from the known market rate of gold or BTC and then doing the hard part. It costs .5 before each game that you want to count, right? This is ridiculous. It's really unfortunate that this guy doesn't get economics as well as DDoSing. I played poker today for dollars in a 'legitimate' establishment and had a pretty good day. As I was coming home I thought "damn, that's not even 200BTC" Does that count for anything? It depends on how much of what sort of things are being offered and on what terms. You probably shouldn't give things to strangers that are a substantial fraction of the cost of controlling the network. If someone was holding a lot of coins and did a big attack it would probably shake faith in the network and reduce the value of his coins. And he probably can't easily spend them all more than once and pull them back since word will get around fast and the most vulnerable will shutdown or reduce payouts (like ATMs and similar instant stuff). You don't get everything. In fact you get almost nothing. You can rewrite recent blocks which just means that you can unpay coins you already had control of. Or you could refuse to put transactions in blocks or to build off of anyone who does effectively a DOS. But you don't get $20M by any means. I've been calling bitcoins scarce too, but I realized every resource is scarce to some degree. The difference is that with most things when you get more demand price goes up until the amount supplied is adjusted and then price returns to roughly the cost of production. With bitcoins there is no outlet the supply is inelastic, that's the key. You don't want to store value in carrots or tulips because if you are right and price goes the inevitable increase in supply will bring it back down, guaranteed. Sure you can make money with the right timing and this helps smooth prices too. With bitcoin this does not happen. Well, actually it kind of does. But the cost of production tends toward infinity. Anyway, my point is just that everything is scarce, but the supply of bitcoins is also inelastic. No kidding. Pretty much everything should have it's own forum, but not here. This would mean people will end up holding no dollars and only bitcoins. And then they spend coins because they want stuff.They will if they want to get Bitcoins, which is a premise. The gold is probably from bitcoin market pecunix. If all the exchanges had lots of volume people would arbitrage and bring it close, but some have very few trades. Nice, free and natural advertising. Didn't listen yet. They've talked about bitcoin at least 3 times, including about a week ago. Lol +1It's so not their way of thinking that it'll seem just like aliens landing and taking their jobs. Not really. People can just leave it in their sock drawers until it's worth the same as the receipts they've been saving. It doesn't have to get converted.Yeah, I think you've got it. I think I'm in the same novel  I don't know if you are kidding or what, but miners aren't going to end up holding all the paper currency. They of all people will know when to stop taking it. It'll be the slow, stubborn and patriotic holding the bag. As fantastical as that price sounds if Bitcoin became the only currency of the world I think that one coin would have more value than $214,285 currently has. The reason being that smart people currently minimize the value that they hold in paper currencies for fear of devaluation, but this won't be the case with Bitcoin. It will be the default value holder until you find something good to invest in (like a sweet new burger joint). If the old men write it down we'll all obey and bitcoin will go the way of alcohol and marijuana. Was going to start a thread about how I want to buy at .75, but I guess I'll just put my offer here. I'm looking for 10kBTC, but partial is fine.
Nope. Just restating the coolness. While I roughly agree with the sentiment, it's worth noting that killing people won't be nearly as effective as disengaging from the fraudulent system and using our own solution. Yeah. It will be annoying if people put in valid zips and invalid emails. I know of a good one. It was implemented and thousands of people value it. Others have been thought of, none that anyone expects other people to value in the future or else they would be making them now. I fully admit that something else could catch on, but it's not going to be one where value is dissipated.It's true that if people decide they don't want coins then the price will be low. Why do you think people are going to change their minds?Why do you say "perceived as a scare resource"? Do you think it is not? Yep.Get 1M coins.Get another computer.Load Bitcoin on it. Do not connect to internet. Do not download blocks.Write down an address from this wallet.Encrypt wallet. Delete original.Send coins to the address. Wait.....Unencrypt. Spend. Cool. I predict your success.  Are you going to pack it so that it can make it through the illegal places to get to my legal lungs? Both of these are easy to implement. If you don't code someone will probably do it for you for 10-20BTC. They don't exist because no one wants them. For what purpose? Making sure they use BTC only and demand BTC services and shops? k, thx PP. It would, but if people think "ah, no one, won't bother" then it won't get started, so I can see requiring an email and zip to look. I bet you could get some good stuff from there to adapt to radio. You should definitely talk to JustMoon though, he's got a budget for this kind of stuff.If you have the option I think you can do better than having Mark read a script. Maybe whoever did the voice on the weusecoins video would do it. Here's a quiz:Are you a nosy controlling asshole?If yes: You are politicalIf no: Congrats Or it could mean that mtgox.com was down most of the day. How long until the million? I guess early 2012.I'd like to see the log chart of posts. That makes about as much sense as leaving a billion dollars cash with a lawyer. Sheeesh, of all the people to trust, why not just let a congressman hold onto it. Damn, I bought one. Paid a lot more than 10BTC (just saw ipod not ipad). Hope I get it. That's great. You might want to give people the option to get MtGox USD from you so they can buy for themselves. Some people don't know you can transfer easily.https://mtgox.com/users/sendMoney Cool. Thanks and good luck. Yeah. Democracy has been bastardized to mean Authoratize come and make you pick someone to hire more bureaucracy with your own money to tyrannize you for a few years until you get to pick again and a new asshole can add to the bureaucracy. Democracy ought mean that people determine what is right for themselves, but since it doesn't anymore, fuck democracy. That's right, there is no guarantee that a coin will be worth any particular number of dollars. The price floats according to what people are willing to pay, just like Australian dollars or the Euro or silver prices float against the dollar. The reason people pay for them is that they are easy to transfer, durable, and scarce.If I were you I would start accepting Bitcoins as payment and offer the people you need to pay a small bonus (5%?) as an incentive to investigate. For anyone who doesn't want to you just sell some coins to pay them. Maybethe number of people buying from you and selling from you in coins will be roughly equal anyway.
Merchants don't have to ride the coin at all. Make the sale, get the coins, sell the coins at the market rate. This can be automated easily. Ta-da you just used bitcoin as a payment method for whatever currency you want to hold. Now you don't have to worry about your currency increasing in value while you sleep. Um, yeah maybe, but that would be a reason for the power plant to be the only bitcoin generator (outside of 'fun' generation), not a reason to use all the power on generating. Diminishing marginal returns... If you move wallet.dat out of it's folder a new empty wallet is created automatically. Welcome.Bitcoin and Esperanto both get their usefulness from the fact that other people use them. The reason I think Bitcoin will take off and Esperanto didn't is that you can get into Bitcoin for a little bit of money and maybe waiting a few days at worst. Learning a language takes a lot more effort and the vast majority can't be bothered. So it doesn't get critical mass and is just for idealists. Bitcoin started with idealists for sure, but it's so easy for others to give it a shot. And they can do it to whatever degree they want and still get some value. Learning 1% of Esperanto doesn't do much for you, but a tiny amount of Bitcoins is great. Shouldn't it only change things by roughly the fee for converting that is now gone? Oh, people could hold their Bitcoins longer (to the last second of paying the bill) and with more confidence if the price was static in bitcoins and not just a conversion from dollars. That should increase demand by a little. At this stage the PR boost would obviously increase demand too. Mining is like a hedged position imo. If you buy coins and they go to nothing you have nothing, but if you buy equipment you can get most of your investment back. If they go to 10% current value and you bought coins that sucks, but if you bought equipment then when difficulty drops you will get 10x more coins (not exactly, I know there is lag and other factors) to compensate. Really mining and immediately selling the coins isn't even a bet on Bitcoin, it's profiting (or trying to) from your extra efficiency over the average miner.  Maybe you could sell her for 500BTC, I'm sure she has some redeeming qualities. How will you complain if you didn't know how it should read anyway?  ♥ Okay, just wondering if you were planning a site or anything. Where/how do you plan on buying and selling options?  Maybe everyone will flock to CDN because it's so stable, hmmm...It's news to though, how do I get CDN quotes? The site does not handle payments at all.Each user has a profile (payment methods they accept, comments from other users, etc) and a list of other users with whom they trust enough to trade with or run a tab for and up to what amount.Bids and asks are placed like on MtGox. They will only be available to users who are on your trusted list.When an offer is accepted the system will record the obligation that each participant has to the other. Participants settle and the obligation is cleared when both report payment. When there is no hurry and obligations sit for a while there is a chance they will be reduced by trades in the opposite direction. This would save on fees or hassle. Furthermore, traders with mutually trusted parties can have their obligations netted out. Since we're already dealing with the trust issue it might be easy to get an options market going here too. People with no trust could even prepay to any well trusted member. Noob sends me $100 on PP. I create an obligation to pay him $100 and now anyone who trusts me will be willing to sell him up to this amount in return for that obligation because they know I'll pay it.If anyone is interested in developing something like this I'd love to help, but I can't do it myself. I don't have any ideas on monetizing, but I'd still be willing to front some money to someone who is sure they can do this. Suggestions for a name that gets the idea across are welcome too. This happened to me too. There already is a limitation on chains I accept: the longest one. period. Good idea, good execution. A little pricey maybe. We need bitcoin farkle, can you do this?  I'm sure there are some big stores of coins sitting with early adopters. They may want to use them at some point. Unless they like to burn their own value they'll do it slowly to get the best price. Each time a big stash gets sold to a bunch of different people the flooding potential is reduced. It's a natural process and I think it takes us to a good stable place. I send all coins from wallet A to wallet B. Delete wallet A. Send .01 from wallet B to wallet C which appeared after wallet A was deleted. Before the tx gets confirmed I backup wallet C and delete it. Later I restore wallet C and the tx is still showing unconfirmed, but it is confirmed according to wallet B and blockexplorer.I tried rescan, I upgraded from 3.15 to 3.21 and tried rescan again. Nothing. I assume deleting the blockchain and redownloading will work, but what's going on? Should I try something else first? I have made another tx from B to C and it worked. Congrats But I thought you wanted it to fall to buy more?! Rewrote more clearly below.I don't know how much of this is relevant, sorry.I sent all coins from one computer to my main one leaving an empty, but used, wallet. I deleted it. I sent .01 to the new wallet. While the tx was still unconfirmed I backed it up and deleted it. Later I swapped it back in and it still says unconfirmed even though the computer that sent has it confirmed now. I used -rescan, it was an old version (3.15) and now I've got 3.21 and still the same. What happened? Do I need to reload all blocks?
Lol, Bitcoin is the answer to a serious problem. The answer to: find x s.t. sha256(data+x)<00000000004b3ffa.... isn't so serious or interesting.Maybe focus on the problem Bitcoin solves :-) Those would both be liabilities anyway. I was thinking this same thing today. In the Bitcoin future what to invest in when you have no special investing insight will be beyond obvious. Just hold the general equity unit: Bitcoin. Buying below market rate is awesome if you can do it, good luck. If you want to pay market plus a fee you could try coinpal.ndrix.com. There are free ways to get different coins, so I don't know who's paying that.Would you say dollars are not fungible because you might bleed on them or leave other evidence and want to switch them for different bills? I know! I love gold, but damn, you can put $1M on a flash drive with bitcoin. Or send $20 to your sister. It's freaking useful. Doesn't this all just have to do with the ease of the arbitrage? Which has to do with the sites and methods available to bitcoiners who use those currencies, not the currencies themselves necessarily. I'm going to start a pool to expose people who misuse the vigilante group.   I plan to ease into yachts and mansions. Are you getting help in the technical board? Getting your client working will make you feel better. A bad experience with a bank wouldn't run you off of the dollar, it's separate things. And everything is still pretty new, merchants and services have a lot of room to improve. That means you can steal their market share easily!I hope you get it worked out. You don't need to backup with every new address. There is a pool of 100 that are made before you need them so a backup will be good until you make 100 new addresses. This was not always the case. They are definitely priced in to some extent. Imagine what would happen if we all looked into the code and noticed that there will actually be 121M coins eventually. If that would change the current price (and it would) then future coins are influencing current prices. Otoh, it all 21M were released today it would also have an effect. So it isn't as if all coins are essentially being considered available, but they are factored in somehow. Lol, those are definitely not all factored into the price. Most of them don't factor into reality. I especially enjoyed 5 and 8. Can I get some with $20 on PP? Now, to a mil. So so good, watching it a third time now. Where do we ship the coins? Yeah, I mean not likely, but still.  Maybe I'm off, or maybe there are different kinds. I assumed this deal implied that Sun wanted the right to sell bitcoins to the issuers of the put for $2 each. Doesn't he have to be able to deliver coins for that?I suppose it could be done synthetically. Like just pay the difference of $2 and the Mtgox price at expiry, but that would involve specifying a method (bid price/ask price? what to do if mtgox is gone, etc). Hashes>Hassles So if Bitcoins are worthless but still movable this is good for put buyer. But if they are worthless because they are stuck the put is worthless. Is this right?
Seems like it would work. So now improvements don't have to be the enemy, yay. Amazing density. I disagree. Even an expected transfer of wealth from the productive to the violent mis-allocates capital. I'm going to try that trick with the light speed spaceship then.  I think it was irrational numbers, like the diagonal of a unit square. So root 2 and such. Nuh uh, not dollars, dollars are pure and clean, the currency of angels.  Only if the Christians publish their location. That won't be a problem if they aren't trying to hide something  This is totally a problem with bitcoin. Maybe I should have capitalized the 'it'. Come on, I'm not even saying that there won't be a system that knows what you are going to buy with coins, only that that system won't be bitcoin itself it'll be some other thing(s) in the tube system. Uh, it's not important I just thought the word implied killing a certain sort of person and I didn't think it had to be for money. Like JFK was assassinated whether the killer was paid or not, but my wife's lover was just murdered, again regardless of whether I do it or pay for it.  Lol, if you borrow half a house worth of btc you are not going to be loving life for long. Lol, an accident? It's not a car crash, man, it's people agreeing on a trade. I would take all the money from the government. To me "tax payer's money" refers to whatever they have left after the theft, Gavin isn't taking any of that.I am not suspicious of Gavin.If Gavin can harm Bitcoin then Bitcoin isn't go great anyway. If only there was a way to get paid for figuring this out early... Assuming it happens for no apparent reason I can probably get a lot for my wife. And here's a bunch of people who don't get it, but seem to be optimistic and trusting by nature.http://forums.hipinion.com/viewtopic.php?f=1&t=28335edit: maybe they get it, but they aren't focusing on it. 10BTC Need some kind of state though. Doesn't assassination mean killing public official? And isn't money laundering just transfer designed to get around laws? No time. Famous people are getting married.
For real. Why do we have to log in to see the tables list? At what bitcoin price can we refer to them as "the powers that were"?and confusingly refer to ourselves as "the powers that we're"? http://www.gamenode.com/board-card-games/stop-the-bus/Something like that. I helped someone short. We agreed to swap my coins for his dollars and swap back after a month. I agree, but the same applies for difficulty. We don't and can't know what it should be so it self adjusts, would be cool if max block size could do something like that. Have you tried transferring? It wasn't possible last I checked. I'll will be selling a lot if it is movable now, lol Must be Chinese. Omg, noisebridge looks awesome. I'm there any day that works for people. I win.It's like the other game, but worse payout right?You interested in programing more complicated stuff? Like multiplayer games? "In the long run we're all dead"? I'm looking for quotes on $3 options expiring 3 months from now. We already had a lottery (taabl) where you didn't have to trust the operator not to pick the winner. He did it by using the last digits of the hash of a predetermined block as a ticket. Still had to trust him to pay out of course, but we'd know right away if he didn't. Lol at spending a billion dollars on a computer and "having energy efficiency in mind". How could there be "too few" speculators? I would think an anonymising strategy would involve blending in and circulating coins in a natural looking manner instead of getting a bunch of geeks to examine your traffic and chat about it. I like to think that it's a potential investor making sure the system can handle more load instead of some idiot spammer doing it for no reason. More visible than invisible? :-) https://mtgox.com/users/sendMoney It's a test, looks like we can handle tons of tx just fine. If people try to pass off older bills at my shop I scowl and ask for a premium. If they get question me I yell "Do you know where those have been?!? I didn't think so. I don't want to be associated with cocaine trade and ladies of impure character!" Yeah, a lot of people will be shooting in the dark at first so it won't be worth much until you get critical mass. Like MtGox did in the beginning. Offer free service, get user base, charge fee, people keep coming because that's where all the people are. 
Sounds like good reason not to use CC companies as a merchant. At least a few people realize  Lol, still safer to interview senators than police I guess. Where are you that you think you have freedom of speech? If the someone who doesn't share the design is the only one with a design then yes, but that doesn't seem likely. And just because they can cost millions doesn't mean one that does some hashing will. Very cool. This is what should be happening on the internet. (Not that I mind cleverly placed carrots and pancakes) Oh, sorry. That's right I remember now. I like this statement:Either it won't be a problem, or if it does become a problem, it will be solvable. Weird, I still get nothing. So you are getting the site? I'm not even getting that. Simpler to point them to the faucet. And I think you get a steeply decreasing marginal promotional benefit from an extra .95BTC. If AI is able to steal coins people are probably not going to be storing much value in them. But yeah there will be a lot of data. Having a good money will help us advance tech possible to extreme levels, but it isn't going to BE intelligent any more than the phone system is. If you buy stuff with deposits that doesn't count as a reserve. Obviously a frac reserve bank will have assets, but if we're just talking about showing the reserve that should be in the same form as deposits.  doesn't work at all for me. Their tenure contracts are denominated in fiat.edit: easy enough to hedge I suppose. Pfft, my bank will have free audits daily. If they can't convince you that they have the reserve they claim then don't use them. Just like you don't go to mechanics or restaurants that suck.One really easy way to show the reserve would be to publish the reserve bitcoin address and demonstrate control of it periodically. No anarchist is suggesting that frac banking be outlawed. It's just a matter of weather you think it's good, would do it, condone it, associate with those doing it. I don't think it's fraud if it's clearly stated.If you say "You can get your money anytime, we keep a 10% reserve." That's not actually clear and honest. "You can get your money if we have some, we keep 10% around." is pretty good.I mean a charity is fine. And names don't change reality so a 'bank' that says "We keep no money available for withdrawal, we'll pay you if we have money available." is stupid to use, but not fraud. Don't send to that address ffs.
You can't use coins from a generate tx for 120 blocks. Yeah, people are going to try for a few days and give up instead of knowing, not being frustrated, and being glad it's coming to a better sever. Attaching a fee is voluntary and always will be. Miners can use the fee to determine if they want to include the tx or not. So we could get to a point were no fee tx will never get processed, but strictly speaking you could do the work yourself. Lol, maybe all those Chinese students. Repaying losses seems extremely generous to me, but you should make sure you don't give others the idea that they can freeroll you. Ah, of course he could have gone out for a smoke and someone else played a few in between. Wait, does that somehow let you play with the same result over and over? I won on my fifth game. So it isn't 0% at least. Damn. That's not good. I'm 3 losses for 3 tries. Have you won at all? This would be about as evil as selling delicious cheeseburgers for a $.25. People want bitcoins, you can see this from all the people trying to pay over $1 for them. Far from ruining the market you would be pleasing lots of market participants.Likewise, this would please all the people trying to sell coins, and not ruin anything.Prices change in markets to reflect people's desires. A controlled market is no market at all. MtGox is the best and most stable bitcoin market that exists right now, but there are others and there will be more. There will probably be more volume and lower volatility in the future, but no one knows for sure. The peg would be a promise by some entity to give a dollar for one of these coins, right? How is that dollar sent and why do we trust the entity? Very nice doood So pizza should still cost 10kBTC? What are you talking about? Obviously someone smart sets the rate. If people did it on their own they would just pick a great rate for themselves. Okay, give me $1000/coin.  I think there is place for all kinds of systems, but I'd start with capped loss and full reserve. That will still be useful and will be easiest to implement and keep free of fraud. https://mtgox.com/users/sendMoney +1 for near a BART Theymos, I'll bet you the price hits $20 within a year or $15 by the end of this year. Want to bet 50BTC? Stevenbucks never paid back his debt so just pay what he owes and we'll know it couldn't be you. Don't feel too ripped off though. When people scam it hurts all newbies. Can't do much but start with small ways to build trust. Even if you were Stevenbucks you could make a new name, be honest and eventually you would have an account with a good rep.I think we know that he was in NY so if you live in a different city take some photos and put a dated bitcoin sign in them and we'll know you aren't him or you are on vacation 
I'm quite sure religious zealots are focused on nominal interest only. Baseball bat bought with USD from a Visa no doubt. Damn that sucks. I'm not going to finish cause that's a lot of B's and S's get it? get it? That's hilarious. Those spikes must be thanksgiving and christmas. Love it. I think there will be volunteers but we shouldn't and don't have to count on them. A very cool thing to me is that small scale mining operations have lots of advantages over bigger ones. If you already have a room and a gpu or 4 then your cost is essentially electricity. If you are in a cold area some of that is returned to you in heat anyway, but if you have to buy the building specifically for this purpose and pay technicians etc your cost will be well higher. If people like mining for altruistic reasons it will be even harder for big players to survive. Damn, if we had a prediction market we would know. I wonder when we'll have a predication market? http://maps.google.com/maps?q=https://smsz.net/btcStats/bitcoin.kml Just so no one freaks out. Encryption systems don't break all at once and we can move to a different one when needed. Maybe that's how the gov will crush Bitcoin: Legalize drugs. Not possible. The only way to get a confirmation is to put the transaction in a block in the longest chain. The only way to do that is to put it at the end and this requires using a bit of data from the old latest block. If you 'start early' you'll end up with a new valid version of a really old block that no one will incorporate. I liked it. It's down now? You have the old address(es) too, it just displays a new one when you ask it too or when you receive (maybe?). You can see them all in the address book under receiving. Thanks Mike. It's awesome to learn whole new angles after reading and thinking about Bitcoin for 9 months. It's truly an amazing system. I actually read most of that.I've thought about this. It would require a lot of cleverness, but implementing mechanical turk type work inside an MMO and paying bitcoins or in game currency convertible to them would be awesome. It would be best if you had an easy way for players to create the work that needed to be done, they would strive to keep the tasks fun because then they could pay less.   got it, gg all   Getting out of the dollar hurts the whole complex. I'll be very happy when my day-to-day money, bankroll, and savings are all able to be in coins.  And keep in mind this is 50% including yourself. You have to match 100% of the honest nodes.I think it'll be impossible for US gov in one year. Throwing Bitcoins at people hurts them a lot less than silver rounds.This revolution will work because it doesn't need a single ounce of violence.
1BX5VnBXF9uLYntNChJtbs6wKALvf5muF8 Splits longer than 120 blocks can be fixed automatically still, right? It's just that generates that perhaps were spent will disappear also. half and half I don't know anyone in the area. There is a poster named Santa Cruz though and tradebitcoin lists a guy in downtown SF, but no contact info. I watched it, I would watch another. Seems like a mistake. Have you emailed support? I might be able to make it. I'm interested in buying similar length options, strike price up to $1.50. American style not required. This seems really silly. You are sure to win imo, but you are going to end with about 800BTC instead of 1190 if you just used the money to buy coins now. Yeah, you get the cash, but that's not going to be worth anywhere near the extra 400 coins in 2 years. put in 750 and see? It's a long freaking time. Also change of owner if you didn't know, probably got lost in the shuffle. It's Magical Tux, owner of KalyHost, running it now. Yep, but savers make it go up the most. That's absolutely possible, but it's equivalent to those services just stealing your Bitcoins. If they take valid Bitcoins from you with the promise to return them and then deliver Pesos or Rubles or SnapCoins instead they are just thieves and they don't need to collude to do that.   Fuck China's tyrants too, but at least I could play online poker there. Governance is fine. If it's good governance I'll follow it. If I decline some particular governance are you going to put me in a cage or shoot me? That's not governance that's god damned slavery.I have a pessimistic outlook on legislation that some refer to as law. Law is the real deal. Earth pulls things down, people who are kind and peaceful with others are happy, etc. You can't make laws by writing shit down. I don't care about the details of old bureaucrat's written diarrhea they call law. All I know is that BitcoinUSA was closed due to lack of interest not anyone's interpretation of so called law.Do what's right, not what's legal. Lol, if this bet happens I will ship some cash on June 1st to make a trade. Or maybe sell coins if the price is okay so I don't have to bother with a stamp. Did you read the thread you linked to? FinCen didn't shut them down, they closed because no one wanted to jump through hoops. Which doesn't surprise me in the slightest. The people interested in Bitcoin now aren't mostly bureaucratic types.  It wouldn't be 'lost' we'd all know there were coins assigned to that address, it's just that no one will ever have the key to unlock that address. I don't think the client will hold the price back, but I think changing it anytime now would be good. Maybe start by making the default client not require the fee for subcent transactions and put an option somewhere to show more precision, it isn't something everyone needs to see automatically just yet imo. I think LR takes 1% and MTGOX takes 1%. It could be more clear.
MR piece was stoopid. I responded to you guys, but I have to go out for a few hours now. If you pay, it's locked it. Potential customers are not just current users. I think it's a great idea and now is the right time. No, that's not what the confirmations mean. The first confirmation means that someone put your transaction in a valid block. The second means that someone worked off of that block and found another valid block which doesn't explicitly contain your transaction, but is an endorsement nonetheless. I think you should see 4 confirmations now.It's just a coincidence that you appeared to get 2 at once. The average time between is 10 minutes, but those two only had 11 seconds between them. How have you not learned this stuff yet?  http://www.bitcoinmonitor.com/It's been a while since a block was found. You will get your confirm eventually. It could conceivably happen, but the large majority of typos will result in an invalid address. For example if the 1 is not at the beginning it will not send. But there are more checks, some kind of checksum digits (at the end? I dunno). Also there are many valid lengths, can't remember the exact range. On a more serious note my post count just passed the year and difficulty will exceed the block number for the first time since block 0 sometime soon (two or three resets?). I can predict the difficulty at Block 102960 with awesome accuracy. I'll give 10-1 odds and you win if I am off by more than 1. Small amounts welcome, I'm only looking for $800 total and was going to just do Coincard, but figured I'd see if I could cut out the middleman and help buyers bypass limits.  I'll take offers that save me a little over coincard for people who have at least some rep here. I can sell MTGOX USD too. You can buy what's visible for $50k, but everyday lately $50k sells and there's $50k more waiting. There are dark pool asks and there are people willing to buy and sell at some price who just haven't declared yet. Yes it can go down. At the drop to 50 it will likely go down. There are different kinds of forks. A block chain fork almost definitely sucks. Forks of the software that use the same protocol and interact fine are a good thing. They make the network more robust and lessen the potential damage of a bug in one of them. This is pretty bad logic. People are going to want to try the software before they trust and pay you anything and even then they will start small. There are lots of sites I'd send 5BTC to, but not install their software.I'm not saying trust can't be built, but it's a process and at least a little harder to get people to download. There is a default rule set and since most people are using it that's what you need to pay to get in reliably. It is not a hard 'rule' though. That's right. If someone copies your wallet.dat they can spend your coins. If you lose it then you can't spend them, no other file matters. It's all public info that you can get again. If you like the buffet model you can probably make it work eventually, but you've got to realize that in the beginning people are doing you a favor by posting their stuff on your site. Later once those early auctions (which end up selling low because you don't have much traffic yet) are drawing buying eyeballs then you have something sellers will be willing to pay for, captured eyeballs. You are on the right track with the discounted registrations, but you are still trying to get people to pay to whitewash your fence. Heh, maybe a bad analogy since that worked well for Tom. If it's really about spam one thing would be a small deposit, like 2BTC. Say "Deposit is forfeit if you post really crappy stuff", but nicer. Yeah, there is still the problem of figuring out which addresses to put on the list.As was said fees will have to be higher for coins on the list, how much higher depends on the risk of defying the regulator. Which seems really really unrisky unless the regulator has complete access to all your stuff because you could just not mix payouts of blocks that contain blacklisted tx with your legit mining income and use that money for non-official expenses. Hmm, I guess it would easy to auto-blacklist the address that the fees are paid too also, but that just means you pay more fees when using that money. Interesting, that means that the blacklist fee will have to be higher than otherwise since the fee coins will also be worth less. I don't think that leads to an explosion, but it seems like some kind of math problem.Huh, and couldn't you screw the regulators up by sending token amounts from black addresses to random addresses containing lots of coins? If they don't auto blacklist the whole large amount then you can use that to launder black coins. If they do then you jam up corporate balances and such with dirty bit pennies. In order for a transaction to be "unwritten" from the record an amount of work equal to all hashing done after the tx is recorded must be done. So it's useful in the sense that you are making Bitcoin balances and transactions more secure. It is not useful for anything else.The way to think about it is that it's more efficient than gaurds, guns, walls, vaults, etc.There is a reason that 'useful' work can't be used, but I can't articulate it at the moment. This would have been good 2 days ago, but really we just need a straight bitcoin site or 5.But seriously someone show me something with potential and I'll pay and help the bit I can (consult I guess) for an equity share.
Yes, this plus the option to get a code from a site or phone app would be sick.Get on busUse droid to get codeArrive at ATMGet cashHookers and blow Some people are used to thinking they should borrow whenever it's available and it will be easier to repay later, this isn't even true with inflatobux because of the interest rate usually charged, but with coins you really need a good reason to borrow imo. The safest thing to borrow for would probably be mining since your income will be denominated in coins. Not saying that's perfectly safe or anything, just that you'll get positive exposure to the bitcoin price and not just the downside of owing them. Yeah, the other party has no upside they sell at the current price if it goes up and get nothing if it goes down. For this you need to pay up front. Even for a short period this should be non-negligible because of the high volatility lately and in general. I've got a lot staked in Bitcoin, but I'm not nearly 95% sure of it. It'll be interesting if there is another strictly better distributed cryptocurrency anytime soon. It surely won't sit around unnoticed for a year like Bitcoin did. That would have some use, but I'd just as soon trust the site or even 1 person at the table instead of having to worry about each individuals rep. I actually really like the host idea. He drums up interest in a game/format/time and holds the cash and takes a cut. Does anyone know decent play money software that will allow private games and such? This info is all available. I'd donate a little for an easy way to view it though. Another thing I'd like to see is the % of coins which haven't been spent, % that are one tx away from a generate, 2 away, and so on.Bitcoinwatch.com and Blockexplorer.com have some info. Freaking poker, go go go go go. So there are about a million Americans who want to play poker right now and can't. It would be a good time to open a nice Bitcoin poker room. If some developer with experience making things happen needs a little capital, let me know. To send coins you need the private key that corresponds to the public key which received the coins. This key is stored in a file called wallet.dat on your computer.Coins are yours if you have the key and therefore the ability to spend them.All this is handled for you though, you can see your balance and send coins right in the client. This is great stuff, keep it up. Coins coming. Seriously? A company lays down pipe and what 1%, 5%, 20% are unsatisfied for some reason and a different piped water company is what they want? And they are going to pay way more for what difference exactly? They would be a much smaller group paying all the same fixed costs.More likely they will get water delivered to their tank in a truck, or buy a rainwater system, etc.Pretending people are going to do insanely unprofitable things if they get free is silly. Sure people will make mistakes, but they will tend to have less capital to mis-allocate in the future. I can't warehouse, but I will commit to buying a few things (shirts and a hat?) at a reasonable price for payment in coins. Did you miss Toecoin? This is solved   It's really not silly. Finding blocks requires hardware and energy. Right now the payment for that is mostly new coins. Eventually there won't be any new coins. There will be a smooth transition to fees only over the next 120 years. It's clever because it solves two problems at once, appropriate distribution of new coins and free/cheap transactions for a long time. Maybe cheap forever compared to alternatives. I bet if you stop paying they'll stop making you go.But really it's pretty silly on both sides. What do you think about a barber that insists you get a haircut if you pay him? The government uses taxes to destroy lives. If you have to pay them to avoid your own destruction then fine, but don't pretend their demands are legitimate, or that you are fulfilling some kind of obligation because you aren't you have no obligation to aid in murder, imprisonment, torture, and destruction. If you happen to like some aspect of what the government is doing you pay for it directly without doing the evil parts. Article is bogus, I paid tax on fruits and veggies today. Maybe the thing to worry about is that the cops won't have a freaking clue about coins and will just see you ship a grand to whomever they are watching and assume you are buying whatever illicit thing the criminal is in to.That kind of incompetence is an argument against police not bitcoin. It's really easy to implement, it's all there just not in the standard GUI. It'll happen soon I'm sure. I'll do it. Just acknowledge me and I'll send it to the address given. This would be cool. The order should be [amount donated/minutes since donation] in descending order. Display top 10 on main page and have a page with the full list.
I think it's pretty clear that people would prefer to take any other kind of money over this evaporating kind, but overlooking that now, what about things that people need to save up for?   Consider it booked. I just want to know what source you consider valid for this. I watch Kitco, don't know if that's lame or rigged or whatever.   I don't think we disagree all that much. I was using chess as an example of rules without force. I'm completely aware that force is involved at every level of our society. Finding ways to interact with people without force and threats should be the goal of every civilized person. Seeing a problem and thinking "ah, let's force everyone to do X, that will make it better" is wrong (as in incorrect, it doesn't make the world better) and barbaric and it'll suck hard if you lose control of this violent game. I don't want to be sneaky with words. I have no problem with contracts, but I wasn't talking about them. I think the rules of chess fit this. We both submit to the rules of the game and there are no problems. If someone breaks them then there isn't a chess game anymore and if I don't want to play whatever the hell it is now I stop.  Without force there will be no crimes whatsoever. Does it still say 8 connections? If the faucet said it sent them then the transaction will be included in a recent block. You are downloading the blocks from oldest to newest so you'll probably see it in a few hours. After the initial download (~118,000 blocks) you just get new blocks as they come ~1/10 minutes. I admit there is a reason none of my games have been with thugs. Having another thug watch us and force his 'interpretation' of the rules on us isn't my idea of good living.I don't know about this nerd vs real dichotomy, but there certainly is a civil vs government dichotomy and I know which side I want to be on. I want that action. Where do we watch the price?Will do up to 200BTC if you like. Yes you can. I've played thousands of games of chess and cannot remember a single rule violation. Rules can be agreed upon and followed voluntarily. When force is involved I see rule violations everywhere. Are speeding and murder not happening in your country since those rules started being backed by force? Unless bitcoins are widely held to be valuable there won't be the possibility of thousands of high value transactions every 10 minutes. So while using the chain directly might eventually not be viable for buying a coffee that hardly means that coffee can't be denominated in bitcoins and payment settled in various non-block chain ways.  If Bitcoin becomes useless why would fees remain high? Yeah, this money isn't money because it doesn't have durability.What would happen if every day your money was reset to the highest it had ever been, but at the same time all accounts were divided by whatever coefficient was necessary to maintain exactly the same total balance?I guess the strategy would be to make a run at getting really high and then take a break until you wanted to make another big run. Does this have any implications? Is this currency dumb enough that it will take lots of force to keep people using it or just a little force? It certainly doesn't seem to be to be something that would emerge on it's own. Maybe you are soliciting offers, but I don't see an offer from you. What are you offering? On average there are 6 blocks an hour which comes to (6*24*50) = 7200/day. So you are looking at <28 days worth, not 2 years. Even this much will move the market substantially. What do you think happens if you try to buy 5% of all dollars? Or 5% of all gold? Obviously disruption. You can't even know how many coins you will want or be able to afford until you start buying. Either way it sounds like you should do some studying before you sink the millions that will be needed into this. Otoh if you have millions sitting around you should probably fix that problem pretty quickly. We get (roughly) what we pay for. There is no 'enough' difficulty really. If there are lots of people paying fees then there will be lots of difficulty provided, if there are few fees there will be much less difficulty.  No one serious cares what the last price was they care about what offers are available now. Some joker playing with himself doesn't affect the top bid and bottom ask. haha, my bad. was still thinking email for some reason. Lol, if you need to move 34 chars is that how you do it? Typing 34 buttons? I appreciate the bitcoin enthusiasm, but isn't it a little odd to essentially give people instructions on how to tip you anonymously on every business email? I would think something like "Now accepting Bitcoin" would be fine. Without major modifications the average time between blocks will be 10 minutes. This does not mean that the average time from you making a transaction to it getting it's first confirm will necessarily be 10 minutes. This is because in the future when the fixed block reward is less important and fees are more important hashing power supplied will be variable and the more fee tx that are queued up they faster they get confirmed. There will probably be some time of day and day of week effects too, but maybe only minor. You can even have some control by offering a huge fee that will get previously marginally unprofitable miners to switch on.
If you go to accept the lowest ask or highest bid and a dark pool grabs you instead won't it always be as good or better than you expected? What is the problem?I do see the loss in terms of making the market look thinner.For a small price and a little time it is possible to figure out where dark offers are, but not how deep. You could save people this hassle and enlighten those who didn't know how by marking where the lowest dark pool ask and highest bid are.Of course then the next move for the darkies is to not make the bid/ask and use a robot. Hey, just want you all to know I'm buying gold from Mexicans for $500/oz. I know it's low, but I'll give you the money so it's cool guys, I want to buy some gold. BASTARD!got me fuching good. Want me to pass them on to the donate address that Donnelly put on the bottom of the Agora page? I like them both. I think more is better. I think there is a problem, but it hasn't been precisely identified. Think about what is valuable that you get for free. Obviously for now transactions are being paid for by new coins. In the future a fee will be paid, but this fee you pay is for your first confirmation only. The second, third, fourth confirmations are valuable, but free. This is odd. Another valuable-but-free thing is having other miners build off of blocks that you have found. I am pretty sure that in the future miners will 'forward' part of their fees to anyone who builds off of their blocks. This will also have the effect of spreading received fees over the multiple confirmations that a transactor wishes to 'buy'.If there is a clean way to do this (and I think there is) then it will take care of this "commons" problem. A thousand at least. Lol. I don't even know where to start. I'm an anarchist and I agree with what you wrote so I don't think you have much time left as a non-anarchist.Those good things the government did, individuals actually did them. The bad stuff, stealing, destroying, lying, was also individuals. As an anarchist all I'm saying is that you don't get a pass when you do bad stuff because you are dressed a certain way or have the approval of a certain process.  They wouldn't need to go back to the beginning. They can work from any point they like. One attack would be to just refuse to include any transactions and make sure to stay longer than any other chain.  This seems like a great idea to me. Agree, not essential. Beneficial for sure though.  witcoin? The managing site can just hold them until the project is satisfactorily completed. If you wanted to eliminate even the risk of the site stealing from you there could be a confirmed and unconfirmed bounty. If there are no holding costs there will be zero supply of neg rate loans. There will be some people who need coins asap and are willing to pay a little positive rate. Likely there will be some supply of positive rate loans. So the equilibrium/necessary/whatever rate will be positive. haha, I meant no need to add, I already see it on the list, it was hiding inside the word 'theft' I like the speed, but would it make sense to remove the audio and slow it down a little for foreign subs? Would it be easy to release a version with no audio words, only sounds and let people try to re-dub in various languages? I imagine you have sound effects and speech on different tracks, yes? I agree. Just because there are steps you can take to stop or reduce theft to your stuff doesn't mean it isn't theft if it happens to others.And tax is on the list. Hint: it's just a particular type of theft. Would it be valuable to have a bank that other banks wouldn't/couldn't deal with? What are you trying to accomplish?  Hmm, this makes me wonder if there could be a point where the generate reward is still large enough, but the chain is bulky enough to make it rational for some miners to not include any tx at all so as not to need the chain. 
I need to say in this thread that my pledged 100 has been payed. With Justmoon's approval it was used to buy an ad on the Agora I/O unconference page.I'd like to see the main bounty go to Justmoon's fund, but it probably is appropriate to hold back some for the complete technical explanation. I hope that one is produced by the same people, I love the style. You think deposit insurance is going to help you if every bank computer and backup is gone?Buy collision insurance? I'll gladly sell it to you for a one time fee of .1% of insured funds.  I wouldn't condone keeping more than you immediately need in dollars. Ben doesn't even need a supercomputer to destroy that. I apologize, but I need to warn people to be careful. This seems dangerous. This is ridiculous. Do you apply the zero chance rule to anything else in your life? The check is impossible. I don't know if you've used the software, but you can generate addresses offline. Even if this wasn't the case having more people making ever larger numbers of comparisons to protect against one person losing the coins in one address less than one time before the heat death of the universe is crazy. I thought the nonce stared at 1 for everyone and the public key in the generate transaction ensured we were not redoing work. I may have gotten that out of some oversimplified explanation though. I can think of plenty of safe methods that don't involve checking all previous account numbers. One of them would be using really long random strings. Another would be adding 1 to the last issued number. I'd actually be fairly concerned about a bank who's procedure was to compare new numbers to a complete list of old numbers.People who don't care enough to learn whether the system is sound or not won't be refusing to use it because it isn't sound. They'll make the decision the same way they make their other decisions, asking: What are successful people doing? False. I trust it.I understand math though ymmv. Lololol, took me a while too. Sure. 14bfFHNybWP8BQak2iDdHdBC9pmUEthQff I don't want to solicit any more donations now though. Justmoon let me use the 100BTC I had pledged for his video towards the ad fee and I'm more than happy to make up the small difference. Ha, thanks. You rock about an order of magnitude harder imo. Very very nice site. Acomplished. http://agora.io/etienneIt links to WeUseCoins. What does it even mean for a company to use something like Bitcoin of their own? If the company has a secret backdoor then it isn't like bitcoin at all. If they don't then why not just use Bitcoin itself? This gives me an idea. People want to buy stuff with coins, but the merchant doesn't take coins. Intermediary accumulates orders and bitcoin payments from consumers and negotiates a bulk deal with the merchant. Consumers get to use bitcoin. Intermediary pockets the difference. Merchants get extra sales and eventually take Bitcoin directly. Easier said than done I'm sure.I guess it's essentially a sales affiliate who handles currency conversion too. Want to modify title to include "(now with bounty)"? That would be great. Maybe we can get an ad up real quick too. It says $100, I'll start with 15BTC. Buyers want lower prices, sellers want higher prices. This is good and natural. It applies to buyers and sellers of labor just the same. I know there are some psychological forces in play concerning wages, but laborers who accept a slowly falling wage instead of striking or quiting will do much better and others will learn and follow their lead. We've been paying a very dear price in real terms for a little bit of psychological pleasure from watching the digits increase.Imagine a world where apple prices fall every year and people know and expect this. If you tell them that you have a system in which prices will go up in the store over time they might tell you that just won't work, people simply won't buy apples anymore because prices are sticky downward in this world. Yeah, fine, it's a fact about the current world, it isn't a fact about how worlds have to be in order to work. People can get used to stuff pretty easily if it makes them better off in ways that actually matter.  Good observation. There is another wrinkle. Mining has a fixed and a variable cost. When deciding whether to join you consider both, but to leave you ought only consider the variable (electricity). I guess you can sell your hardware, but probably slowly and/or at a loss. This should have a dampening effect on miners leaving.We also might see that a price increase after a drop brings up the rate more quickly than the original climb did because there are now miners who were turned off, but are ready to go any time. I would contact Noagendamarket about what's happening in Aus. I agree. I think people who claim selflessness in anything are lying (rare) or very confused (common).  
Sounds like a problem with traditional money. Maybe people will abandon that.  This is good advice imo.There are two ways to get people to do what you want - convince them or force them. Think about what happens to someone who cannot do what Congress commands. I often cannot out of conscience.  Yeah, there are computers that are orders of magnitude faster than other computers, but not that much faster than all the other computers combined (or even all the ones working on bitcoin). Another student?  Well that took a disturbing turn at the end. Whoops ;-) A funny joke. For linking to the previous joke the last noun in joke n must be the first noun in joke n+1. They probably would if they need to. If I don't get anything closer for them soon I'll send you a phone number or pass your info to them if you prefer.  Make love to a Thai ladyboy? 'Issuing' evokes an issuer. I think "total" or "supply" might work.Looking forward to the completed product! This is fun to think about. What would make a good human proof of work? Two guys I know have cash and want BTC. They are in NYC and can come to you. I don't know the exact amount, roughly 500-1000. PM me if you can help.I already thought of Bruce of course. I think he's out of the country and isn't responding for now. We've needed to lose the tittle for a looooooong time now. Yeah, don't do that. There is pretty much no way that parents who restrict downloads are going to learn about and approve something to do with new online currency. But you probably weren't going to get much from mining anyway and you can still use Bitcoin by using an online wallet, no ID required. Then you can start accumulating by using the faucet and bitcoin bonus. After that maybe some kind of online work. Actually I think bitcoin bonus has some kind of referral system, maybe figure that out and show some of your friends. He is selling dollars for dollars. 1 to 1 is a fair price. A miraculous level of genius?  +1Philanthropy is a transfer. Profitable business is wealth creation. Sure you have to for now... tada, better like that. If you want accuracy, which it seems you do with 92 freaking options, you need birth year. Some people will answer today, some tomorrow, some next month. Unless you read the date on each response (can you even?) you are getting bad data.
Are you saying that if a menu lists prices clearly in BTC you can eat with no obligation to pay? Or only that if no currency is mentioned then dollars are assumed? Welcome back.I say miracle too. :-) Wow, that's amazing. Clearly one is causing the other, but which!? All you need to spend your coins is your private keys which are in your wallet.dat file. One copy will work as well as another. You don't really download the coins. It's more like you download a list of which addresses contain coins and the your software notices "Hey, that's an address I have the key for" and tells you the total balance of all such addresses.  That's right. If you received 5 cents in transaction previously then you have 5 cents in one address and it will get split. If you previously received a 1 cents transaction as part of your 5 cents then you will just send that and not any change.You could make payment in two separate transactions, but why? The software handles it all. You just tell where to pay and how much and it's all taken care of. I would leave off and memorize at least a few digits. When the cops capture you they are going to photograph your naked body. Okay, true enough. I should retract 'variability'. But if a block clears out all or most fee paying transactions then there will be a period of waiting for transactions with fees to pile up to make it worth electricity even. During this period it might be worth it to work on the old block that did have lots of fees in it.  Right. So we've got a spender who wants to get in a block then once that happens we've got a miner who wants his block built on (the receiver has a similar desire, but doesn't care which version it gets in, just that it gets built on asap). Right now other miners choose to do this based on whichever version they hear of first, but I know if this is actually a lasting equilibrium. It does seem to be a local equilibrium since everyone knows that everyone else is just going with the first that they see it makes no sense to keep trying to find another version, but this can be broken if there is a way to pay the miner who builds on you .01BTC. This is rational to offer because of the chance of a race. Suppose something like a 1% chance of racing and consider that you only pay if you get included and it makes sense to offer a lot more than .01 if you need to. Right now this doesn't change much, but when there is high variability in the block reward because it is dominated by fees, some miners will rationally choose to continue working on a previous block as long as it has higher fees than the 'correct' block to work on. This will largely not actually happen because the finder of the previous block will know to pass on some of his fees to anyone who builds on him to tip the balance toward working on the next block instead of competing with his version of the old block.  Really? What exactly is the incentive for taking those extra risks if not some advantage? We actually shouldn't be worried about our sends falling out of the chain, they can be put back, and we can't be defrauded by that. It's the ones we receive that we want buried quickly.  Strictly speaking I could buy thousands of GPUs to bury transactions coming to me faster making it harder for an attacker to rewrite than he expected it to be.This seems wrong, the double spend attack's profitability depends strongly on how many confirms merchants are requiring and a bunch of other factors besides. And I don't even really understand the claim. Are you saying that a 1000BTC transaction isn't safe until 1000BTC of rewards and fees have been paid after it? That makes a certain sense I guess, but you still can't be sure because the attacker may be going back anyway to undo a 10k transaction in the block before. edit: There was no need for me to be hyperbolic about buying thousands for GPUs. Each extra bit of hashing power I supply adds to the security of all previous transactions. The incentive mismatch I see is that those previous transactions don't pay me at all. I used to think that it would be unaesthetic and awkward to pay for each future confirm, but block finders paying miners to build off of their blocks handles all of this nicely. I feel like I'm not getting across how important this is. I'm going to keep thinking and maybe write it all again if I think of a better way to explain. The problem with otc imo is the IRC stuff. It took me several attempts to get a cloak and register a password and then I lost it and in a few attempts I still haven't been able to get it reset. I'm sure it works for some people, but you aren't going to get a majority of normal people to beg IRC mods for stuff all the time. Obviously don't be the guy who trades $1000 with someone who's been trading $40s. But it's doubtful that all those $40s were setting up for a big $100 score. Also it's just one piece of info, if someone has 30 reasonable posts maybe you are undecided, but if they also did a trade 2 months ago w/ CoinPal for about the same amount they want to do with you now you are probably fine.  An options market would be nice. That could be provided directly or with a rep system. Ah, yes, that makes sense. It's harder than I first thought.But it isn't the case that no one will ever want to share PP. People who do PP transactions with others will be sharing it out of necessity. It would be some help to be able to link to proof that your PP email has had 8 successful CoinPal trades over the last 3 months. Would it be reasonable to just have a transaction history page for each user and a check box to make it public and make that public page easy to link to? Is PGP stuff necessary?  Yes, it breaks the anonymity though and requires another layer of reputation and stuff. I've been worried about that too. I think it boils down to getting your security by hoping there are fee tx coming after the block yours are in. Which isn't unreasonable, but it's a pretty variable level of security and it's hard to 'buy' more since your fee goes only to the first confirmation.   The first pool did this to pay members directly and immediately. It's cool because that lets members verify that they are working on a block that will definitely pay them.  Okay, here is why I think this is important. It will be easiest to see if we skip to the far future, but I think it applies to some extent immediately and certainly around the 210000 block. So it's the future and there is no block reward only fees. A particularly large number of fees come in and the block is solved and you hear about it. Now you could start working off of this block helping the miner who found it and the people who have transactions in it, but for what? There aren't yet any pending transactions, so you wait. Eventually enough transactions come in to make you start working, but in the meantime you have an idea. Keep working on your own version of the previous block, ignore the one that just came in. If you get a valid block you can always just pay others to work off of yours instead of the other one. This is what miners will do unless the previous block solver agrees to pass on part of his fees. This is entirely appropriate because each confirmation is a benefit to the transactions in this block. It would be annoying for regular users to pay multiple fees, but it looks to me like the miners have incentive to divvy them up 'correctly'.I am confident that there is some way to handle the payment to the next block that builds on yours. If my thinking is right I have a feeling this may have been foreseen.  Is there possibly a way to commit to paying, but not actually pay for 120 blocks?Alternatively, is it possible to include a transaction in only your block and if your block fails to be included ensure that that transaction can never be included in a later block. Like a do not-include-after-block-13204 switch or something?
I'm worried this doesn't work. The tx will be reissued if your block doesn't get taken and someone will get that fee later even if your block does not end up in the chain.Still thinking. I mean new fees keep being paid on new tx, but for any one tx there is one fee which is chosen and attached by the sender. You can figure this out with trial and error anyway. It would just be a convenience for regular people. He doesn't need to show his entire assets, only what is currently available. I'm constantly amazed by how well built Bitcoin is in terms of providing incentive for right behavior by nodes. Eg. you don't build off a bad block not because you are honest but because others won't build off of yours and you will never get your reward paid. Or how new block finders have incentive to share as quickly as possible.It occurred to me that when two versions of the same block are found near the same time miners are ambivalent about which to work from and arbitrarily choose to continue to work from the first that they received. But the finder of each version has a large desire for his block to be chosen. If he could offer a small extra reward for building off of his block then this would be in his interest. I think there is a way to do this, I don't know for sure if it works or if it is the best way.Make a new address.Pay desired amount to this address, but do not announce the tx, put it only in your version.Make a payment from this address that has a fee attached.This fee can only be collected by a miner if they work off of your block because otherwise the address will be empty.If this works or if someone knows a way that does I think it has some very exciting implications which I will elaborate on. Sure, I was just pointing out that it would likely be more than one person. I totally get that we will find ways to solve problems that arise.  It is not sacrifice to give what you want to give.  Maybe you are missing the fact that the transaction fees are completely know when the block is solved? There is no recurring fee or anything.Maybe you are thinking of paying a miner now for, say, the first block they find after block 220k or something? Essentially making a bet on the fee activity in the future? Probably the best way to make this bet would be to buy or contract for mining equipment. Eh, I guess there are two ways you might try to do this. First the impossible way: You take his valid block and replace his address with yours so you can receive the reward instead of him; this fails because changing that will change the hash of the block and it won't be valid anymore. Second he could send you the private key that goes with the public key that is being assigned the reward. You will not be sure that he doesn't retain a copy of the key so you should spend the coins to a new address of your own. But if you are going to do this then you might as well let him get the coins and send them to your new address himself.Maybe I'm missing your point, but I don't think there's any reason to try any of this. Whenever any coins at an address are used they must all be used. Since you want to be able to send any amount this is handled by sending some of the coins to your intended recipient and some back to a new address of your own. This would mean 1 input and two outputs. But sometimes you don't have enough to make the payment with just one of your addresses so you have to combine 2 or more inputs to make the payment. So really any transaction can have any number of inputs and outputs, but usually only 2 outputs. I think making >2 outputs easier is the goal of the recently implemented sendmany function. Maybe you could sell "The right to buy a 1oz GAE for bitcoins at the spot price using MtGox weighted daily price on"I think this would essentially let people bid on the premium. It is not an 'option' because it isn't the right to buy at some in or out of the money point. It's just the right to get it at whatever that days spot is. It would be silly for someone to win, pay the premium, and not buy the whole coin. And if they do, you still get the premium and can sell the coin again.That might not be the clearest way to explain, and you would want much clarity since it's an odd thing. You'll probably get people thinking they are getting the coin for just the price of the premium, lol. It's kind of silly to say that miners who sell bitcoins aren't giving anything back. When they sell coins they are giving the best version of money I've ever heard of and getting crappy old dollars in return.Is Bitcoin only a ponzi if it fails? Is every currency system a ponzi or become one after it falls? People will not get used to having only a few, they will strenuously try to get more inadvertently providing wide and powerful backing for them. Lol. I'm going to make brokenbottleofpeanutoilforbitcoins.com and anonymousbuttplugsforpoliticians.com right now. Some miners will probably be programed to fill blocks with tx in order of fee size, and include free tx only if there is extra room. Maybe the backlog will be hours, days, years, infinity, but if it ever gets cleared it will probably be when fewer new tx with fees are coming as opposed to when the most are coming in. No, "inconsistent" blocks are rejected by all honest blocks no matter how much power an attacker has. What power allows you to do is right a new consistent chain that doesn't contain a payment that you previously made. People will know afterwards, but presumably the attacker will have already gotten his merchandise or whatever.I don't understand. Do you think there is too much or too little incentive to get in early as Bitcoin is now? Any difficulty rise that happens due to Moore's law won't affect miners generally, the will need to do more hashes/payday, but they will also have the advantage of being able to hash faster. Bitcoin with no changes will eventually do this.Off peak hours are when free/low fee tx will get in.If there is some way to tell when it is necessary then I'm all ears.I think it's pretty smooth, but this will end eventually anyway.edit: Bitcoin is pretty freaking clever imo I think he's already seen all the porn on the net and wants more :-) The block finder provides the timestamp? I remember hearing about some rough restrictions on acceptable times relative to other blocks. Is there enough play to allow exploitation by a miner who preferred difficulty to be a little lower. Bitcoin has lots of money supply inflation now, but that will slow and then stop. It could have price inflation if new coins were not met by new users or increased use. Deflation fear mongering is beyond retarded. OMG I'm going to be richer tomorrow, nooooo. Economies don't grow because people buy and use shit; economies grow because people make more than they use. Jesus, this would be Econ 001 in a sane world. Guess what, people close to the fucking spigot lie to you.  How the %$&^ could it be better for people who work for money to have their money lose value instead of gain it?
What am I going to do with all this damn gold! Pfft, I guess I'll just trade it for dollars, lame. They look good to me. I prefer the first by a bit. I'll play the hundred I pledged to a good live person explanation. No problem, glad you got it. Remove generate stuff imo. I trust him not to, but he'd get us all at once, not one at a time. I bet there is a better way, but you could search your addresses at blockexplorer.com and pull the data from there.Obviously a 1 click export would be best, but I don't think it exists yet. Would probably not be hard to program, all the data is there. This makes a lot of sense. What about when we have an influx of noobies and 3 threads about the horrors of lost coins appear at the same time? Are there some occasions for lock/combine?I think I'm going to make an list of threads about the most common topics so I can quickly link new threads to the relevant thread. If I get much done I'll share it. Another way to do it might be to pull out good answers from the thread, put them in the wiki and link there to avoid linking newcomers to long ass threads. When this stops and the dollars come home, the dollar is f'd so hard and fast it'll be insane.  I'm only somewhat familiar with LETS. Don't most people who use LETS not like the currency to "leave the community"? I think that's irrational, but I thought that was the general idea. Oh, I guess people who live in the same local currency area might want to exchange LETS for BTC if one of them wanted to use the BTC out of the area. So I see a point I guess.   I don't think any miner will ever put free tx in before fee tx. So say 1000 tx fit in a block and there are 2000tx waiting that have fees both miners will include the exact same set of tx. But if there are only 600 tx with fees then one will include only those 600 and the other will include those 600 plus 400 free tx. Both miners will receive the exact same amount of fees.I suppose things change a little in 120 years when there is no per block reward. Some miners might wait to search for a block until there was a fee tx and some might start "for charity" as soon as there was any tx at all. I don't think content should be moderated. Whoever cleans up spam is doing a good job, but I imagine it'll be a bigger job as the forum grows. I volunteer to assist in that. I could also probably merge dupes without mucking it up. You can't 'levy' fees. A fee is either attached or it is not. Rejecting no-fee transactions does not make you more in fees. A pool that includes some free tx does not give up any fees that are attached to other tx. http://www.qwiki.com/q/#!/Bitcoin I guess he doesn't, but he's on to something anyway. Usually there is no proof of work attached to a transaction. Attaching a fee denominated in bitcoins is like attaching a proof of work. And that is the ultimate solution to the priority issue. Eh, are you suggesting that if lives or buildings are lost or people are wrongly imprisoned by a system then that system should be ended? Because I can get behind that logic 100%. Let's do this in the morning. What if a law is constitutional, but I can see into the future that eventually people will realize that I'm not bound by a document that I didn't sign and don't approve of?  Maybe dead people's opinions aren't a good reason to do violence to me.  MeRiad Venturescapital R optional. Lol Do you mean the ability to manually enter a peer to connect to? I think you can do it, just not in the GUI. I never have though, others can tell more.
I don't think already connected peers would have any problem if IRC went down. And I believe that there are some hardcoded backup peers to get new clients in the loop. The money was allegedly stolen from MtGox and MtGox accounts.  I picked "other" because while I trust strongly that mtgox will not screw me or other honest traders on his own I worry that he will be willing in the future to comply with third parties concerning our accounts. So far there is not much evidence for this, he hasn't tried any KYC stuff which is a good sign. He does have a $1000/day restriction which I believe is based on his understanding of some regulation from some government. I don't have a problem with the rule; I can see already how it has saved some money from fraud. But I'm concerned about what will happen if a government that he considers himself subject to writes down that bitcoins must be destroyed or some nonsense like that. Maybe he does have more loyalty to justice than to governments, but that isn't clear to me.Concerning Baron's case, well done imo. Did you manually turn the fee on? Right now no fee is usually required.Like Neereus said it goes to the person who was able to include your transaction in a valid block. or 110... I'm pretty sure he means that he is retaking funds stolen from himself and from people who's funds he was holding. I guess it could be a tad more clear. So it is necessary to have war because if there isn't war then there will be war anyway? Is that a fair summation?  Are you telling me you wouldn't take back your own money if you hadn't previously stated that it was your policy to take back your own money? This is an assertion, and a disgusting one, with no support at all. What awful thing would happen if governments stopped killing millions of people? Why do you think war is necessary? And if it is necessary then stop calling it evil. Nothing that is necessary makes the world worse than it could otherwise be. Okay, I was thinking that since the splitting was going to be done anyway you could just do it early to give the coins age and therefore priority.But if that's no good would it at least help a little to not put donations all in one address so that the entire faucet balance doesn't get sent as change every time?Maybe I'm confused or maybe that isn't even happening anymore, thanks for humoring me. Would it help if you restructured that way payments were sent so that it wouldn't always be new coins from the change of the last transaction? Like maybe break your stash into a bunch of .05 addresses and let them age and then you can send them out with no change? Yeah, I wouldn't do it. But I could see people thinking "I'm going to be doing this for a long time and the sooner people get in the habit of paying fees the better for me". Like I said though I'm probably wrong. It was probably just low priority payments not fitting in that part because I was doing a bunch and they were small and probably new since I had been receiving lots of small amounts around that time. I'm sorry my answers didn't help. There is no magic here. If you use the standard banking system to buy coins then the trade in the standard system can be seen like always.And yes, bad people can do bad things with bitcoin. This has nothing to do with bitcoin whatsoever. Bad people can do bad things with forks too. That has nothing to do with forks. If there even is anyone who could be called an "administrator of Bitcoin" then the answer is no. Nobody is in any special position to track who is using bitcoin. This doesn't mean that no one can at all. For example you could keep track of which of your friends are using Bitcoin by asking them and writing it down. Or you could search the web for people who say that they use it. No one ever needs permission to use bitcoin nor is there anyone who could grant that permission.The money used to buy coins goes to the person who sold them. Sometimes that is a person who found the coin by doing computational work and sometimes it is someone who previously bought the coin or received it in return for goods or services. There is no guarantee that you can get anything for them; there is only the fact that you can. This might sound odd, but think about your dollar, what is promised for that? A fresh new dollar? A dollar has value if people take them, same as a bitcoin.Bitcoin does not stop fraud or theft, neither does my refrigerator or the dollar.  Oh, I didn't mean most, just that there must be some. I've had transactions not get in the next block. And when that happens it usually takes a few blocks to get. Now that I'm thinking about it, maybe I'm wrong. The delayed transactions may only have happened when I sent ~10 and usually all but one would get in which means there aren't miners who only take fees. Maybe miners that usually take zero fee, but delay with some probability? Seems unlikely. I also thought I'd seen others having the same issue, but I didn't look carefully. This was over a month ago, but I assumed it still happened and I just wasn't seeing it because I'm sending less often now.I'm probably totally wrong. Even if a miner keeps them "the market" is still absorbing them because the miner is part of the market. And you aren't going to keep them for ever anyway (I assume), so there will be a day with more new coins offered than average in the future. Yeah, it would move the price by about 10%, this is temporary though. Six months ago it would have bought all coins on offer several times over. Some miners are not putting transactions in if there is no fee. I presume this is to incentivise fees. Ouch, gotta worry about word getting out that "Bitcoin charges 20% on microtransactions".But of course slow transactions look bad too. I think this Bitcoin thing is starting to catch on.
The can set whatever price they want, but only prices that people are willing to pay become the actual price. Yeah, I'm assume OP is fine, but it's terrible practice. If people get used to giving based on 3 party info there is going to be some major scamming eventually. Don't send to unverified addresses there is no recourse. bitcoin-central.net is 24/7, no fees, accepts LR and euro wire. The market is still thin, but I think it's going to take a lot of mtgox action eventually. Yep, it waits for funds from any source and becomes active automatically. Partial funding results in a partial order. It is completely possible to prove that an online casino is running fairly. I don't think bitcoinbet has any interest in doing that though. I have no proof, but I think it was redirecting 6s to 1s on Jackpot Dice. I think after he realized how shady that was he cleaned it up, but dropped the payout to 4x instead of 6x. I think it's 6 confirmations. Agreed. This is essentially the most difficult to enforce cartel in all of history. Even if the miners hook up all the generation they have now to an organizing pool server or something if it is more profitable for an individual to include transaction below whatever the cartel chooses then that will be set up on the side either by 'cheating' cartel members or by other's enticed by the artificial profits that the cartel induces. There simply is no cartel equilibrium here.I don't see any way that difficulty falls by more than 50%. So what if you used to get 9 blocks of 50BTC/mo and now you get 18 of 25BTC? It will be exactly as profitable for you as before. Take current number of blocks and divide by 2016. The decimal part tells you the % of the way to the next diff update. Subtract it from 1 and multiply that decimal by 2016 to get blocks to next diff update. Some people mean public to be government. In that sense it is obviously not. Yeah, for donations there shouldn't be an amount, especially if it breaks the payment. I'm sure the coins aren't lost or anything, but they never showed on the counter on the site. I don't know if it changes your analysis, but miners can't charge fees, they can only decide not to include a transaction if they don't think the fee is high enough. I just want to make sure no one gets the wrong idea about fees. I just used the mybitcoin link to send a donation. I didn't send the 5.15 it requested, only 2. Now it seems to not be acknowledging the payment. To complicate, I used mtgox, so maybe it didn't work at all. Does anyone know how mybitcoin reacts to payments of the 'wrong' amount? I agree that miners will tend to be only marginally profitable considering all costs, but once they get set up only marginal cost considerations matter. On top of that when some drop out it becomes more profitable for the rest. 50% is a hard ceiling for the drop imo, I choose 5% to 30% as most likely.One more thing to consider is that if coins are harder to get the price could pop a little around the same time, or before in anticipation. Puhlease. Gimme a break. You paid for advertising so now you own your customers or something? Sweet Jesus Christ, is this a general rule in your mind? Anyone paying for advertising can't have their customers lured away by a better deal? I'm sure you can think of a few reasons if you try. Is this actually happening?It kind of seems to me like someone is scaring businesses into not starting to accept silver.Why is no one asking the people bringing in this new fake silver all of a sudden where they got it? Online from China I guess? Any market that makes a habit of taking any coins ever involved in wrongdoing is not going to survive imo. However, I don't think that is mtgox policy or practice. This particular situation appears to be: thief himself, with his stolen coins, for a large amount, and the site owner probably knows some victims to boot.Extrapolating what is probably a good investigation and decision in this one case to the general rule of "Take any possibly tainted coins" is ridiculous. Atlas, do you know Dragon's Tale? It seems like this could be cool, but won't we need private key exporting so we can use the key to unlock private messages? Ah, or you could require a .01 transaction from the relevant address and return it (or not if you want a fee). But this would not be ideal I don't think, maybe there is a better way you have in mind.
I can undercut that. 1000BTC for $1100.  What? I don't like dark pols either. But are people suggesting that if two people secretly trade coins then the bitcoin market is no longer free? Does it somehow make a difference if they trade secretly on mtgox or in their own house? Keeping your dealings hidden is prudent in many situations especially those involving large amounts of money. No one has any obligation to tell the world the size of their trades after the fact let alone before. It's taking a block of data that contains a transaction that pays you new coins and possibly other recent transactions and hashing that plus an incrementing number repeatedly until the output is below a certain target value. It sounds pointless and wasteful to some people at first, but this is what allows us to share one unambiguous record of which addresses contain coins without having to trust or rely on a central party. It's pretty much genius.  It's the difference between all of us looking at it and saying "Ah ha, nice and correct and a little dull" and it going viral and getting people to understand and remember and be interested. I'm not sure why thousands of coins isn't getting this done faster. I guess it'll need to be a team or a rather remarkable person who has understanding of bitcoin, graphic skill, and teaching skill. Thanks for the quote. It's higher than I hoped, but not outrageous. Would you offer a better price on a smaller deal? Say $35 for 500? I don't get it, all they did was get rid of coins at a lower price than they could have gotten, the ask is still the same of course, they can't buy cheaper for it.It looks like a bug or exploit to me. Something weird at bitcoin-central for sure. Is anyone willing to offer me a price on the option to buy coins at $1/btc unitl April 1st? I'm looking for up to $1000. Long forum rep or escrow would be good. Maybe that's only because some people owe bitcoins to someone. I don't think the debt claim is true, but you don't show that by saying the price of a coin. Got me, what I said was straight wrong.Obviously pretty much everything is valuable to some level. I think that only one thing of a given type can get that huge boost of added currency value. I don't know if silver and/or gold have any of this extra value now. I suspect both a little of it as people speculate on what will ultimately take the position of money. Log charts maybe better? Those don't look particularly bad to me, but I can see how they'd look bad to some.I'm reading BOJ doubled inside of ~1yr then again in 6yr then again in 14 - wait, wtf it's measured in USD. Why don't we look at a graph of bitcoin money base in terms of USD? Because that would be retarded. How about the supply of gold in USD to see if someone is printing gold like mad?This is a US fluffer imo. "Look everyone is doing it". Um, no.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Money_supply_of_japan.gifNot even a log chart, but gives a much more accurate picture. Bingo.Two bitcoin type chains will never both be valuable for long. I think currencies with different properties like bitcoin and gold can. Wouldn't they do better to hold oil futures?edit: and can't they buy those with any major currency? Cool, I like torservers. I don't think 10% is too bad for something well run and transparent. You don't need a winner at an exact minute, right? Why not use the hash of the 10th or 100th block after some time you define as the end of entries? If you and the merchant don't/can't make it a habit of holding onto the coins then you essentially have to pay double fees for transferring from your dollars into coins and to cover the cost of the merchant doing the opposite. There is a lot of friction unless people consider them good enough to hold.  Isn't the point that you'll have to pay the fee 5 times? I think that's what they want you to do. I bet you can just use one card over and over in their threatened scheme.  No. Oddly a deeper coin does seem more valuable since it is harder to rewrite the relevant block, but if you send a coin it's in a brand new block so this benefit is nontransferable. You don't use the network to make an address or to check a balance. You have a complete transaction history on your own hard drive. Hi, I think speculation stabilizes markets.
No one here is suggesting we can or should stop trades from happening in the world at large, we're only talking about banning actually offering them on this one forum. I don't think it matters much, but at least make sure to allow a link to the site where we can talk about it  Yes, dark pools show up in volume after the fact. But there are surely plenty of trades happening off of any books, not to mention all the trades for goods. Mullvad has dropped prices again, now 6BTC/mo. Does anyone know what their very first bitcoin price was? I think I remember 60BTC, but I'm not sure. Same offer still good, just bumping myself because I know there are a lot of new eyeballs recently. I've been thinking that parity is just some arbitrary line to be crossed and trying not to care too much, but damn it's nice to switch to bitcoin prices on this site and watch the nominal price drop. BTC >> USD I like how the choice is this year or never. I think that's correct actually, but funny to think about. tuliptulip tuliptulip tulip tulip tuliptulip tulip tulip tulip tulip tulip tulip tuliptulip tulip tulip tulip tulip tulip tulip tulip tulip tulip tulip tulip tulip tulip tulip tulipBitcoin is a little different. Current offer (2/10): I buy Bitcoins with my Poker Stars at a rate of $1/BTC, up to $400. $5 minimum. Old offer (2/09): I buy Bitcoins with my Poker Stars at a rate of $.85/BTC  People holding their savings in bitcoin is indistinguishable from people throwing them away. Both increase the value of other bitcoins. I hope this is how governments try to destroy Bitcoin.QE is bad for a currency because it makes more units not fewer. DO it! I just bought a deck of cards (standard 52 card pack) for $45 (from myself, not that it matters). Anyone want it for $30? No? you don't make purchase decisions based on other people's previous trades? Pretty clever.All that matters are currently available offers to buy and sell. Those can be 'faked' only as long as someone has USD to part with to waste on paying more than necessary.  We don't really want to send data in obscure ways though since we want to distribute widely and quickly and to strangers. They've been crossed for a few hours at least. Selling for 41 cents and buying at 43, but no trade goes. Cool, maybe he'll grant me those universal rights next   Bitcoin is pretty cool because it starts easy to create and eventually becomes impossible. Best of both worlds imo. It would be nic e if there was a way around the arbitrariness of the rate of decrease, I'd prefer smoother and that's been discussed here. I do kind of like the general method though: most in 15 years, but not all for 120.  I'm glad that you are choosing to participate anyway.  edit: also you are not alone, imageshack took down the half nipple pic, lol. That does seem right. I don't want to misrepresent his position. I certainly shouldn't have implied that he advocated using force against people for not meeting his standards of care.I would say that even if you are caring for your children you should let others care for them as well. On what grounds could you stop it? It's disappointing that it's so hard to find people who won't abuse out of habit and without knowing what they are doing. That's not to say there aren't people who do know that they are abusing or even that that is a black/white issue. Might be back....back lost my 3 wagers   Even stipulating that the burglar has as genuine a need for whatever he intends to get from you as a child has for food it is still a different question. If the child says "Can I eat?" and you say "No" that is to claim that you will prevent the child from getting anything at all from anyone. If the child says "Can you get me some food?" saying "No" only means that you aren't going to or can't get food for the child (and usually only for some limited amount of time). If you forcedly keep your child away from other then you are aggressing for sure.   If the potential burglar says "Can I take your lawnmower?" you don't respond "No you can't have a lawnmower from anyone" or just say "No, I won't give you a lawnmower". I crashed the site. I'd been making multiple bets at a time and getting pretty lucky, upped it to three bets of 10 and they all stopped refreshing, now I can't get the site at all.
Convincing someone that they need permission from you in order to eat is bad imo. My boy doesn't ask permission to eat, he asks for help getting food down from the cupboard.This isn't a semantic thing. If a father says "no you can't eat now" and a kid goes to ask mom then daddy gets all hot and bothered about having his authority circumvented. But if daddy says "I'm not going to get you any food now" and then mommy does it then daddy can just be glad that someone else met the child's need.So the difference I see in your two scenarios is that in the first you are telling someone that they can't do something to your property, and in the second you are telling someone that they cannot satisfy their own need even independently of you. Sorry if this is a little off topic. Force on children is terrible.  Stef says frequently that we have no unchosen obligations. I completely agree. He says we've chosen to have children so now we have an obligation to feed, clothe, educate, whatever. Even if this is true what does it mean? That they can punish us? That anyone can? Does this mean that we have to meet someone's definition of minimum care?I have a son and I don't feed him, play with him, keep him safe, or anything out of obligation. So far there hasn't been a day where I haven't wanted to do these things; there have been minutes, and I don't do those things in those minutes. What I'm saying is that I don't understand what obligation means here or why you would need it. Doing things out of obligation sucks, everything is better if you do things out of a real desire to do them. Is there a particular reason for 40kb as the size limit? I have a fairly normal skyscraper that I can't get under 42kb even as a jpg. It would be easy to confuse with probiwon's method. If he gives you an address it is good for a long time. Thanks, glad you like it. She hasn't gotten many downloads and I'm afraid my wife is going to fire me as business manager or quit altogether so I'm dropping the price to .1BTCI reduced the resolution so the file should load quickly now. It's still plenty good quality.http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/107 Your sniper either doesn't exist or isn't useful. I am willing to pay 60BTC for something. I type that in and forget about it. You can't snipe me, the site just auto-bids me over you up to 60BTC. You can win if you are wiling to pay more like everyone else. Is that how you operate? Do you deal with people who would do those things?We already have and use ethics that work in a voluntary society. We carve out special exceptions for a certain class of people and the areas they get control of end up sucking, to put it mildly. I'd say it's going pretty well.  Someone should warn Slush. Good stuff. "Value of transactions" could be a little misleading on that chart. It would be an interesting stat though (USD value of the # of bitcoins transfered).btw, over 1M coins were moved today. ArtForz I guess since it was 400k put together and then broken into 150k and 250k. Ah, sometimes I wonder if every idea I've every had is just me forgetting that I've heard it somewhere before. I'll read a book, learn something, think of it 2 years later not remembering the source, read the source again - DOH there it is. I only meant that as an additional step to eliminate the log aspect of wallet so that you could be safe even if someone later got a wallet file of your mix service. Would doing this in addition to the mixing already discussed reduce anonymity? You could arrange your mixing to periodically empty a wallet without sending all of the coins to one other wallet and delete the empty wallets. The period doesn't have to be strictly fixed either. Do you really have to modify Bitcoin? Isn't it enough to send all coins to a separate wallet, delete original wallet, make empty wallet, send all coins back to blank wallet.Obviously you'll want to automate. Do it every 6 hours or something. If everything looks efficient and legit I'm in for 200BTC, possibly as much as 1000. I can also 'buy in' via PP if USD are needed. I haven't had that much trouble, but they are a pain. Why not limit failed attempts/time instead of captcha? To me it makes more sense to buy according to personal wealth. It would be hard to buy 2100 if you couldn't afford it, and probably a silly place to stop if you are a millionaire.  Grondilu, I'm sorry if you were expecting something else!Who runs bitcoinservice? I'm having trouble with my account and can't find contact info.Is the picture too high resolution, should I cut it in half? Something that can take the heat for a long time. Of course the point will be to blow the heat away from the thing and onto your feat, but I expect it'll still get pretty hot. Yes, but it might even pay you to run it!You could blow people's mind with this. "Here, this heater costs $800, it doesn't get all that hot, but it costs less than nothing to run."   This chart is the same data, but I think it is more readable and less misleading. There were virtually zero coins traded at 0.50 a daily average is more honest data imo. It is from bitcoincharts.com which you should probably mention anyway since it's an awesome site. Ah, i see it is already in the upper right corner.
A few small things:I think it's more accurate to say that bitcoin generation decays geometrically, not exponentially. Maybe write "New issuance decreases geometrically leading to a fixed limit of 21 million bitcoins in 2140"50 every ~10min is more accurateIt should be made clear (verbal is fine) that the faucet is just a site someone runs, not another method of issuance. Maybe replace "Sell something for them" with "Accept them as payment" or "Sell your products for them". I think it's more inspiring and less one-off sounding. Personal preference though.The richest list looks weird being highlighted grey like that. You might also mention that those could be the balances of banks so it's misleading both ways.On the map slide I would say verbally that it only shows nodes that are active now or recently and reiterate that you don't need to run a node to use bitcoin so there are more users than the map implies.Addresses are not always 34 chars. 33 and I think 32 are possible. My wife spent her childhood drawing naked women. The first model we would like to present is Sally Crayon.  A high-res uncensored photo is available at bitcoinservice .5BTChttp://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/103 This is stupid. If I'm willing to pay more than you the site will snip my bid right back over yours. You can't win unless you are willing to pay more than the most anyone else is willing to pay.edit: oh, I get it. People feel like they are being sniped because of the auto bidder and you want them to think it was you. I agree about prison/slavery. If you aren't free to go then you are a slave. BioMike, did something change? New adds have broken links. Even when I use the exact same link as a currently working ad it does not work.edit: seems to work, maybe I didn't use the exact same address as before. Is the http:// necessary? I am much opposed to the captchas. Sniping is not a problem, you already have an automated bidder in place.  <Shrug>I'm not tied to the analogy, but it seems to me that the old forest would be gone and a new one would grow.But if there is a decision to be made between burning most individuals or not; I'd rather no one burned us, regardless of how it will help the economy. I just had an idea. It's probably not a possible change, but maybe, interesting anyway.Right now you only pay to get your tx included in the chain, but the tx benefits in terms of security for every block added after it. It would be cool if when you paid a fee it went half to the miner who included it, 1/4 to the next block finder, 1/8, 1/16 until below some limit. This way each user can increase the incentive to put his block deeper and deeper, potentially for a while, but still for a finite fee. I'll sell, 1BTC/state. Maybe they'll give me NJ at least. That's great. Thanks for the chart. I think a safe way would be to go through 7 or so sites, there are already gambling accounts in addition to all the exchanges in the future, ATITD, etc. Even if 6 of them kept records and were coerced into telling it would be useless. There could even be a service that did that for you and you could use 2 of them or more. This still doesn't save you from the merchant tattling on you if he needs info about you to serve you. That chart seems odd. Difficulty was never less than 1 and value was never more than 1. How is value/difficulty ever above 1? I guess the units could be in value in cents. Is that it? What happens when we have atomic level duplication machines? One Benjamin in, two come out, you can't tell which is real. What now? Shall we make duplication machines illegal? Bad premises lead to bad outcomes. The notion that one person should hurt another for doing the very same thing is a bad premise. Paper returns to it's correct value more quickly than it is on trajectory to do now. The consequence of not putting people in cages for coloring paper a certain way is that we'll no longer have a bubble in paper painted a certain way.If your worldview collapses when someone suggests not caging people for non-violent actions it might be worth rethinking.That might sound a little self-righteous, it isn't meant that way; I'm just figuring things out myself. I came to this particular realization around the time I learned the folly of IP. They are essentially the same and the arguments are similar. Some business models don't work unless you use violence to stop people from doing exactly what you are doing with their own stuff. We should abandon those models and not apologize for force.  fergalish, I see now that you said 'unnecessary', so my post isn't quite right.  Good question. I just see "against government" and assume kinship, lol. It would be pretty silly to be nationalistic in the sense that I understand it and be against the government. They drew the lines that separate us! Indeed that sounds much better.  Maybe you are unusual. I have a really hard time believing that when the newest cool cell phone of 2015 comes out and you still have your 100BTC that you aren't going to part with .00001 of them to get your holographic phone. But if you insist that there is nothing you'll ever pay any fraction of a coin for, I can buy it and I'll play along.Why are you holding them if you are never going to spend a single tiny bit of one?!I can't answer your question about the economy, maybe you can answer this: Is it better to care for your garden and hope this improves your plants or to care for your plants and hope this improves your garden? It might still be nice to have a rescan button in the options somewhere. If someone who wasn't up on all this switches a wallet in from a backup or to a new machine they're going to be all   If there was a "click here after you switch wallets" button that would probably save a good number of people a brief heart attack.  It is pathetic, but they didn't ruin the service, as mndrix said he was expecting and is going to learn from it. There will be a better service in the end. 
Absolutely. There is nothing that is good for my family that is bad for my family members. There is no such thing as hurting the trees to help a forest. If you want to help then help individuals; they actually exist. Any company wanting to provide the possibility of chargebacks would get identity info on its users, if there was no money left in the account they would choose whether to go after it or sell it to collections or whatever. Counterfeiting is not a real crime. Putting ink on paper hurts no one.The real crime is issuing notes promising to redeem for gold, breaking the promise, and maintaining the value of your pictures by force. I'd have nothing against adding more now, not as an option. The issue will be that tx fees of .01 are required for amounts under .01. It will take a while for people to all adopt a new default rule set, but that's a reason to start earlier.In case this issue isn't clear to anyone, it isn't a breaking change, it's just that you'll have to wait a long time to get your tiny transactions processed without a fee until most people have changed their rules.  From the slides it looks like the Potomac is a paper currency temporarily pegged to the dollar that you can get at a discount? Is there any more to it? Is there a person or group who promises to exchange back to dollars or is it somehow valuable to people without this guarantee? The security issues slide is inconsistent. Saying the same thing different ways is great in fiction, bad in technical prose and terrible in a chart. Pick "No" or "Nope" don't switch.On the same chart under theft you talk about recourse for everything but the Potomac, but for it you say "Easy to do, but unlikely" shouldn't it read "No recourse" according to the pattern of info you've been putting in. If you really want to keep this I think it needs to be separated into "Easy of theft" and "Recourse after theft". All in all it's an absolute info overload and most people won't focus on what you want them to, but instead think "I only paid $25 for my canceled check" or "I'd rather be phishing right now"All the charts though confuse the issue that bitcoin is a different currency and a different payment method. It wouldn't be fair to bitcoin to talk about bitcoinmail's silly policy of keeping money not claimed in two weeks and putting that on your chart. Likewise it isn't fair to compare bitcoin's no chargebacks to some services people buy specifically because they allow chargebacks when a bitcoin chargeback service could very well exist soon.Different subject. If you are going to flash up three widows of bitcoin stuff for 15 seconds at least make the main window sit in the exact same place on each slide so people don't have to 'reprocess' it and it is very clear that someone clicked a button and a new window come up, not a whole different thing. I know bitcoin is simple, but when multiple windows open and move and have 32 digit addresses on them anything you can do to make it look as simple as it is is good. I know this means the first window won't fill the whole screen, that's okay. It won't on their monitor at home either. Minor thing, but I think it will help.Vulnerabilities need elaborated on. Without doing that Bitcoin sounds like trash.  Bittorrent is thriving and it almost exclusively used to do things that have been illegal for decades. And this is without monetary incentive to the peers like there is in bitcoin. Do not imply that some dictate from Senators can stop Bitcoin and leave it at that. If 99% of nodes decide to keep generation at 50BTC/block it won't affect those who keep the original rules. You won't be bale to fool them. This is true of other types of rule changes too, like altering difficulty or something. Correct rule following nodes will reject all bad tx and keep doing their own thing. 50% applies to rewriting history mainly. If you want to keep this one I would say it like "An attacker who can match the power entire network can "unspend" his own coins."  Bitcoin will scale well. "Too much milk will kill you" How much? "Enough to kill you" It's pretty meaningless. But by saying it you imply that there is some point where it breaks. Sure there will come a point where a computer from 2007 using 2010 internet won't be able to get transactions fast enough to be useful, but that doesn't matter. There are incentives in place that ensure people will solve the problem.  I think blaming a currency for the distribution of wealth is ridiculous, but I know a lot of people might think that way. I think it's like blaming paper for what is written on it. Money is for keeping track of who has provided goods and services in the past and it entitled to similar in the future. If you don't like what that implies then you have a problem with money not this particular money. If you talk about "nefarious activity" maybe make a joke like "But that hasn't been a problem for the dollar" "Other" seems like filler. Just don't claim your list is comprehensive.I know that's a lot. Let me know if you want me to do more or if I'm just being a drag. The Potomac seems boring and unrelated to Bitcoin. Why did you decide to put both in a really short presentation?I know you can't change your title now, but maybe you could make kind of a joke out of it. Like "Hi, I'm going to to tell you about 2 new currencies the Potomac and Bitcoin. The Potomac is a papar currency like you're all familiar with; it is accepted by X people in the DC area. Okay now onto Bitcoin. Bitcoin is a completely new kind of currency." I know you don't have a lot of time, but I think it needs a lot of work to be good. Are you allowed to change the slides at all after you submit or are they totally locked?Overall plan:Start with a "Bitcoin is" slide; it is a new currency and a system for transferring that currency.Then "What is required in a currency"Then "Bitcoin has these features"Combine or kill those blue charts.Expand the vulnerabilities topic into a few slides so you don't leave misconceptions like you will now.Don't end with vulnerabilities, we'll find something positive to put there.Also I think you should rethink the background. At the very least you should invert colors so it is light and then alter the contrast so it isn't distracting and use black text.Let me know if you are willing to work on these changes and I'll try to help with wording and details. How much have you worked on what you'll say? I'm guessing this is a rapid fire thing and you will need to be excited in order to stand out. Try to find ways to express how world-changing this could be without coming off as being a dreamer/crazy. This brings up an important point you need to make. Bitcoin is two things. It is a new unit of account/money/currency whatever you want to call it. And it is a method of payment. A good one, but you can build others on top, like mybitcoin or paypal. If Koalas make money then the gov doesn't need to provide them.  It really isn't that compelling to me and it's a topic I'm very interested in. I'll try to be more helpful when I get the time. The biggest problem I see is all the time spent on comparisons with other systems. Definately mention them when it comes up like "Because of the nature of the Bitcoin peer network there can be no chargebacks, unlike PayPal where merchants can have funds disappear even after 30 days." or "There will only ever be 21 million bitcoins in existence; this ensures that the value of bitcoin holders cannot be diluted as value held in dollars can."Those charts are boring and contain lots of unnecessary information. You are not responsible for fulfilling everyones needs. I am not dismissing anything. I'm telling you that I see needs being satisfied right now voluntarily. I also see an organisation that prevents people from meeting their needs every day. I am not saying that the second people stop interfering all needs will be met, only that the process of meeting needs is inhibited by the use of force, not helped by it. Bitcoin is not changing, this would be a different currency. This isn't a majority thing. Even if 99% start using a different rule, the Bitcoin rule works just as it always has. This is to be expected, it did snow after all. It's simple. There is already hundred millionths precision, I've been sent a tx with that much precision. You can't see it in the client, but it is there. By the time we need more 8 places I won't care at all. Neither will anyone with a bitcoin. We'll be at the perpetual party. /fantasyIt's possible to get more too; I don't understand exactly what would need changed though. Even if it was hard, it wouldn't be a big problem because you could use the network only for 'big' transactions and use wallets or some other solution for small stuff as I imagine most will be doing anyway for security or convenience or whatever, we don't necessarily need every 1 billionth BTC transaction recorded in the chain.edit to add: I think it would be good to reveal two more decimal places when we're a bit beyond parity. At first it should be a manual switch in the options so people don't get confused. Losing coins sucks for whoever loses them, but we aren't going to run out.I already invented Timecoin which has a constant rate of generation. It's a sinch to implement, but no one cares about it enough to change a few lines of code. Tellingly plenty of people care about a currency with a finite limit. Leaving aside the fact that there are motivations for action besides economics; there are economic incentives to help others both weak and strong.There are very few people who are really helpless anyway. If it wasn't illegal to hire people, build things, and grow things people very few people would have trouble making their own living. For those that cannot, we know there are lots of people who care about them since this is the most common argument I hear for the state "But I want a state because I care about the poor" See lots of people care. People who care about things do them. Even in our society with it's billion dollar aid programs and 50% taxes on people with excess resources there are thousands of charities getting well funded.  Yep, that's why I didn't say 'pointless', 'silly' was even too strong. It will change!Right now when a block is solved there is another 50BTC reward waiting to be claimed immediately; this is a little silly because there are no transactions to be processed yet. In the far future this will not be the case. There will be no per block reward. Fees will be the entire incentive. So then when a block is found, everyone stops hashing. They wait until the cost of hashing is less than the expected value. This will be different for different operations, but as fees pile up more and more generation will turn on. The longer a block goes without being solved the more power is devoted to it. This has several effects. It reduces variance and also means that during periods of high use blocks will come more frequently. Both are positive effects.These effects will emerge gradually as fees become more important and the block reward less so. Probably it will be very pronounced in 10-18 years. In 18 years the per block reward will be only 1.5625, fees will probably be larger. I would guess that in some places the cost of electricity would make it not worth mining for less 2BTC, but very worth it if the fees pushed the value of a block over 3BTC. That's all reasonable.I think it's important to keep in mind that recognizability, auditability, anonymity, and theft are all improvable by building support systems or even just education.The really essential monetary properties are nearly all aces. I agree that divisibility isn't perfect. Optimal I guess would be an arbitrary precision real number so you could send 1 trillionth of a coin or 1/3.  Bitcoins are very recognizable. It's a fact about the world that they are currently unrecognized.Other than that I disagree about auditability. If you want to open your records how is that hard? Oh, I guess you can't prove that you don't have another address with more money than you are claiming, is that all you mean?Anonymity doesn't seem to warrant an F at all, if you have a way to earn anonymously, you can spend anonmyously pretty easily. And even if people knew you had the coins at some point it's easy to flip them out for different ones at mtgox or something. Then they would need mtgox help to get you, but you could also do it three other places. What would you rate PP on anonymity? F- I guess, are they really that similar?
Think about this. Brand new pool, I start mining, if I find a block I get it all because I'm the only one there. Later someone joins me with exactly my hashing power, we are contributing equally, but I will get more than him under contributed method. Why is he paying me for mining before he got there? I wasn't going to give anything to him if I found a block back then, he gets no benefit from the fact that I previously mined, but he pays for it anyway.Contributed method is not a rational equilibrium. But neither are a lot of things that persist for a long time.   You can do what ever the hell you want. It was only advice. I'm trying to get away from government money and I think other bitcoin users are too.Maybe I'm just not understanding the benefit of combining the good with the bad here though.  This would interest me as well. I used to go in there, but the signal to noise ration was low, probably because of translation issues. And there is probably more going on in there now too. What isn't 'fair' is comparing outcome per/round when the rounds can be vastly different lengths. No one rational cares about payout/round, they care about payout/time.  I didn't like the idea of an in-the-software alert. I was convinced that it wouldn't be a problem, but I do think that having many competing alert systems will yield the best one. There is no reason to think Satoshi will have the fastest reaction time or the best ability to determine that there is a problem. Maybe he will, but offering alternatives is a good idea imo. If people don't see anything worth more to them than their money this is a very important signal; it will manifest through a higher value of money if the government does not or cannot destroy the signal by printing to compensate. In our present situation a time of increased savings gives the government excellent cover; they can print and most of the devaluation is 'hypothetical'; it manifests itself mostly through lack of deflation and not explicit inflation (I mean inflation in the price sense, obviously the money supply increases immediately). Only later when spending moves back to previous levels does the damage become apparent. It's possible to give someone your private keys either by sending them a wallet file or by writing them down. The problem is that unless you do a transaction through the network double spends are possible. This means writing down the info essentially makes it a check not cash, because you have to trust that the funds will still be there when you try to use it. You can't pass these notes on over and over since you would have to trust everyone who had seen it. So really it's even less secure than a check.I don't mean there isn't potentially some solution, only that the obvious way to do it results in insecure checks, not cash.Oh, and don't do anything with regular dollars. It's weird, confusing and not helpful to your goal here. In the title it says Namangan, but it the post it says anywhere. Maybe he wants to pay in bitcoin to show how you can easily hire someone anywhere in the world using bitcoin? Well, yeah, selling things below market rate is going to attract a lot of people. However, I don't think it's only 'speculators' who prefer to pay less than to pay more. I will be fucking lots of people in our future anarcho capitalist society; they will all enjoy it.This book sounds good.Oh sweet, mises has the pdf. I already want to send this guy my bitcoins. It isn't bad at all. Incorporating your information into the market price is a service to countless people. It makes planning and allocating resources correctly possible.I said it to illustrate how the EMH could be true, but would not mean anything about our world because we have never seen a free market. It is explicitly illegal to trade on information that would make prices move to their correct levels! Is it clear that in the period from here to the next difficult change the EV of mining in a fresh contributed pool or a connected pool is identical to the EV of running alone?How about over the period from the start of new difficult to the new difficulty after that?If each period is equal then the sum of the EVs must be equal.That said there is obvious benefit in reducing variance. The benefit is more than psychological; it allows more accurate planning on when you will be able to afford new equipment, etc.I can envision a future where lottery tickets are 10 minutes with a powerful GPU rig. Or where even a big mining operation cannot be sure to get a block this month so they need to be in a pool to make sure they can pay the electric bill. Yes, shame on you   I guess I just assumed that the reason he was disappointed about not getting any coins and having a slow computer was that he was generating. If by expect gain you mean formal EV then it doesn't drop close to zero it stays close to zero. It's the variance that is reduced by the pool. I don't mean to imply that you don't know this; I'm only saying that the language is not precise. If the goal is to not get left out when your pool makes a block then you want the second. But the two have the exact same EV and the first has lower variance.  No they won't. The calculation they ought look at is "what is the expected value of a new share here?" this will be less at a pool with lots of shares owed to powerful miners who have left than at a fresh pool.Perhaps I'm missing something though because I don't see on any margin any way to interpret someone leaving your pool as a positive. All that happens is that you get a larger share less often. If that is what you want then choose a pool with the least people, mine by yourself. If there is some optimal pool size then what is it? When is bigger not better? I was just telling my wife how great this Starbucks thing is for bitcoin. If people get used to paying with a phone switching to bitcoin is a no brainer. "It works exactly like my other app but I gain value instead of losing it? Okay, convert funds please." As the network grows the difficulty of finding a valid block also grows, this is good for the network because it makes it harder for an attacker to "rewrite history" and thus spend coins twice. The downside is that a casual user is not likely to find a block in less than a year. Even this isn't all bad though, if people could get coins easily they wouldn't have much incentive to offer goods and services for them.The bad feeling of getting absolutely nothing can be alleviated by joining a mining pool. When a pool finds a block everyone who contributed gets a share according to how much they helped. Unless your computer is old you should be able to let bitcoin use only a few cores which should make it much more bearable.Concerning setting up a shop: You do not need to run the p2p client. You can use a 'bank' like mybitcoin or mtgox. They will give you an address or addresses for your customers to send coins to. Then you can spend the coins from your account there to any address you wish, even to yourself if you decide to run your own client.There are new options all the time, but some have gone down so I can't say for sure what is available and easiest right now. I use mtgox, bitcoinmarket and bitcoin-central. But all of those are 'markets' like you indicated you didn't want. Others can tell you about the various ways to buy better than I can.  In the contributed every time you find a hash below some 'easy' target you get a share that is paid when the pool finds their next block, if you stop mining you will still get paid something if you previously earned at least one share provided the pool finds one more block. In the connected method you get paid if you are connected and mining when the pool finds a block.  You are paid in proportion to how much power you are providing compared to others at that moment (really not a moment more like 2 minutes I think it was). You could think of this as the contributed method with shares that expire really fast. There is plenty of in-between room, make shares decay slowly or disappear after a day or whatever.
It is a neat psychology + game theory situation. People seem to prefer the contributed method to connected, but as soon as shares are owed (so instantly) the right move is it switch to a connected pool if it is available. But if the herd all prefers contributed then you will be on the connected server alone and now you don't have the benefit of reduced variance. As some 'serious' miners decide to accept the variance and move to the slightly higher EV pool others may follow and variance will drop at that pool and now there are only psychological reasons to stay at the contributed pool.As we know from poker though people can persist in low value emotionally pleasing situations for a long long time. I know there is a strong expectation that government regulate banking, but the whole point of Bitcoin is that two consenting people can transact together without permission approval or taxation. If you start a business that effectively does nothing but break privacy and pass a tax along to your customers as a fee I do't see a bright future for you.If Bitcoin becomes mainstream it will be because people don't want business as usual, not because they want everything to stay the same, but the name. We already have a process for name only change, it's called an election. I don't understand this. In the extreme, if everyone left a pool, why would a miner join it? They would get a block no faster than working on their own and they would pay to previous workers who had shares.I think this could be solved by letting everyone know that shares will begin to decay after some multiple of average time to find a block.I know it isn't a problem now because there is only one huge pool, but when there are many and switching is easy an unlucky period could easily drive people away and no one will have proper incentive to rejoin until it is cleared.Interesting article, I brought the subject up back when the first pool switched from current power to the contributed method, but I don't think anyone responded. Maybe think of it this way. In a free market people who have good information the indicates prices should be different than they are will use it to buy or sell continuously until the price moves, or sell the info to someone who can. If the info is crap/uncertain/misinterpreted/already accounted for then people acting on it will tend to go broke, over time this leaves people who are only using relevant, accurate, unaccounted for information and prices will be the most accurate signal to look at.Maybe phrase it this way. If you have better info about the value of something than it's current price then you can get rich by sharing it! Since you almost never will have this info, you should rely on the market price.None of this applies to reality to any great extent because the number of free markets is zero. Insider trading is illegal! How would you know if a miner was moving back and forth between the pool and working on his own? It would only be obvious if lots of people were turning off causing very high variance in time to find a block for the pool. The attacker would have the advantage of knowing an attack had happened before all others knew. And a smart attacker wouldn't just trade his coins for different coins he'd try to get stuff. But as I've been explaining it takes a long time to get the stuff and you have to maintain the pullback ability for a long time, not 1 hour, if you want to get a bank transfer or bullion shipped. Your calculations are garbage. You cannot spend coins 80 times in an hour. The attacker has the power to rewrite a history that doesn't include him spending the coins, that is all. He can't simultaneously convince 80 people that they have the same coins. In the slow shipping example you need to let the shipper think he has coins until after he ships, then you can pull them back. You can't do this 80 times in 2days. You would need about 40 days if people are shipping same day.If you try to spend them twice in an hour at, say, MtGox you won't ever get credit and can't get dollars because he waits for 6 confirmations. If you go for 2 hours you can spend them there twice this will not get you double your money because you will be bidding the price down by buying quickly which you will have to do since your cover is blown when you stop paying $8560/hr.Not to mention that Mtgox (the only site with anywhere near enough bids to get your 'investment' back) has some max withdrawal per day. Once again, the reason this is not profitable is that you have to match the entire network, but you only get a little tiny slice of the flow, not "everything conceivably for sale for bitcoins"And this attack does not get more profitable as USD/BTC increases. Difficulty has been increasing faster than price for a long time. It is getting more costly at a faster rate than the payout is growing. As someone buys up coins the price required to buy the next few rises. If someone buys a lot the price will be very high, and then you will not need to get many coins to pay a salary. If the gov has bought all but 5 coins maybe the salary will be .000001/week.The main thing that might help you understand is that money-printers buy up things they want to support, not things they hate. They buy government bonds because government gives them a monopoly on money, they buy mortgage securities because their banker friends have bought too many, they buy titanium toilets to install in tanks because they have dinner and sex parties with people from Haliburton. They are not going to do us the favor of increasing the value of bitcoins and killing their golden goose the dollar even earlier. No problem. Explaining it helps me keep straight how it all works. And lets other people fix any wrong ideas I have. There is not a lag of price rise.  Apples for sale---------------9 pieces silver8 pieces silver3 pieces silver2 pieces silverThe rate you get in the market is 2 silver. The absolute very same instant you buy that apple the new price available in the market is 3 pieces of silver. There is no lag. It is important to remember that the market price is simply what offer is accepted it doesn't have to be updated by a score keeper. I really don't get this kind of claim either. Why do you think the current price doesn't factor in that fact? If it happens every year then it is free money, but there can't be free money sitting there. Looks cool. It's neat that you essentially found a way to make people wait 45 days for PayPal bought coins without it being to annoying since the buyer feels like they already bought and spent the coins immediately after tipping. And the person who got the tip can't complain too much since it was money for "nothing".I have enough connections that I can get coins immediately with my PP, but I'm going to buy some from you if the 30 cents is a valid offer. Does that stay updated? How many can/will you sell at that rate?  I'm really confused. How can you say everyone is claiming it's going higher if the big players all think it's going lower? I'm talking about your title, it is wrong. That's all I'm saying. It's not important.  To change the subject: How does the probiwon bet work? I don't see an end date.   Well, it isn't going to be the only one for long. Then you'll either have a wrong saying or have to change it. It's not a big deal, people do it all the time.  edit: I'm at another bitcoin bookmaker right now. https://btcsportsbet.com/ Taglines claiming only always strike me as shortsighted. I don't think it is positive.The rest of my post gave a bunch of reasons why the return is lower than at first glance. Many types of merchants would be immune, many would be warned, etc. Shops are not going to mindlessly ship their entire stock without making sure nothing weird is going on. Even if they aren't savvy they are likely to know other bitcoin merchants. "Huh, all of your stuff was just bought too? Cool, I guess we're rich now." Bitcoin price is up about 6x since I got here and difficulty is up over 90x.The value of attack calculation is hard, but you aren't even looking at the right numbers. The attacker doesn't just get to turn bitcoins into cash via magic. He's going to flood exchanges and tip people off by buying to many sneakers. A lot of what you can do with bitcoin doesn't help him at all, so he can get a lot of credits at A Tale in the Desert, so what, doesn't help him at all. He can bet at bitcoinsportsbook, so what? The only thing valuable to him is the exchanges and they are likely to be the most alert to weird stuff.The point is that you have to match the whole thing, but you only get a subset of a certain type of good. Except for a few exceptions you will get at most the total of bids at all exchanges. In the future it will be even harder to get a hold of enough goods and money to justify the attack. Many of the goods will be meals and nights in a hotel. How many of those can you get?   That cannot be done. The transaction will not look valid to any clients no matter if it is in the longest chain or not. The attacker cannot send coins from a public address that he does not have the private key for. The way this attack works is that a legitament spend happens in, say, block 105000. After the merchant acknowledges it the attacker releases a new 105000 and as many blocks after it as needed to make it the longest chain. Now the network knows the attacker holds the coin because there is no record of the transaction.   This doesn't seem right to me. I'm "fully invested" in gold, silver and bitcoin, but when I earn I don't hold the extra in dollars I put it in what I think will rise in value. In other words, I'm in that 98% and I'm still buying. I don't think fiats are going to last much longer with or without bitcoin. They are inherently just the overvaluing of paper, the price has to come back down eventually.Another thing to consider is that the people who run fiat are deluded, king of the world types, they can print dollars: United States of American Dollars. Nothing is better, no way something called Bitcoin eliminates the dollar, to even suggest spending millions to squash a little play money internet currency will get you laughed at, not funded. They are going to wait way way too long to act. There will be a smear campaign about how we torture children and eat puppies, of course the puppy eaters aren't involved yet and when they hear about the perfect way to pay for a steady supply of puppies they'll get them some coins, the price will go up and the follow up report will be about how all the puppy eaters are getting rich and other people will want in on that, etc.
Lying nodes is a different attack which I think would be focused on just one target. The double spend attack spends a coin legitimately and then rewrites history and spends it "legitimately" again.I didn't think of this when I was writing my last post, but doesn't this make it difficult for even someone with ~60% to double spend and make it look good for a whole day? Going all the way back a whole day would take about 5 days if you were writing 6 blocks for every 5. Am I thinking correctly?edit to add: Actually I think that's wrong. The first spend batch is totally legit, at the moment the attacker starts making blocks keeping up with the real chain, but not publishing, if he is even a little faster he can publish at any point pulling back his coins. So a 24 hour later pull back only requires 24 hours of matching the speed of the whole network. I have a few thoughts. An attacker isn't likely to want a bunch of services, those can't usually be resold easily. Goods will usually not ship until the next day so the attacker has to overcome the whole network for ~12 or more. Even if he pulls this off people will notice and many will be warned not to ship goods ordered after X time. Gambling sites don't make a great target, because you win bitcoins, which will be devalued if you are successful. The exchanges are probably the most fertile ground, but major exchanges (where the most money will be available) will have the best detection of funny business. In addition to all the power that the attacker will have to buy or rent there will be a lot of planning involved. They need to search out what goods will ship fast enough to go out during their attack, if they can't hold on to the network for over a day this will only be certain parts of the world. They need to set up a place or places for delivery, and a way to resell the goods unless they are doing this for their own consumption. They need to find all the little exchanges and make accounts and set up bank accounts to send the money to, under different names I guess. LR makes this pretty easy though.Do you mean that after an attack people will stop using bitcoin? Some probably would, I think most would move to safer arrangements. Certain types of business would be unaffected, live sex shows, programming work, donations, etc. People using bitcoin for these purposes would presumably buy on the cheap driving the price back up somewhat, granted not all the way.In short, I don't think a for-profit attack is likely. Government attacks are where the risk is imo, damaging stuff is a lot more viable when you are using other peoples money. We have some advantages though, government is slow to act and difficulty is growing exponentially at least for now. When government does act it isn't likely to be all at once and decisive. The publicity of "Bitcoin is worrying world governments and bankers" will be pretty huge. The greatest thing about bitcoin is that they have to outmatch all of us combined at once. Sure it looks really easy right now, but there are like 4 users in Japan and 3 in China. We can easily grow by a factor of a hundred thousand. I don't even think that it is forgone that every government would want to break bitcoin, if a few realize the value in embracing it first there won't be a chance at breaking it. I completely agree. And this goes for buying Euro, USD, and cocaine too. With help from Theymos and Genjix I wrote an article that describes why money is good, why the dollar isn't a good money, and why bitcoin is a good solution.I wrote it for a new, not-yet-well-visited blog. The second half of the article is a pretty good layman terms explanation of Bitcoin. Please repost any or all of it wherever it will help people.http://theanarchistmother.blogspot.com/2011/01/guest-post-solution-to-dollar.html This would be so amazing. If you could a thermostat working roughly accurately a little heater/fan that paid back the electricity that it used in bitcoin would be the best thing ever (for cold feet and for bitcoin). Yeah, but what happened on the 19th?! 303 people on at once. And why haven't you made a thread about it Kiba?  You only need the internet for a transaction, I'm sure a lot of stores in these areas have it or can get it for less than they pay in CC fees. For spending online dial-up is no problem, even if you don't want to use an online wallet, you don't need the blockchain in order to send a tx.  It would be cool to write a story where a revolutionary new decentralized currency changes everything, and then reveal all technical details at the end and the fact that we are using an implementation of it already  I published it. http://theanarchistmother.blogspot.com/2011/01/guest-post-solution-to-dollar.htmlI bet you didn't know I was a woman. Ah, I labeled it guest post, can't fool anyone I guess. Isn't the point that it doesn't matter once he's got what he 'bought'? If two people both give him USD for the coins which is the real spend? The first I suppose, but someone is still screwed and attacker still gets money. I upped it. Economics in One Lesson.It is available free all over the web. So if I think it can buy me 50 cents worth of goods tomorrow this is "good", but if I think it'll buy me 60 cents worth of goods in a year then what? "bad" idea? I don't think so. He is just running a market; others make the bids and asks. A large offer can slow down price movements. There is no guarantee that some person or people will want to pay that much. It could take a minute or months. We sat with with an order of at least 15k at 34 cents for a month I think, then it was all bought up in two days. Hopefully I'm not wrong or confusing here.Your wallet interacts the block chain to make an index that lets you know how many coins are at addresses that you own and to give you an account of how they got there (when and in what amounts, and what was spent).When you put a new wallet in, a new index is not automatically created unless you delete the old one. That's what lzsaver walked you through doing. MoneyTree, check PMs Yes, I think in general a publisher ought have control of which bid is taken, it shouldn't automatically be the highest.If two bids are close then a publisher will probably prefer the more attractive ad, or the more interesting site. This will give ad makers incentive to not have ugly ads. And if crappy sites have to pay a more to get accepted I don't think that is a bad thing.Of course you can make the default to take the highest, but give the publisher override power.Eventually it might be good to have a message system, so you can say "Hey, I only turned down your bid because the color clashes really badly with my buttons" or "Sorry, I find your site disgusting."  That makes sense, I guess it isn't something that can be perfectly policed. It's probably best to address problems if/when they arise than to implement annoying procedures before they are necessary. Yes, I meant it could direct people to a malicious site through the ad.  If I were a publisher I would be concerned that nasty porn or viruses or even just sites I hated would win and i would display them unknowingly for hours. Do you plan to implement a screening process?I really like how it is now where I can update and ad or turn it on or off instantly. I'm just looking ahead to when people will inevitably have issues. I think you don't want to be the advertising site that put horse porn on MtGox for 2 hours  
Bitcoin is a more modern solution. Bitcoins are not dug out of the ground; they are found when computers solve a math problem that validates Bitcoin transactions and prevents double spending. Individuals can use their computers to help process transactions.There are only two ways to get bitcoins: contribute resources to the network or provide goods or services that people with bitcoins want. There are no privileged users, and there's no backdoor access to free coins.The number of new bitcoins issued in return for processing transactions decreases gradually to nothing over the next 120 years resulting in a fixed limit of 21 million bitcoins. At some point the low reward of new coins will not be a sufficient incentive for participation in the processing network. Users have the option of attaching a fee to transactions for faster processing. That fee goes to those working to process transactions.Bitcoins are divisible. The Bitcoin software shows the familiar two digits for cents, but a bitcoin really has precision to the hundred millionths place. A Coke costs about 3 bitcoins now, but maybe in the future one will cost .003 bitcoins.Sending and receiving bitcoins is easy. The Bitcoin software creates receiving addresses for you; you give an address to the payer and wait for them to send coins. Once you have coins, you can pay by copying and pasting the recipient's receiving address and entering the amount you want to pay. You do not need to be online to receive coins; they will be waiting for you. Payments can be anonymous, but aren't by default, just like cash could be anonymous if you were very careful. Payments cannot be revoked.Payments appear to the recipient immediately after they are made, but it takes 10 minutes on average for the network to confirm that the coins now belong to the recipient's address. Bitcoin's design confirms transactions repeatedly. Each confirmation means that the transaction has been accepted deeper into the permanent record. A transaction with six or more confirmations is extremely secure; this takes about an hour.When the Bitcoin software makes a receiving address for you it also produces a corresponding key which it holds in a file on your computer. While you will never see this key, it is what enables only your software to spend your coins. If this file is lost the coins can never be spent. If this file is stolen the coins can be spent by the thief. If you use Bitcoin seriously you should back this file up and keep your computer free of viruses. Bitcoin banks exist that can manage your bitcoins for you.bitcoin.org - information, discussion, list of merchants and exchanges, and the official Bitcoin download linkbitcoinme.com - introductory informationmybitcoin.com - bank mtgox.com - buy and sell The bold section is brand new. I moved the one sentence paragraphs into an earlier paragraph. I elaborated on confirmations.  If I was going to launch a huge awesome killer app for bitcoin I'd buy up a bunch before announcing. There may be lots of hidden (to us) information driving the price.  All incorporated except this one. The sentence is wrong as it is, but the correction makes it seem like the confirmations themselves are safe somehow. What I mean to say is that once your transaction has six confirmations the transaction is safely embedded in the record. It seems I answered my question. I'll clean that up and put it in. Haha, I particularly like the canceled 1.4 cent trade. I like how fast the throw happens. I'm curious about how it works. Do you count a fixed number of seconds from the time you see the transaction show up to avoid double spends? Could this number be displayed as a countdown? Or are you throwing as soon as you first see the tx?  I say bring it on, I've already got some coins, and we know what happens to prices during prohibition  Probiwon takes a bigger cut, but at least you get near instant gratification. Revised bitcoin section:Bitcoin is a more modern solution. Bitcoins are not dug out of the ground; they are found when computers solve a math problem that validates Bitcoin transactions and prevents double spending. Individuals can use their computer to help process transactions.There are only two ways to get bitcoins: contribute resources to the network or provide goods or services that people with bitcoins want. There are no privileged users, and there's no backdoor access to free coins.The number of new bitcoins issued in return for processing transactions decreases gradually to nothing over the next 120 years resulting in a fixed limit of 21 million bitcoins. At some point the low number of new coins alone will not be a sufficient incentive for participation in the processing network. Users will have the option to attach a fee to a transaction for faster processing. That fee goes to those working to process transactions.Bitcoins are divisible. The Bitcoin software shows the familiar two digits for cents, but a bitcoin really has precision to the hundred millionths place. A Coke costs about 3 bitcoins now, but maybe in the future one will cost .003 bitcoins.Sending and receiving bitcoins is easy. The Bitcoin software creates receiving addresses for you; you give an address to the payer and wait for them to send coins. Once you have coins, you can pay by copying and pasting the recipient's receiving address and entering the amount you want to pay. Payments cannot be revoked.Payments appear to the recipient immediately after they are made, but it takes 10 minutes on average for the network to confirm that the coins now belong to the recipient's address. Bitcoin's design confirms transactions repeatedly, six confirmations is considered absolutely safe; this takes about an hour.You do not need to be online to receive coins; they will be waiting for you.Payments can be anonymous, but aren't by default, just like cash could be anonymous if you were very careful.Should I say anything about the wallet file and keeping it safe? Maybe I'll say that and suggest mybitcoin, so anyone bothered by that sees an immediate solution. Does "Individuals can use their computer to help processes transactions." sound okay?I don't want to pick a gender and I want to keep the idea that a single person can join no questions asked, no permissions.   Thanks, theymos. I've fixed the ones I haven't deleted completely.This is the new non-bitcoin portion. There are new sentences so certainly new errors.I'm unsure, in general, when to re-use a word and when to use a pronoun. Obviously if there can be any confusion I want the word again, but I don't want to be bland sounding.Money is the lube that keeps our society turning. It has been used in primitive and modern societies; it emerges naturally out of barter economies to better facilitate exchanges of goods. It helps us keep track of who has done work and is entitled to have some done for them in return.You can get money for doing anything that anyone finds valuable, from dish-washing to designing space-rockets. You'll know that you're helping someone since they wouldn't part with any of their limited cash otherwise. Each exchange keeps the value of a dollar afloat. If nobody were willing to exchange, then they'd be useless strips of paper.There is a nice balance here: you do some work, some work is done for you. Thanks to the durability and mobility of money, these trades don't have to be with the same person or on the same day or even in the same year. By using money we can specialize in whatever we most love or excel. Using money enables us to work extra now and save our efforts for a vacation or retirement.This could be the end of the story. But, unfortunately, our current money is easily-printed paper and easily-created computer bits. There are people who don't need to do work in order to get money; they just summon more into existence. This means they take from the pool of goods and services without putting goods and services back in. The effect is that more money chases fewer goods and services. This is why you can't get a Coke for 5 cents anymore. It isn't because it's gotten harder to make a Coke, it hasn't. Every step in the process has been made more efficient many times over. The difference is that in 1950 the money supply was $135 billion and today it is roughly $13 trillion. That's about a hundred times larger. Efficiency gains are the reason Coke doesn't cost $5 per bottle. It's worth noting that in some areas, like computing, gains in efficiency come so fast that prices fall despite the rate at which new money is pumping in. Falling prices are not a problem for producers or consumers; rather they are are a good and natural result of innovation. How can we keep our efficiency gains from being bled away by money-printers? It's a big problem, but there are solutions.Gold has a long history as a money, and for good reason. Gold is limited in supply; getting new gold requires actually doing work digging it up, and eventually even that will no longer be possible. Gold is compact; you can probably put your lifetime wages in a backpack. It is easy to identify because it doesn't tarnish and it's denser than almost every other element (watch out for tungsten). Unfortunately, if you want to sell your hand knit coffee mug cozies for gold, your customer is going to have to break their gold coin into tiny pieces and mail one to you. You'll probably end up settling for dollars via PayPal and buying the gold yourself (if gold is what you want). While a system for trading in gold could be arranged, it's hard to get started on your own. edit: forgot the gold paragraph, it hasn't changed much. Wow, those links are good. There is so much in there! I need to learn and learn and come back in 10 years  I like your rewrites. I'm going to work off of them instead of what I had.I don't like the binding-glue. I think of money more as lube. But also as a signal and unit of account. "Money is useful" is far too generic, that's gone, but now I don't know how I want to open. Will do, Bitcoinme is a nice site. I'm thinking of rearranging the link paragraph at the end to be a list and a little more comprehensive. It looks and works nice, but my luck is bad! Max bet and off the board!  I meant to get rid of the BTC use, since it was only in one place, but I see now I missed one. Should I use BTC or stick with bitcoin?   That's good to hear, I was thinking of redoing it, but I don't know how to do it that isn't overly dry or bullying sounding.Yeah, it's hard to read it from the perspective of not knowing anything at all. Thanks guys, I'm going to keep working on it using your suggestions. Keep 'em coming. All addresses start with 1, it gives them a bit of form, not just any clump of characters can be a bitcoin address. Ha, validation would be nice. I won my first and not since. Martingale fail, at least I chickened out pretty early.  Thank you, ribuck. That is all very helpful. I am going to incorporate every numbered suggestion. I want it to be good enough that people 'steal' it and put it everywhere Bitcoin is a more modern solution. Bitcoins are not dug out of the ground, they are found when computers solve a math problem that validates Bitcoin transactions and prevents double spending. Anyone can use their computer to help processes transactions.There are only two ways to get bitcoins: contribute resources to the network or provide goods or services that people with bitcoins want. There are no privileged users, and there's no backdoor access to free coins.The number of new bitcoins issued in return for processing transactions decreases gradually to nothing over the next 120 years resulting in a fixed limit of 21 million bitcoins. At some point the low number of new coins alone will not be a sufficient incentive for participation in the processing network. Users will have the option to attach a fee for faster processing. That fee will go to those working to process transactions.Bitcoins are divisible. The Bitcoin software shows the familiar two digits for cents, but a bitcoin really has precision to the hundred millionths place. A Coke costs about 3 bitcoins now, maybe in the future it will cost .003BTC.Sending and receiving bitcoins is easy. The Bitcoin software creates receiving addresses for you; you give an address to the payer and wait for them to send coins. Once you have coins, you can pay by copying and pasting the recipient's receiving address and entering the amount you want to pay. Payments cannot be revoked.Payments appear to the recipient immediately after they are made, but it takes 10 minutes on average for the network to confirm that the coins now belong to the recipient's address. You do not need to be online to receive coins, they will be waiting for you.Payments can be anonymous, but aren't by default, just like cash could be anonymous if you were very careful.Okay, I changed quite a bit. I think it is more clear now, but it's hard to tell if that's only inside my head. Feedback very much appreciated. I don't mean to swamp you. I hope it is helpful to have all this at once.When I am logged in and type operationfabulous.com into my browser it takes me to the front page and I appear not to be logged in, but there is no "Log in" option. So I click "Start advertising with bitcoins" and now I am click "Register" and then I see that I am logged in, but I am still offered registration. I think since it clearly still has me logged in, the home page should be told to greet me and give me a clear way into the page with all the options. If I want to register a new account it should let me, but log me out first. 
I found another bug.When I clicked "delete ad" it did not delete the corresponding ad, but the other one.  Okay, it would be nice to know how much is really left in my balance if I were to cancel all my bids. You do well, but I could tell. I'm happy to help.Surely most people will use it all. But what if my site closes? Or I desperately need the money back? If coins are going to be unrecoverable this needs to be very clear as most sites let you hold a balance that you can get back. Also, you should want people to keep large amounts on the site so they don't cut it too close and run out. But if I cannot recover the money I will put it on only as I need it even though it is a little more work. If I get busy I may forget and now the sites make a little less because they serve the next lower bid.I might not understand, but why not just take the cut from the site doing the advertising as it is paid to them? Whenever the command "Pay Quezi 1BTC" is issued make it instead "Pay Quezi .95BTC".Ah, I don't mean take a one time fee. Still take a %, but only a % of money actually used for advertising. I think I was unclear before. Fair enough I suppose. It all comes down to how willing people are to hurt us when we haven't hurt anyone. Does it really matter if we did the non-offense they accuse us of or whether they make up that we did a real crime? Either way they make the rule, they level the charge, they arbitrate the dispute, they enforce the judgement. I'm not going to get violent with them, so it's pretty much completely in their court (haha, pun intended). I don't like being forced through mybitcoin when I'm going to pay myself anyhow. They make me do a captcha, at least it's an easy one, but still it's like 3 extra clicks. It's a good option, but I don't think it's hard to assign a deposit address to an account, that would take me 0 clicks on your page, well one for copy, but no link to follow. Oh that's much better and different than what I thought! I thought it was Joe sees it for 3 minutes + Jim for 4 + Tony 2 + 1 + 2+3+2+4+174 = doneI get it now, you are renting the whole thing regardless of hits the site gets.  It is not really good for anyone for the ad to send to the wrong place after expiry, but I do see the problem. This is really exciting and a great thing for bitcoin and bitcoin sites. It works, I have an ad on Quezi. Will it tell me as my time is used up? Or disappear all at once? "This website requires a minimum bid of 0.10000000149012"I guess that should be 0.1? But why that limit? 4 cents an hour for views that might be sitting minimized seems high to me.The 5% fee is very reasonable, but I think it would be better to charge only if a match is made between a site and an advertiser. Also I don't see how to get my remaining money back if I've changed my mind or can't win a bid. Small things. "Unsufficient funds" should be "Insufficient funds". Also "size of bid" or "amount of bid" is more appropriate than "height of bid" BioMike, what are the units of a bid? BTC/hr viewed? When does viewing time stop counting? I don't want to pay if someone leaves it up all night. I would think a low maximum counting view time per person would be reasonable. Obviously 100 people seeing it for 5 minutes each is way better than 10 people seeing it for an hour each or one person leaving it up for 24 hours. Do you have some way of verifying that the ad is visible on the screen? Sometimes I open a page in a new tab and never see it because my browser crashes or I go to bed before I get around to it (I realize that I probably browse oddly). But that ad that I never see could get 12 hours of credit or more.Anyway, even if all of that is done 'improperly' I can still bid like .0001BTC/hr right? And if I get enough traffic from it I don't care if I'm paying for a few overnighters.  Sure, even if you try to get it in one shot I imagine some buys might be triggered automatically or something. Of course there could be a lot of dark pool offers in there too. And of course you can do it on multiple markets. No certainties for sure. Barely over .50 actually. There are 20k BTC at .51 on mtgox atm.On the other hand if there is a lull you could pick up extra blocks at lower difficulty with this service. Not that I think that's likely. Another perk is that you will probably get a few fees, more if things really start popping. Money is useful. You've probably noticed some of the benefits. Don't want to plant trees, cut them down, and build your own furnature? Use money instead. Having trouble assembling that car from handmade parts in your garage? Money can solve this too. Money can help us take vacations or retire. Work now, save the money, relax later.Of course you have to get some first. It takes some effort, but there are countless ways to do it, wash dishes, mow lawns, paint fences, train dogs, design jet engines, etc. You'll know that you're helping someone too since they wouldn't part with any of their limited cash if you weren't. Anything you offer to sell or do for dollars helps the dollar stay valuable. After all unless there are people who are willing to accept dollars for their goods and services they aren't that useful. To recap: Do some work someone else finds useful, get money, use money to get other people to do useful things for you. There's a nice balance, you do some work, some work is done for you, and thanks to money, it doesn't have to be with the same person or on the same day or even in the same year.This could be the end of the story. But, unfortunately, our money is easily printed paper and easily created computer bits. There are people who don't need to do work in order to get money, they just summon more into existence. This means they take from the pool of goods and services without putting goods and services back in. The effect is that more money chases fewer goods and services. This is why you can't get a Coke for 5 cents anymore. It isn't because it's gotten harder to make a Coke, it hasn't. Every step in the process has been made more efficient many times over. The difference is that in 1950 the money supply was $135B and today it is roughly $13T, that's about a hundred times larger. Efficiency gains are the reason Coke doesn't cost $5 per bottle. It's worth noting that in some areas, like computing, gains in efficiency come so fast that prices fall despite the rate at which new money is pumping in. Falling prices are not a problem for producers or consumers, they are are a good and natural result of innovation. How can we keep our efficiency gains from being bled away by money printers? It's a big problem, but there are solutions.Gold has a long history as a money and for good reason. Gold is limited in supply; getting new gold requires actually doing work digging it up, and eventually even that will no longer be possible. Gold is compact; you can probably put your lifetime wages in a backpack. It is easy to identify because it doesn't tarnish and it's denser than almost every other element (watch out for tungsten). Unfortunately, if you want to sell your hand knit coffee mug cozies for gold, your customer is going to have to break that tenth ounce Krugerrand into nine pieces and mail one to you. You'll probably end up settling for dollars via PayPal and buying the gold yourself (if gold is what you want). While a system for trading in gold could be arranged, it's hard to get started on your own. Bitcoin is a more modern solution. Bitcoins are not dug out of the ground, they are found by computers solving a math problem who's solution validates transactions and prevents double spending.  There are only two ways to get bitcoins, contribute resources to the network or provide goods or services that people with bitcoins want. There are no privileged users, no backdoor access to free coins.The reward for solving a problem decreases gradually to nothing over the next 120 years resulting in a hard limit of 21 million bitcoins. When new coins are not a sufficient incentive users will have the option to attach a fee to transactions which will go to whoever solves the problem containing that transaction.Bitcoins are divisible. The Bitcoin software shows the familiar two digits for cents, but a coin really has precision to the hundred millionths place. A Coke costs about 3 bitcoins now, maybe in the future it will cost .003BTC.Sending and receiving bitcoins is easy. The Bitcoin software creates payment addresses for you; you give one address to the payer and wait for them to send coins. Once you have coins, you can pay by copying and pasting the recipient's address and entering the amount you want to pay. Payments cannot be revoked.Payments appear immediately, but will not be confirmed until someone includes them in a valid solution. This takes 10 minutes on average. You do not need to be online to receive coins, they will be waiting for you.Payments can be anonymous, but aren't by default, just like cash could be anonymous if you wore a mask.The main drawback is that Bitcoin is not yet widely accepted. This is changing quickly because it's simple to start accepting payment with Bitcoin. You can see a list of exchangers and merchants at bitcoin.org/trade. You can download the Bitcoin software at bitcoin.org, or if you want someone else to manage your coins I recommend mybitcoin.com. You can learn more at the Bitcoin forums, bitcoin.org/smf or the wiki at en.bitcoin.it.I've tried to keep it non-technical, but I didn't want to claim magic either. I want to make sure I didn't say or imply anything untrue. Suggestions on making it more persuasive or more accurate would be greatly appreciated. I'm trying to get a good explanation of what the problem Bitcoin solves is and why Bitcoin is the solution. Tell me about any grammar, punctuation, and spelling errors you see too. There is no reason to publish his email verbatim if he doesn't want you to, it is simple enough to paraphrase, I'll do it for you: The EMH is only anywhere near correct when all possible valuers know about and have access to the a free market.If I invent a lighter than balsa wood stronger than titanium alloy in my basement and sell some to my neighbor for $1/oz it isn't right to say that that is it's value. I don't know how long it will take to get the word out about this material, probably not as long as explaining and spreading bitcoin though. As someone mentioned, "tends towards" is a lot more accurate. What if I make a program that takes this data: And decodes it into child porn? Does owning this picture send us all to FPMITAP?There is no such thing as data that cannot be converted into some other data if I get to choose the algorithm. Obviously if I publish the algorithm that does this there will be public outcry against Obama and google, since I got the picture from them. I absolutely agree with you and not my so-called teachers. I think he means from here onwards, not in the past. And I think I agree. Weird, they taught me in school:money = debtfreedom = slavery  I don't mean "convincing people isn't my job" I mean "if I could answer all these questions then we shouldn't have anarchy we should have a dictatorship, run by me".No one knows the best solutions to all problems. Likely no one knows the best solution to any one complex problem. In fact any problem as complicated as "How should people keep their houses lit at night?" has hundreds of solutions none of which are best for everyone.I'm talking about a new (not new really, we do solve lots of things peacefully) way to find solutions, not about the solutions themselves. The solutions are work for everyone and anyone to do, I have no particular expertise.Showing solutions from the past is good for illustrating that there are other solutions, but I don't think it is likely that many of the old ways will end up being chosen by people when they are free to try anything. I think poker will be huge for bitcoin. I don't think it has to be rake free though. I'd gladly pay a small part of every pot to pay for customer service, software, and advertising. Hopefully the low barrier to entry will keep those things healthy and the rake low. We're going to need to see the audit first to be sure you actually have that dollar. 
My registration led to a server error page, twice.Also, "to much" should be "too much" it's in there twice.And "Start publishing ads" isn't nearly as exciting as "Start earning bitcoin!" that's why people with ad space are there  I have to get away from this damn machine for a while, I'll try to get on when I inevitably come back in a few hours. I didn't mean to suggest a change in equity, I just did sloppy math. I guess it would be 49.5% to keep it the same. I am interested in this. I hope I don't have to because I can't. I don't believe law enforcement and courts and roads and welfare are problems that have ever been solved. I'm suggesting that we start trying to solve them instead of forcing people to accept non-solutions at the point of a gun. It is no more my responsibility to solve these problems than for me to tell you what to eat. If I was a nutritionist or a cookbook author I would offer you some solutions, but I don't claim to be or want to be. Some people will do this and if others like their ideas enough they will try what they suggest. We know  Very interesting. Once we pay the set up fee can we transfer rights to the calcs? Is the set up fee one time only? Can we go for 3 or 10 years?I realize you are the only one selling in bulk like this now, but is there any reason to think you have good permanent efficiencies compared to future possible providers? Like cheap electricity, the most efficient cards or something else? Is there a possibility of you selling some small capacity with with no start up cost, but a higher monthly rate? This would allow you to take some small customers like myself without us having to form little unions. Woohoo, double. Good advice. This is what bitcoin darts does. Wow, haven't used it yet, but it looks slick. First thought, 49% chance at 200% is probably better psychologically, and more appropriate since the name is Double Trouble.Also, it says the min is .01, what will I get back if I win .0198?  I realize some forums don't like this, but it appears to be fine here. While there aren't many I think it is helpful, eventually they should probably all go in one thread. Idev made a banner and logo for my wife's site. I'll link it after the final version is on the site. I am a satisfied customer.  That is a need I have now. There is none to buy when the gang is millions strong and supported unthinkingly by most others. I simply can't be scared by a gang that doesn't even exist yet that will be orders of magnitude smaller than the one I dodge every day. Nudists >>>> Jailers I don't need any of that imaginary stuff. Could any audit do better? Audits don't tell the future afaik.The take-a-picture-audit is cheap enough it could be done daily, or after every cash transaction. You want to demonstrate that you have paper money, is that all an audit would do? Seems like a picture with a custom message should suffice.  Pretty good story. If you write another I'd read it. latching onto one big existing company is great for a payment processor dealing in an established currency. I don't think that's it's going to happen with bitcoin. It's going to be 285 small operations and a medium sized one, then 4290 small operations, 324 medium ones and a big one, then 34229 small operations 8234 medium ones 124 large operations and a huge one, then everyone. There just isn't room for a large company to start taking payment now, one customer getting enough coins for one high end car would double the exchange rate. I think it's going to happen fast, but it's also going to happen "in order".So I agree, biddingpond isn't going to single handedly launch bitcoin into orbit, but it is a small part of the natural process that will make it happen eventually. Ah, thanks.
Couldn't new mean "just bought some coins"? Internet goods and services are an obvious fit, software, design, hosting, etc. There doesn't seem to be a way to browse files on bitcoinservice. Can we get a direct link? Oh, I thought there was another one, but then I thought I was wrong because I didn't see it on the trade page. Can't you set your own price at one of those bitcoin file download sites? I'll try to find a link. I enjoyed the first chapter.Pastecoin.com seems to be down. AndI think Ubitious has a fixed fee still. Maybe no good solution yet. I am not affiliated with this site in any way. I just came across it in my google alert.http://www.shamanscents.comClearly accepts bitcoin, even has it in the top menu bar. The log attaches but will not post.  Or maybe it would scare some life back into the populace. Bitcoin was working fine, I restarted, Bitcoin auto opened, and crashed. I opened it again, crashed again, I reinstalled, crashes every time. I uninstalled and installed again, no good. Everything else seems to work fine. I can't think of any cause. The only major thing I've done recently was install Ubuntu, but that was 2-3 days ago and it worked fine after that, and it shouldn't matter anyway.I have to sleep soon, but I appreciate any suggestions of what to try and I'm curious about what caused this.edit: It crashes really fast, if that matters. And it says "bitcoin.exe has stopped working" and "close the program" button.edit again: I uninstalled, restarted and reinstalled and it works now. Has this happened to anyone else? That's a good point. The humans could unintentionally (or intentionally I guess) collude by having more info about each others likely holdings and future actions than the computer could. But once the computer gets an eye they're screwed because the reading will be going one way only. But, like you said, that's probably far off yet. This is as general a question as "How will people resolve conflicts and make the world better?". It's a really really hard question to answer and anyone trying is doing it wrong. Every specific little issue is hard, it will best be answered by the people who know about it and care about making it work or making it better. All I'm saying is that force is not the answer to any of these problems. I don't have one millionth the hubris required to give a blanket solution to all the problems humans face now and in the future. The people with the armies police and nukes unfortunately seem to have unlimited hubris.And don't forget that the current situation is that we do have governments and the corporations are not playing nice. The solution of "Corporations get to use the airwaves and if I try I get hurt" is not playing nice. Neither is "This guy can have a farm that leaks waste because he paid us and if you have a farm that doesn't pollute I'm going to put you in jail". So it isn't like these problems have been solved and I'm talking about unsolving them. I'm suggesting that we start looking for real solutions instead of the psudo-solution of "Put 2 million people in prison and threaten everyone else over and over with 100000 laws" I haven't figured out exactly how it works, the samples I'm seeing have things like "Fox sale" as what you type in, isn't that going to be very vulnerable to someone learning the small set of things that can come up? I assumed it was going to be a combo like "Dominoes 34ui4".  I want to clarify, I have no love for any corporation that makes deals with government, which happens to be all of them afaik. You can think of my position as wishing to disarm corporations of their weapon, the government. So they can focus on the good they do, which is bringing me and my family things. And without government any that don't satisfy needs will simply fade away. I gotta say, adCaptcha sounds brilliant. It's so easy to implement that it is going to happen. It'll be a better experiment than the dollar because only one simple variable will be changed.I think the split network concerns are unjustified, bitcoiners aren't going to bail en mass. Some new people will try Timecoin and see very few people accepting them as payment and a ridiculously low exchange rate to BTC and decide to switch to Bitcoin, and now we have a stronger network. It will be a temporary thing, unless it actually has some economic merit. Nice. Is there an easy place to see the total unique nodes ever identified? That's awesome. I'm watching the show with Yehonathan and Lyrik right now.It'll be 5AM here so I probably won't be able to watch live, but I'll see it afterwards for sure.  My suggestion was not to act as a backup but to have old address that you have set up (a static donation address, permanently associated with accounts etc) go automatically to the bitcoinbank. Plus if you lost contact with the site you could use your copy of the wallet to spend. They could let you upload a wallet file and spend from that. Then you could lock away your own copy as your own backup so you don't have to trust them solely. This could also allow someone to maintain the same addresses through a transition from holding themselves to letting the bank manage it, which might be useful for some business.  I am absolutely not going to do what I described.But can you tell me which site has the 'correct' exchange rate?
Even playing live facial cues are not going to matter when playing against a computer. The Navy holds a patent on the idea of repeated encryption and decryption? Insane. Can always try to sell cash or similar on biddingpond.com Thanks for explaining. That's a lot of stuff I hadn't though about. This is good advice. It seems like you have a gift shop near the boarder and want to start taking Canada bucks, but are only going to accept them on one new untested item and determine your future with the currency based on how that item sells. There is just no reason I can see to write books especially for the bitcoin market, unless they are going to be about bitcoin or currency or something, but even then why wouldn't you sell them for dollars since you are already set up for that? Ha, I read that, but only thought of genocide. And I was distracted by the denigration of man's natural desire to increase productivity.  I am looking for a content disregarding secure email provider if anyone has any suggestions, I'm sure there are some good ones out there. They'd probably be pretty interested in bitcoin too. I've fantasized about how games could be designed that have well defined rules that humans would have an advantage over computers for the farthest into the future. Go is the right sort of thing. How can we make a game more Go-like than Go? I'm 100% anarchist.What is it called when people voluntarily trade value for value and some people end up with a lot of useful stuff? Cool, does anyone use the email? I could use 2 invites.Meh, I dunno. They say I can't use their services (so my email account?) to support capitalism and they don't define it. I'm sure they probably mean I can't advocate for slave labor and pollution, but I call capital ownership capitalism since that's what it is. And without capital ownership we're all going to die with gaping infected wounds in the street. Any coins older than the split will be 100% fine. Transactions based on transactions that the longer chain doesn't have will not work, at least until those dependencies also work through. Any transactions based on double spends won't work ever unless China's chain ended up longer, then the transactions on the other side that depended on them would disappear. I'm pretty sure I have that all right, someone please verify.Pretty much the worst split would be a long term close to even split. Thankfully that is the most unlikely of all because any one node connecting to both sides, each of which would be huge will make the transactions flow again. Individuals in corporations. They see that people acquiesce to government violence so they pay individuals in government to do it. No corporation could sell anything after they killed a million people. The cost of hiding murders is so great that it has to be outsourced to a government (who is doing it in the open!) to happen on any but the smallest scale.   Hadn't been there, the Simpson's paradox article is good, I'll read more. Ultimately I don't think there are any shortcuts that get us to a better world without honesty and empathy.But maybe this is something like you are asking for. Instead of convincing people that democracy is bad since that will be hard to do, convince them that democracy is not voting in elections, but voting with your time and resources.Or an info campaign designed to convince people that people who choose to collect dollars instead of friends or days at the beach don't deserve to be taken from any more than we should have 33% of our homemade cakes taken from us.Is that the sort of thing you are talking about (but more sophisticated maybe)? The deflation can't be 'too big' for the economy because it is cause by growth in the economy. More stuff on offer with a limited amount of coins means higher price per coin. If the bitcoin accepting economy shrinks then the value of a bitcoin will shrink. Obviously I'm all for growing the economy, not contradicting that sentiment at all. He wants to help people in his area get coins, but he wants to be able to replace them so he doesn't run out. I suppose sarcastic. I'm just trying to demonstrate the silliness of arguing with people who don't want to be convinced. I'd like them to have the opportunity to learn (or prove to me they are right!) by actually using Timecoin.  I would phrase it the opposite way. If someone disagrees with you then you have a sale. If I value a coin more than 40 cents and so does someone else we have no trade. But if they value the coin less than 40 cents we can both benefit from the trade.  What is this supposed to imply? You think people left to avoid paying money that they offered?I pledged 100 and it's still good. I think I said it needed Satoshi's blessing, but since he might be gone I'll waive that. I can tell myself now if it is accurate.Are you really going to start with a Bible verse?If you say "no intrinsic value" a bunch of people are going to jump on you saying "nothing has intrinsic value", better to say the bitcoin has no "use value" if you need to get that idea across for some reason, I don't think it's that important though. Sure, I shouldn't speak in absolutes like I did.I completely know that individuals and corporations (well, individuals using the cover of corporations) hurt people all the time. But for anything truly systemic, enormous and awful government (well, individuals using the cover of governments) have to be involved.I have little doubt coke has killed many people. Maybe 10 or 100 or 1000. But I know for sure that my government has killed 1000s of 1000s and imprisons right now a similarly huge number. They do it in the open, they tell everyone, they are proud of their wars on people.Government is not the only problem, but it is so much bigger than every other problem combined that I just don't care about the other ones right now. You can hide a few dozen murders, but since you can't hid a few million you have to train people to ignore that reality. It's massive, it's right in front of us. Wow, I almost din't escape. Does it do that to everyone every time? Maybe I'm just up too late. I'm afraid to click it again.
Haha, is this why nanotube and others were offering to buy testnet coins on bitcoin-otc? I guess that would make the adjustment faster, but less severe? Colors are not indistinguishable because you are colorblind. I can tell the difference easily. If some corporation has a problem with me, they don't give me things anymore, and I don't give them money anymore. If some government has a problem with me they put me in a cage and try to kill me if I resist. You are absolutely right to look at why people's best option is to accept a shit job from a corporation. And the answer is always a government. People leave bad conditions if there aren't laws and borders preventing them. People want to make their lives better and will if they aren't threatened with prison and death.I'm not saying that corporations are blameless, but when they do evil the tool they use is government. What? How would it take a majority. I bet $2000 that Councilman Joe will not die on May 15th. Someone takes the other side, maybe they make it happen. Sure people can pool bets, 10 or 100 or 1000 people could get a rather bet together, but this has nothing to do with majority. The reverse is true too, 200 million people who won't put up one cent can't affect a thing on a prediction market. The unsolved problem I see for this kind of market is the who determines time or fact of death? Dexter would have trouble getting paid since he knows how to get rid of the bodies.Interestingly, intrade.com can already be used like this. How creepy would it be to be an absolute lock to win and see your intrade odds drop hard on large volume? Haha, not that dying always persuades sheeple not to vote for you. But if they phrased it "So and so to be sworn into such and such office on DATE" that would do it. Maybe they do, I haven't read them all.I'm pretty mixed on the whole thing, if it was widely used it would be a game changer though. Or maybe not, we probably don't even know the names and faces of the people who really should be removed.  Timecoin does not have a fixed inflation rate that would be something called Expocoin. Timecoin has a fixed generation rate, the % increase drops over time. We can try them all. I suppose the currency best suited for a growing economy would be Expocoin with a high % corresponding to the rate of growth you want. 2%, 3%, 15%, 100%, whatever. Everyone knows economies are limited by the growth of the money base, that's why the FED has to print print print. I was thinking it would be cool if there was a site, call it something like OfficialBitcoinExchange.com, and have it fail if people ever try to trade coins for more than $0.01/BTC. Sure there wouldn't be much volume, but for a small fee the site can print you some official looking exchange history and that's the paperwork I'm going to submit.  But you can get as many ass beatings as you want from a computer for free. It isn't that the ass beating service isn't valuable, it's that it's already provided gratis. Gambling is for games where variance can hide the skill like poker and backgammon.  Even though it doesn't mean much I still like it.Not only could 1 person own many of those addresses. The coins in 1 addresses could be part of mtgox or mybitcoin balances and owned by many people. Obviously it would be cool to have found bitcoin at the very start, but it's still early. You can join a pool and you'll get the same amount, but spread out. So if it would take 200 days to get 50 coins, you will get roughly 1 every 4 days with the pool. http://mining.bitcoin.cz/Also you can get .05 from the faucet to show the mechanics of sending and receiving. I've been high on bitcoin for 7 months. In related news, people are offering to buy testnet coins for bitcoin on bitcoin-otc. Exchange between bitcoin-like currencies will be deadly simple. Vendors can safely just take the most common one or their favorite or whatever and people can convert on the fly. I don't think there is an equilibrium that includes a lot of chains with similar rules, but if that is where we end up I don't think the vendor thing is a problem. And even if they had to set up to take multiple types directly, all of the hardware will be identical and the software will have minor changes and be easily available anyway. And of course there will be demand for seamless integration into one interface. If money is appreciating on average then you are better off paying suppliers at the last second, if they can run their operation more efficiently with more warning on orders then they'll pay more than they expected appreciation over the prepay period.Most things are prohibitively expensive, it's no problem, we just don't do them. It actually makes a lot of sense that using things that haven't been created is hard, you have to find someone who has created things and doesn't want to use them now, you'd expect this guy would want to get back more than just what he originally created. A system that acknowledges this gives incentive to make or trade for the things you want to use. Yes, linear generation will approach 0% inflation. I'm prepared though with Expocoin. Okay, I'm sorry I went on for so long.Of course I know that a limited currency is better. My point is just like you said though, the layman doesn't get it right now. He hears about Bitcoin and says "Won't work, it's limited money". Now you have choices, I've been going "blah blah blah limited is better because blah" and I get tuned out or dismissed with the crap I've been spouting in this thread. Another option would be "Oh, you might like Timecoin then". Now maybe they load it, generate a few, go to TimecoinExchange.com or Timecoin2Bitcoin.com and then they know which can store value. But instead of wasting time arguing theory they got some experience and worked with a system that works just like Bitcoin, they copied an address, they learned to be careful, they get how an online wallet works, etc. It's silly for people to keep using gov money because they lack some knowledge and want to argue. I am not suggesting that people here switch to Timecoin at all. I don't want to convince anyone, I've only been explaining why there are people who want the features provided by Timecoin. I used to spend time convincing those people that Bitcoin was better. I realize now that I was foolish, let there be both and we will see what people want. No kidding, do you know what those deviants do? Maybe getting higher and higher wages is worth being stolen from. And if you are going to be stolen from why not have it be by the people who are enforcing the rules of the network instead of the guys who are throwing you in jail for smoking pot?Weak objections in this thread. Someone make this happen, people obviously want it.Timecoin.org is available. Satashi who? I want to hear about the guy who invented Timecoin: The Currency of our Time.  Are you suggesting that things will get cheaper? Why would people produce if they were getting paid less and less. Plus they could use Timecoin instead and get paid more and more.This is far too inviting an idea to pass up, Timecoin needs to be implemented asap. Not true, afaik.Companies issue new stock. The reason it doesn't devalue previous shareholders is that those shareholders now own a smaller part of a company that has more cash, in exact proportion to the dilution.  Because a currency that inflates allows a growing (inflating) economy. It's pretty simple. 
In a hyper efficient market I would assume that you could get a better deal on goods for paying earlier and/or taking delivery later. Obviously we already see this in shipping. Overnight costs more than standard. And we see what happens if you want to pay months or years after you take delivery, you pay more (interest). This really isn't different than a discount for paying before you get the item. It is valuable to a producer to know in advance who needs what when and where and prepaying is the surest way to prove your future demand for an item. There's no reason a producer wouldn't pay to get this info.I could imagine buying a Pepsi and paying with bitcoin and the store instantly forwarding part or all of that payment to their Pepsi supplier as prepayment for the next shipment. It could be in the very same block! Demand information passed on virtually instantly. It doesn't stop there, Pepsi uses the payment to 'notify' their corn syrup supplier, their plastic bottle supplier, etc. This is not necessarily caused by bitcoin though, it's just a conjecture I have about future efficiency. It could conceivable happen with a central currency too.This all comes to mind because obviously it increases velocity. I guess the big question is whether there is good reason to be a bitcoin holder or whether it makes the most sense to trade in and out of some other store of wealth on some short cycle.  I know right now that I'm willing to hold a decent amount of crappy money because it's super liquid and my expenses are somewhat uncertain. As bitcoin to dollar trade because quicker and easier I will hold fewer and fewer dollars. Beyond a certain point though I want an appreciating asset over liquidity, once bitcoin has reached saturation in terms of breadth and velocity is increasing it might not be as attractive to hold bitcoins as it is to me now. On the other hand I feel like a good currency pays you for deferring consumption. I suppose that would be true in a stable bitcoin velocity economy that was growing. Ah, maybe what you get paid the most for is announcing (by paying) what you'll be needing immediately after you produce (and get paid) but waiting as long as reasonable to actually take the thing.I hope some of that is clear, I'm not really sure of any of it. This is a complaint I hear pretty often:I think I have a pretty good understanding of why the bitcoin generation scheme is better, but I'm not going to discuss that now, my theories haven't convinced anyone as far as I know.I propose we try it out. Modify the Bitcoin code to simply continue generating the same number of coins/time forever. You could even call it a time limited currency. At any given time there will be a limit on how many coins exist, maybe this will be god enough to lure some people who are on the limited/unlimited fence. It is still surely better than a centrally issued currency where we can't tell at what rate money will be printed or what the distribution rule will be.The infrastructure that exists already for Bitcoin can mostly be converted in minutes and this applies to all infrastructure that will be created in the future. A BTC/TC exchange site would be trival to set up and be virtually riskless legally. This would let Timecoin piggyback on all the existing and future BTC to state currency exchange sites. Just go to a BTC/TC exchange then take your BTC to MtGox or wherever. If it catches on there will be direct exchanges I'm sure.My point is that people don't have to be really really devoted to this idea to make it happen like the developers of bitcoin are. They only have to think that this one difference is even a slight improvement, everything else is already available, practically free. There are even a bunch of miners already set up that could switch on a dime.If Timecoin allows for a growing market and Bitcoin does not we'll know for sure and don't need to worry about theory.Empiricism! Last I checked it was free unless you wanted something special, highlighted, bold, featured, etc. It sounds like you should make your own auction  I'm considering trying to install Linux on my laptop tonight. It's pretty important to me hat I not screw up what I have. I should be able to get to exactly what I have now right, is it likely I can screw that up? I want the choice of which operating system to use on an ongoing basis, this is reasonable right? It sounds like the way to go is a "live CD" will a 4G memory card work since I don't have a blank CD around? Thanks for any help. I'm glad you found a solution. Micro-payments aren't a problem for bitcoin, but they are for the dollar     Looks pretty good. Still more fees than I pay at my bank. I'll probably do it, but the fees aren't trivial. $24 to start, $5/mo, $4/atm, $1.5 POS. Nevermind, they want photo ID, phone bill, and a phone call. And they call it anonymous, tricky tricky. I agree.Another difference is that when gold or silver are 'lost' it simply means "expensive to recover, we'll get it later when it's easier or when it's more valuable". It's pretty rare for gold to be transmogrified into lead or something, it usually just gets lost in the water to be found later. I don't think there is a bubble either, but why would high volume imply that? For example, didn't houses turn over faster during the bubble than during other times? The velocity point is something I hadn't thought about. I think there is a tendency for a finite currency to gain value over time. This reflects the fact that someone who works first and waits to enjoy the fruits ought get more. This should keep the velocity from absolutely exploding. I think it's essentially as good as the euro, less maybe 2-5% if you want to get it back to bank money. You can actually get a premium from some people if your willing to trust their Paypal.  He means "How long ago could bitcoin have been viable?" It would have had trouble taking off in 1990 even though implementing it would have been possible. Haha, I get it now.What year did 50% of people have high speed internet? It would suck to get the block chain on dialup. Yeah, of course the rate will change with the market. I just wanted to get an idea of the premium. Even the $200 seems kind of high. I guess we'd all be better off if the limit was more like $500 or $1000.I'll probably still do it, just to have a quick bitcoin cashout method, but I don't want to run a lot of funds through at a 10% cost, especially knowing most of it probably goes to a damn bank and not you. what the hell? We just agreed it would be 1.30, are you a cheater? Thanks for all the info. The $200 limit means it won't be a full replacement for my bank card. I won't be able to buy airplane tickets and cruises with 4 separate debit cards. Also it would be annoying to have to run it all the way in order to do a max fill, etc.I'm still interested though. Are you going to announce rates soon? Maybe an early adopter special?  You misunderstand. As mentioned many .com names are squatted including this one. There was nothing at the page, but someone had the name. Wow, this seems great. No names I assume? Fee from Visa for using? Does "an additional percent" mean 1%? That's pretty good for this service imo. Do you have to pay a fixed fee per card? Is there some minimum you want for the initial fill?This feels too good to be true, can I fire my bank now?Is there a max that can be on the card? I suppose I could have a few cards, right? Is a lost card like lost cash? Is it possibly to get a replacement, or two identical cards to start so my wife and I can share?Do you plan to automate refills? How long does it take from when you get the coins until the dollars are on the card? Do you mean that you own a grocery and want to act as an exchanger? A sign and a computer and a stash of coins should do it. I'd imagine you'll get questions and it would be nice to have printed info to hand out. A price is a ratio. Everything's price has an inverse relationship with the dollar. If a dollar gets you less of something now, then that something gets you more dollars than it used to.Gold/Dolar will go up for two reasons imo. It will go up because everything will go up (dollar going down) and because it is a money and as it becomes widely used it will gain from network effects.The same goes for bitcoin, but I can't tell how much bitcoin will hold back gold-as-money-use. 
That's right at market rate. .225 * 1.32 = .297 You don't form capital by holding a coin, you get to hold a coin for forming the capital and not consuming your 'fair share' yet. Deferred consumption is the only way capital can accumulate. An accumulation of capital is good for doing things that would otherwise by impossible or for getting better efficiency from economies of scale.In a society with no real savings nothing can really improve. Bitcoin will make savings easier and safer. Right now the default is the savers get screwed for saving. You can pay brokers, tax accountants, etc to lessen the screwing if you have above a certain amount, but a lot of people get locked in the cellar.  Put the title and button in an invisible box together? Something like that, I'm not sure of the terminology. Don't forget the coffee.http://www.coffee4bitcoin.com/ I guess I haven't looked at a stamp lately, I thought they were pretty much stickers. And there are so many kinds as opposed to the FRN and the scrutiny must be minimal when you just use them regularly. I'm thinking that the main thing is that moving 100k in FRNs is a lot easier to do without raising suspicion than 100k worth of stamps. I mean I could just eat for 9 years and the FRNs would be used up, but I'm never ever in my life going to use that many stamps. So maybe it makes sense to focus a lot more on making the dollar harder to copy than the stamp. And I'm not saying it would be trivial to counterfeit stamps, I don't have a bit of knowledge about the security features.  Maybe a little, shouldn't it drop below if it can't fit though? The currency selector buttons do, though not exactly correctly. The radio buttons should stick with their titles, not get separated. They aren't a problem until I scrunch it way narrow though so I wouldn't worry much about that, just using it for comparison.  Here's a simplified version. Your computer is checking numbers to see if they are a solution to a specific math problem that uses data about transactions and the previous block. Each check is independent, you never get closer. If you can check 10x faster than someone else you are 10x more likely to win, unlike a race where you would win every time if you were 10x faster. When someone 'wins' it doesn't set you back, you seamlessly start working on the next problem.As was mentioned you may never solve a block with a normal computer. It is now over 16000 times harder to find an answer low enough to count than it was in the beginning. This is because the rules adjust the target to maintain an average block time of 10 minutes. Theoretically it could go back down, but it isn't likely imo, bitcoin is growing.Joining a pool will give you fractions of a coin every so often. Essentially it's just a bunch of people who agree to share what the get, but it's airtight, or at least it can be if it's implemented correctly. Did you ever get someone? I think it's nice that it makes spam transactions a little harder so that people can't just do it with virtually no effort. But I can see how it would be annoying if you were in a hurry and were scraping the bottom of your balance.  Is it easy to get old versions of Bitcoin?  They do seem rather vulnerable to me. What is the hard part exactly? Haha, ridiculous, especially the Canadian one.  I think it is guaranteed to go down, I just don't know the timeline. Weather it drops only in real terms or in nominal too, I dunno.  It looks great, but only when the browser gets almost my whole large screen, otherwise they start to overlap. Coins can be sent before you get confirmation, but the client is set to disallow it. Wait for a confirmation, shouldn't take too long (10 minutes average). I did, and I agree with pretty much everything but the conclusion. Yes, the USPS will get bailed out maybe multiple times, eventually the dollar dies and the US gov leaves the scene. Bailouts aren't magic, every one sacrifices some of the length of dollar rule, it is hard to know how much. But long before that, Saturday mail will disappear, then maybe Wednesday, who knows. Theft of packages will become common, etc. If he just means forever stamps are better than holding dollars then fine, but the dollar is a pretty low benchmark.  Successful trade with ColdHardMetal. Forever stamps have the same effect as the home buyer credit did. People won't mail more, they just pay now instead of later. The USPS gets to spend money from the future now. This is a particularly great deal if they go out of business and get to spend revenue they never would have made otherwise. Peak mail has come and gone imo. No excuse needed. Feel free to give us a server to connect to yourself. Seems geometric to me   faith-backed, pfft.People gotta lose this "backed" mentality imo. Gold is not backed, it IS gold. Bitcoin is not backed, it IS bitcoin. And bitcoin has a higher value density 
I've said this before and almost said it again, but I didn't because I realized we will want him to send first which means he has to trust us to send at all. Once we send he knows we were trustworthy and that's it, but we won't know for sure about him for a while (months?).So you kind of need trust both ways in this trade. It's more the reverse I think. If it is used more widely then the value relative to other currencies will go up. But there is causation the other way too.It would be pretty hard to buy a house with bitcoin right now since you would need more than all of them, but as you went to get them you'd drive the price up yourself. The trouble is that the deal is hard to work out, what do you say buy bitcoins until you've spent $2M USD and give me that many? That doesn't exactly give incentive to get the best price on them. The other way has the same problem "Keep giving me coins until I've sold them for a total of $2M" now I don't have much incentive to get a good price and we're denominating in USD anyway. So wider trading will allow bigger trading which will open up more opportunities making the economy wider... but it won't happen all at once.Speculating (by buying now) that it will happen eventually will help it to happen faster too. Offering to trade goods and services will help the most though. It looks like Luke is the one to contact.http://www.youtube.com/user/lukebessey#p/a/f/0/QG4jhlPLVVs I listen to stef a lot. Hadn't seen this, it is nice. I'd do $7 for you on PP, but I don't have AlertPay, sorry. I realize that you aren't getting paid here. I just want to say that I think getting paid for showing people where to get content is absolutely fine. And a whole lot of people agree with me too, they just freak out when it gets direct for some reason. If you had a site that linked to freely given content like what you provided and had ads on the side nobody would complain.   I can't even find it at all. Instead of insisting on 5 by a set date and shutting down if you don't make it why not trigger a release, for example, on the first Monday after you get 5 qualified articles? Also it isn't a real problem if 4 or 5 of the articles are yours in the beginning. It's pretty unreasonable to think that high quality stuff is just going to appear in the beginning, it needs to be cultivated. If you are willing to do a magazine by yourself you may as well use it to transition to the community mag that you want.  Cool, inevitable imo. I amp and I'm going to mail a little and promise more when an onsite address appears. I doubt something of that strength will matter much at all. Bittorrent is used over and over and over to distributed works that are 100% copywritten with no ambiguity, but there hasn't been much success shutting that down.  I think a few more assumptions can get it even higher. Even at our current low rate of wealth creation there will probably be 50% more wealth in 10 years or so. Plus if bitcoin is a better and freer money then wealth can be produced even more quickly. So maybe double that 10 million. Also if people are confident in the money and in future growth they may be even more willing to save in bitcoin as opposed to consuming quickly (on the margin at least).Ultimately I think this high level will not be fully reach because there will be other good ways of saving value that will be found or created. He said equal food. Maybe he meant more and equal, but that's not possible. The drag of the equality bureaucracy guarantees insufficiency.  Guns and rules don't get us more food, they equalize our food by reducing it by limiting who can make food because if people are just making food all over the place it is hard to control and measure and standardize and tax and charge monopoly prices.If people are free they will eat it is as simple as that.   This is what I meant. I thought maybe you just used Xtranormal to show your script. What? Don't they work for you? If you don't get service that you like stop paying, they aren't going to force you to keep paying, they aren't the criminals./sarcasm Interesting for sure. The bitcoin extranormal is a place holder I'm guessing? I like the shared urban garden thing. The guy says strange things though. "If we decide it's a good idea" Getting permission from the nonexistant "we" means nothing ever happens. "Everyone should get the same amount of food" That's awful. We don't all need or want the same amount of food or water or clothes or houses. And having that as a goal sets you up for needing a hell of a lot of guns and rules.I would expect a lot of places that need water can't get a lot from the air. But the fog machine is cool for where there is fog. These problems have one source that will be clear if anyone takes action to solve them directly. It's the idea that people can legitimately rule over each other. It will be cool if the video will say so explicitly. I'm happy to keep giving feedback as you make it. Or to stop if you want   Jason, quoting is helpful. I find it more helpful if the quote is on top, maybe just because I'm used to it. I think other are the same way. These are all problems that can be solved in many ways. Choosing a solution isn't in bitcoin's domain imo.  There is no space on the dollar for a message either. Messages are a different thing and should be dealt with separately.   No nation no national debt. The best part about this is that it's already true! The nation is an illusion.I for one would hate to be on the lender side of a debt with no names attached.  Oh snap, selling all coins now. How did we not think of this?I for one thought that ~150 transactions a day would be plenty. I can't believe we forgot about spam. If you want to accept P2P money for your business you choose the one that actually has people securing the chain and people spending and accepting it. There would need to be a pretty compelling reason to start a new system.Imagine if a new fax machine was invented 5 years after the original fax machine, but it didn't work with any other machines already in use. It would have to be a lot better to overcome that. I think it would have to be a whole new thing not just an improvement.I'm sure it will be tried though so we'll see. I bet there will be an inflatocoin tried. 
The government settles disputes between itself and others in America. The only thing clear about the process is that they control it. Jason, it isn't just government currencies that are sure to fall. It is all centralized currencies. If the currency is small and centralized it can get crushed by a bigger group, if it is the hugest then it will rape you itself.  because it is. After the bubble things go back to their actual value to people. And stained paper is not very valuable. bitcoinmap.com I'm a buyer on the day the government says bitcoin supports terror for sure. That's going to be a huge pop. Yes people can offer gold in return for coins or the reverse. Is this all you mean? It's been done on this forum, you don't need to be rich. I have a bitcoin, I'm not selling it at 29 cents. How is anyone going to get them all for 29 cents each?And this really has nothing to do with me thinking that the market price is really low right now. If coins went to a billion dollars each I'd still have no reason to part with my last one since I'd have more than a trillion dollars already.You can back stickers with platinum if you want, but 'backing' is only as good as the word of the backer. I agree. But there is a market for inferior products. This is clearly not true. If you don't pay admission any where else ever what happens is that you leave. Is that how it works with the "admission fee" of taxes? Do they escort you to the border or do they lock you up so that you can't get to the border? And what about the ~100 million Americans that don't pay any taxes is anyone even advocating we kick the poor, disabled, underaged, retired out of the country because they don't have their admission money? And why do we have to keep paying over and over in various changing ways and amounts after we've been admitted? What would you say if Disney Land put you in their dungeon because they raised the rate after you paid it or tried to charge again? Nice poll. Did you stop beating your wife?edit: sorry that isn't clear. I think the poll is bad for two reasons. If someone has almost no income that they can afford to save then the number will be small even if they want to save it all in BTC. If they have tons of extra income they might save 20% without even thinking that bitcoin is super awesome.Maybe better to ask about wealth. And the economy is tiny, but it's already been kick started (by a pizza imo). If they can change the text next to the field to say BTC then they can make it say NanoBTC too. This is a non-problem. The bitcoin is divisible, easily to 8 places and it is possible to patch it to do more later on. You don't need higher and higher amounts, but you may need more and more units, we have that.FOFOA is great, I wonder when he'll write about bitcoin. QQ/BTC exchange site could be made?Tor bridges sold for BTC so china gov has to mine?  No, block length is not used to determine anything. Once a hash below the target is found the block cannot change at all or it will invalidate the hash. Any transactions will have to go into the next block.If a block contains invalid stuff then others will not build off of it. It won't totally disappear from reality, but it won't be part of the longest chain which is all that matters. Okay, just thinking of options for you. Did you get my PM? I assume you have no car, but do you have a licence? PM sent, in case you don't see it. Sorry to ask things you already answered. I did try to read your post.So PayPal will not help you get a hotel for tomorrow night? Since there aren't too many bitcoin merchants yet, bitcoins probably won't be fast enough since you'll need to convert them to cash or something. You have a computer of your own I guess? Do you have a safe place to put your things if you have to sleep outside? Do you have a phone? Do you have a way to get money out of PP immediately? I'm trying to understand what your situation is, but it is hard.You seem to be on your own, where is the baby? Is there 1 or 2 kids? It sounds like one was born recently, but also like one is over 14 months old. Are you in Cali or Colorado? if you are alone it can't hurt to give your exact location. The only real help you will get is from people physically near you. Maybe someone knows someone who can help or has a reputable forum account at a forum with lots of members in your area or something. 
Do the people you are talking to generally disagree with you on big things? State power in particular?I don't know if what you need is an argument about bitcoin here. If they want the world to stay the same and you want to improve it then you might need to talk to them about the fundamental issues first. You also might find that you get no where with that and that these people will not be on your side.Sorry, lots of speculation in there, it may not apply. I wonder how he managed to pay them minimum wage Probably used a combination of paper and metal. I know a guy, been a few years with no filing, still free. I'll keep you updated.This isn't something that anyone can just do though. Usually people file because they get money back for doing it.   I forgot to address this.It could be a problem if storage and bandwidth don't improve at all in the next 30 years, but if that's the case then we have bigger problems, like we'll probably all be dead. Yeah, I guess reading all that would slow down your post rate too much. A few things that might make it easier to start piecing together in your mind.A block can contain many transactions, but always contains at least one, the one that generates new coins, right now exactly 50, but that will decrease over time.The proof of work is required so that blocks cannot be added easily. If blocks could be created at will it would be simple to rewrite a longer chain that did not contain a record of coins that you previously spent. This would allow you to spend them again, not good for a currency.Only you can spend your coins because you must show that you have the private key associated with the public key that 'contains' the coins. Having the private key allows you to reassign access to a new key which is held by the person you are paying. We need to keep track of all transaction so that you can't get away with doing this to multiple people.I hope that helps.I agree about public 'education'. It is the antithesis of education imo. It's like a vaccine against learning at best and a lobotomy at worst. I recommend schoolsucksproject.com if you haven't found it yet. It's a very good explanation of why school is so terrible. Unschooling is a solution imo. Right on, imo. It's going to be huge.I know what you mean. I want to get two flyer/pamphlets printed up. One that is a really basic overview with claims not backed up at all. And one with more info supporting info, but not too technical. Maybe I'll make a thread where we can work out what ideas belong where and get the language straight. They might be selling sooner than you think. Pieces of Illinois might be available very soon. That's dumb. My mother actually gets charged $11 PER PAYCHECK by her employer, so stupid. You get so much more ill will that way than if you had just offered .12/hr less or whatever. That's cool. I would think that shipping costs would be a pretty big cost relative to value on the pennies, is shipping included? If I had my own little castle I would fill the basement with all sorts of metal, but I don't, so it's all light stuff for me. Absolutely agree.Mother f'ers asking "who will build the roadz?". Maybe no one, maybe we don't need god damn roads everywhere. If you want a road pay the full cost and see if they are actually profitable or not. Agree. I think it's cool how bitcoin is bootstrapping itself potentially all the way to a global reserve currency. There just isn't a need to settle over the network for every little thing once that has some cost. It still makes sense to denominate in bitcoin so that you CAN settle when/if you need to. Centralized database keeping isn't a problem and has a few advantages if people can snap leave like bitcoin allows. If you really want to do everything by the book then just get paid normally and buy them yourself.Maybe it would make sense to take most payment in dollars, and have the company buy you some as a small 'perk' like the doughnuts in the office that you never claim on your taxes. They both make you feel good, right?I think this works best if the company has bitcoin revenue.  You just want resources to be put to their most efficient use! Write I love bitcoin and hold the sign. Gotta prove you own that body. Do you think there will be a period where bitcoin is still used, but big accounts are getting 'sniped' by fast computers? I guess with certain assumptions it might be possible. It's funny to think about the protections people would take, splitting down coins to many addresses to avoid being targeted, maybe moving them around quickly (might not help I guess). Yes, I think I understand it, but it is pretty tricky to explain imo. You will essentially 'notice' it when those coins would have been bidding against you for something, but now they aren't and this lack of competition will happen over and over. This is interesting to me. I think we are using an expiring currency right now. The difference is that the expiry date is unknown and probably the same for all bills. I think one with a known expiry date won't work. Is $1 that expires in 15 seconds worth anything to you? Maybe you could be "forced" to take it, but the sucker who keeps getting stuck will find a way to only take money he can turn over before expiry or else go broke. The least adept at avoiding dying bills will continually stop transacting until they find a better way and the equilibrium should be that no one takes them ever. Human psychology will probably mean that people will take very far dated notes, but that willingness should diminish over time since people do learn. Okay, I'm pretty sure we agree. I don't think there needs to be extra room for data added either. But I do think normal transactions will be used to exploit special properties of bitcoin for non-monetary uses. Sorry, that was too abrupt.I'm all for making bitcoin easier and safer for the non savvy, I'm not super savvy myself. My backup is physically separate from my computer. I realize both are vulnerable, but losing both at the same time seems unlikely.People who can't even do that can get advice, or even have someone else handle their large amounts.Again, I didn't mean to imply that it shouldn't be considered only that it isn't a fundamental problem imo.
Copy your wallet somewhere else.  For bonus points, can you tell us how this info is transmitted? How long does it take for your wallet to be worth more? It doesn't stop this: Cool.Exchange rate is not so good, 20 cents for a coin is considerably less than you can get in a lot of places. As much as I like to transact in bitcoins, if I needed to buy anything substantial from you I would convert to USD first, even with the PP surcharge. Where can you send $.0025 or less? En route to Erie, PA from Kansas City, probably too late for route cities, but he should be in Erie for a few days and could probably be convinced to travel from there at the right price. 5BTC sent, sounds like a good idea. Oh sorry, then do you know about bitcoincharts.com? Email them and say your account was hacked and that you did not authorize the transaction. This still won't prove anything because they'll probably look into your IP addy and stuff and see that it was legit. Afaik no site has a "yank back payment" button, but virtually all of them have a method for doing it. I'm not saying this makes it impossible to use, heck I'm still using PP. It's just important that rules not be misrepresented because it will cause people to do larger amounts than they would otherwise do with strangers/dubious acquittances.   Do you know about blockexplorer.com? Check out http://www.bitcoinmap.com/Afaik my driver is heading back to Kansas City, but I haven't verified yet. What, coffee isn't a food?  They don't have to "support" bitcoin they just have to not eliminate all internet freedom. Which many may not want to do if they could since the internet enables huge quantities of taxable trade. Hold dollars at your moral and financial risk! Is he really "mainstream"? Good publicity anyway.edit: So, I guess he is on tv, was this particular clip on tv? You don't have to wait for anyone, no one owns or controls bitcoin. It's great to discuss things though and this is the perfect place. It sounds great to me.  Yeah, because private companies are free  If I start "Whities BBQ, no blacks a loud" I get fines until they put me in a cage and then killed if I try to get away. That's the rule on my private company when there are millions of alternate ways to get food, but a huge monolithic company with government connections, they get to be private. Nice, nice double standard. When these private companies announce that they won't support a government that violates our freedom to associate or not then I'll happily grant them the same. I'm going to stop dealing with them all ASPA, with malice. I'm willing to play 4PM-9PM EST any day of the week at least for the next couple weeks as long as there are a few player, I can't spare enough attention to play HU or 3way though. Any stakes is fine. This doesn't really solve the problem because they can freeroll since they can yank back what they paid for it every time they don't want to execute the option.   I guess it would work until/unless the operator started checking that hashes weren't identical. He'd only have to keep to check against for as long as the exact same block was being hashed.
What do you think about paper vs physical? Maybe he means have a bitcoin image and the address in text under it? That would make the most sense. afaik he never crosses the boarder for work, but I'll keep you in mind. Unlikely, Vancouver or Toronto? Those are the only cities, right?  Unless there are processor manufacturers on Mars it won't make any sense to generate there anyway. Any chip sent up for generating ought have just been left home to generate. And transactions will be no problem. edit: this is probably bad analysis, might depend more on the power situation or other things. All the hackers tell their banker/trader brother in laws about bitcoin over christmas. PM sent I'll check and get back to you ASAPI should have mentioned that the route cities will have tight windows and might not work out (middle of the night, whatever), especially this time.After Laredo he will be headed back to Kansas City at a leisurely pace. Headed to Loredo, TX, will arrive on the 23rd.  Columbus, Cincinnati, Louisville, Memphis, Dallas, Austin, and San Antonio are on his route.  If you run the software then there is no 'account', just the ability to create keypairs and to watch your balance and send coins. You only need to make sure your wallet file is not copied. If you mean an account on mtgox or mybitcoin then you don't even need to run the software. They will give you an address to send coins to deposit into your account and you can give that address to anyone who might want to pay you. I think you can get as many addresses as you want, but i'm not sure. You can use those sites to send your coins also of course. There are so many! I meant to come back and check them out, can you recommend a few of the best? Pay attention to what you see in your dreams. Write them down right when you get up, or even get yourself up in the middle of the night to get more faster. Whatever you see a lot of (rivers, cars, watches, birds, anything) pay attention to them in your real life. When you see them check if you are dreaming, you won't be, but it will build the habit of checking. Eventually you will check even in your dreams.I don't have much personal experience, just some stuff I've read. In the future the internet will be carried around on foot by government employees.  Get ready to have your packet inspected. Yeah, if it doesn't I'm just going to start a similar site, pay for the server, coding, improving the look and usability, attracting traders, handling complaints, and processing payments. Actually I'm a little busy, maybe someone else will do it. Oh, I was thinking the title meant he had finally resorted to physically assaulting Paul. I have about $500 PP I'd like to move to mtgox or buy coins with directly. I'm looking for 1to1.  It doesn't matter if the miner takes the hash and turns it in because it only validates the block that contains the pool operators payout, if you change that then the hash won't be valid. You could simply refuse to report, but that hurts you too since you are entitled to some of the profits.edit: looks like you already get it  That would be like saying that your dollar wealth is determined by how much oil you produce each day. There are unlimited ways to get dollars and eventually almost no one will get them by producing oil. Same for bitcoin, processing transactions will become a tiny fraction of commerce.  It's really insane to think he would go to all this work building a site and a reputation to throw it away for <1000BTC. It's so obvious that it isn't malicious, just give him time. Winners' money is given to the losers as compensation imo.
This seems like it has big potential uses with some rule tweaks, but I don't know what for!Some random thoughts:Make a page editable only if you send as much as the previous person or more.Make a page "lockable" for some price.Charge .01 per character added or deleted. Or charge more for a deletion than addition. You don't even need to ignore moral aspects since there is nothing wrong about pleasure. The answer is simple imo. Trust 0/unc for small amounts unless it becomes a problem, keep credit on account if that doesn't work. For large amounts you have plenty of time, those fancy dildos don't need to ship until morning. I think you misunderstand something. Mtgox trades show up in mtgox volume and not on the block chain. Bitcoinwatch tells us how many coins have been sent on the chain (and change as mentioned). Either can be bigger than the other with no contradiction. That works great Seth, I can only do a small amount now, about $500, likely more in the new year. I think that's a compliment, but I'm not sure.  Interesting, there are three within 25 miles of me, so maybe I am one of those. Very cool, are locations generally accurate? I'm not seeing myself, but I almost always have bitcoin open. Oh, I hope you get it easily. I'm going to tell my grandkids all about how grandpa knew bitcoin was the new money and how I generated 9 blocks ON MY OWN back in 2010. But that's not nearly as cool as owning bitcoin.com. Might be a good investment to try to pick it up from that company. I bet it'll be worth a lot more as a bitcoin wallet than whatever is going on there now. Googling "bitcoin.com" give bitcoin.org as the top hit, lol. I like it. About how much are they? Are they even for sale yet? I think I would pay $100, maybe more depending on details of durability and battery and such. It depends on how far out of the way you are for my guy and how large you want. For >$500 10-15% over mtgox depending on my current stash size and my feelings about the volatility of the price at the time. Sorry to be vague, but it depends on a few variables. I only have 5000BTC for sale at this moment, but more soon.If someone is going to want the opposite trade send me a message and I'll try to arrange cash delivery. Depending on reputation I may want coins sent to me before I send a guy out loaded with paper money. I'd like to set up some relationships with generators and/or merchants. This will help me offer larger amounts and better rates.Also, if anyone happens to be on Oahu, send me a message. One successful trade so far. Next stop Erie, PA. He should arrive late Saturday and be available for a day or two. Bosco, I've been listening to the show. I enjoy it. You should put an address on the donate page, I'll be the first. I think the lottery analogy only helps if the person is hung up on figuring out why they aren't "getting closer" to finding a block. Visa, MC, AMEX? It doesn't matter if someone is better everyone who wants to will promote. This isn't an election. Everyone is from some minority group anyway. I'm probably in 6. I think Bruce is doing great work. Yes, but curiously the guaranteed riches do not seem to excite him. I do like the way you distribute coins. I was trying to get in the other pool though since it's bigger. But I'm too dumb to make jgarzik's work so i'm sticking with the little guy.
Frott, people who find out about bitcoin and start earning them 6 months from now are going to be early adopters from a wide perspective. If you think there is no risk being taken by amassing coins then you should be glad at this opportunity. Oh, maybe I should clear this up. Thanks. I send the coins, he picks up the cash. So no, he doesn't deliver anything, but a smile.  To the windy city. Should be there for a few days. I don't get why someone wouldn't. If everything is set up and nothing can prevent it, why build a new one that will be weaker? Even if it did damage bitcoin that isn't an incentive that will keep people from doing it. If this is a problem for bitcoin then bitcoin isn't that good since it gives incentives, apparently, for exactly this kind of use. I'm not saying that I think it will be a problem for bitcoin. I'm saying that problems for bitcoin are not an effective deterrent and you either need to consider that a weakness of bitcoin or simply not a problem. I can't make up my mind, but I'm leaning towards "not a problem". Might we get a definition of hoarding? And some examples of currencies that aren't hoarded and/or are a classic pump and dump? I'd like to understand where you are coming from. Does this mean you don't want to accumulate small amounts of coin and convert when it's enough? I'll give 10 BTC if it'll eventually trickle in. What exactly do I put in the shortcut target to connect to this server? That is how I do it right, I don't go to the site given with my browser, do I? Oh yeah, maybe it does need something like bitcoin. I'm still unsure. I think this illustrates why we don't need to worry about DNS data filling up the chain. Since there are cheaper ways to do it, people will not throw away money paying fees. Some people thinking bitcoin is an efficient way to do it might try for a while, but that's no worse than spam imo. Maybe better since it doesn't have that malicious feel. CO2 is black? I don't think so. They must need other permits for the black stuff, can we buy those here too? Tell me if I have this right.Some countries require you to buy a permit to release CO2 into the air. They pick how many to issue. I imagine it varies over time, probably increasing year by year. When you buy a permit you drive up demand for permits. Won't this simply allow the country to increase the supply without the price dropping? Do you need to have the assumption that people in government don't want to increase the revenue of government in order for this to decrease carbon output? And then, even if they hold steady on the total amount then the price of producing goes up and production moves to other countries that don't have this system.If you care about emissions I think the effective path is to lower your demand for things that require emissions. This will reduce the profitability of these companies and there will be marginally fewer of them. cool, thanks. This seems like an overreaction. If some junk transactions come in that's okay, but if the transactions mean something to some people then it's awful?That is what we're talking about right? A system whereby "bogus" transactions are interpreted in an agreed upon (by some people) to mean a certain thing. Is that right? I don't see a big problem here, maybe I'm not getting it though. Interesting. This seems to imply that mass hashing has never before been needed or else this would already be in production. Was the "hash over and over until you get below the target" idea really a new creation and not borrowed form somewhere? I love ransoms.I'm sure it'll be implemented in many ways in the months/years to come. I think my favorite way would be to say "Hey guys, new song/album here's a sample. I'm going to release it to everyone with no restrictions as soon as I get XXXXBTC in donations. If you don't make it, no problem thanks for the support anyway I'm absolutely going to share it on February 29th no matter what." I moved some pepperonis around.  He could always resell it for something closer to the real value if he can't.  I absolutely agree than intrinsic value is a fallacy, but I still see possible value in putting other things in there. I'm not sure what, at least for now there is nothing I'd like to put in there.I can see how people are annoyed though, when it becomes 'cool' to encode things in the chain fees will start pretty much immediately. Then we'll see what the best use of the chain is. It won't be spam, it might be money only, or money and other stuff.
Wow, that's actually a really good advertisement to that guy about bitcoin imo. Bitcoin businessmen are careful and responsible etc.  Right now everyone who generates leaves it on all the time. When a block is found they keep right on going because they are after the 50 and there is another 50 for the next block. When the reward is 0 everyone will likely stop after a block is found and wait for a fee transaction to show up. If the fee is worth the average power it will take to get it then they turn on, else they wait for more fees to accumulate. If generators are not finding it worth it to solve the block in an average of 10 minutes then the difficulty will drop until they do.   Havre, MT. That's Montana.  Obviously use mtgox if you want LR. If you want PP I'll offer $300 USD. Do you mean because coins will be sent from multiple addresses? Can't this be avoided by spending exactly the amount received from one address?Get 18BTC from 1Nk... and 10BTC from 1Lo... so you don't spend 20 because that will link them, you send 18 to mtgox then you send 10 to mtgox then you cash out 26 at some point later and sell 2 for USD or whatever. Maybe I miss your point though. That makes sense Jimbob. I don't understand well enough to know what it makes sense to pay to be put in the chain so I don't know what will be in the chain in the long run, but whatever people are willing to pay the most for is what it will be. If registering domains ends up being the best use of this system I'll be confused and disappointed though.  That's cool. It annoys me that they don't mention bitcoin on the donate page. Yeah, that sounds good.This might be more fun with a company that is both more likely to give a dividend and more likely to go bankrupt. Long term deals for small amounts don't appeal to me much. Giving a new bitcoin address is not good enough. The purchaser needs to be able to transfer the ability to transfer also.I sell to Person C by giving you his address. Now when he wants to sell to D I have to give you D's address, later D will have to get me to to give you E's address and so on. The way to fix this might be to give a password to the purchaser. If anyone ever says to you "The password is gopher, please change it to g1427xy" then you confirm and henceforth only accept g1427xy. Obviously the password is needed in order to change the bitcoin address that dividends go to also. This is a good point. As offered we're essentially speculating more on your trustworthiness and health. So... how old are you? Are there any heart problems in your genetic history?Maybe make it a year or three? At least this prevents us having to mostly guess on how long the arrangement will last than on the company itself. Seems safe. A solution where we can see who moves them would be the best though. Kiba probably wouldn't throw away his whole reputation, but as long as the reputation hit is shared 3 or 4 ways it might be attractive.  My man is in Kansas City right now. Let me know if he can help you. I have a guy who would be willing to meet people and collect cash as payment for bitcoins in the USA. I'll post his destinations as I learn them usually 12-24hr in advance in this thread. If you are interested and want to make sure you don't miss him when he's in your area send me a PM and I'll make sure to let you know specifically when he is near you.Obviously we don't want to do tiny amounts and we'll charge some premium. Details will be worked out on a per trade basis. The coins are coming from me at least for now.I'll post the first location within a few hours.If it isn't clear, this is an offer to sell bitcoins to you for cash and we'll come pick up the cash. Mtgox is the way to go. Wire transfer to a Liberty Reserve exchanger and buy gradually from the market for the best price. If you do a large wire the fee will be a negligible % and then you only pay 1% LR fee and 0.65% mtgox on the buy.Also there is no reason to worry about the trust of someone selling bitcoins. You will be able to tell practically right away that they are good and there is no way to chargeback or anything. It is the buyer who needs a reputation usually. Yeah, obviously I'm totally cool with getting something that I value very highly for free, but that's way different than denigrating the company that currently offers the best deal to me. Glad you understand. Eh, I don't think actually reporting on things the government did instead of what government said is really a new invention, rare though it may be. One address is fine.  "Your total is one really big rock, please pull up to the second window." It's a great idea. I'll try to make it to the meeting.I have to say though that I gladly pay rake to Poker Stars and that they have no power to exploit me whatsoever. At any time I can stop buying if it is no longer worth it to me. I'm actually a little insulted that you don't think I can evaluate the worth of the service they provide. I don't think I'm the only poker player who can think for themselves either so you might be irritating more people than you realize. It sounds like a thread title change would be appropriate.
I hope they hurry so it won't cost too much of my money   The ones listed are free, the ones in the link cost 1BTC. That's all correct. But the exact same applies to the USD. Since the question forced us to abandon BRM anyway this doesn't tell us which way to go.You are actually more fucked if you have everything in the dollar when it goes because all the people around you who could help you if you were the only one who lost it all are also ruined now.To be clear, I'm not putting everything in BTC, but I'm not putting it all in the dollar either. There is virtually no difference imo. Did you change the timline to DEC 2010? I think in the big graph it is getting averaged down and we won't see it on that one for another week or something. If you change the graph to show only DEC 2010 it looks like we exceed a search index volume of 10. The previous slashdotting didn't get it quite that high. Yes, counting is hard for me.Ah, that is true. The software is required to be used by someone, having someone else do it for you doesn't really change that. See this is why I didn't just change it myself.   The first sentence is no good  The software isn't required to use the currency. If you only mean savings and I'm free to convert and spend on the same day or something then bitcoin hands down. But this isn't saying much, I'd rather have my savings in almost anything than the USD. This isn't very safe. Anyone can monitor transactions and claim that they sent them as soon as they see the transaction. People need to tell you first if they are going to send without risk. It would be like writing a "7" in front of the "1" on your FRN. If a group of people want to accept it as a $71 bill then it "is" for them, but it doesn't affect anyone else. Now if most people started accepting altered bills it would be weird, but I would start adding a "7" and spending way before I'd start accepting altered bills. This process never really gets off the ground because everyone knows no one else will take them. My favorite part is when 7 groups attack us at once, each with enough power to succeed and they all fail.   I'd be interested in knowing what the absolute fastest legislative reaction to an invention ever was. I'm guessing like 3 years. They don't have a chance at beating this imo. I thought we weren't going to talk about drugs anymore ;-) Haha, I like this. Some people put their addresses in the sig. Also there is a chrome extension you can use so you don't have to open bitcoin every time. Why can't I see how long it is or move it forward? Is my browser broken or is this thing a gif animation or something? Oh flash. But no flash player I guess.Lots of preface warnings and puffing himself up about previous predictions.Damn, far too slow in getting to the point. Is there any reason not to offer the wagers with no initial bet of your own? I would have thought so before your tip, but now I realize that anyone can lay their own line down any time so a popular one should get started without you seeding it. I'm sure seeding helps though.+1 to monthly instead of 3 months. It'll be more predictable, but that just means your ranges should be tighter.If this gets big action it could be used by serious generators to hedge themselves. "longest chain" does mean highest total difficulty, but the target is used not the actual hash. Thanks for the tip, I was thinking parimutuel was a bad system, but I just didn't understand. It is a little counterintuitive to bet on both sides. Someone could make a little tool that says "The current mass of bettors thinks the odds are XX%, what do you think the odds are? _____" and then "What is the most you are willing to risk? _____" then "Wager placed."
+1 for insider trading. Lol, he failed at quoting me asking him that after he seemed to be saying he could make a fake MtGox. If someone wanted to hide even donations on their website a script can easily be written to give each visitor a new address. Now you only know how much you gave them. Bitcoin can be used for anonymous giving/buying, but it isn't magic you can give your identity away easily. Someone bid that much, but it doesn't show it until it needs to. I'm not to smart. Are people doing something besides requesting data from a server? I went to visa.com while it was down, am I a terr0rist yet? The title is the only thing giving me that impression. "Could the Wikileaks Scandal Lead to New Virtual Currency?" implies Bitcoin was precipitated by the scandal, which is obviously not true even from the article since bitcoin has been around for more than a week or whatever. I was just trying to hassle you for your wording. I don't doubt you changed some behavior. Hmm, mine currently says "Generated (0.60 matures in 27 more blocks)" but then says 0.00 under the Credit column, I assume this is just because the amount isn't added to the balance yet. Is this what is happening for you too maybe? Or maybe it is the rounding thing. Wow, can't believe it didn't work. Did you have some sort of mind zapping gun or something? You seem confused, but I'm not sure where exactly.You wouldn't expect the creator of anything else at all to make it 100% theft proof right? Even cars are easily stolen if you give away the keys. Nothing replaces a brain.  Oh, I really hadn't guessed that. I thought you were meaning the block chain. There is no automation for cleaning the wallet for it now, but it's fairly trivial. Send all coins to another computer, your own, mtgox, whatever then delete your wallet, open Bitcoin and it will make a new wallet. You will lose access to coins sent to your old addresses in the future. I imagine this is why bitcoinmarket made that announcement about deposit addresses changing a while back. Imagine how fucked people were before the internet. You would think you were the only not crazy person in the world if you were even able to figure government/church BS out at all. This time is different, watch out mother fuckers. Yeah, I was just curious about the size of the benefit of the pruning algorithm. It's probably complicated, I know. There might be a language issue here. No amount of data will ever be infinite, maybe you mean it will grow indefinitely. Lfm is not wrong. Eventually servers will charge a little. People will pay to be in a big group with no downtime. I think he means easy would be: download, install wizard, get prompted for a bitcoin address, click okay. It's probably averaged 80,000kahsh only and there has been some down time. We're getting into mildly unlucky territory maybe. This will make it grow more slowly. Is there some notion of how much more slowly? Yes, exactly.And on the point of "falling fast" people should realize that price is not a continuous function. It only exists where there are offers and that means that price can fall through any level instantaneously. So it isn't solved by MtGox giving them priority. The important thing is regular depositors funds aren't used for this without their consent thinking that a large enough swing can't happen or something.  Uh, will your program let everyone sign up and trade?  Maybe it would be useful to have a backup server? You could have users enter two IP addresses and have it try the second if the first goes down. Seems easy to me, but I wouldn't know.
But there will be some reward for generating in the bitDNS chain, right? And that reward will be transferable? And used for fees? Maybe I'm confused, but that sounds like a good money.I'm pretty conflicted on whether new apps should attach to the chain or start a new one. I know the security benefits of having only one chain. But doesn't it seem silly for the first bitDNS users to need the whole list of previous bitcoin transactions? And then both chains will grow faster than otherwise. It just doesn't seems optimal for every app to need all the data from every other app in order to work. Reality is though that if a few people think it's good to put the data in there then they are going to do it. If this is a problem for bitcoin then it is a problem with how bitcoin works. We can't just trust that people won't use something that would be useful to them for all time because it wasn't the original intent.I fully realize that I may be making a bad assumption about the viability of using the current chain as a DNS, I'd love to hear why it can't work or wouldn't be the most efficient way, an explanation that completely ignores any harm to bitcoin. Come on guys, does a statist really link to the tools? Maybe visiting mtgox.com will help you understand? Click "trade data" then "depth of market" to see some current bids (offers to buy coins) and asks (offers to sell coins). Every one of these offers is valid and current, if you accept it then it happens immediately. This is not the only place where prices are determined, people trade on bicoin-otc and bitcoinmarket and a few others. The prices tend to stay near each other because if they deviate there is a profit opportunity for anyone willing to do the arbitrage. I really hate the "show me where it worked before" thing.All I'm suggesting is that the world will be better if people don't initiate violence on each other. I could give a damn whether this has happened on a large scale in history. That said, history is interesting. Nanaimo, under what circumstances is it okay for people to initiate aggression against me in your opinion?Maybe we use 'anarchy' differently, but if your answer is never then that is just semantics.   Welcome.I don't think that would be hard to at all. I actually assume it would just be a variable change. Right now it looks at something like contributed in the last minute as a proxy for current hashing speed. Increasing this to an hour or even a day might be reasonable. But again given the choice between joining two otherwise equal pools the one with the least dead weight will tend to be preferred.I don't think any of this has to do with fairness as long as there is no deception. I was only suggesting that it total contributed might not be an equilibrium. Yeah, that could happen. It might be bad, but not as bad as going to a non existent address. In many cases you will have contact with the person you are paying and can get it back. Eventually someone will probably create a warning add-on that makes you click again when you send above a certain fixed amount or above 10x your average send or something like that.  I did say this in the post you quoted:A typo won't lose coins because there is a checksum to test validity, multiple very unlucky typos could lose coins though. Wait, computer power can be bought in bulk? This changes everything.   That would be a self attack, we don't need all 21M coins. 2M or even .02 total coins would be fine. Offline: no problem, they now have access to the coins whenever they wantInvalid: the client won't send them.Valid, but no one has the key: lost foreverA typo won't lose coins because there is a checksum to test validity, multiple very unlucky typos could lose coins though. Bitcoin: So easy you don't even need arms!Looks good, grondilu.  I realize the question in OP was about unemployment specifically, but please consider my comments to apply to all government handouts. Suppose there are two pools with roughly equal hashing power, one that got a block 1 day ago and one that got it's last block 1 week ago. They are equally likely to hit the next block, but if I jump on to the first one I will get a much larger share. Anyone paying attention will do the same.Imagine an extreme case, a group works for a week making no block and they all quit. How silly would I be to join with all the shares owed to them?  I like voluntaryist too. Throwing your own money away doesn't hurt bitcoin in a broad sense. We'd be fine with 20M coins or 1M or even 11. If you have access to coins and throw them away it is your loss, and in the case of shared coins, your partners loss too. I was thinking from the point of view of the generators' incentives, not the total number of bitcoins aspect. The shrinking rate of generation can only be a good thing for bitcoin holders imo. But the decreasing incentive to generate could be a problem. For the first few decreases fees will be a minor amount so the drop will be rather drastic, later on the fees may be much larger than the generate reward and so the drop will not matter much. I mean if after a lot of discussion there were two or three reasonable and substantially different strategies, then maybe it would be a god idea. But not this auction really imo. Wild swings in the total hash rate again. 80k to 140k. Wow, that sounds good. Even though I'm in a contract it might be worth trying to get out. I don't know where I'l move though, I should find a coverage map.
I'm not pushing mtgox to do anything, but if the banksters will do bad things that happen to be crimes maybe it isn't so bad if some people do good things which happen to be crimes. Yikes. That's just what rolled off my fingers in a second, there may be a much more clever way. Maybe even link it to the log of difficulty or something. That way if it becomes a huge global thing there can be lots of addresses quickly, but if it stays small creating addys will still require a contribution to securing the network.The blocks/hour is free to be changed too, don't forget. I don't think so. I think he means it as a fundraiser. Like which color should the tablecloths be at the party? Each vote costs a beer or something.We need to figure out what will work by discussing. Donations are already coming in separately just fine. Whats the general plan here? No reduction in names/block I assume? Won't this make the first blocks incredible valuable and later blocks less valuable as the goodness of remaining names declines? Maybe it should start really low (1?) and move up gradually to a stable amount (100?)? So don't take it because you might get hit? What if you've already been hit?You don't take take a tiny bite? Would you take the whole thing and let it burn without funds? There is no way this thing is going down all at once. Kill it with millions of small cuts, take from it when you can and resist when you can. What is important is the % drop in average total reward for a block. As fees become a bigger part the % drop will decrease. I think only the first two drops will be big close to 50%. I won't either. But I think anyone who takes money from the state, through non payment of taxes or through redistribution programs is helping to defeat the state. If someone starts apologetics for the state after taking the money or claiming that they deserve it or some crap then all benefit is undone.While it's still here, bleed it out. Never advocate for it. Depending on it is a really bad position to be in for a variety of reasons. But if you are literally starving or something I'm not saying you should turn it down to avoid being dependent. Back to the cellar, when he tosses the bread down the stairs don't eat it contentedly and go back to sleep. You need to find a way out of the damn cellar. It's not where you want to be and it isn't even as safe as you think. He could forget about you or die himself.  I strongly disagree. If our master locks us in the cellar I am going to punch you out if you rag on me for eating the slop he throws us. It would be a total lie to say I was pro slavery because I got my food from the slave master.If you want to insist that you can't use the money because it was stolen then you need to take it and return it. The fact that this is hard to do in no way implies that the masters should keep it. Even if you have somehow avoided all taxation for your entire life there will never be an amount offered to you that compensates for your lack of freedom.  If you advocate for the dissolution of the state then you are absolutely not a hypocrite. Taking money from them makes them weaker. Usually the state gets a more loyal advocate out of it and that's their profit. Don'y advocate for them to have one tiny bit of power. And don't depend on the money, but by all means take it.I don't do it because it isn't worth giving them info and doing paperwork to me, but in a pinch I'd be all over that. lol, 2bits = a quarter, 1bit = 12.5 centsnothing to do with bitcoin. Imagine there were multiple servers running the contributed method. Wouldn't the optimal thing for a miner to do to be to continually jump to the server that had most recently generated since the same power will be worth more there since you are sharing with fewer previous work units? Works now. After a few hours mine is still not in. I think it is broken. When something becomes governance it should be ended. Start close by where maybe you can do something. Surely it isn't PCS directly accepting bitcoin. I think these phone companies have affiliate stores in addition to their own. Maybe an affiliate is willing to accept bitcoin and pay $ to PCS.  Me too, not found. Did you switch to contributed and rounding is causing this? Contributed method is bad imo. Oh, no. Only that the onus is on the person who thinks it's a good idea to convince people using words, not guns.  The fact that rate of contracting whooping cough is 23x higher is a huge incentive, I'm not sure why you think people who turn that down are going to care if you threaten them. Plus it's common sense to a lot of people that you don't force someone to do things that are good for them, so you probably lower immunization compared to a non-force method, like good education. There is no good math behind immunizing everyone. A vast majority will do it willingly or even pay, they you have to turn up the pressure more and more to get the remnant. There will be a group who will resist you violently for sure. On top of this the marginal benefit is going down as nearly everyone is already protected. Imagine the very last person who isn't immunized, how much risk is he to the heard? And he'd rather die than have you stick a needle in him. In a free world a balance will emerge. People don't want to get sick and plenty of people get a good feeling from helping others, even strangers.   Forcing people is bad and leads to bad results.I'm curious as to which were gone and are back. I just watched the House where they thought Small Pox was back. Dollar is debased, bitcoin is not. Bitcoin is private online, dollar is not. If someone needs a currency that isn't used by gangsters then they can stick to the dollar. Oh...
Calling it a PP replacement makes it sound pretty narrow. It's a dollar and really all fiat replacement.You can probably find people who hate PP so much that they'll leave the dollar too though. But you should make it clear that bitcoins aren't dollars like PP is dollars. Or else Jenny is going to send 40BTC for grandma to buy catfood with and it's going to be 18 cents short because of a tiny market move. This is not reality. If government could enforce laws there would be no drugs, no murder, no theft. These things plainly exist. Government cannot enforce law, but only uses it as a pretense to capture adversaries and control those who produce for them. This may be important when considering security. Also there is no monolithic government, but only individuals who are acting in their interests or out of fear.And I would love to see a technical analysis of the bitcoin software. Better motivation?  There is a vanishingly small group of people who think that things should be illegal because they can kill or hurt you. There is no push for making bleach illegal, but a few ounces can kill you. The reason for making pot illegal is so that police and drug dealers will make more money. The reason of safety is a smoke screen given by liars. haha, somehow I never made the connection that we are actually playing with 'monopoly money'. Picking an arbitrary number is not necessary. Every amount bet on the YES side needs to be matched with an amount bet on NO. If nobody will take the NO side you can't have 1000 units of yes. But if there are plenty of units of NO you might have 2000 or 10000 or whatever. It's probably quicker and easier to set up an mtgox account and download a miner than to get the client going anyway. Yeah, when they call it illegal it'll be over, like drugs, prostitution, murder, and fraud. Are there refillable Visa gift cards? It would be so amazing.If Mtgox or someone implemented this and it had low fees I would convert most of my cash savings and just spend off of there as needed. Thanks!I think you'd do well if we implemented the "pay for good posts" idea. There has been discussion about exactly that. I don't quite get it in light of this:http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1411.0a chrome extension, it turns bitcoin addresses on the page into clickable links. The implementation isn't perfect yet, but it works. How do the generate transaction coins actually work? I mean generally, nothing about pooled mining. Are the coins actually no good yet? Or is the client set to stop them from being used for 120, but that could be circumvented? What happens if you have pooled generate coins go to mtgox or mybitcoin? When would they be available? Would they be completely invisible for 120 blocks? Or immediately available? Is rounding maybe a good idea? I don't know when I'll use that extra .00074567. Not important really, but those tiny fractions will be essentially valueless for a long time. I'm curious about the .00000044 payment also, was it just an unlucky miner who logged on just as the block was solved? Haven't you heard about The Bernanke? Block found! Awaiting payment.....haha, didn't realize how it worked, very cool.http://blockexplorer.com/block/00000000000233334b157d901714baf59e5b9236227b2878844e52244da4195e Why do we all need to use the same one? Won't people use the same one if one is best? I don't get what there is to do here besides let things take their course. Not my original work:My friend's got a girlfriendMan he hates that bitchHe tells me every dayHe says "man I really gotta lose my chickIn the worst kind of way"She sits on her assHe works his hands to the boneTo give her money every paydayBut she wants more dinero just to stay at homeWell my friendYou gotta say:"I won't pay, I won't pay ya, no wayNa-na Why don't you get a job"Say "no way", say "no way ya, no wayNa-na Why don't you get a job"I guess all his money, well it isn't enoughTo keep her bill collectors at bayI guess all his money, well it isn't enoughCause that girl's got expensive taste"I won't pay, I won't pay ya, no wayNa-na Why don't you get a job"Say "no way", say "no way ya, no wayNa-na Why don't you get a job"Well I guess it ain't easy doing nothing at all oh yeahBut hey man free rides just don't come alongevery dayMy friend's got a boyfriend man and she hates that dick (and the guy!)She tells me every day (woo! everyday now)He wants more dinero just to stay at home (stay at home!)Well my friendYou gotta say: (gotta say!)"I won't pay, I won't pay ya (woo), no way (no way!)Na-na Why don't you get a job" (woo - get a job!)Say "no way", say "no way ya, no wayNa-na Why don't you get a job"(oh yeah!)"I won't give ya no moneyI always payNa-na Why don't you get a job" (get a job!)Say "no way", say "no way ya, no wayNa-na Why don't you get a job!" Uploaded with ImageShack.usI'm not getting it there either.  Sounds like intrade.com with the addition of user created claims. This is exactly what I want to see. Add the possibility of multiple judges and it sounds perfect.It isn't really possible to forbid judges from betting unless you are going to ID people and background check and worse since you'll need to make sure people's brother in laws don't bet for them by proxy etc...Multiple judges with small penalties for voting in the minority is the best way to go imo. Is there an option or something because I'm seeing an abrupt edge at 18.4 cents and bitcoincharts has bids down below 6 cents. What am I doing wrong? 
It'll be great. I'd love to watch the tech advisors trying to explain why sites can't be shutdown anymore even though some law was passed saying they can be, lol. Thanks, I had a way to get there. More curious about the mechanics of what is going on. A domain name be blocked in one country and not another, right? Is it being blocked in the US, everywhere? Is anyone in the US able to go directly to wikileaks.org right now? Maybe Assange was just doing Flanagan the favor of applying Flanagan's own moral standard to Flanagan? Seems fair, I'm sure all Assange would want in return is for Assange's own standard to be applied to Assange. Somehow bitcoincharts has the whole order book and mtgox does not, even on the mega chart and order book. It's ridiculous. Starbucks just raised the price of my venti cup from $2.20 to 220 cents. I'm going to go cry in my coffee now. What you call it doesn't matter except for convenience. How it's created does.I know that deflationary currencies are alien to most people. It's going to take some getting used to being paid for producing before you consume instead of the opposite. Shredding cash is about as easy as deleting a wallet file. I guess this is why no one uses it anymore. I recently had a piece of mail show up 5 months late.  I agree it should not be in the main client.I think that even if it becomes wildly unprofitable new bitcoiners will still find it very cool to contribute for a little while in order to get a few fractions of a coin to play with before accepting them or buying some. Kind of like a faucet where you pay your own way. Agree. Also making a new one for each bit of content lets the author know what people are liking. I never thought a "no use value" money could be a good money until bitcoin. If you think about how long people will trade pieces of paper even while governments actively debase them it's amazing. If people get into the habit of bitcoin I think it'll hold for a very long time.  Okay. Are we sure there is not one person who enjoys a good bitcoin? Or prefers the feel of the USD to toilet paper?  Also someone might think "I just need to get a lot of dollars to show people my huge bank statement" then later trade them away, but for a while he wanted them for their own sake. Or maybe he even dies still thinking this before trading.But I'm just being picky now, I understand what you mean.  Considering that they passed the law, I have a hard time believing that there aren't other people who would have a demand for non smoking restaurants. As gavin mentioned, the state just latches on to wherever it sees majority sentiment is. It pretty much boils down to this realization by government: Some people are still letting people smoking in their restaurants, but people are starting to be unhappy about it generally. There won't be enough people complaining about this to hurt us so we can take money from them until they comply with no risk to us. Mass, temperature, color are some properties of objects that exist with or without humans. Value only exists contingent on the existence of humans who have certain preferences. Nothing has value to you once you die and nothing has value to "us" once we're all gone. Value is completely dependent on us. Nothing has value in and of itself.  I caught the end only. It seemed really good. I want to hear it all. Got it. My mistake was not making a shortcut and just renaming the file with the parameters. Computers are picky apparently. I am using the right number, I'm just reporting what it says. I don't have bitcoinr though. Should I? I followed david's instructions and it tells me "attempting to connect to 127.0.0.1:8335" over and over. I assume this means it's not working. What to do? Wow, cool. Now I know where to put my longshot crash bids. Anarchy doesn't mean "no rules" to me at all, but only "no rulers" or really "I rule myself". If the state dissolves I'm still not going to cheat at chess or act rudely in the supermarket.If a group has a monopoly on force it doesn't matter that you don't want them messing about in the economy. They will still be people (a special subset of people who want physical control over you) who will do what they please in the economy. Maybe a better way to think of it is that there is no "economy" only people's bodies and that is what a monopoly of force allows them to control. Essentially control of the economy is a subset of a monopoly on force, not a separate thing.
Yeah. I think of the mass of gov regs as a scheme to get people to buy shares of companies they have no faith in anyway.  It's not that he ought not, it's just that it won't really work. If we had to depend on everyone not doing something, we'd be screwed. Bitcoin has a good chance because the right incentives exist to get everyone to work together. +1google "economics in one lesson" and begin reading in seconds. The whole thing is out there in multiple places. It's much more economical than waiting for the book to arrive. It's totally possible technically. You might think about why test network coins have such an unfavorable exchange rate with bitcoin though. It always makes sense to join the strongest and most widely accepted chain unless there is some major improvement in the new one. This is good though because focusing all generation on one chain maximizes the difficulty of a takeover. Government, as everyone uses the word, always means force. Using force to solve problems is never rational.The correct balance between collectivism and individualism cannot be known be anyone let alone forced on people. Anarchism just means letting this balance emerge naturally. If the government evaporates, most of my life with still be collective. I will still share everything with my family and work their needs into all of my decisions. I call myself an anarcho-capitalist because I think this will be the large scale structure of a free world. But nearly all of my personal interactions will have nothing to do with acquiring capital. The way to "use' this opportunity would be to get money onto MtGox to buy and sell on BCM. People are suggesting that getting money onto MtGox is the hard part.On a related note. I'd like to buy some MtGox for PP if anyone is interested. Exactly right about no free money lying around. But that doesn't mean one follows the other, only that they will maintain a close relationship. Ah, I imagined you were suggesting a generalization where anyone would be able to award points. My mistake.I always thought the credit system in the US was weird. People are encouraged to borrow even when they don't need to if they are young in order to prove they can pay back. It should be the opposite. "This guy is 27 and never needed to borrow any money! Wow, he must really have his shit together!" But no. Yeah, it does feel to me like price drives difficulty. But I think "demand" drives both really. Localism is just another type of bigotry. Trade with whomever can do the most with the least and we'll all be wealthy. This will often be people near you because of lower transportation costs and in the past because of the cost of knowledge, but that is dropping to zero. But really, insisting on only dividing labor with people who happen to be near you is very wasteful. Nice summary.The best thing I've ever heard in support of "price gouging" was Mike Munger on Econ Talk. I'll try to find a direct link and put it here. The main example he uses is selling ice in North Carolina immediately after a hurricane.http://www.econtalk.org/archives/2007/01/munger_on_price_1.htmlRuss Roberts has lots of great interviews. I especially enjoy the ones with Munger and Don Boudreaux. If other people start valuing the points without looking at details then people will just run up transactions and payments back and forth for getting points. Because of this I don't think anyone will put much stock in the points, but only in actual reports from actual people they know.  105,000 is gives an extra month or so and it is exactly half of 210,000.On net I don't think this is important enough to change. I think we lose a lot of credibility if we change the generation agreement. Even though the total is not changed it sets a precedent and could lead to things like speeding up the whole process, etc..  Even GPU generators are beginning to be exposed to some high variance and that will only grow.  This is a pretty fundamental change, but I don't see any downside. I'd be interested to hear why Satoshi chose such a lumpy function.It seems to me that all marginally profitable generation will turn off at the drop to 25 and some will come back after the first difficulty drop. It's complicated though. I'd guess the price will rise well before the drop since everyone knows it's coming and this might actually cause a ramp up in generation before the end resulting in an even bigger drop after 25 arrives. Interesting. Do they have objections, or just a lack of interest?  I thought of this the other day. Maybe high school cryptography or programming classes could be contacted or something. Kind of a "Look at this real world application of cryptography, oh by the way you might have noticed your national currency is going to collapse but this is secure" sort of thing. Where do smart teens hang out on the web?  You can fairly easily compute how much a large purchase or dump will move the market by reading the order book and doing a little math. There was even a site that had a calculator like this, but it is down now. A big order done slowly might get a better price if new offers come in, but you can roughly tell. But yeah, the market is much deeper and tighter than it used to be. $5k USD would have completely blown out all the bids or asks just 2 months ago iirc. It's fairly complicated here (US), but I know you can do it like every 7 or 10 years for sure. I honestly don't get why they call it bankruptcy though. If you don't have money you don't need (and can't afford) to file bankruptcy. Bankruptcy is for people with money or assets who want to protect them from creditors, not for people who are broke. It should be called the "cancel your promises like we always do" deal or something. This confuses me. Do you not consider bitcoin money? What classes do you see now that could be gone in the future?
Doesn't get the next one until the first one is sent and received? Sure, and I think there are threads with content like that.I was only saying that the reason provided for closing the thread was weak. I'm interested in hearing the problems with this. The current version generates a pool of 100 address, but are these used for receiving change? Maybe there could be an option for generating more than 100 addresses, and also for seeing how many you have left?Is there some other type of problem I'm overlooking? Oh, I didn't even realize this. But it is correct I think. Only the header needs to be hashed. So this scheme has benefits beyond reducing the variance in generating. Very nice. That's kind of silly. Do some of you think there is a way to take bitcoin down, and that we are going to think of it and do nothing about it, and that 'they' will never think of it? If there are vulnerabilities that anyone can exploit we should talk about them publicly. And even if there is none, we can benefit each other by talking about what they might try.Obviously we'd be talking about tyrannical governments. Governments loved by their people surely have nothing to fear. Huh, I didn't make that post, I guess it was my brother or someone else...I shouldn't leave this thing logged on all the time I guess.Or maybe the whole account belongs to my husband, er, I mean wife. Ribuk, thank you for explaining again. I get it now. It wasn't sinking in that the miners were working on a block for which they couldn't take the reward, seems obvious now. Can't they just send all except the winning ones? Maybe I don't understand though. I suppose so. I guess I actually don't care if the no copy nazis get recognition for their good work. Creators who are better don't get crowded out either. And they even get an advantage from their work being more useful to other creators.  How would they know or care or be affected at all? You are supporting yourself when you use what you find.Absolutely agree. Repealed or not, if you buy or sell from me I won't report you. I think this should make doing business with me more valuable.   I think this would make a great film. All sorts of basic things like wheels and fire and refrigeration are patented in some alternate universe and everyone goes about life like this is normal and right. Or a film where a duplication machine is created and a group fights everyone who duplicates stuff they made. Yep.Some people would like children to have a nice long attention span so they'll sit still for a 40 year career in a factory. They can shoot me in the head before I'm going to go begging to use something I made. There is nothing wrong with voluntary communism. Not sure if you were implying that there is or not. I think someone has worked out the details of making it work, but I'm not sure. I like the idea, but your rhetoric is awful.Lucky guys with GPUs? Do you think those are distributed via lottery or something? Awesome. I'm seriously expecting everyone to. Very cool, don't have much time to experiment right now. Sent a small tip though.  It is cool indeed. I've been thinking about how this sort of thing is likely to work out, especially since hippich started his site.It seems to me that prices based on content will not stay up. For example, I pay the fee to get the content, then I make a very similar site, but charge 50% less. Then someone who can host even more efficiently comes along and undercuts me, until we get down to around the cost of hosting.One solution is to charge a largish one time fee to all users collectively. So Kiba puts out a new sketch and says I want 50BTC for this one, here is the address. Everyone can see how much has been sent to the address and once the full amount is received, the content is free and available to everyone in the world to share with whomever. No threats, no DRM, content creator still gets paid, granted mostly based on the quality of previous work. Reputation would help a lot with a system like this, but for some things previews would work well too. Anything in a series would be perfect, cartoons, serial dramas, chapters of a book, etc.So, can you add that to what you have? It seems simple, whatever opens access now can be triggered for everyone once the total sent to the address crosses a threshold. 
Since you seem satisfied it would be appropriate to modify the title of your thread now. I know what you mean, but there is a difference between explaining something new and "pushing it onto people".I don't tell many people. I imagine all my acquaintances who I don't tell will be pretty pissed at me in 2013, lol. That's amazing, Bruce!I imagine the show will be more about the economics than the technical details? Do you know if the host will be coming from a "we need gov inflation" angle or a "gold is the only money" angle or something else? People will provide information about keeping your savings wallet encrypted and with you, and stored in a cloud. Banks are dying. Bankers will go down with buggy whip makers in the annals of history. I never sent the 100BTC pledge of the animated movie to escrow, so I can send for this project once everything is firm. If you hold balances centrally until amounts reach, say, 1BTC, attacks on you won't be particularly profitable.There has been some discussion about the downsides of multiple chains. The main problem is that you can't convert 1 to 1 without people trusting that you'll do it for them, and if they do trust you they will generate on your chain until the difficulties are equal and you will bust long before that since you don't have millions of real coins I assume. If by some miracle this happens anyway, we are all worse off because the two networks can be attacked with only 50% of what would be needed to take them down if we worked together.Eh, it occurs to me that you could tweak generation rates and total coins and such. But that is the same as backing at 10 to 1 or whatever anyway. Also you will have the same problem, generators on your network still might charge or ignore your spam size transactions. If anyone with coins thinks they are overvalued they can sell them right now, they are not, so that's not what's happening. Fool us? Into thinking fewer trades are happening on mtgox? That's actually true, so we can't be fooled into thinking it. People's relative desire for BTC compared to USD has not been changing much in the last few days, that's all. Think about a very simple case. Person A has some red rocks and Person B has some blue rocks. A needs to have 2 blue rocks for some purpose, but generally prefers to have blue. Person B thinks they are roughly equal in value (since he just puts them in a bag hits people). So they trade 2 rocks on the first day. Now both have what they want. If nothing changes for them, they'll never trade again. The more people involved the less likely it is for volume to drop to zero, but the idea is the same. Trades only happen when two people disagree about their marginal preference for the things involved. Once they happen the tension is relieved and another trade doesn't happen until there are pair of disagreers. He said they would be reported after they happen. It seems large bids/asks have the ability to be hidden is all. So if I am understanding this correctly this is the same as writing a trading bot that watches to see if there is a certain size bid at a certain price and only then issues the offer? That's crazy talk. I don't have any credit problems, but my last 6 rentals have not done background or credit checks of any kind. I give them money, they give me keys. A few had contracts, a few didn't. I don't even have a job.You will absolutely be able to find a place to rent, assuming you have money. Loopholes to get out of owing $3400? or to get out of being homeless?Don't rent from people who check that stuff. Lots of private people will let you live on their property in exchange for money. I disagree. Hoard them if you can stand it! As the value rises you will all be tempted out of your stashes.I am accumulating because I know I will spend a lot on coffee in the short term, and I need to make sure I still have 10BTC left in 2030 to buy my spaceship. I think bitcoinwatch and bitcoincharts are excellent at what they do. Mtgox is possibly the most beneficial site right now, but the execution isn't flawless by any means. Provided the risk of death/amnesia/imprisonment is greater than theft by trusted members it makes sense to have two different longtime members with access, either by copying the wallet file or using a mybitcoin or mtgox. I am not volunteering. 3, 4, or 5 would be success. If I was closer I'd try, but it's just not possible (this time anyway). It doesn't matter if the 20 are brothers, as soon as they collude prices will invite new players. And you don't need their permission, gov permits, licences, etc. You just do it. That all sounds great. I think your idea of wait will surely happen, but it won't be waiting to release, it will just be waiting to start working. It is actually more elegant the way it is as we get the most difficulty for a given amount of power that way.  That's wrong. There are lots of types of incentives that are not bitcoins up front. 60BTC would be a steal, I'll bid it.
No change, just a bump. What is the minimum amount you will sell? Is there a fixed fee, %fee, or are you just going to run a spread?If a person gets verified on the first purchase, is it much simpler for future purchases with the same card?Not asking for myself, might refer some noobs. I've been reluctant to spread the word to friends when the best way to get coins would be for people to buy from me. The site looked really clean and professional in kind of a casual way. Xtranormal video ruins that imo. Hide it somewhere, words are quicker for an introduction and less distracting anyway. Unless they used them... which would be most of the point of having them. I'm not saying that the right tool at this moment is a machete and not boots, definitely get the boots now. But killing snakes doesn't automatically make you a snake either.  He says that, and that would be better. There is no reason it couldn't be an option in a client at some point when there are tons of clients though. Obviously bitcoin itself shouldn't be altered or anything. But really, there is no way that saving people 3 clicks a few times a month is one of the most important hold ups, it's just one more possible nice feature. He's talking about someone like mtgox implementing it, super easy. This is a good point. While I wouldn't be real excited if, for example, transaction fees didn't even exist and the plan was that people would donate cycles since they wanted it to work, I can't even be sure that would fail. As the system is, I think the incentive scheme is good, but can't tell quite what the ultimate drivers of difficulty will be and to what extent, but one way or another I think it will be huge. People buy lottery tickets that are -EV all the time, millions of them daily. Well, when 100 million people are using bitcoin a 12.5+fees win might be pretty huge. People might buy that ticket way way more often than would be rational. Well, it might be annoying to have to walk past, but if you go to Starbucks or Podunckville Coffee Express regularly there's no reason you can't pay before you go out, or even on your way from your phone. Request addy to pay, pay it, get a "code, broadcast code from your phone automatically when you walk in, pick up mocha. Maybe to some people, but recurring payments have a huge negative association to me (stupid gyms, hassles when changing/closing accounts, etc). I realize those particular issues won't exist, but I greatly prefer a service to lapse if I forget about it than to keep paying if I forget about it, though I can imagine exceptions, like web hosting or something.I'm sure it'll happen soon anyway, it's super simple to implement once everything else is in place like at mtgox. Hmm, okay outrageous blocks containing only junk would be easy to spot. But what of badly sized say 100k when average is 10k that contain mostly junk, but also the legit transactions that had been received. Maybe now some will reject and some will not? If there is no uniform rule it will be splits all over the place. And even normal users will be affected. If their transaction is in a very oversize block do they just hope it will stay? Or hope it will not be accepted and send again? I think there must be a max block size to avoid this.Also the "public good of difficulty" comment made me realize that block size may need to be "artificially" limited in some way. But I think updating it along with difficulty to be slightly more than the average size of the previous 2016 blocks, but never decreasing, is a resonable way to do it.  Agreed, that is another benefit. You don't have to go to the client 250 times and send to 250 different addresses. I think the benefits of not requiring an account are obvious. But the benefits of optional accounts should not be overlooked. From the upload side it allows reputations to build. I don't want to buy a fake Kiba after all. There may be other ways to solve this, but an account is one easy way.And from the download side it would be nice to have credit on account as a convenience. Then you wouldn't have to worry about confirm time at all. If prices rise for some content you will not want to take 0 confirms, if my understanding is correct this is a risk not only because of double spends, but also issues like those non confirming coins, etc.  Wait, so what stops an attacker from generating a block with one million or more spam transactions? When the snake comes to bite it is okay to kill it if you can. Maybe I am confused, imagine a max block size of about 10 transactions and this schedule of people's willingness to pay..42BTC, .41BTC, .41BTC, .41BTC, .41BTC, .4BTC, .4BTC, .4BTC, .39BTC, .39BTC, .37BTC, .36BTC, .36BTC, .34BTC, .33BTC, .33BTC, .33BTC, .33BTC, .32BTC, .31BTC, .3BTC, .3BTC...and so on for maybe hundreds or thousands, but only the top 10 very similar payments will actually be in blocks and available for determining weather to increase max block size and so it will not be increased. Maybe my list is not a realistic structure, but I can't see why it would always have to be very different fees in the top and bottom, especially once block size becomes a limiting factor.But it does occur to me than in the "very slowly decreasing desire to pay fees" scenario generators may actually want to increase the block size. It will lower average fees, but probably not total fees. I guess this has to do with the elasticity of demand for sending a transfer. Oh, haha, it was me who was confused. I was thinking it was btcex we were talking about, whoops. So you discover bitcoin and the new competitor, one has merchants and exchanges and developers and a community, and the other is the same thing, but without those good things. Which do you choose? Certainly something could displace bitcoin, but it will have to be better in some way, not the same thing two years younger. But fees could get very large and very even, no?I think we need to know what the purpose of limiting the block size is. If it is to stop spam only, then it should be set to grow with consistent use near the max, spam cannot push this up because at least a few generators will not include spam, especially given that their future pricing power (weak as it may be anyway) will be further reduced by allowing the block size to increase. On the other hand without collusion generators will not refuse legitimate transactions with fees.If it is to keep the size of the chain down by then we need to somehow weigh that against the goodness of cheap transactions. I don't know how this can be settled at all. Everyone bears the tiny cost of remembering the transaction for potentially a long time, but only one generator gets the payment for putting it in there.   That isn't what is being discussed here. The spread is between the highest user bid and lowest user ask. It will come down as more people use the market. I don't know what the fee is, but I'm sure it is much smaller than 14%.
Nice.Had the graphic ready to go, eh?    The point is we don't know. They take the resources, stuff gets made/invented. Of course some of it is good and useful. But we have no idea what was sacrificed because it never came into existence because the resources were redirected. With no cost comparison good decisions cannot be made. This is really just the socialist calculation problem. Something like making the max block size increase to 110% of the average size of the last 2016 blocks seems good. I thought at first that spam would grow unlimitedly, but it won't if just a few % of generators refuse to include it. Generators themselves don't have incentive to bloat blocks, both because it will cost them in future disk space, but also because bigger blocks reduce the fee in equilibrium. Should max block size ever decrease? I don't think so, but way way down the road it might be a problem. When you say it is a money, they assume it is like all the money they have ever heard of, now you need to tell them how it is a different money.Really we need at least three kinds of explanations. Stone simple (grandma click there). Technical (seriously, it works, here are the details). Economic (this is what makes a good money).And probably different levels of each and maybe different combinations in various types of presentations. No doubt. Right there with "Oh, no, will all of my yachts fit in my private bay?"  I think there is an important difference. When one generator is faced with deciding to take tiny fees and fill up the block or leave them will compare the immediate gain of fees to his future loss via the general reduction of fees. But unless he has significant market share this general influence will affect other generators more than himself.<here I paused to think for several minutes and almost deleted my post>I was thinking that he should ignore the influence on other generators and simply calculate how much on average he expects fees to rise by keeping the cheapest fees out of his blocks and see if it is worth it. But then I realized that he actually benefits from reducing fees because they will remove marginal generators and decrease difficulty resulting in him generating blocks more quickly. And he will keep these particular small fees from going to a competitor as well. I still can't say for sure, but I think the best strategy will be to accept all fees.The bread story is not so good because almost everyone prefers the morning bread and won't wait just for a discount. It is not a random search. Myriad factors conscious and unconscious, human and otherwise determine what is explored and how. When a small group redirects massive amounts of funds either to their own desired research or to research that merely sounds productive we end up with inferior and less knowledge than if people had the freedom to determine for themselves when and how their resources should be deployed. "Useless" isn't quite the right word though. You can steal and put something to some use. But there is undoubtedly huge loss when the people who have the ability to create resources are stripped by force of their ability to allocate those resources where they think they will be most productive.  Okay, I'll have to find something else to do with them then Again, very good looking and useful site. Wow, it's looking very good. The order books are great. You could make an option to group them by some increment to make it easier to digest though.ffs, it's about time mtgox gives us all the data.There doesn't appear to be a donate address anymore, is this on purpose?  agorism, freedom, anarchy, voluntar(y)ism, currency, gold?individualism, individualist, anarcho-capitalism, mutualism, p2p. Will he let you transfer to 'other' people? <hint, hint>. Oh, yeah, I agree. It only makes sense for small businesses/small sales now, but it will/is ramping up.  It's not a TOC situation because of the fees, as blocks go unsolved, fees accumulate, increasing incentive to solve. People need not generate at a loss for bitcoin to work. Though maybe with some definition of 'loss' some people will anyway. Of course they can't get them all at that price. The first 100 people will have pushed the price up considerably already, probably orders of magnitude. All those orders on both sides, really tight together, those are speculators, those aren't "common folk" or whoever it is that you want to be the only traders. When a rush of people come in wanting to check bitcoin out, sell what they generated or whatever, the price will move less than it would have otherwise because of all the speculators holding out their offers. Even if trust wasn't an issue, it is super lame to not put an address on site. Are they just waiting for the webmaster to add it? edit: People need to ask them to put it on site? Why are they reluctant? Children raised without force don't grow up to force others to follow their morals. There is no one human nature. Humans are changeable and adaptable. It will take generations. Something I realized that is slightly related is that in the future the time between blocks will become more regular. Currently the reward is the same no matter how long it has been since the last block. When fees make up most of the reward they will increase linearly and as the pot builds more and more generators will come online. Of course some will not bother turning off after a block is found, but those with high electricity costs or with something else to compute will switch on and off. I had thought about it a little and decided it wasn't possible also. Followed here from slashdot. Read and was amazed that it had been accomplished.I know for sure a limited number of transferable tokens makes a good money. And although I can't verify the implementation myself it does look good. I like that.Good work all around, btw.If you try to send a transaction that has more than like 500 inputs it will give you a warning and then attach the fee for you. I think you have the option to add a fee using the headless client.In the future the client will be modified to let you choose the fee easily. Hopefully some data about average confirm times with various fees will be available too (in the client or not).
You say it isn't ebay meaning that you will be the only seller?  Adding a fee will not make your transaction any faster right now. It will give it higher priority now, and in the future this will translate to faster.It is misleading to suggest that you can pay some amount to have your transaction included any sooner than the next block. MrBurns is probably just checking to see what happens before he buys 100,000 coins. Oh, I agree. Well, I'm not going to praise him, we were already aware of the possibility. Apparently, "no incentive" isn't good enough and we need an actual cost of some sort. Well... actually there is some tiny cost to him, so I guess we need a little bit bigger cost. An increasing marginal cost really would be good. I mentioned a minimum required [age]*[size] could be required by miners in the other thread. Maybe with a portion (10-20 transactions?) with no requirement.  Oh, right he did it earlier for sure, same address I sent the coins to. I assume he split it up and is now using multiple computers. Go back about 1 day and you can see a bunch of .06 trades to and from the address MrBurns put in his thread. http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1842.0 Interesting, perhaps his previous 'work' will be revisited now? This sounds a little worse and doesn't even have the benefit of being correct right now.No fee = 100% fee in terms of speed right now.Maybe:"Transactions are free now, in the future free transactions may become slower as transactions with fees will be given priority." I hold coins because I believe a thriving economy will grow up around bitcoin. My actions are telegraphed to the via the market price for coins letting people know that there is a little more interest now and they can plan accordingly in choosing to offer goods or build sites or whatever.If coins were unlimited I wouldn't want to hold them, I wouldn't expect anyone else to hold many either, I would just wait and get coins once there were more if I needed some, which I probably never would because people, knowing there will be more coins later will wait until they can trade their stuff for more coins, after all there is no hurry, just use the dollar for now. At least with the dollar there is a chance the printing will stop (hahaha, right)Anyway, it should be really easy to set up BitFlatoCoin now that all the tech is available and open source. New genesis block, new generate rules, tada.  I vote them up, lol.What other sites should we hit? You don't want child abusers on your oversized boat/undersized island  Or did you just mean in front of bitcoin? Very nice explanation, Theymos. Can you comment on "max block size" in the future? Is it likely to stay the same for all time? If not how will it be increased? Other miners.And if it isn't clear, a miner can only say yes/no to a transactions previously attached fee, he can't take any bite he wants. As it stands now 3.15 has a lot of free transaction space and that space is given first to transactions with the highest [age]*[value]/[size] correct? Would it be reasonable to make some arbitrary portion of the free space require [age]*[value]/[size] > C ?Maybe set C so that a standard 1BTC transaction can get into the main free area on the next block. And a .1 can get in after waiting about 10 blocks. And make the area which allows [age]*[value]/[size] < C to let in about a dozen transactions or so.Hope that makes a little sense. I think the max block size is set so that the chain file will never be larger than [max block size]*[time since first block]/[10 minutes]If a generator could just increase it they could force a huge block on everyone. To avoid that, we all reject oversize blocks. I believe it would be a breaking change, but there are ways to get it done anyway. If file storage becomes absurdly cheap and many blocks are full we will organize the change by issuing all new versions for a while to trigger the rule change at some future block.This is my understanding, anyone please correct. I'm not sure, but wouldn't it be the same way we agree on the reward for a generate? By refusing to accept blocks that are too big? Without going all the way to a balance sheet setup, is it possible to use simple logic to delete "unnecessary to know" transactions? Ah, that's the merkle tree thing isn't it? Would it be difficult to manually cut them out in cases like this? Or at least compact them? I mean it is the exact same thing up to 270 times in a block or something.A "pruned chain" for people wanting to download the chain to run their own node seems like it should be a priority. And maybe a torrent of a chain updated monthly or something. I'd be a seed of course and if someone sets up a website with info and the torrent link I'd donate too.Oh, and I sent this dummy those .06 coins. haha, correct answer. I don't think it will result in the stability some are looking for though, but only stability in the sense of being as near "right" as the humans involved can get it (which changes all the time). MrBurns, did you do something strange? Send to yourself a bunch of times? I didn't think that would even go into blocks...referring to this..http://theymos.ath.cx:64150/bbe/block/00000000000739589e6e26d53fbcb42c44075e3af5ea20a74ae6a899bf1565a0http://theymos.ath.cx:64150/bbe/block/000000000002163911e48c1c53e91c83d47c1a86a6bfdfa04dec284b3fc58414edit: maybe TOR is doing something odd? Theoretically we could all memorize the chain and shout transactions to each other, the computers are just here for our convenience. So, yes, possible for sure, and it shouldn't be that hard.
Yes, would switching to 'BitMils' be clear enough? So .01BTC now would appear as 10BTM and then decimal places could be added from there as it became reasonable? I think this system can get us down 1000x from where we are now without any confusion. In the transition there can be a very clear toggle button in the software so that people have to switch it manually the first time and are therefore completely aware, the toggle switch would also change how the balance would be displayed.  Do you see where it went from 45 to 181? It would have increased by more, but it is limited to a 4x increase or decrease. This is to keep a temporary surge of power on the network from making blocks take too long for a very long time. Sent a drop, with a 20% TOR bonus  Um, how do we fight for stability? And what is the "right" rate. Fixing exchange rates requires endless resources or a military.Rates want to be free!If small minded people are bothered just use the words they like. "Bitcoins are on sale now! Limited time!" and "Your investment is a success! <pat on back>" 5 cents seems like a reasonable amount to ensure can be sent on the network. A cheap piece of candy is a reasonable minimum tip for an article/video. Once you can't send a nickel I think that's where a loss of utility starts.Eventually generators will set their own fees, but as long as most people are using Satoshi's software's suggestions (wow, say that 5 times fast), I think this would be a reasonable goal. He'll know you are wrong since raising children peacefully is the number one important development in the fight for freedom. Bitcoin can have #2 spot though. Awesome. I'll keep you in mind in case I ever need anything. Disappointing. Thanks for trying. Or maybe like that  I doubt people will use ex notaion. Maybe cent, mill, micro. Is the fact that they might send a fee or might generate enough? What is the real cost of connecting? Why not just keep connecting to more and more people? Well said.I'm trying to get myself into prison. I'm trying to get myself out. I think it is a great idea, I don't have the skills though. It might take time, but I think you'll get what you want eventually. No, I only mean that it seems to cut off the chart in some odd way. So if a trade happens at 20 cents we get to see down to 16 cents and up to 40 or something. Doesn't matter, the whole book should be available somewhere.  While we're on the subject I think roads need more potholes. My scooter only goes 35mph and everyone else gets places so much faster, it isn't fair. Massive potholes would help slow them down. Yes still brave.Sorry, I assumed you were suggesting that we should try to follow all laws follow all laws. Do you have a procedure for determining which ones they will enforce? They have enough 'money' to do it now, but they don't care now. Later, when they get around to caring, no way.Eventually a lot of new people won't even know or care about the security and sound economics aspects, they just want to have the new money they keep hearing about. At that point nothing can really be done to stop it short of a worldwide crackdown on all privacy of any kind. Agreed.Sometimes I really wish I had been here to buy Laszlo that 10,000BTC pizza though. I have a "savings" account in a separate place (places now) from my frequently used "spending" wallet
Maybe they'd even sell them to me! At a very low price! The horror   What if you modify your client so that the coins are sent to an address for which no private key was generated? Is the network still at fault?I don't know enough to have an opinion of this particular situation, but obviously to some extent custom miners need to make sure they understand how the network works.If somehow it was said or implied that what they were doing would be fine, then obviously that should be fixed or made clear. I don't know where you live, but it hardly matters. You cannot live any kind of life whatsoever without guaranteeing that you will break the law at some point.Even if you pay taxes on that haircut that you bartered with you your neighbor you are probably in violation of zoning laws. Okay, I was a little over the top.If you go to the market and buy a bunch you push the price up for yourself, and then when you sell them you push the price down and you lose money.If anyone is doing this then they are just giving money away, which is fine.What is actually happening is that people "make the market" by offering some for sale and offering to buy some. If they offer the best deals on both sides and other people take those deals then they make money. They are getting paid for offering the 'service' of a lower spread.And this decreases volatility compared to what it would be otherwise. I realize it doesn't look this way. When ever the prices move a lot it is true that speculators trade a lot, but the price would have moved more if market makers did not have those offers out there.Do a little thought experiment. Look at the order book and imagine what would happen if 20k worth of market orders for coins suddenly came in, how high would the price go? Now remove from the order book which ever asks you consider to be "speculative", how much does the price move now? It's really weird at this point to still not have the whole order book at mtgox. Not to mention that it is always skewed toward showing more asks than bids. wallet.dat is the only file you need to save. If you have the newest version 100 addresses are "premade" and stored in your wallet which means you have a buffer and don't have to backup every time. Previously, you would need to backup after every SEND because the change would go back to you at a new address which wouldn't be in your backup.An SD card is smart. I don't know why I didn't do that before, I'm going to do it now. Unless I'm badly mistaken there is no reason 95% of people agreeing to accept generates of 50BTC forever requires the remaining 5% to do so. Smart merchants will insist on the limited chain and those finite coins will hold value while the others will decay. Some people will change their mind and use the limited gen chain and as the value diverges the new chain people will probably decide they aren't generating fast enough and increase to 1000/block and beyond. And this fireball of stupidity will probably last less than a month since there won't be an army and swat teams to enforce acceptance of the dummy chain. If this happens, which it likely won't, it'll look like the collapse of any fiat currency played out in extreme speed.edit: I'm not say the bad chain is fiat, only that their collapses will look similar. I think it would happen faster because it isn't fiat, it's just straight inferior with no force propping it up. This is silly. "Extremely large scale speculation"? How am I not seeing the billions of dollars of BTC derivatives?People are buying however many bitcoins they want at the price they find, you think there should be more "little people"? So, what. I think there should be more Jews and midgets. It's strange to have a problem with someone thinking bitcoin is going to be huge and puts their money on it. Anyone buying is "speculating" that it will work out well for them. Don't hold your breath for 'stable' BTC/USD either. It probably won't be stable until you can't get 1BTC with all the worthless dollars ever printed. Proofs are cool for sure. But I don't see how they can be money since you still have them after you 'spend' them. Why does it matter if they vote or not? I vote for #2 Tropics, but I'll move eventually. I would generate if the gpu stuff was easy to set up.  Electricity is included in my rent, so the marginal cost is zero, but I don't generate anymore anyway. A GPU would heat the place up and I don't have AC. Other people with my arrangement and different weather would be printing money. It is good. It was delivered promptly. I highly recommend.  That is a lot different though. PayPal had investors, and the currency they were using already had value to people. Also they required you to prove who you were to get the $5, that would break a major advantage of bitcoin. "Total amount" is either a known finite number or it is not. If "total amount" changes it never was and still isn't the "total amount".  It's so good. Lol, I read the article earlier and it didn't strike me as overly ominous. But hearing it in that voice is scary! The first 30 seconds sound like a warning. I'll let you know when my brother comes back to NYC. Cash in his hand, bitcoins from me, just one step. So... epic change later on?   Also you should copy your post to Bernanke, he's into this sort of thing.edit: not the "give to everyone" aspect. But if you want to create the coins out of air, he might have some tips.
You should give out your coins to strangers. I'll keep mine for myself, my family, and my friends. So, I guess you should ask your mom for some coins. Old offer (11/15): I buy Bitcoins with my Poker Stars at a rate of $.25/BTC  Texts were costing me $5/mo/phone for 500 messages so I turned them off on my old phone and Android. I never used them except to get the bank balance of the old owner of the phone number sent to me every day, he was poor, probably from buying all those texts. SMS sucks imo. This.There is no voting or convincing or anything like that needed. When some fools want a new inflatable currency they'll do it like they have for 1000s of years, I relay doubt they'll bother with bitcoin type infrastructure when printers work just fine.But it doesn't matter what they do, I use the good chain. It isn't that bitcoins watch doesn't update, it's that no one has traded pecunix on bcm for like months and that's what bitcoinwatch reports. Everything. The dollar is on fire, I don't want them in my wallet any more. Why do you assume the orders are not just someone wanting to sell coins? If the orders were flying around and dodging being taken then I would agree, but they just sit there waiting for their turn.Is it just the size that makes you think this? I received the 5g bar that I bought in the previous auction yesterday. Thanks, Grondilu. Clearly you need to make sure that you can't easily access your entire bitcoin savings at once. :-)I do always have a feeling of responsibility or control or something when I'm sending. It's different than most things online which you can just undo or cancel or whatever. Bitcoin seems more real I guess.Someone actually said they sent me a payment when they hadn't and it turned out they sent it to someone else. It was a bit more than 17BTC and luckly he knew who it was and was able to get it back from the person.Is this something to worry about? You get a virus or bad program and whenever you copy a bitcoin addy it replaces the data in your clipboard with it's own address. I look at a few digits on big sends just in case, lol. Also protects against the copy not having worked and the previous addy still being on clipboard. A is 1 in 52! which makes it less likely than 5 power balls. I don't even know how to measure the others at all. I get the convenience of 1 click, but do most people value things they find even roughly equal? I guess you could a flattr type thing for low levels of thanks and support and make a donation of explicit size for things you really want to support. It also seems to give an incentive for content creators to put a flattr button on every page or every piece of content instead of just one place on the site, right? Like if you can flattr every blog post they might get 7 shares from you in month instead of one. Or some big site might make more money if it disintegrated into multiple sites connected to each other so that it could get multiple flattrs. I don't know exactly how it works though. He charges a fee to get money. He understands the benefits of speculation. Um, no image will show up. You would have to apply an interpretation to the data, right? So who cares? It's weird that there are arrangements of data on the internet that people will hurt you for having, but they don't hurt everyone who uses the internet because of it.1010101010100101010101001010101010101010100001010010011111001010001000011110000 0110101001001001010001010101000010100100111110010100101010100001010010011111001 0100101010010101010100010101010000101001011110010100101010010101010101001111100 1010001000011110000011010100100100101001010101010000101001011100101001010101000  That's the data for a naked stick child in my proprietary image viewer, good luck in jail suckers. How does that work? You send coins to an address they gave you, then request a few back and the change goes elsewhere. Do they then send the change back to the address you know? I dunno, I never go on FB, but I have no problem finding "teen girls" on the internet. I know. I didn't mean to imply that it was doing anything complicated. Maybe I should have phrased it all from the side of the mass of people generating since that's the fickle side. It has been, more and more generating for a long time now, when/if that reverses we will slow down.Maybe I'm stating the obvious in a stupid way, I don't know. It's so simple to run you should be safe even without finding a free country. There isn't even anything particularly unique about this service, its just coins in and coins out. No one is going to pay a big cut anyway because you can do it yourself if you are careful. A small price might be paid for speed and convenience though. Just speculating here.When difficult "overshoots" we will pay back a bit more time than the comparable sized "undershoots" that we've been doing have gotten us ahead.If we do 9/hr (50% over) for 2016, then 4/hr (50% under) for 2016 this takes 224 + 504 = 728 hours which is longer than 336 + 336 = 672 hours.So essentially were just in an extended period where we haven't paid any time back and it might not come for a long time.I'm not really sure, and I don't have a solid conclusion here. I think smooth growth in power gets us ahead, but jerks up and down get us behind. Maybe someone can write a simulation (or just do better math than me). Average cycle time is posted on site, you get your place in the queue by bidding, people who get in under the average time pay a little, people who get it back over the average time get paid a little for facilitating others. Operator takes a tiny cut since it's mostly automated.
I'm not going to read the article, which I'm sure is a strange piece of work. But I can see a way that the conclusion could be correct.Drop taxes to zero, the bottom reason people need dollars is to pay taxes and fees everything is built off of this, dollar falls out of use, goods not bidding on dollars = hyperinflation.Okay, if you don't buy the tax/fee thing, it's still correct because the dollar is just a shit money and people will leave and nothing can be done because there is no money for enforcement. We can get ahead for now, but we can never get above 21 million. This is because every 210000 blocks the reward halves 50, 25, 12.5... until it is gone and tx fees are the sole motivation for generating. The date at which this happens can change but there will never be 21 million coins. It's a few coins under because the halving rounds down to the hundred millionth. It is not particularly likely to happen early either because of difficulty adjustments. We are in a long term growth period now and the diff adjustment never gets us down below 6/hr for any length of time. I'd guess the first time this happens for very long will be the first summer (northern hemisphere) after near complete bitcoin acceptance, but that's a total guess. People who ever lived is so tiny compared to 1.5*10^48 (which is smaller than I thought I remembered) being very very generous people who ever lived is still under 10^11. If every person went a different direction and repopulated a new planet with the same number of people as have ever lived here we'd still be under 10^22, so then have all of them do it again, and we're still 1500 times fewer. Oh, is there something to it besides saying "I declare this to be in the public domain!"?   I really don't know anything about it.  Beautiful stuff, I sent a few coins.Why do you want attribution? And how do you want it? "Graphics by BitBoy" at the bottom of every page? This is good. Never heard of this guy before."How many zeros can you put on a piece of paper" nice, but now it should be "How many zeros on a hard disk" Really? So bankers never step outside? Or spend anytime inside for that matter, people die from building collapses every day. It's just retarded to worry about this.Maybe there will be one collision if bitcoin becomes the primary currency of the universe for the next 100 billion years, but not before 40 million bankers get struck by lightning. Let it go.Seriously, like a banker actually worries about every 1 in 10^100 possibility.edit: It's probably a joke, got me good. If you generate and sell immediately I'd guess not. If you hold a while the price rise will probably take care of it eventually. What the hell is this? He specifically said he'd escrow or even accept payment after it arrives. He didn't ask for trust, Geez. I changed my flight to the 25th! That'll show them! Too bad the conference will be over... I can think of a few ways to fix that. There could be a page of new comments.It could also be searchable. So if there was a taabl controversy searching "taabl" would bring up a list of relevant addresses.Anyway, just thinking aloud. It is very useful as it is. I'm suggesting you do this, but it just occurred to me that you could add the ability to put notes on everything wiki style. Comments about addresses especially. This could be useful for sharing information while investigating scams and such. Plus it would just be fun to sift through all the labels people put on stuff, like I was wondering how much the mtgox donation addy got, I think I found it from my transaction history, but I don't know for sure, or if he had a different one up previously, etc. I wonder if it's some bug triggered by the total clearing of the ask side. I'm pretty sure the .50 was the last ask, but not positive. Suppose we can produce gold at very low cost, what awesome applications could it be used for? Surely not roads, like they do in heaven. Cups would be moderately less likely to tip over if their bases were made of gold. Maybe cups with gold hemispheres on the bottom would become popular. I'm pretty sure I would want to use gold silverware. http://www.bitcoincharts.comwill show you detailed volume, it was low. I looked at the trades as they happened at http://www.mtgox.com/code/data/getTrades.phpIt doesn't go back that far now though. It's not binary in any sense, the odds just decrease, never to zero. If it used to take a GPU farm X minutes and an old CPU Y minutes now it takes them 4500X minutes and 4500Y minutes respectively. No one picks up any advantage, it gets harder by the same fraction for every imaginable set up. In a way you could say that the faster you were then the more you lose. $1000/BTC is the best "design flaw" I can even imagine. If it doesn't float, there has to be a peg? And who picks the peg price?  No one is going to die from bitcoin, dude.The offers on mtgox are legit you can accept them and it goes through instantly. They are not guaranteed to be there forever if that's what you are talking about. A "total received by this address" would be cool.
Oh, duh. I get it. They just don't bother to re-aggregate in to one address all the time. asdf, I just used the new Bitcoin Block Explorer on your address on the site and you've got nothing! I sent one :-) Oh, it wasn't clear to me that this was going to be for physical locations. I thought it was just another classified site.I think it is a little early to expect to find someone near you and with something you want to trade. Why not just stress the location part instead of the trading part. Then when a lucky coincidence happens they can meet for coffee, have sex, or just know there is a bitcoiner around the corner.So maybe call the site BitMap (lol, or not), have people pin their locations on and use an email mask like craigslist? So are listed balances correct, but the faucet is off because it uses/used multiple addresses or something? Can you elaborate on the change issue you mentioned?  Cool, thanks. It's sometimes "obvious" like in the recent block 846.63 = 826.63 + 20, but you can't rely on that for arrests, etc. Well, i guess you could... This is amazing.A question. When you send coins and get change both addresses are listed, are they listed in the same order every time? Is it random, or alphabetical...  Backwards. He'd be bidding the market up.I really find it hard to believe someone serious about spending ~$60-100k wouldn't offer a price or minimum size transaction. No one with 300k coins got them to bail now, you are going to have to do multiple deals. I'll trade my PP for Mtgox USD 1to1 up to $500 or so. Mtgox said hopefully he will show us all bids/asks as soon as today. But yeah, there isn't much in the visible range. Something to consider also is that people may be willing to buy a lot of coins at say 15 cents, but don't bother to load up LR/mtgox when the price is over 30 cents because it doesn't seem likely to go that low. When it does, it takes these people time to get money on site. I think we are talking past each other here.Can someone try to work out a definition of speculation?  Old offer (11/9): I buy Bitcoins with my Poker Stars at a rate of $.20/BTC. True, but you do have to have the coins on site, so they do represent unneeded coins. And there is the risk that someone will just buy a huge amount in one click and you won't escape the sale. Plus I haven't noticed big phantom orders disappearing.I'm not saying to trust the order book as a great predictor though, it is easy to drop orders in on market moves and we don't know where those will be. Very reasonable imo. It looks like a great service. I'll probably be a customer eventually, unfortunately I just got my wife set up with a host a little while ago, or else I would sign up immediately. I think the main thing to consider is that there is absolutely no way to stop people form using GPUs anyway so discouraging honest people form using them only makes it easier for a take over. We should want everyone to use the most efficient methods available to them. Speculators stabilize prices.Some examples:Suppose bitcoin is dominated by porn users in the USA. Every night the price rises when the kids go to sleep. A speculator notices this, buys coins earlier in the day and sells them higher at night. The swing in price is smaller because no there is more demand during the day and more supply at night. If his action doesn't smooth it out completely there will be a profit opportunity for another speculator to do the same thing with more volume.An awesome new bitcoin MMORPG opens up and buys superbowl ads. Even though a bunch of people knew this was going to happen, none of the bought coins to sell to these people. Supply on the major markets is completely obliterated price first rises 20x and then for 3 hours you can't get coins at any price. Some people reason (speculate) that the price will fall before they need coins and sell them. If speculators had seen this coming and acted the price would still have rose (as it ought with more exposure and use) but it could have been much more smooth because it could have started weeks before the ads ran.This is just to give an idea of how it happens. It's the same thing with farmers and food markets.Congress banned futures in onions (not form the onion.com) http://money.cnn.com/2008/06/27/news/economy/The_onion_conundrum_Birger.fortune/And it isn't a "conundrum", this is just the first article Ifound. Since hosting is a long term service shouldn't you be okay to just take one confirm and if it ends up bad, stop providing the service? There is no government. There are only people who will hurt you for not doing as they say and people who won't. I won't hurt you and I won't command anyone to hurt you. I will buy and sell my bitcoins for whatever price I want whenever I want. I can probably get my brother to deliver bitcoins for cash in NYC in December. I am on Oahu, Hawaii. Anyone who wants to sell a good or service for coins can do it in a minute with mybitcoin or mtgox. For a little more effort they can automate it. Macho, what do you think speculation is? If I sell my coins because I think I'll be able to buy them back later for less, is that speculation? What if I buy them now because I don't want to pay higher prices that I expect later?
Speculation is not zero sum. Speculating is making an offer. If the offer is accepted it makes the speculator better off. No one will take the offer unless it makes them better off. So by their own values both are made better off. Crash one time! I've got more I want to spend on cheap coins.Also, are you sure about this or just speculating? ;-) Gold over $1400 now.In your eye, Bernanke. Wait, are you saying reducing the coin per block award is not block number based? Yes, it is based on the block number. I was asking just to get an idea of how fast it has been going long term. LolPeople always say "You can't eat gold" like it's a bad thing, maybe it's not. Yeah, no matter how much gold they have or don't have you aren't getting your hands on it.The dollar is going down, not for lack of gold, but for a flood of dollars.The dollars/BTC will get obscenely large, but so will dollars/Cheerio.  Yep, exactly. The market gets very thin at the edges that's all. People didn't expect it to go that high and didn't have large orders in place, over time they've been put in. Now it would take a huge volume (or the orders to be removed) to get back to 50 cents. No. Why would they be ready, but wait until it would be harder to generate?What happens is that generating power is increasing all the time so the power at the end of a period is always higher than the average for the period, so difficulty resets to the point where the average generation from last period would make it 6/hr, but we are always higher than that so even at the beginning we are above 6/hr. This will last at least until bitcoin commerce has saturated the globe :-)Any guesses as to how soon blocks will drop to 25 coins? Does anyone have the date of first generation? It has been down for over a week. He said he thought it would be available Thursday the 4th, but no update since then that I can see. And the really smart money would.... Wow, it is moving fast now!$528k paid out in 5 years, over half of it this month! Is that 7 days or 30?Is it easy to get AlertPay?Ouch, fees are terrible on the small ones. Why did you do so many $3 w/ $1.49 instead of the $4 w/ $1.58 fee? Any particular reason? Is it difficult to manage? I do appreciate that you did it. Right, so if 2000 people have bought a $3 share in the last 5 years then 1000 have been paid, correct? If I get on at the end of the list 2000 more shares will have to be sold before it gets to me if I understand correctly. There are no headings in your chart, what are the columns that have a bunch of odd cents? From the FAQ:Am I correct in assuming this is misleading? It sounds like I buy a $3 and when 2 more $3 shares are sold I get $6, but actually I need to wait until I'm at the top of the list, so I need to wait until "Number of shares ahead of me" times 2 shares are sold. Which seems like it should be equal to the entire number of shares previously sold.The refund policy is surprising to me.What is with all the cents in your list? If you had to pick a shape to describe this system, it would be... Hell yes, dropped their BTC price too, might need to do it again at this rate though. Old offer (11/7): I buy Bitcoins with my Poker Stars at a rate of $.25/BTC, up to $500. $5 minimum.
Weird math. Price is 50 cents absolute max. You know a place where you could buy coins for 2-3 cents last month? Interesting. It says "small payments" but doesn't give details. I'd guess they get raped by fees. Maybe he starts by paying their phone bills though. But now that we know this we will bid up the price. See 1.25M already. Using a resource for a desired purpose is the opposite of waste. If you have a better purpose for a resource then you won't use it for securing the network you'll use it for the better purpose, so will everyone else, don't worry about that.Cost <> Waste.    Of course if you tried to buy them all at once it would cost way more than $1M.It's not a useful measure for anything serious, kind of like measuring GDP in dollars. Sorry, PS=Poker Stars.Fixed in OP now. Old offer (11/5): I buy Bitcoins with my Poker Stars at a rate of $.20/BTC, up to $500. $5 minimum. I'd like to offer $5 on Poker Stars for 10BTC to the first 10 people to claim it. One per person. Only accounts registered before to day are eligible. I'll do this until Monday or until 10 people take it.Send to:<a href='bitcoin:?addr=1GNHHu6NNbEH9gT4719WXrJKotRoba7ACz' id='lnk01GNHHu6NNbEH9gT4719WXrJKotRoba7ACz'>1GNHHu6NNbEH9gT4719WXrJKotRoba7ACz</a>and PM me your PS screen name. There is a site(s) that charge per bid and force you to only bid in tiny increments. TVs and stuff go for 1/2 price or less sometimes, but the site makes 10x on each item because of all the tiny fees. It's kind scammy, but pretty clever. And force people to bid in increments of 0.2 ;-) I don't know. Would you feel strange saying "you have the dollar" when actually anyone who gets your wallet will have it? That's good. The assumption that if the coins are on your computer then you need to run to receive is a pretty simple one to make. Good to clear that up. That sucks, Ribuk. Did you know the whole time or were you not even checking the forums? Yeah, I was just kidding, I don't have any gold. If I did I wouldn't leave it with strangers though. Your addy is linking up now. Is it learning? :-) I'm pretty sure the causality runs the other way. If price goes up it becomes profitable for marginal producers to come on line driving up difficulty.Of course people might infer from a jump in difficulty that interest in bitcoin is growing and that could cause a price increase. Obviously a 5 minute spike down at 2:30 isn't different than one at 2:58, so is two hourly closes implied or something? Honestly, I can't see how it makes much difference whether the price stays down for 45 minutes or for 2:45 on something as thin as mtgox. Not that it isn't a great market, I just think reading anything from hourly closes is hard considering that whether I check the market before I go to bed or not can change that. Nope, no links. Just the "send bitcoins" when I right click.edit: oddly, I get some links now. I didn't change anything. Your address on this page is not linking, but bitcoin watch is now. And some other forum signature addresses are now too. The third time I used it the text was all white. I'm highlighting the addy at the bottom of bitcoinwatch, so you can test and see if it's just me or not.By white I mean invisible, but there since I can highlight it. It worked! I sent you 5BTC using it.I'm using windows 7.
I liquidated my small IRA and bought gold starting ~2.5 years ago, move of the decade imo. Don't hold stranger's promises, they'll be good until you actually need them. rpcpassword=<extpass>is the entire contents of the file. I also tried:rpcpassword=extpass I made the bitocin.conf in the right place, and started it with -server and it tells me I need to make bitcoin.conf with rpcpassword=<password> I did that both with the "<" and without. It also told me to make it owner read only, and I don't know if I did that successfully or not, is that important? Is there a simple way to get it right? 1200 I think people will find it cool that having coins means actually having the keys in a file on your computer. Oh, no. I need to download that separately and just turn it on? Yes but bitcoin is at an all time high too! I'm getting "Error validating address string" when I try to send. I have 3.14 Aha, thanks for the explanation. I see cases where it obviously does. But if someone wants to make a bet that bitcoin will hold above the .15 level they can offer twice as much support if they double up, right? So now it's less likely to drop below .15, but if it gets below .08 it blows out even more. It seems if people's bets and leverage are not correlated it should roughly even out. But I don't know. I was wondering about that. But where does the energy go besides heat? There isn't any motion or light.  1120BTC http://www.mtgox.com/code/data/getTrades.phpThis will tell you how much at every price, and time too I guess.A little bit of crunching could make that page give up the $Vol too.edit: bitcoinwatch is excellent, no need to use that link I guess. http://91.194.85.252/bitcoincharts/ I get how it works when there enough bids at the right prices. But how is this guaranteed?  Yep, bitcoin will be a cold weather export :-)The "financial districts" of the future will be interior room home offices in Canada and Russia, lol. I thought so, but that would kind of change the nature of mtgox. He hasn't really seemed into IDing people and such. I guess I assumed he didn't want to and was wondering if there was some secure way of using margin without tracking people down. But maybe he does want to do that.Options trading could be foolproof in this sense, right?  What if there is no bid there? Liquidated a little below and billed the difference or forgiven? Yeah, at least when I go to the other language forums chrome can detect and translate. I'd have to do it manually here, and that's a lot of work.But it is really cute that you guys can talk in code like that   I wonder also. My thinking is that "margin trading" means taking a loan from the house. Is this not the case? Maybe options make more sense for levered trading?I guess some brokers will automatically liquidate your positions when you run out, but that's only going to work if there is lots of liquidity even after a large price move. The point is that you can change it. We currently choose to run the official software, we won't if it becomes a problem. That's not central control, it's just people making the rational choice at the moment. If the situation changes we can choose a different implementation.Locking in the chain 1000 blocks back doesn't seem important to me at all. If the most used client starts locking in every 3 blocks, then I'm out. This thread is just making a huge deal about a temporary, easily changed, unnecessary to change issue. Write or pay for a client that doesn't lock in the chain at 76000 or whatever and you'll operate the exact same way, tada, "problem" solved.
Also show all bids and asks at all times! I don't care if the graph is complete, but please make the table complete. The B looks a little strange to me, did you think about making the loops come off the vertical line at 90 degrees then curving? I think the extension of the vertical line has potential. The shading and diagonal line are nice. Or the people getting offended could realize that the people whose posts they're reading think differently from them and are very likely not trying to offend. Hahaha, 100,000 is but a finite number. We in great USA now have infinite FDIC insurance, literally. No matter how much you can lose, more can be printed. Haha, I agree. Maybe it should be a holo-coin. So this vulnerability is that we might all download a false chain checkpointed in with the next update?  The OP was about forcing people to use a different fork. It's not going to happen, but any organization that could/would do that would be a government. They surely aren't 1-to-1. The most they could be worth is 2% less than LR. Discount from that for the unknown wait. Sorry, just saying that one possible version of "success" for someone might be buying at 6 cents and cashing out now. 1000% annually isn't bad. Surely some people are buying a few extra coins instead of paying extra on their mortgage, CC, or whatever. This counts just as much as someone explicitly getting a loan to buy BTC, which I agree is probably not happening. I'd add though that USD moves to the upside are going to be in the 0-50% range so bitcoin moves are going to swamp USD behavior. Until the dollar goes the other way then it will dominate until we don't think about prices in terms of dollars anymore. I hope you get near full value, if you are in a hurry though I'll offer $300PP. I can do it right now. Old offer (11/1): I buy Bitcoins with my Poker Stars at a rate of $.14/BTC, up to $400 for now. $5 minimum.  For sure.Buy at 6 cents ... go to 16 .... success?  Ha, I have no idea how I misread this. Disregard the PM, competitor.edit: If you have the better I'll change the thread title to show it. That's okay, right? Lol, maybe. It would probably work better with a story and more reasonable number, like 80k. But anyway, I need about 120k to capitalize my BitCombinator start-up factory. Please don't front run me. You have it backwards. The government of Tuvalu could run a double spend attack right now, I don't know their exact resource situation, but I'd bet that they won't be able to do it in 6 months. As generating becomes more difficult it will be that much more difficult to overtake the whole network. We don't have to worry about governments for now because you can't get your name in the papers for taking care of a non-problem that no one cares about. If you want to do anything in government you need an ad campaign first (Yemen?). The ad campaign will ironically boost usage. If there ever is an attack there will be huge forces rallied for good (and profit). Government thrives when it can divide and conquer the population (first they came for... and then...). Maybe they will crush bitcoin, but they will have to beat every one at the same time.The solution is built in. Pay people to generate and pay them even more if transactions pile up. "Mandatory" generation is silly since people who don't want to generate will just close it and like it less since it's annoying. Not to mention that anyone can write a client that doesn't do it automatically anyway. OMG, they could force us to wear silly hats too.As mentioned they already have the money issuing pretty much in hand so I don't think they are going to switch to some cryptocurrency. I don't know how you are missing it, but the flip side of "very expensive" transactions is "huge incentive to process transactions".Maybe the government will torture you to death or rape your daughters, but they are not going to attack you by generating blocks that don't include your transactions. Of course, but they'll have valuable parts presumably. And probably you could just swap out the brain chip if you had to.
It's obviously two words, and that gets results, though not particularly good ones. Would taking a deposit from a robot who wants to pickup a package be sufficient? Example: Package is worth 200BTC so you take a 300BTC deposit on pickup and pay 310BTC on confirmed delivery.I have a hunch that "robot wars" won't be a problem. If a robot is worth a lot more than a typical package or delivery fee then a small risk of damage would stop shenanigans. Robot theft/hijacking would probably be a slightly more challenging problem. Self destructing robots? Yeah, the way taxation usually goes is, "Give me money or I'll hurt you" "Okay, here you go" I am holding my real bid ;-) 500BTC The rake needs capped for sure. PS and I believe other sites have a much lower rake cap for HU games. I think it's still 50 cents instead of $3. This is especially important if you need game starters. I think there are plenty of people who want to play full tables, but not HU. You need HU to get things started.I know you are just using the default setting because it was the default, just want to make sure it's clear that it'll be important to growing a healthy active site to put a cap on. Well, I can beat that.2000BTC for $1000. People speaking truth will make things difficult for them. Banning words only helps block communication.  What is the minimum required number of players? 14? Is that likely to happen?I'm interested, but it'll be 8AM here so I'm just a maybe. Okay, in my house and at least one other pancakes are traded for many things including oz of OJ and sexual favors so I guess they are money now. I've seen this claim on the boards before. Do you think this directive really applies to anything that can be sold for money? So pancakes, flowers, and kisses ARE money if someone trades them for money? How do the major exchanges make money, surely not a charge on ever trade, right? That would kill spreads and liquidity, no? I absolutely think mtgox should monetize somehow, but anything seems better than a per trade charge. One time fee, monthly fee, deposit or withdrwal charge, advertisers, there are plenty of options. It just seems to me keeping the market as tight and liquid as possible needs to be a top priority. I'm really just speculating, hopefully someone with knowledge will come by.Maybe that transaction didn't propagate correctly and it took that long before it was rebroadcast? Thanks for the graph, tcatm. Maybe you were not actually connected to peers and were not getting new blocks? Were the transactions before it still adding confirms? That would be odd. Okay, sorry for taking it so slowly, I expected you to have some sort of problem with markets and I wanted to pin down exactly when trading things for labor (even guarding) became bad.There are plenty of self described anarchists that are opposed to markets though. From what I gather they are not just opposed to some of the current particular 'markets' but actually oppose ownership and trade. I think they are confused, but that's what they think right now.There is no government. There are simply people who are willing to initiate violence (or advocate for it) and those who are not. I am against all initiation of force, and will be after governments are disintegrated. It just so happens that right now most force is government force so thats what I care about.Lately I'm learning that people advocate or use force and coercion because it was used on them as children. I am particularly appalled by the use of force on children. Voluntary education is good, forced education is bad. Voluntary sex is good, forced sex is bad. I'm not saying it wouldn't be good to show assets, I think it would.We would need to see a full list of accounts to compare, that would be interesting info. Two days ago he wasn't paying out any USD at all, so it seems like there is a good chance that the total of all deposits is not in the LR account yet, maybe never if he might pay some people some other ways.Now if there was doubt that the USD could be paid then the bitcoin price would be inflated, and I think it was when there was uncertainty about the timeline. But now there doesn't seem to be any difference. And as a bitcoin buyer you have like 5 minutes of exposure. If your worry is shared then you should be able to get them cheaper because bitcoin sellers won't want to risk not getting paid and will take a lower price to avoid the "risky" mtgox.  If you have LR why not use MtGox now? Just curious.   This was not one of Turing's requirements.
Yeah, I remember it does say that, but he did charge $1 before for PP withdraws and for checks, so I think the best guess is that he took 1%.  I hoped and expected you would be okay with those actions. Now if some neighbors don't like vegetables and trade them for something else is that okay? What if you trade the veggies fist and give them what they want directly? Apparently mtgox takes 1% and LR takes another 1%? If so, better to have fees on withdraws than on every trade. That way market makers can still keep very tight spreads.I wonder what the deal is with deposits. Just one 1% from LR? But how do we know a bot isn't running the talkshow?Sorry, Bruce-bot, we were a little hasty. Nice Grondilu, I missed all of that. It's pretty early in the morning here, I'll take that as an excuse.Looks like a real person who has a form letter introduction for self/site/career promotion. I think it means he doesn't really love us, so don't get your hopes up guys.Oh snap! He even mentions keeping spambots out. It's over, machines win. The dollar is a warehouse receipt for gold. The gold is gone, sorry about that. Old offer (10/27): I buy Bitcoins with my Poker Stars at a rate of $.125/BTC, up to $1000 for now. $5 minimum. Hi Bruce, welcome. This forum is the best place to hear first about new merchants and such. I just set up a google alert for bitcoin too, I had been checking search results frequently, the alert should be more efficient I think. I think we'll have an idea of how much everyone plays anyway since it's a small pool for now. I guess that means show names. I suppose that's a little better transparency wise too, so that we all know that prizes are being paid to real people and not some phantom you invented   That's a great rate. It seems to me that when I put in the amount of LR I want to trade it should calculate the number of bitcoins I will receive and not a number of dollars. Even on the preview page it has dollars and not the number of bitcoins.   It looks to me like difficulty will rise soon. How many Mhash were sold in total? I think we will all make profit compared to buying coins now. Thanks for the update. It looks like we would have been a little better off buying at the beginning that generating, but better off generating than buying at the end. I guess it is a little more complicated though because if the value and difficulty had decreased we'd do a lot better generating than buying at the start. Seriously? You think warnings stop people from doing what they want? Yes, people under 18 are people and choose to do what they want.Did warnings stop you from watching porn?Ageism is bigotry. It's been done to us, but we don't have to perpetuate the idea that there is some sub-human cutoff age if we don't want to.Sorry to derail the thread, I won't discuss it here, but in another thread I'd love to rant for a while. It's silly to say that Austrian economists insist on backed currency. Backing is something you do to a crappy piece of paper if people won't take it without. Gold is not backed by anything, it IS gold. Bitcoin is not backed by anything it IS bitcoin. The dollar IS paper that used to be backed by gold, now it just IS paper.The actual thing >>> promises. It seemed easy to me, but I might have just been excited that it worked at all. It was only heads up, so maybe the whole table didn't fit, but it didn't matter. This was over a month ago, I'll try again later today and give a better report. phone. I played very briefly on my android one night when the power went out. It seemed to work fine. So you are worried that if some people (A) discuss doing something that some other people (B) don't like then B will hurt some other people (C) and you want A to change their behavior, not B?If the admins of this site want people to not talk freely, then I'll talk somewhere else no problem. But the reaction of "Don't talk  about that, you'll get us all in trouble" is terrible imo. Maybe we could discuss ways not to get any of us hurt by violent people instead.Maybe if more journalists ran into people saying "Violence is wrong" more of them would print revolutionary shit like that. Old offer (10/25): I buy Bitcoins with my Poker Stars at a rate of $.10/BTC, up to $1000 for now. $5 minimum. Sounds good to me. I don't see any risk that this would leave.
Bitcoin is specifically designed so that users don't have to trust or even know each other so I don't know what you are meaning by that. There is not a well-defined difference.  If I can get hold of someones toothbrush then they clearly could not defend it therefore it was private property. If they try to get it back with assistance from anyone this just secures my claim, so if I am bigger, I win. OTOH, if a have big steel doors with 32bit codes and a completely automated factory then I can have huge amounts of capital as my legitamate personal property. But if you keep trespassers out of your garden by paying locals with vegetables then you have a government defending your capital?I'm going to guess that Stalin was totally down with a distinction like this because he could at whim determine which was which in any case that concerned him. Making up false distinctions and backing them with force is evil.As a matter of fact the place I am living in is 100% both. It would be virtually impossible to defend the part lived in by the owner without defending the parts used for rental income. I'd like to know also how long the homeowner can be away before I can morally stop paying rent. He's actually been gone for 3 weeks and won't be back for another, does this somehow change our agreement?As a general principle would you say that all the things a person legitimately owns have to be in the same physical location? That definition is fine, I don't see how it precludes a group of investors from prepaying for Kiba's labor with $650 and letting him pay for his half with that from being called capitalism.You can call it a bad deal if you want, and I don't necessarily think it's optimal that he put in no money upfront, but it's still capitalism. He just shrtnd it a little ;-) Good idea, someone could not read the whole thread and throw something in first. Capitalism is free people making whatever agreement they want about capital and funding. If some people want to pay for his labor with half the profits from their capital, then so what? I might be interested. If you are going to need dollars then I think you need to make the offer as x% of profits for $y. Of course you can accept payment in btc at whatever rate you expect to be able to get. Well, actually at a worse rate for exchange rate risk because you have to get $1225 at least.Also, you are presumably going to be adding labor for a long time, but we will get a permanent share of unlimited profit? Perhaps it makes sense to cap investors return at 5-10 times initial investment? This helps us get your incentives right too, if you put a lot of god effort in then you can get to the point of keeping all your labor.A rough timeline would be nice too. For example, if you only have $400 in a month are you going to keep trying or return investments?And what about ongoing costs? What is the price of the plastic? Is electricity an issue?Just some thoughts, I'm interested to hear what people think. It seems like an appropriately sized project to me. I pledged, but didn't let him hold my money. Not because I had any suspicions, but what is the benefit? I know that I'm trustworthy, I'll just hold it myself. People do die, get brain damage, lose hard drives, etc. I'd actually trust two long time members each with a full copy of the wallet more than just one. Plus then we would know for sure and exactly when we were cheated, for whatever that's worth. Now we don't know if we should feel sorry for a dead guy or angry at a scammer. I don't know if it will make you feel any better, but if you had been working on the real chain the last few months you would only have a few hundred because the difficulty of your personal chain was way lower than real difficulty. Call it a transaction number and they'll insist that it be different each time. Yeah you can't blame them though, they wouldn't want to put a reference to bitcoin on the site and have it come up during their fancy dinners with congressmen. New registration is not open. It has been suggested that it be opened, but PayPal buying blocked. That seems like a good idea to me, haven't heard from dwdollar about it though. I like it a lot.  A promise to pay what? By whom? Obviously it is not a promise by anyone to pay anything.Someone might promise to give you something for a bitcoin, but that isn't what a bitcoin is.  If I build things and give some of them away that doesn't make it part socialism and part capitalism. I decide what to do with all of my property, giving it away is one of my uses for it. Maybe the word "capitalism" has to go, but for whatever reason it just means free market capitalism to me. It seems really obvious that a little bit of freedom doesn't make you free and a little bit of capitalism isn't capitalism. But if most people are using a word differently then I can change, as long as it's consistent. There isn't some perfect platonic form of property and there will obviously be legitimate disputes. The question is how they will be resolved. If some group of people want to pick some list of arbitrary lengths of time for various items to lose their property-ness I think they'll do badly, but they can try it out and see. Long story short whatever people agree to is fine, if they don't agree they don't have to associate.  It is worse than that though. If you make something and they take it now they are breaking their rule of not possessing things. It is just straight contradictory. If they answer that they'll just let you be, then it's really clear to me that people will chose to have some things and give some things, and that's capitalism*.*not corporate fascistic government sponsored capitalism, but simply the having of capital that you created or traded for. I don't think voluntary socialism is wrong or evil. It's only bad in the sense that it will really suck without a group of non-socialists to leach off of. I can actually be a little more positive about socialism I guess. My family is completely socialistic. It works well because each of us likes the others about as much as we like ourselves. Also we are in very close open communication all the time, so we can allocate resources pretty well without prices. So the next step toward large scale socialism is polygamy. I would be much less baffled by anarcho-socialists if they simply said "In a society where force is not tolerated at all socialism will arise" then I would want to hear why they thought that, what the voluntary transition to it would be, etc. But when they say things like "Property is theft" it just makes no sense. Property is theft... so if I get some propery... you are going to take it?  That's clearly an insufficient argument since you could get rid of 100% of crime by killing everyone.And how the &$#^ are they going to get rid of property without committing property crime? And if property crime is okay, then there goes that reason for getting rid of it. In the future I imagine someone designing cool looking bitcoin GUIs and advertising "Now you can keep bitcoins on YOUR OWN computer!" and people will be like "Oh, how does that work..." lol.Oh, and then people will move their coins off of the wallets and find out they were all fractional reserving it up. "Anarcho-socialism" is ridiculous. What are you going to do if someone makes something and doesn't give it you? Uh, I guess we'll need a group of people to administer punishments....
Old offer (10/22): I buy Bitcoins with my Poker Stars at a rate of $.09/BTC, up to $500 for now. $5 minimum. You must have a fast finger :-)Hope it wasn't a big problem. Maybe we should write a simple-as-possible-and-no-simpler explanation letter, promise a few coins (like 10 or something) and promise to add their site to a list (in a thread? on a subpage or the trade page?)So, there are two separate tasks I think. Write a letter and compile a list of people to mass mail it too.   I think this is the same as asking if there is any use of a computer better than running bitcoin, surely there is. The trick is finding ones that can be exported safely and efficiently so you can pay other people to do it for you. This means you probably need a big job too considering the overhead of setting it up. Not opening for me either. That is 2:30PM here which is tough for me, but I'll try. Ohh, hippich, would it be hard to make it pop to the front of the screen when it is your turn? Yes, and only bitcoins it appears. I want to play Farkle for bitcoins, but not on facebook. The "Nobel Prize" argument is absurd. Would reality change if the Nobel committee had decided differently? Or in that case would we actually get to analyze arguments instead of credentials?And it is totally backwards as an indicator even. You can't get a Nobel until a bunch of people already heard you and agreed, so who cares now? It just a recognition of popularity after the fact.And they aren't even trying to make it a good indicator anymore. They gave the peace prize to the commander of the largest military in the world. If it was funny it would be a joke. Oh man, it would be so cool to have a skill that you level in that gets you a better chance to jump in line or something at games, for example the ones that are currently profitable from progressive jackpots etc. Or if they can be played simultaneously then skill to play them faster.  Since it exists it will be used. I think it's hard to say whether there is any other route at all. Yeah, I suppose I got a little off topic. Bitcoin could be used to do evil things. You could use bitcoin to pay your evil henchmen when they get tired of fiat. You could buy a gun and shoot a child. But the gun and the bitcoin were not evil, only you were. Considering that democracy is obviously evil with three people in a room or 300 million I don't think it's right to say "nowadays" as if the last few decades or something is the first time people have voted themselves other people's labor and freedom.In case it isn't clear to everyone, rape, murder, and theft don't change their nature because over half (well, try 20% actually) of people vote to call them taxes and a justice system. Not any more than I can justly "punish" a lone guest who comes to my house when my wife and I outvote him. If someone wants to tell me where the democromagic begins number wise I'd love to hear the justification. If we can't do ancap because people are evil, how exactly are we better off letting evil people tell us what to do? And if the 'fittest' are the most evil then won't we be amplifying the problem by magnifying those evil people?Or we could have a democracy, where a bunch of evil people choose their evil ruler? It will show up on the upper left. "Available BC: XXXX" Do you really think you have better survival chances being mean and aggressive? Are you familiar with Dawkin's "The Selfish Gene"? Consider that everyone you meet has most of the same genes as you and that the genes in your body are more interested in reproducing copies of themselves than copies of you. Helping you reproduce  accomplishes their ends, but so does helping others to thrive since they have copies of the exact same genes. There is no sound evolutionary argument for being evil.Fit doesn't mean evil. Fit means doing what works and there are mountains of evidence that attacking people doesn't 'work'. Something like this, not necessarily only for music, could be adapted to bitcoin. http://quidmusic.digitalproductions.co.uk/An artist pledges to release an album once a certain fee is paid. Anyone can contribute towards the release of an album. It appears that the site holds the money and pays on release. The artist chooses the amount.Using bitcoin would allow anyone to 'audit' and see how much has been paid. Also the address to pay for release could be placed anywhere and fans would not have to have an account at this one site. Not to mention bitcoin is perfect for micropayments anyway considering fees and all.What is some other content that this model would work well for? I think anything episodic would be great. A carton artist with a reputation for example. That's a thought. Why can't new registrants sell BTC but not buy? I'm glad. So many people want other people to raise their guns as soon as someone mentions a problem. It's absurd and awful and evil.  Haha, clever.
I think for the most part people act as they were treated as children. A lot of people are controlling and manipulative because it is easy to treat your children like that.The most controlling people end up trying to control me, I don't want this. I want to rule myself, I want to be my own leader. I have to be my own leader.It is absurd to worry about what might happen to me if I am my own leader when I already know what my would be leaders want to do to me. They want to lock me in a cage and kill me if I try to get away from them. Talking about how bad it might be if we stop respecting them is crazy. Yes, we will have problems to solve. It will be challenging, exciting, and fun. Resolved! Thanks Nelisky. The magic of bitcoin is that you don't have to be trusted. Once you send the coin. Bam. Perfect. Ah, sorry. I must be blind. So it is that price, plus the 6.9% fee? Still pretty good. It's great that you have bitcoin on there, but it doesn't seem right. There is no bitcoin exchange rate anywhere that I can see. If I start to trade 100BTC for Paypal it tells me I get $93.10. Obviously that isn't right, it thinks I want to spend $100 worth of bitcoin, but nowhere is it shown how much that is.  I know he made some money, but he definitely wants to raise money from listeners, he mentions it in every third podcast. It makes complete sense to me, he is doing/has done an amazing amount of labor. You would probably need over a million police and soldiers to keep people from doing what they wanted to do... that doesn't seem possible... oh... wait... There is no such thing as *positive social order*, there are people, if people freely choose to use it then it is positive for them. When people make a reserve it can be impossible to win.I bid high on something, but my bid only goes up to what it needs above the other bidder. This means I can't bid up to the reserve amount. Okay. :-)I'm going to chill. I just refrained from making another snarky tax post in a different thread, I'm aware of my problem. I'll work on it, but no promises. So how would selling things for BTC as S3052 suggested work? You tell Ebay what the value of bitcoins is and pay them based on that?  Are payments handled buyer-to-seller on Ebay? Or does Ebay act as money middleman? Right, all I was saying is that $1000/person/day really means "Keep all transactions under $1000". How could that possibly be illegal? And does anyone care? There is no freedom in following laws. Hooray!Is it the April mag or the August? Is it just coming out now? You can't tell if trades with 15 different address are one person or 15 and neither can the IRS. The trades aren't "fake". It's just that the market right now is BTC vs "MTGOX USD" which will be paid at some point in the future by some undetermined method. Since this type of dollar is worth less than a real dollar a bitcoin is worth more of them. Make sense? I am very interested in this. It seems very hard to implement, but I really wouldn't know.One thought:Won't players need to send bitcoins to an 'account' so that each bet doesn't need to go through the bitcoin system and to verify for table stakes purposes? Do some multiple escrows hold this?  Sure, I didn't mean to imply that pooled generation is uniquely necessary or something. Eventually I hope there will be lots of microjobs people can do for BTC. In the >50% attack. A transaction can get an arbitrary number of confirms and then eventually be undone by the attacker making a longer chain that doesn't contain the transaction, then he can spend it again at will any time in the future.So no, you can't tell until the transaction disappears at which point it will be too late.
People tend to get into things gradually. The example was just one of many possible ways for someone to get interested that didn't involve spending a lot of money upfront. Buying a small amount would probably be fine for most people, but that seems very hard now, since PP has chargebacks and new people have no reputation. So it would be nice if people could get a bit without having to wait a long time, hand outs are fine too, but I think they cheapen it a bit "oh, people just give these things away, they must not really be worth anything" sort of thing.  Instead of waiting an average of 2 months for 50 coins. New people who use the pooled mining software that is being developed could have .5 coins in 15 hours or something. After a few days, they come play some poker and win big and buy a silver dime on biddingpond. Then they are like "damn, this is so cool, I'm going to wire $400 to mtgox and buy a bunch of coins" This is not a valid comparison at all. No one is talking about stealing milions/billions of dollars to spy on the same people you stole from and using the data to selectively attack, imprison, rape, and even kill people. The comparison would be: A person records audio on the street with their own resources and puts it on the web for others to hear. And no, I have no problem whatsoever with this. Maybe pooled generation will help get newcomers some tiny amounts of their own. I'm guessing you didn't read Diamond Age. A phyle is pretty much exactly a voluntarily-joined non-geographic state. Unless I don't understand, that's what Wirtland is aspiring to. 6! 4 at most! ;-) It'll be cool once we have the critical mass for their to be bitcoin 'dealers' in large cities. That's a really good explanation, hugolp.So when wages are mostly rising, no problem. When wages try to adjust themselves downward it is forbidden by laws, regs, union contracts, etc. So the only way to get them down is to debase the currency.  Cool. That's acceptable to me, but I would love it so much if he had a bitcoin address, I'd probably compulsively drop coins in it after every podcast (which is really really often if anyone doesn't know). I'm convinced, I no longer recommend rebranding, not that I matter too much. You need to examine the rep of everyone along the way though. It closes, not for a whole weekend though. It's pretty terrible to me. It's open almost exactly the same hours I sleep 3am-10am. People live all over the globe, who knew? I'm not going to send them now, but if he acknowledges that he's interested I'm in for 500BTC. This is from the FAQ. Seems lame to me. You won't know if you are getting a good rate so you can't trade at all? You'll know exactly the rate you are getting, which is all you ever know.edit: I like the idea though, not trying to be a downer. And bitcoin listing there would be huge. Pretend you had a money printing press, but everyone was watching you. Maybe you would come up with some BS about how if you print some off it will help everyone?Working hard to get my fillEverybody wants a thrillPayin' anything to roll the dice just one more timeSome will win, some will loseSome were born to sing the bluesOh, the movie never endsIt goes on and on and on and on/believing It sounds terrible. If you want to digital currency that might end up disappearing just use any other currency at all. And it makes no sense to think of THE value of an xcoin because it completely depends on the credit worthiness of the person who claims they will back the coins at some point in the future and only if a previous credit transaction clears. If sleaze-bag Jimmy goes to FlyBuyNight Bitcoins and get xcoins will BitcoinRetailer take them at the same value as xcoins from upright John with xcoins from MtGox? Of course not, so the retailer has to do credit evaluations based on both the source of the xcoin and user before making a trade.Anyway, the problems we've been having are because currencies are able to be pulled back. Bitcoin can't, that makes it good. Adding another layer of pull back currency doesn't help at all.   I am willing to honor and respect people who do cool stuff. He could even match people up who want to get money off with people who want to get it on. Or let us do it here and then facilitate the transfer so we only do it with people we trust. bitcoinmarket says "closed to new registration" on the front page.bitcoinexchange.com does Euros. I think it's up and running, but I haven't used it.\There are more than I realized, not sure how many are running. Try this list. http://www.bitcoindirectory.com/exchange/index.php
The markets have just been hit with fraud and are not open to newcomers right now, solutions are being researched. The trade page has a list of merchants. So if he doesn't find an acceptable (to him) way to take money he shouldn't give people their cash back? Letting people get their money is surely his primary concern. In some areas of the USA where patriotism is high every other company is sticking America in it's name to cash in on some patriotism. Someone should make WirtlandBitcoin.com or Wirtcoin.com or Bwitcoin.com or Bwirtcoin.com or something and set up a site similar to Mybitcoin there and market to Wirtlanders. The transaction fee takes care of it. Unless I'm missing your meaning. Sure, I don't mean anything but changing the words and logo, the client would function exactly as normal. Not a new chain or different rules or anything like that. And bitcoin should be mentioned somewhere so people can meet us if they want to ;-) I had a passing thought a while back that there could be many 'brandings' of bitcoin, but dismissed it as pointlessly confusing. It might work to get possibly non-crypto-minded Wirtizens to adopt it.It would go like this:Wirtland administration checks it out, sees it is legit and is a great idea.Someone modifies the client slightly to say "Wirtcoin" or something and a new logo, etc. Wirtizens trust, download from the Wirt site, and adopt.It would essentially be the same as a normal government declaring gold or something to be the national currency and stamping some of the coins, but accepting any standardized gold. Are you saying you deposited and bought bitcoins before he instated that rule and he retroactively applied it to you?  I notice it doesn't take the .1BTC until the game is played. Are you making sure there is enough BTC in the account for all the queued games? PM coming! Exactly. So no fee for draws either? ;-)I think it's an acceptable risk, I'm not going to do 50 or anything. Could you make it tell you how many you have in the queue?A "toggle all" button would be good. I think there is a bias toward not claiming a lot of squares because it's more work. I can't believe people are sending cash in envelops with the word cash on the front. I don't think that brochure was a coincidence either. Nice, I've got 3 queued up. Good luck, suckers. To be clear. I'm saying to design exchanges in some better way that I haven't thought of instead of violence. Don't reopen, make new ones. Better design >>>>>> showing mutilated bodies on the homepage The info posted on buybitcoins said that one person was using as many as 25 different credit cards. This must have only been possible because it was completely automated, right? Yes, that's when it happens.There must be an easier way than constant reloading, can't a website "watch" for something to happen? Very cool idea.Once you get all the kinks worked out you should have a micro stake and a more meaningful stake and maybe eventually a large stake. I think the board size is fine.As was said you should keep the results viewable, maybe even save them for a while.  Maybe you could let people que up plays? Like instead of just telling me I've already entered the round, let me do another and it will automatically get played in the next game, so that I can do 5 now and if someone comes on in a few hours they can do multiples instead of just one and having to wait again. You would need to add a results page or something so I can see how everything worked out I guess.Oh, sometimes I'm getting redirected to a totally white screen. Damn that sucks.
I'd like to pay USD for hash power. Can this be set up?  It doesn't show anything to me, are you getting the site? I just get a question about my country in a form that doesn't work. Mmm, I think it might be more likely to be considered a scam there. Everyone else gets a hard piece of metal and all I got was some data added to the end on a database.... Maybe sell a small amount and follow up with an email saying you'll sell more anytime and even at a better price since there is no fee? Wow, what the hell.It asks for my country for tax purposes which is pretty sick since I think we all know what taxes go to support. The form doesn't seem to work anyway, at least it doesn't accept Somalia or Canada. I was only going to check the rate. Oh, sorry, I thought the title was continuously updated at it still read 5000 something. Last active Oct 2.$1000 is a bit of an exaggeration.    I buy Bitcoins with my Poker Stars at a rate of $.08/BTC, up to $500 for now. $5 minimum.  Were on track for difficulty to stay the same pretty much. If a monopoly is natural then you don't need to enforce it. If you pretend or incorrectly think something is a natural monopoly when it isn't then you will have to keep others out of that business with guns.Any natural monopoly will arise naturally. If some industry that you think should have a monopoly provider ends up having competition then you should be surprised, not violent. I posted a summary of bitcoin on the freetalklive show prep before I realized it was put there before. It looks like the old one can't be voted up anymore so maybe it's good to have it there again, or maybe rude, I don't know.I just found freetalklive like 3 days ago, wtf, how did I miss this? Used to be the case. And there is going to be much higher than 1% competence in the current bitcoin community. And this solution doesn't have to be the ultimate one anyway. You should be able to see that if you charge 1BTC and put the whole thing in the pot you can never profit and will just lose the seed money over and over. If you like I'd be willing to check the math on games you make and maybe even suggest some new structures.You can make a progressive that will be +EV for the player sometimes but also +EV for you overall by growing the pot slowly enough. Maybe that's what you discovered already. The low was a software glitch, when someone put in an ask at .01 it should have met the high bid which was around .083 but instead was matched with the exact equal bid. It'll probably be taken out of the data like last time, the trade has already been reversed. The code should be fixed, it's happened once before.You can tell it isn't real because there are no trades going all the way down, just one oddball way down there.  Haha, that's great, match free state men in NH with free state women from around the world. There should be roughly equal numbers. In a very broad sense it is still true. The dollar would be worth exactly zero if people weren't doing work and trying to save the value in dollars. In this case it isn't the borrower or the lender doing the saving, it is some dupe (most of us here) working a job and holding dollars for a while. Terribly angry misconceptions in there. That's a good point. One person could invest without saving by borrowing, but somewhere, someone had to do the saving. They probably make more from bitcoinmarket. I've probably done 20x more in trades at GOX and paid 5x more fees at BCM.  This is definitely a problem, and I can't wait to see all the solutions that are found.But it should be clear that it is a problem with PayPal and the ultimate solution will be that people who want a money that can't be yanked back will stop using PayPal (and the many others) that offer this "feature".
If you borrowed and bought stocks I don't think that would be saving, but surely it would be investing.  My offer is still good of course, but I'm also willing to entertain better deals given the recent price rise. Linear. It takes the same power DIFFICULTY times longer to generate a block on average than when difficulty was at 1. Dwdollar runs bitcoinmarket so he would know. I don't think he said anything about a problem on Mtgox. ALERT: DWDOLLAR POSTED A SCAM WARNING IN THE MARKETPLACE What does that mean? There used to be large spreads on the USD markets too, they got thicker over time, you need more participants is all. Unless there are bad fees or trust issues someone will step in to make money as a market maker. Those 100k are what are left after doing all of the daily absorbing of whatever generated coins make it to market, people save and spend too. I have some coins, but not enough, I'd welcome a crash. I'm mostly worried about not having enough in 5 years when bitcoin is "accepted everywhere" and 14 year olds don't know what a Visa card used to be. I'm going to offer some over 10 cents. Maybe zoom out a bit now, or make it an option or something. Um, isn't it more like "the dangers of using the USPS"? Do you have evidence that the contents had any role whatsoever in the undeliverability?  BitTogether. It sounds like "get together". It's a good idea, but one of the main uses would be for people to meet up to trade cash to get their first bitcoins. It seems counterproductive to charge 1BTC first, especially considering most people would happily toss you 10 or 100BTC after you helped them hook up with a local bitcoiner.Maybe a combo of donations and payment for top spots or highlighting. The bigger you get the more you can sell top spots for so you could consider even the people who don't donate to be improving your site. I am surprised, I wouldn't think an improvement that extreme would be possible. Your algorithm must still take exponential time as chars increase right? Old offer (10/7): I buy Bitcoins with my Poker Stars at a rate of $.065/BTC, up to $500 for now. $5 minimum. For some things maybe it makes sense to work as a reseller/affiliate. You get a discount from the site for buying bulk, pay them with FRNs and accept BTC from customers. It's good for everyone because the affiliate has the BTC knowledge, the retailer gets extra sales and the customer has the convenience/anonymity of bitcoin. Oh my god, imagine if hamburgers were sold that way! It will be really really sad if we ever completely eliminate freeriders. Hate against freeriders is hate against humanity. Every day I see and hear things without being hurt or threatened, landscaping, murals, some guy playing drums in his house every day when I walk to the beach, a movie at my friends house, thousands of awesome posts on forums. I am a freerider and I am not a problem. Oh, I see. That's not what I took volume to mean, but that's a meaningful amount. I bet a gap that big doesn't last too long. Oh, wow. When I checked it out before I don't think there was a single buy offer. I may have been misreading though. Why would you stop the market because of the price?Why not buy them there and sell at mtgox? What is the volume? Low I'd guess. It would be cool to add an estimator of the time it will take. It would be cool to see a graph of average time vs number of specified chars. How long did gavin take?
No, it is broken, I can see the high bidder on an auction now. The account will be put on hold from listing items, but not buying? The site thinks I owe 1000+, but I can still bid. Freezing immediately after wining a big auction seems like a bad way to do it because even if I pay instantly after winning the seller might not confirm for days or weeks. Maybe you could let the seller flag a slow/no payment?I suppose this is fixed by paying through biddingpond.The no multiple account rule is pretty weak. Scammers/trolls will just ignore anyway. And some people might have legitimate reasons for keeping their histories separate. There is no way at all for you to tell if I just made a second account or if it was my brother so any enforcement whatsoever is going to piss people off.I think it would be reasonable to forget the -500 rule and wait and see if nonpayment becomes an issue. If it does you could require partial or full deposit in order to place bids. Since there is low incentive for people to win and not pay (since they won't get anything) a very small token amount that is forfeit if payment is not received should be plenty deterrent.Just trying to help, keep up the great development! I like a slightly different version. Payment is required, but there is a "legitimate" button that returns the micro payment. If you really want to block an address you can, but you can also simply ignore spam and make money. The same thing could work for phone calls. You could use it to drop hints too. If my mother calls too much I just don't press the "legit" button and maybe she figures it out. Which is the important part? That you remain ignorant of a conversion rate or that no single person in the world utters it? And what if 14 people say 13 different rates? The first mover advantage is not like getting an 18 month head start, it's way more than that. If someone is interested in doing something similar they're very likely to join than to restart the project. And even if a few do start over unless theirs is way different newcomers will prefer to join our established infrastructure. If someone comes up with something totally better, that a different story.Companies like those mentioned can get first mover advantages and lose only later once they get oversized and bogged down. I don't see how that can happen here. As more people adopt bitcoin it just gets better.This is not meant to mean "Go slow no worries" There are lots of reasons to develop quickly, including personal gain. I think the world really needs something like this to flee to or else life is going to suck big time. Trade makes awesome shit possible. And at this point on of those awesome things is life imo. Very nice imo.Steph is the man. Lol, monthly fees? really? sounds scammy if that is the case. From a purely self interested standpoint what is the optimal rate at which to increase power to maximize coins earned? Max it and hold it there or ramp it up? Can we purchase any amount that we want or only exactly 128 GPUs? Satoshi just said it can be changed, so technically the network is capable. I might be in for as much as $100. Do we want to do this if we might have to stop (for lack of funds or whatever)? I don't want blocks to take an hour for the next 5 months...Also is it even efficient to raise it a bunch and make it that much harder for ourselves at the same cost during the next period? Just thinking aloud here. Look, it's still true without the bitcoin part. You mean that would be evidence if it had happened? If they didn't confirm why would he clear them to go into the account? Is he counting blocks instead of confirmations? That seems odd. None of the coins in the account were ever mine so I don't really have standing here.But I think you could interpret the interaction thus far as you holding your hand out offering a bag full of coins for 3 weeks and not even getting a nod. You are not stealing if you pull back the bag. They had the ability to take them for a long time and didn't do it. I'd guess that it never trades on major exchanges vs national currencies, well not for long anyway. It's just so much better that once it has comparable adoption it will end fiat completely. Wide adoption is the only problem with bitcoin imo, and that is temporary and will eventually benefit from positive feedback. Usually you can start the nonce at 0 because they block you are working on is made unique by the inclusion of your unique address in the generate transaction. If a group of people all send generates to the same address you need another number included to make sure that the members are not repeating work. I have no idea how important that fact is, it doesn't seem like too big of a deal to me, but theymos can elaborate. Why wouldn't it? I don't suspect the admins have a puritanical agenda.Unless the trade page is an endorsement, which I do think it is. Maybe it should explicitly say no endorsement, only verification of bitcoin usage. Armatures do do various things... it might be nice to get a heads up. You don't even have to do it yourself, just give the option for paying customers to add tags. Even if no money was attached it is pretty lame for a company claiming to be fighting for freedom to not be interested in a money that can be used freely. Is there some way of manipulating that does not reduce to paying more than you need to to buy bitcoins or getting less than you could for selling them? Those two sound like gifts to me.
Volume used to be lower and volatility was higher, this is what I would expect. Why do you think the opposite? Something to do with bitcoin in particular? Oh, a similar different network, not a thing attached to this one. You mean the coins themselves would be generated by people's claims of trust? If you think about it regular bitcoin is a little bit like that but for all 'value' instead of merely 'trust'. If someone has bitcoins it means they supported the network and/or did something for someone else who did or are trusted by them. Even if you made a system intended for indicating trust only people could use it for trade and now it would represent trust and value anyway.In conclusion, I think we are already implementing your idea. If not, maybe you could highlight what could be different. I wasn't saying that I don't trust Kiba to give a record of the correspondance, I just meant I hadn't followed carefully and didn't realize that they didn't even give a "Thanks, we'll check it out" response, or even a stock "We got your email" message.I'd say they rejected the donation. (Probably because they are busy eating and drinking with politicians.) The main way you are going to get burned would be non-payment. There wouldn't be anything to rate. Maybe I don't understand what you mean though. We will have to solve these problems if bitcoin is to be accepted widely. So there has been no verification that the funds were even received? One time I heard that some people used dollars for money laundering. I expected that would be the end of the dollar, still waiting... I'll take the lottery site as collateral. I'd honor all tickets and deposits of course.Hmm, Nelisky has 2000 to unload, and the pick6 is 2100.... j/k...The graphics card code isn't valuable tome directly or I'd just give you a prepayment for it+support. It's hot here so I'm not going to set up a generating plant. ;-) I'd be willing to buy the coins you will eventually generate right now at below market rates. 2000BTC on Christmas (date negotiable) for $100 right now? Will you generate or receive donations for plenty more than that? Seriously S3052, if you don't like it or it bores you then do something else. I'm going to give it a try when I get around to getting a stamp and envelope. It's weird to worry about hoarding. No one can hoard your coins, and why do you care what they do with theirs? What is the right amount of time to hold a coin? People keep saying "hoarding", try using "saving" and then explain why it's so terrible. Do you often think about whether some idiot you don't know will buy a lot of something and sell it for less? Or make it for one a high price and sell it low? Sure someone could do it, but it would help people who want bitcoins and hurt himself. It's just charity, to me, and others. I can't reach the site. This is strange language to use. No one will have to "play by his rules" if they want to pay the old price for BTC they are welcome to. If they want to get a better deal they can buy from him. If they have BTC and want to sell them and assumed they could always sell them above the price where they bought or generated them, they simply made a mistake.If someone tries to sell BTC at .01 and you want to pay .06, just gimme a PM. You mean because you'd be taking her to the optometrist?  Snail mailing has pros and cons. This will not result in a tight market, but it will bring in some very privacy conscious people and those who cannot use PayPal, etc. Well, if the person could also talk about agorism and the internet and p2p stuff it could be a good interview. It doesn't have to be a whole show, but it could certainly be more than 30 seconds. It took me a week to get my wife to understand the basics. Heh, maybe that just means I shouldn't do it. Maybe it could be even more complicated  Since Bob having a positive encounter or several with Carl only means that Bob doesn't know he's a thief, not that he knows that he isn't, maybe positive and negative ratings shouldn't be simply averaged. You could rank each of your trusted friends ranking abilities according to how likely they are to give false negatives (think they were stolen from, but weren't) and false positives (actually believing that the laptop got water damage in the mail). This way if a very trusting/optimistic friend made an accusation it could be given a lot of weight. He's offering a good deal in order to establish a good reputation at which point he can charge a premium. Also he can keep stocked on the cheap if anyone wants/needs to get cash in the mail for their bitcoins. 200BTC/1$ does seem extreme though. I'd be interested to know if you get any takers on that. Advertisement is for corn syrup and diet pills. We need someone who is knowledgeable and can speak well get an interview on freedomainradio or another liberty podcast. 
Only bad investors are more interested because something costs more. Is corn a better buy at twice the price? APPL? silver? a heater?Bitcoin is as good an investment as it'll ever be right now imo. It looks like site developers and coders are serious and able, but coins are still very cheap compared to say, the size of the whole economy. Forks make us weaker. If the combined network has 4000Mhash/sec an attacker needs to match that amount. If it splits in half an attacker can doublespend on both networks with only 2000Mhash.Obviously putting the code out on many sites is only a positive. Wow the videos look terrible.    Can I ask where you get content? Would it be reasonable to accept content from people and split the bitcoin payments? That might up the production value of a lot of amature videos. http://www.zerohedge.com/article/brazil-confirms-what-everyone-knows-currency-war-has-broken-outA better source. It happens, but it is misleading to say it it takes a few minutes. Average time is 10 minutes per confirmation, with wide variation. Huh?Why not say it takes 1 second? 34k in asks on MtGox. Those are guaranteed and your have 3% of your goal. He's just moving his order around. There hasn't been a day with volume >20k for a while. Even if his trades were going off you couldn't tell if he was just buying and selling back, either at the same site or different. Lol, even if it was a good idea how would you do it? ID everyone? Make them register an account. Oh, don't forget that people might reach the max, send them to their mybitcoin account and then earn more. You are going to have to make everyone report the balance and ownership of accounts on their site, including the anonymous lotto, poker site, biddingpond, etc...If you think running the price up gives you some advantage please go for it. That guy is in one known physical location with lots of relationships at risk economic and otherwise. I'm not saying internet trust is imposable, only that it is a different situation. It would obviously suck, but it would just verify the disruptive potential and be great publicity for a new go at it, maybe under a different name, maybe implemented somewhat differently to make whatever attack was used harder to do. The cheaper he sells them the quicker he'll run out. What if he sells them for .000001USD/BTC! I'll just snap buy them all, resell some when it gets back near equilibrium.But flooding would be pretty dumb of him, he'd sacrifice a lot of value. Did you see the MtGox "flash crash"? That guy could sold coins as low as ~.035 when waiting 15 minutes would have got him .06. It was just a gift.The guy I'm thinking of only had about 10% of coins, who are you talking about? People (me) will trade there if there is a good arb opportunity. At the right price you can do a lot over there. Money is a great motivator, but this is just wrong. Most of what I do in a day is not motivated by money, and I don't think I'm unique at all.People love to create and share. Yay for poker! Got a timeline? I'm with you man. Paperwork is soul destroying. There is nothing magic about profiting in money. Do you care if the file they downloaded made their girlfriend happy and they got a BJ? What if the music helped them focus during their poker session? Or is it only bad if they explicitly trade it for money? What if it makes up part of a preference? What if the performance was a talent show with a first prize only and they didn't win it, but could have?If you really think someone is free to put whatever pattern they want onto their hard drive I don't see how doing something productive with it makes it worse. In fact if I was King Insano I'd say you can download whatever you want, but you HAVE TO profit from it (and ship me 8%). Oh, am I not downloading anything because I have no friends? I don't think it is either of these things. Sure a million dollar house would have the first problem right now, but not a <$1000 computer. And MtGox has a pretty good rep, and you don't take risk vs other traders. And even though you could get burned by a personal PayPal transfer on bitcoinmarket, I don't think it has happened yet. Do you read FOFOA at all? The latest post is mostly a reprint of an older one, but it is very good imo and relevant to this discusion.
It's not loading the file for me? What could be wrong? Should be a popular file and it came up in search. Maybe, or maybe I'm just tired of taking all my laptops out of their cases when my family travels. Welcome. Glad you found us. Nice. I've been thinking about that ipad. I guess I would want to escrow though, the seller has no history and no name I recognize. I think I understand. You are potentially giving expected value to the other side by moving the line away from 'correct'. Only potentially because people could fix the line by betting the appropriate amount. Do I get it? Non-generating nodes don't know the current block size you mean? Even generating nodes don't know what the current block size will end up being, so I don't think that's much of an issue. Non-generators do know the size of recent blocks, so they can guess about as well as generators.  It make the Jets a worse bet though, correct? Exchanges like MtGox can handle many transactions "off the books" of bitcoin and settle officially later. It might make sense to do that here too.So you send coins to someone first, do some downloading, speeding up certain files by offering payments, and the site moves the credit out of your account and into the uploaders, but doesn't send it to them until they click "Pay Me" or whatever. I'd be interested in this, as a customer.  I had a similar idea that would work with bitcoin modified torrent. Say I'm a comic writter, every week I put out a new edition and put it up for download, but set it only to go out to people who send a 1000BTC payment. Once they get the content it is completely theirs and they can try to resell it for whatever they want 900, 100, 2, .01 whatever. I'd guess that prices would fall pretty quickly, but really popular stuff could probably command a very high starting price with people expecting to be able to sell many copies at a moderate price. Do you mean that it is about protecting illegal behavior, but not bad behavior? I suppose a precise definition of bad would need to be developed.  It would be a little eerie to see "FreeMoney dead on or before Jan 1, 2011", but I'd consider it a great source of info and opportunity to profit. ;-) I think celebrity death pools are fairly common and not universally agreed to be wrong.Also people bet on their own death all the time and it is considered good by most. Some people are using code written for GPUs now which are faster and more power efficient. There are a few threads about it. Life has unknown opportunity costs. The exchange rate is a piece of knowledge that can help us learn a bit about what those opportunity costs are. A sudden change in rates simply means that a lot of people just revalued at least one of the things being compared. It's silly to be against logging imo. Even if I didn't want it recorded, since I can't stop it, we might as well have a complete accurate record. Mark me as pro logging. Anyone who wants to take 1% of millions of small transactions. Did the Zim banker(s) print ZimBucks to buy real assets and move them out of the country?I think it has more to do with obligations. If you can get away with simply meeting nominal obligations it might be okay, but if people will 'insist' that you give them roughly the amount of stuff the nominal promises implied or if the obligations were indexed to inflation in some way,it could get out of control. Most people spend about what they make each year. It is still worth using a system of paying and getting paid in order to allocate resources effectively.I'm impressed by how well BT works honestly, but I could imagine a faster system with even more diverse content and less wasted time/bandwidth on crappy downloads. I think giving the right incentives to host content that people want and to only download things that you actually want OR think others will pay you to host.
Hyper-inflation does happen sometimes. What causes it? Maybe companies/people that already have a reputation to protect could use it. The entity running the equity market could do something basic like make sure that the people selling the shares are the company they claim to be. Paid separately for downloading and uploading or paid after both are accomplished? Or paid more for each kb they send? Paid by whom? The second generation of downloaders? Just trying to figure how incentives will work.It seems to me that a simple system would just be, pay whoever seeds the file you want and then charge anyone who wants a file you have. I dunno man, making 4000 gmail accounts to forward that email that makes Bill Gates give 1000 rainbows to dieing children?I don't know legit uses, but I hate solving them, especially that IRC one and I'd pay .5BTC if I could click and make it solved.Just a niche I thought of, prolly a bad one. There are 'sweatshops' in India(?), China(?) that have people solving captchas and selling them in bulk to hackers(?). I'm just remembering a bit of an article I read a while back.I was thinking that it might make sense to decentralize the sweatshop to reduce overhead and make the micropayments to workers with bitcoin. Does anyone know about the captcha solving business? Seems you could play .02BTC or something and resell them bulk slightly higher. I've heard $2-3/1000. If people would do them at .02 you would be turning 20BTC into $2.I don't know the details though. Who buys them? Do they want particular ones solved on demand or is a solved batch good for something? No sorry, I mean trade points on the game back to BTC. Okay, apparently I forgot that I made two accounts  I really didn't think so, but my account is empty and there seems to be no record of bets, but I did get coins sent to the addy. I'm confused. Sorry for being dumb. We log in with the address that we sent coins to? I tried a few that I thought were at the right time/ right amount, but no luck yet. Too few buyers! People are selling money over there and it's going way under value.  I assume you can't go backwards? Or can you? I was just always logged in before, now I am not. I should be trying to get in with the address that you send coins too, right? That doesn't work though. You are a busy dude!Did I hear something about the change being charged a fee? Oh oh, that was the block with the tiny fee in it. So 50.00001 sending 50 had a change of .00001 and therefore a fee, but usually no fee because 70.00001 = 50 + 20.00001 change = no fee. But this was fixed to only charge the tiny bit as fee anyhow. Won't transaction fees make that pointless?If you are trying to give accurate payouts from the sportsbook I don't think anyone will mind having it rounded off at .01 for now. That is only $0.0006 after all.  I don't much value furs or have a use for them here in the tropics. But I think my bitcoins are interesting and fun.  Cash is already a broken government promise and I suspect those broken IOUs won't hold value even as well as they have over the last few decades in this next one. Is the download time going to get better anytime soon? I suspect nearly every country still has cash because if you get rid of it a non-state alternative will pop up so fast. They'd rather have us hoarding their tokens. Haha, I just realized it's probably no coincidence that the FED was started near Christmas. It's for the exact reason I suggested it as a bad date, people are distracted. Too close to Christmas to get many people's attention. They'll all be thinking about charging gifts on the CC!Earlier imo. But I don't use FB anyway.
Thanks.It started working on it's own though. After about 3 days. Hi Fresno, three weeks went by fast.I have no idea what I owe and neither does anyone else.  Full agree that the IRS will do whatever. But there are many things they could technically tax that they won't because it isn't feasible or it would be bad PR. If my neighbors and I watch each others kids with a barter understanding for an average of 6 hours a week for 3 decades then you've got 9000 unreported hours, that's $180k easily. But they will never try to collect I can practically guarantee it. Most people don't even have enough money to pay tax on all trades they make and they don't even think about it.Maybe Fresno can give us a break for a while and go yell at people for all the barter income tax they owe. Someone needs to make sure they never call it work after all. I don't really see the harm. It isn't too important though, so if anyone does care then maybe it is better to not.Are you setting the max bet so that the double bullseye will take most of what you have, or are you more conservative than that? Can I get in as a backer before I lose all my coins? ;-) Very cool.PurpleGreenTriple GreenRedIt takes quite a few clicks to throw one dart. Not much can be done about the open client, copy, paste, type 1, press send - at least not yet. But "play again" could assume the same receiving address, and give you the send to addy right away.Edit: I just saw that it is 2BTC now!Woah: 5 now, have you added a lot of coins? Will it go higher? I think the value will be more affected by the appearance of new things to do and buy with coins.The average cost of producing a coin may actually be going down anyway. The hashing software has gotten more efficient, people are generating with faster and more efficient GPUs, and more people in cold climates and cheaper power areas have heard about bitcoin. So we might be in a decreasing cost phase.   Some people will die, etc. But my offer is still good. I don't need anything now, but I'll keep it in mind. Yeah, PayPal is doing this because of Red. If you wanted to keep bitcoin down with force you would go after the biggest bitcoin accepting businesses. It's bad PR to attack granny for sending birthday coins to Johnny. But they can't stop murder, rape, theft, vandalism, etc... so whatever, good luck, guys. I mostly agree. I think a widely used bitcoin would be way more practical and convenient than gold. It's just that right now something like buying a car would involve a lot of currency loss because of the thin (relative to the price of a car) markets. And the trouble of actually finding the car for sale. Later though, it will be hands down better imo. You aren't going to win many converts saying "Bitcoin is better than gold", but maybe try "Bitcoin is a great compliment to gold", which is true since it is very different, but still has the important features. One of us is really confused. You cannot pay transactions fees on one fork with coins from another afaik. And it would be really silly to spend cpu time on a fork that only you can create coins on anyhow, I mean, just create some book entries like everyone else for internal credit or points or whatever. All features of bitcoin are gone if you have your own private fork. I'm having trouble thinking of how to start a bitcoin futures market. If two parties want to agree to trade 100BTC for $7 one month from today either they have the funds on the market site now, or they do not. If they do then they might as well trade now, and if they don't they how will the trade be enforced? So what is the status of bitcoin funds on MtGox? Would it matter if he called your balance GOXies? What if he said you can't cash out unless you have 1 MTGOXie? It's not a cash equivalent. Unless I don't know what cash equivalent means. What does it mean? Whatever you do, don't change your underwear. Is anyone else having trouble with webchat.freenode.net when using Chrome? I had no problems for 2 months, now the captcha does not appear. It works fine in Firefox. That's great, good work. I see the pick 4 already.   Haha, PM on the way.
Sorry, I went to bed right after posting, sent a few to you now. Not down for me now. Yeah, those are probably the same coins over and over. And it's rarely at 90k, I often see it in the 20-40k range. I mean sometimes I buy 2k on BCM and then send it to MtGox inside of a few hours, and that makes me over 10% of the 24hr traffic. Also if you look in the blocks there are lots of 50BTC transfers, I assume these are people sending recently generated blocks from slave machines to their main, not actual commerce.Imo, the very beginning was the hardest bridge to cross. There is still a long way to go, but I'm pretty confident. No work is lost because each trial is done in a tiny fraction of a second. Think of it like playing the lottery 1.2 million times per second. Because there are so many people working now and the system recalibrates the difficulty to keep an average time of 10 minutes per block it takes an individual a long time before they can expect to make a block now. This is good for the security of the system though and hopefully it will get much harder over time. This is disappointing for people who are trying to get free bitcoins, but it is exactly what people who want a good solid money are looking for. It is easy to transfer bitcoins. Install the client on the other computer and get the address that appears at the top. Send coins to it with the client that has coins. That's all.If you post an address I'll send you a bit to play with. How hard would it be to set up an email system with payments attached? If you have that then you just make emails with <.1 BTC or whatever you set attached invisible. You make a "refund" button to send it back on legit emails, or even a refund all from this person, or refund all from everyone button to make it easy.If your mother refuses to ship your BTC back, just don't write for a while. This works nicely with the celebrity mail idea from before. Celebs just don't send back and everyone knows it. Busy/important people could check their 50+ BTC mail frequently and their 1+ BTC mail when they have extra down time. I have no suggestion, but I am interested. If it was something that wasn't going to get done otherwise a bounty beforehand to show people's desire would be good. This is going to get done though for sure and I bet the majority of donations will be paid afterwards. Why? Seems fine to me. I think everyone working towards an open version is a great thing for sure. It has huge positive externalities that accrue to all of us, even if we don't ever use it. Bitcoin is not very secure when one programmer and 20 GPUs can double spend. Once there is efficient, open code it will take much much more power to corrupt the system. I think you guys should give the pudding berating a rest. He did some work and made an offer, that's all. Of course it would be nice to have it done for free, and I'm sure it's annoying redoing it, but he hasn't done anything bad at all. And there is no reason to think he's putting malicious code out there, and if you are worried, obviously you should just not use it. Damn, that's 11am Sat here, I'll still take it though. :-P Ha, friendly wager? 10BTC? :-)And you can buy all the tickets you have coins for, no problem.Working week ends Friday? Okay, I was thinking of 6 months ago when I walked into a dealer, obviously having a coin sent is different and the price is up since then too. 450 doesn't seem so bad. Also, I'm probably off of reality from the great silver deals I've been getting on biddingpond. I take my time and use it to earn USD on PS, then I trade it for BTC. Is this a BTC business? Did I profit? Why are you stuck on the generating time? How long does it take you to generate $$ with your computer? At least compare apples to apples man. Yeah, it isn't like we have a good currency to use and we're just mucking about with another for kicks. I want to use a good money. Or I want to buy things from you without telling you my name? Or I want to accept payment from strangers and know it cannot be charged back? And I don't have to Pay fees to a CC company? Lots of reasons.edit: I am not BSing either. I would never and have never sold PS money for PayPal, it would be stupid and I would have to worry about charge backs for 60 days, and I would probably have zero recourse because I was selling poker money. I have sold $500 worth for bitcoin. I saved some, spent some on silver, and got some legit PayPal from MtGox. And some people who could not or would not give payment info to poker sites have been able to play. Yeah, it would suck if bitcoins could just be created on demand... like dollars are. Do stuff people want done or make stuff people want to have to get bitcoins. Thanks to the markets (mtgox and bitcoinmarket) you can trade to get USD then BTC if you need. Seems high to me. I think the idea is that using the link tells amazon how you got there so he gets credit.
Even if they immediately cash out it still has a lot of upsides. They see that people who support them think it is a good way to transfer value, maybe they will be more inclined to accept bitcoin as payment for other things they sell, maybe they will find something that is good to buy with bitcoins like a server and now they will buy or earn more coins to keep buying the thing.Donating and spending don't add value to bitcoin, accepting them for goods and services does. If no one or very few people accept them, then your donation will be literally worthless to whoever you donate to. I agree that a huge business accepting bitcoins would be excellent and launch bitcoin into the stratosphere, but it just won't happen. When 50 small businesses accept BTC then a medium one will, when many medium ones do then a large one will, when a few large ones do then we will be off. But it just makes no sense for a large established company to jump on the chance to use an unknown, rarely used currency. If you think bitcoins are valuable, sell what you do for bitcoins. I play poker and win pokerstars money, I am willing to sell it for bitcoins.I want to learn to program too, I am very glad there are so many programmers and site builders making things like the poker room, lottery, and randomizer. And silver on the bidding pond too! I've bought over an ounce. Yes!   For sure, gotta pay the bills. Sorry, I mean run two that will take different lengths of time, a pick4 and a pick6 or a pick3 and a pick5Previously I read something about doing a special that would empty the cumulative pot, it's too soon I think, I was only verifying that.  The pick 4 would be too fast and the 5 too slow. Maybe pick 4.5? ;-)Getting 1000 daily is still pretty optimistic though, so the 4 is actually going to give you a few days at any likely volume, the first one just happened to go quickly.You cannot have huge pots in relation to the size of bets without having tons of bettors or a wealthy backer. I think it is best to be content to run 2 on different time scales and let it grow over time as bitcoin grows.Is this 500 draw a guarantee?  Digital only gold. Lol.Nice euphemism for "You can't get the gold" Maybe we'll get 1000 tickets eventually, but right now what is being offered is a smallish pot that is won very infrequently. I trust you and I have a long time horizon and I still don't want to lock coins up for months. I am guessing that newish people will be even more wary of doing this, I could be wrong though.  I'm not interested in a pick 5 or 6.I don't think it's going to get any more action than the smaller ones did, I mean over the same time period.I don't think people are coming to the site and saying "oh, just 100BTC, I'm not interested" I think they are just not coming to the site at all. Mostly because there aren't that many bitcoiners yet. I like to check all the time and see if someone (or myself) has won. I'm not going to lock money in to something that could take 4 months and also get less enjoyment from being able to constantly check it, and maybe buy a few more tickets since I'm on and checking it anyway.You can't do much about the small universe of customers. But you can keep them interested by giving them something to check on and do frequently.   Okay, the pick4 went off faster than average. I understand not wanting to love money, obviously.But if you aren't going to seed it why do you want it to take so long?A pick 6 with 1000 tickets will be won after 10k blocks only 45% of time. That means (roughly) that with 100 tickets it will take 100k blocks on average. I don't know them and haven't used them beyond setting up an account. Old offer (9/9): I buy Bitcoins with my Poker Stars at a rate of $.06/BTC, up to $500 for now. $5 minimum. I get it.To be clear, I meant selling at most 3000 per draw total, not per person, instead of 4096 just to avoid the unaesthetic (to me) situation of a guaranteed win. No...... pick3 is gone!I liked how it went off frequently. Maybe put just 1BTC in for seed and 100% of all entries? This would actually make every bet the tiniest bit +EV, and I could justify buying pretty much any amount I desire. Oh, I guess there is a problem with that, I could buy all tickets and snap up that 1 coin constantly. You could cap it though at 3000 tickets or something, it would be won within 3 rounds of hitting the cap for sure so no one would be locked out for long. Oh, it's pretty. Do you to transfers between accounts? I think that's a main feature he's interested in. nevermind N/M I made an account. I'm not sure what I'd like to bet on, but I don't know anything about the grand prix.The wording "up to 30 minutes" is probably not best. I know that 30 minutes is not the actual maximum, but I don't know if you require 1,2, or 3 blocks and think it will take only 30 on average. Since I don't know how many blocks, I don't know when to report a problem. I sent 2BTC 4 blocks ago.edit: it showed up either on the 4th or 5th confirmation. Madoff's club was very exclusive and rarely open to new depositors. Just a heads up.
It's true. But you've got to buy some at MtGox.com first. 146khash/sec means that every second your computer checks 146,000 numbers to see if they work. Think of that as 146000 lottery tickets per second. If you had more cpu power you could check more tickets each second. To give you an idea of how bad your chances are, I've generated 9 blocks in 9 weeks with an average of 3000khash. It's worse than that though because the difficulty has gone up considerable over this time. You should expect to wait 242 days of running 24/7 on average if the difficulty does not increase. Of course about 3% of time you will make one this week. Ah, cool, thanks for explaining. Why doesn't the pick3 pot update quickly? I thought it was the 6 block thing, but I think it's been longer than that now. Meaning a silver coin with the bitcoin logo? That would be neat. I like some of the coins they have, but they were overpriced last I looked (if I'm even thinking of the right site). I realize it costs money to set up and unless they sell a ton they have to be quite a bit over. This is something I'd like to see.A site offers to sell some standard unit of silver, SAE in good condition, for example, at some price with shipping already included. The purchaser gets silver credited to their account and can request that it be mailed anytime they wish, they can also sell their silver to others using a market similar to the one at MtGox.Being able to convert between BTC and metal would be pretty cool imo.  Oh, that's not bad then. Someone lost 9k a while ago, that sucks. That's too bad. Do you know how many coins it was? 2000 at least imo, but my guess is 8500. The correct fee is so small right now that the psychological detriment far outweighs the benefits of charging it imo. It's like that damn place that charges me a quarter a tiny cup of water when I buy a $9 meal. Yes, I know there are costs to pressing the button, but now I don't like you anyway. I expect it will be a long time before a high % of nodes require a fee for normal transactions. This means most users will not attach a fee, being willing to wait 4 blocks on average or whatever. So for a good while charging a fee simply means not putting transactions in blocks, this will make bitcoin slightly less appealing and slightly reduce use which will slightly reduce the value of coins. So anyone who has coins can self interestedly include transactions for free.Jgarzik, do you have a guess as to the resource costs of a normal transaction? That would be annoying if someone was trying to play immediately and didn't want money locked up for a week, or if they were trying to be part of a big jackpot and the next one was small.But that isn't what he's talking about, he means the pick 3.I had bets canceled, does that mean it was won within 6 of my bet?I say you turn off the wait of 6 and make only random bets accepted. Then no one can game it and you don't need refunds ever. It was not a fluke it will happen all the time if this gets big. Glad to help. I think 50 is wise. It is important to keep projects from burning out so we can hit a critical mass of things to do and buy. Getting automated is a good step in that direction, I think you have the right idea. Should receive something tiny from me, Kupan. Again, this could be wrong, but I don't think so.Kind of bad news:If you seed 100BTC and take .5BTC per entry you need 7 tickets to be purchased between each block in order to profit by 1BTC/cycle. This seems quite an unlikely level to reach anytime soon.And your upside isn't that great either. If you get to 20 tickets bought between each block you will profit only 66BTC/cycle. Though the cycle length will decrease by a lot, so maybe that isn't so bad. Actually that is a pretty large redeeming quality. When you are bleeding money cycles will take much longer than when you are raking it in.At 20 bought per block half of your cycles will last fewer than 16 blocks and 99% will last fewer than 40. So it would be a cash cow at that point or even a bit before.Now if you drop your seed amount to 50BTC you can profit by 5BTC/cycle while only selling 2 tickets per block.Selling 1 ticket per block will cost you less than 10BTC (the accuracy is bad on this one because of the long tail I'm cutting off), but 10BTC is the most -EV it could be.If there are people who buy chunks all at once early this will help you too.Ah, I just remembered that the pot is often rounded down a tad by the increments of 10 required to bump the pot. This is in your favor of course, but I am not going to redo the calcs right now.So all things considered putting out 50BTC is probably going to be a very small outlay compared to putting out 100BTC which will be a loss until you get quite large interest. Obviously having a small seed amount will draw fewer players too, but I can't tell by how much and that is not accounted for here. Haha, I'll put it to good use buying silver on bidding pond and donating to MtGox. I did this quick, so no guarantees on accuracy.If one ticket is purchased between every block the chance that you will break even or better (sell 200 tickets before a winner is chosen) is only .0068 = .68%Half of the time you will sell more than 75 tickets and half of the time fewer.Keep in mind the exact path of purchases does affect your expected outcomes. For example selling 3 every 3 blocks until a winner is found is better for you than 1 every one block.Selling 2 every block gives you an 8% chance of breaking even or better.tickets/block -- chance of even or better3 -- 18.3%4 -- 28.1%5 -- 36.1%6 -- 41.2%7 -- 46.9%8 -- 52.4%10 -- 59.3%15 -- 67.6%Now this is not really the most relevant info. What you want is expected value. This is kind of like me telling you that in the game of Heads you win 10 and Tails you lose 1 you are 50% to break even or better; It is true but not the whole picture at all. I've been drinking some, but maybe I can figure out an easy way to calculate or estimate that in a minute here. I just noticed my winnings! Thanks. Cool, I hope it ends up being sustainable. I'm going to do a little math and try to answer questions like "If one ticket is purchased every block what is the operator's expected value?" I'll let you know if I get anything that might be of interest to you. Seriously, it's like free money right now so stay away and let me collect for a while. I think I won the pick 3, but I haven't been credited. If you seed the next one too I'll buy even more, it's a damn good deal right now.
Ah, okay. I bought some pick3 tickets and the pot did not increase, it has been a few hours. I might be interested, when I looked at Pecunix before my main disappointment was difficulty getting value in. I'll check them out again and let you know in a day or two.  I grabbed it out of a thread on twoplustwo.com, let me see if I can find anything out.The cards are very similar or maybe the exact cards as one of poker stars' options. I think they were put in the thread so people could mod their FTP layouts. They seem to simple to copyright to me anyway, but I wouldn't really know. You just can't do it that small through MtGox because I think I can send a gift that small. I'm going to be out all day, so I might not be your best bet, but I'd be willing to buy them for PayPal. These would make it much easier. I guess the dimmer color might be good enough actually. I noticed that when I use the check boxes the buttons still flash for a sec. I saw myself bet .04 that I didn't think I bet, and then was raised to .04 very quickly (simultaneously? not sure). I think it displayed my opponent's raise in front of both of us.There should be a clear "sitting out" notice on a player who is now sitting out. Is it changing color for that right now?  List items starting at the absolute lowest you are wiling to sell them for. This will get people attached to your stuff and bid it up higher than otherwise.For selling BTC I would use MtGox, you'll get PayPal right from his instead of a stranger. For buying BTC you'll have to wait at MtGox so I'd say BitcoinMarket. He was trying to sell BTC to get LR. He decided to just sell them for PayPal instead. That's interesting. If you have no screen on then all of the energy spent is converted to heat right? So if you are heating the place anyway it is costless?Heh, so bitcoins will be a cold climate manufactured good, lol. Ah, of course. Oh.If you really wanted to sell via google checkout could you sell the passwords to MyBitcoin accounts that were loaded up or similar?  I was just thinking that this was something I could do! How necessary is it though? What happens when you send yourself coins? Do they end up in a different address or not? I have two machines so I think I can do it for myself that way no matter what. Hey, sponsored link at the top of google, very nice. My preference would be keeping things anonymous. Since it's going to start slow, a message about when peak time is would be good. Security is very important. Both actually being secure and finding a way to convince people that it's true. Honestly I'll play lowish stakes without worrying, but I wouldn't recommend it or play higher until there was a third party review or something. Security should be an ongoing process, too, of course. As it grows hacking it will be more and more lucrative. And the nature of bitcoin is such that once a hack is successful there is no fixing it. I'm thinking about domain names now, I'll let you know if I think of anything decent. Damn, that was fast. Eh, did they contact you or did you remove it preemptively after reading terms or something? I don't know if this is the case here, but markets do anticipate things, I can't say that the difficulty increases were really surprising in any way. Profitable speculators also tend to even prices out over time. If you actually figure out how to "buy low, sell high" you are providing the service of evening out prices over time, or in the case of arbitrage, evening prices out indifferent locations. If you don't get any other takers I'll give you $3 on PayPal, don't know if that helps or not. Seems like BS to me, $50 annual fee and a transfer fee, and they aren't committed to those fees, they say they'll change them without telling you. 
?? It costs 49.95 to open a basic account? Uh, you are already free to arrange whatever you want with whomever is willing. The fact that a site doesn't accept every form of payment, or even any form is not wrong.The free market means that you are free to NOT associate with anyone you don't want to, not that site X has to facilitate your dealings no matter what. If you think there is some demand for a site that allows any type of payment then go for it. I can't even imagine what that would look like though. Agreed. I really appreciate all the work though.One thing that might help is to make empty categories invisible to buyers. When you are selling you can put it wherever you want, maybe even make a new category. It just make it look really empty as it is now. Seems promising, reading the site now. Cool. To be clear, I absolutely think you should rake it a little bit when it's good to go. You need money for advertising and promotion and eventually to get it on a good server or even two(?). But while it's in testing it's kind of silly. You'll want to know how to adjust in the future anyway. Oh, that's much better.Have you stopped the rake for now? If the average price was .055 today, and it was probably higher since the bulk of offers were bunched up near the high end, then the 34k traded was worth about $1870USD. Maybe, but he did sell a bunch to me at a great rate. So that isn't costless by any means.   He could have got ~10% more just by waiting a few hours. Stolen coins occurred to me, but he'd only be in a hurry if the theft was from you or someone you would take them back for, so I guess you (MtGox) would know. Oh, wow, it'll be awhile before we get that size. Maybe take 5% out of the pool, 2% of a different nice site every time and 3% for you.Or, take 10% of the excess above like 1000 for a jackpot. So 1200 -> 20; 2000 -> 100; 4000 -> 300It wouldn't be as regular income, but psychologically it's the least painful place to take it. It's kind of a fallacy, but everyone seems to be happier when big winners do the paying. We/I don't mind if you take the bounty however often you need it.  That sounds like a good idea to me. Just the uncontroversial technical basics, no econ or social type questions. Wow, cool. I'm so glad I had a lowball offer in. He didn't get to my really low one though. Is 30k really all he had? The fact the dollars can be yanked back so easily and that the resolution methods that you implicitly have to pay for to use, PayPal, CC, etc is a negative on them and not on bitcoin. If I have a coin it is mine to give, finally and completely and quickly. If I have money on PayPal how do I convince someone that I am really giving it to them? Sure it shows up in their account, but I can pull it back for a week? 30 days? Longer? If I can't give it away finally it is worth less. Coins don't have this issue and that is part of their value.Dollar on string, lol. There is a difference between not doing violence on people you disagree with and merely not hosting their content.I won't hurt anyone, but if your poem is crap I'm not reciting it. Sweet No, since we are increasing speed the speed at the end of the period is higher than the average power over the period which is what is used to determine the new difficulty. So even at the beggining of the new period we are faster than 6/hr by the difference of average and final speed of the last periodLook on the statistix page, we've been around 8 for over half a year, it's because we're increasing the whole time.  Since we're back to 1 in 1048576 chance of winning the jackpot per ticket this is essentially always going to grow until you do a guarantee. So now you'd just have some lotteries that are a little -EV and some that are a little +EV, my buying will be something like 5, 5, 5, 5, 5, 1000. Which is fine with me, but I'll probably only get excited about 6 times a year or something.I don't know how you are going to remove math skill without just making it -EV all the time by raking it hard. Well, someone could back it and the payout could be static. That's 4096BTC with 3 digit, 1BTC tickets. The backer takes substantial risk though and would porbably have to be paid. I'm not saying you should do this, I don't think that it's important to eliminate skill, we just need to find a way to not make it a raw deal to get the ball rolling.Maybe you are onto something though, the only issue is the fact that 5 will only get hit once a decade if we buy 1000 tickets each time. Maybe keep it 3 digits and pay out every time in the 75-80% range? Roling over the rest. There will still be incentive to cover the board and lock in profit in the amount of the jackpot.This is actually pretty hard to design. I'll keep thinking. Nothing wrong. You are downloading the blockchain from other nodes. There are 77095 right now. When you catch up you can start looking for new blocks with us. Don't get too excited though, all together we average about 6 an hour and there are thousands of computers working so it'll probably be a while until you get one. I've gotten 8 in about 8 weeks, but it is harder now than when I started, and I had 2 computers going for a while. That seems overkill, is it not possible to lock it out for a week or something after 10 tries? It would be cool if you had multiple safe and it could send your coins on the Nth false pword then let the attacker in to see there are no coins. Eh, maybe bad if new coins were coming in.
But it was too late, the employee had already taken 8 days worth of wages....Printing bitcoins is not all that compelling an idea to me, but it surely isn't because employees will finally have found a way to steal from their employers. I just realized that there is probably a noise when someone sits down or a hand is dealt or something. I had my headphones plugged in, but not in my ears when I tried it out before. Absolutely.We should be having major price deflation. Instead printing is neutralizing it. There is not a vacuum large enough to bring it all back in. The next boom is the crack up boom, imo. Cool. I'm going to be sitting at a table for a little while. It would be neat if there was a button people could press to "poke" me and make a beep or something because I can leave it open all the time, but I won't be monitoring it constantly.I got a certificate warning, but that happens to me a lot. Am I doing something wrong? Quick buy some more, you are on a roll. The 77000 draw will be locked in 5 blocks. Eh, then the only way to be sure to get unique tickets is to wait until near the end and do random.  I'm torn. I like the rollover, but in order to make neutral EV bets you'd have to cover the whole field. I envision a few hundred bought, jackpot missed, someone(s) buy all tickets and monitor to remove dupes in order to pick up the free EV. I'm afraid it's going to go small, small, totally covered, small, small... instead of what I think you guys want which is a gradually growing pot.  I think the big lotteries combat this by throwing in $1M or something, or keeping a reserve jackpot. Maybe this:8% of every ticket goes into the JACKPOT which accumulates when not won.40% goes to match 3 if it happens, but gets distributed no matter what.25% goes to match 2 if it happens, but gets distributed no matter what.25% goes to match 1Now no unique ticket will be worth less than .9BTC even when there is no money in JACKPOT, but we will still get growing pots. I just think with the possibility of 50 or even 75% not getting paid, the tickets are a terrible deal when the pot is empty and it will be hard to bootstrap up again after each JACKPOT pays. I don't see the problem with someone making a little pi. Yeah, he seems like a good dude. It would be my fourth working computer, so I'm not necessarily a motivated buyer, but if I win it, escrow would be nice. Alright, looking forward to it. Check it out now, liquidity capital of the bitcoin world. That is much better with multiple shirts. Oh, right, I see now. I thought we were switching for later, no problem. That's just not true. And I don't mean it's a rounding issue from 98% to 100%.Almost everyone has a few things they'd like to do anonymously. The vast majority of Austrian economists aren't even anarchists. And there are plenty of people who don't trust their current government or current government's money without denouncing all governments in principle. You do see a high % of crypto-anarchists here right now because these are the most likely to seek it out and join when it's small.  I can't see why you can't put any address in the block. I'd be interested to hear if there is a reason you can't. I've been spamming refresh for days, but I guess some people have shit to do. ;-)There was rollover for this one, right? I don't see it. If I get one it's $23. At $7.66/200BTC that's not a deal compared to market rate, plus I don't get the benefit of not having to give out CC details or use PayPal or anything. And I can't tell all my friends "I bought this with BTC"Just some things to think about. I understand not wanting to take a large BTC position all at once, especially when you don't know if it would be 2 shirts or 20 or whatever. Have you used MtGox though? It's pretty easy to flip coins into PayPal. Yeah, I backed up at one point....80% of my coins are actually on sites I trust more than my computer atm....Here's the thing though. My security scenario is going to be "Spending cash" on my main frequently used computer, with no backup because I don't want to do it 5 times a day. My "Savings" is on another computer which will be backed up after every transaction. Oh, I could just use a BTCOUT from my savings computer. Eh, but I don't want to have to re-backup if I win like 11 coins.Maybe make it an option?  Interesting to send automatically for security. Leaving them in probably increases play on the next game though. Also it defeats the purpose of letting people change their BTCOUT. If my hard drive tanks while I'm out I don't want to come find that I won the lottery and the winnings are at my now unaccessible BTCOUT.   I'm looking at Bitcoin Watch data, is the winner 667? Here-WE-GO. Come on block 76775 hash's give me some love.
Very nice.Is shipping 1/3 off also? Sounds good. I like the every block 'pick 3' too. a.3   allow till lockb.3   everything, all the timec.2   empty the potd.1   1BTC for nowe.1   every 1k It's not that important, imo, but it should be written one way or the other. Just pick a way, it's all subject to change of course.Oh, I noticed a tiny thing. [ home] [ bet] [ draw details] [ account ] [ log out ] The spacing is off, missing the end space on home, bet, and draw details. It's like a joke, but less funny. I'd love to see some sample work. It'll be a while, but I hope to make some bitcoin sites eventually and I'll need logo help. When the first ticket is bought the pot is 1 so matching all 3 wins you .5 matching the rightmost 2 gets you .25 and matching the right digit gets you .25. To be accurate I should have reduced the odds on matching 1 and 2 because in order to win those prizes you have to also not match all 3.(1/4096 * .5) + ((1/256 - 1/4096) * .25) + ((1/16 - 1/256) * .25) = .015686 is the expected value of the first ticket.The formula for future tickets gets even more complicated because of the stair-stepping of dupes.The number of tickets with the same rightmost digit as the Nth ticket (including that ticket) is floor(x/16 + 1)Floor meaning the largest integer less than.so the whole formula for the value of the Nth ticket is:((1/4096) * (N/2)) / floor(N/4096 + 1) + ((1/256) * (N/4)) / (floor(N/256 + 1)) + ((1/16) *(N/4)) / (floor(N/16 + 1))Oh, and all the .25s should be .24s if you consider the bounty. My math is off because the winner doesn't get runner up prizes. This goes both ways though because when  someone else wins you'll get extra on all of your runner ups because he doesn't get a share. It changes things, but not the main idea. Okay, I am not saying that you are guaranteed to profit buy buying all empty tickets. I am saying that it has positive expected value.If I offer to flip a coin with you and pay you $10 and heads and take $1 from you on tails you will on average profit by $4.5 per flip. You will never actually win $4.5 in a flip, that is just the probability weighted average of the outcomes. The exact odds of having a losing streak of 100 flips, or of being down after 17 flips or whatever is not important here.The "problem" with this is not that buying all the empties is profitable, it is that buying a few tickets in a mostly empty field is very unprofitable. The easiest way to fix this is to make sure all money is awarded each draw (or with a sudden death, which sounds fun). I know it kills the growing jackpot though, which would be fun to have. Guys, I've been talking to the Zeitgeist people and they make a lot of sense. The machine is already there, and water and power should obviously be free so I don't think this Bitcoin thing is a good idea. I'm well aware of the math involved in splitting pots, that does happen in poker. Look, I can work out the numbers, but it's a pain so I simplified to a winner take all lottery.When you buy the first ticket you have a (1/4096 * .5) + (1/256 * .25) + (1/16 * .25) = 0.016723633When someone buys a second ticket it is worth (1/4096 * 1) + (1/256 * .5) + (1/16 * .5) = 0.033447266Once there is one ticket on every number (1/4096 * 2048) + (1/256 * 1024)/16 + (1/16 * 1024)/256 = 1Now if someone buys a duplicate that doesn't match your ticket in the rightmost digit:(1/4096 * 2048.5) + (1/256 * 1024.25)/16 + (1/16 * 1024.25)/256 = 1.000244141And now we have positive expected value. Each ticket now has that much value, so the order doesn't matter. But people may still be wary of buying the first very low value tickets. I'm not saying they won't find other reasons to do it, but they are essentially donating value to future draws. I absolutely agree.A fun/connected/interesting group will tend to attract new people so we should try to be like that, but I think that is just a little noise compared to the fundamental value Bitcdoin brings. IOW, even if you all were super douchebags, I'd still be here. There is lots to think about here. Don't forget that showing number of dupes keeps operator from claiming there was a dupe on a winner when there wasn't. Of course you could release that after the lock. Well, you can cancel as long as people can place, so you just have to be quick.Obviously it isn't profitable every time. Is simply positive expected value. Sorry, I don't bother saying expected anymore since I play and post about poker all day. The variance all evens out and the expectation is all that remains after a few decades or whatever.So, yes, you are still gambling, it's just that you can do it with an edge instead of paying an edge. It isn't some magic about covering all numbers either. Every ticket you buy is a better value than the last. The first ticket gets you 1/4096 of winning 1BTC the second is twice as good a value, it gets you a 1/4096 chance at winning 2BTC! Sorry, I was not clear. You bet on uncovered numbers and profit from when people duplicate each other. If someone lands on you, you take your bet down. Bet every uncovered number. Your profit comes from other peoples duplicates. I've still got a few days to throw some more down ;-)I just noticed you can buy 10kBTC on MtGox and only move the price 2%. Sick market. These chickens, they had lots of sentimental value to me. Totally.A lottery with 1 person buying 1 ticket is boring no matter what.I'm just saying that from the perspective of early ticket buyers it's a pretty terrible deal. For simplicity pretend it is winner take all. You buy a ticket for 1BTC that has a 1/4096 chance of getting you like 1 or 20 or 100 or even 1000BTC, it's not anywhere near even money. Now this just means that money will probably roll over making future draws more attractive. As long as you have an ample supply of people buying when it's a terrible deal, there's no problem because once they get it started it turns out not to be a bad deal. I'm just mentioning the possibility of everyone saying, "eh, I'll wait to see if this is going to get big at all". Now with the ability to unbuy tickets like you have it is less of a commitment so maybe people will say "I'll grab some numbers now and just cancel if it seems too small" then other people see it is growing and 'ta-da' we have a good pot.These are just some thoughts, all that really matters is what people actually like. And that is hard for me to guess.Thanks for the 150, I'm totally going to win it. :-)
I guess in my excitement I didn't ever worry about how bad of a deal buying the first tickets is. When there is no pot you are essentially buying a small chance of getting your money back or less. That's fine right now when we buy tickets out of novelty and lack of alternatives, but it will wear off. This leads me to think we need to return all or almost all of the money to users each time. Maybe hold back ~5% each time and let that accumulate or something.So until I change my mind again (coming soon) I'm in the "pay it all out" camp. This should still cause pots to grow over time since winners will throw back in, and stories of great bit-riches will get spread around. Okay, gotcha. The idea that some money has already been taxed, and that some hasn't irritates me. It's all taxed over and over and over and there is no realistic way to ever tell how many times. Not to mention it's fungible shit. If I ever get into breaking and entering, I'm going to swap the "after tax dollars" in their underwear drawer for my "before tax dollars". Ha! They'll never even know! Yeah, a million recommendations is worth nothing if no one you trust trusts anyone in their group. I think a thing that would need to be learned is that while you may trust someone enough to do business or more with them you can't necessarily trust their judgement.  Can you find a coherent definition of before and after tax dollars? Cool, I'm done being a jackass. I like. Okay, I'm not worried anymore. I guess we do lose that building excitement factor. Now I don't know what I like. I'll think a while.That last thing you suggested is a bit complicated, I'll read it again, but you don't want to put people off with overly intricate rules. (Maybe I'm just slow too, I'll reread) That's a pretty good idea, I think I prefer it to the rollover. I've discussed this with my team of lawyers. They conclude the US gov will have to stop issuing paper FRNs in order to comply with KYC. Laws don't stop the behaviors they make illegal, they give legitimacy to powerful people to hurt others. They stop Bitcoin like they can stop weed. They can't. Cool. Still not interested in buying electronics from the dummy writing site. Is it supposed to be functional or is it just a click farm? It is fairly attractive I guess. from the link:LOREM IPSUM DOLOR SIT AMETExcepteur sint occaecat cupidatat non proidentLorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipisicing elit, sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam, quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi ut aliquip ex ea commodo consequat. Duis aute irure dolor in reprehenderit in voluptate velit esse cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur. Excepteur sint occaecat cupidatat non proident, sunt in culpa qui officia deserunt mollit anim id est laborum I don't know how much various actions hit your server. Maybe before going to 4^16 bet space you could do 2-5BTC tickets, that would keep the number of tickets in your database low, while still being affordable for pretty much anyone to buy a few.I think 2-5% to charity is good, and I prefer cycling through the best ones as opposed to choosing less and less worth ones over time (like someones blog).I like a draw every 1000. You could make it longer when there is no rollover. Tickets are a better deal when there is more in the pot, so it will attract bets faster when there is seed money. It might make sense to let it grow for longer whenever it starts from zero.It could be synced up next time to go at block 78000 then every 1000 from there, but go 2000 if the pot was emptied out after last draw.I'm a bit confused. Why do you say it isn't secured properly? Isn't that kind of an important thing to fix? Okay, I understand and agree that that's how most people think. I predict that people who refuse to think about currency are going to get bit hard this decade, but that's for a different thread.Concerning technical details. Do people take fees for block generation? Do you run some nodes? With bitcoin the people who could potentially double spend have the option of being honest and getting paid a crapton of BTC. How will you prevent someone from building a longer chain? It's looking so good!I'm getting excited for the first draw. 600 blocks to go if we average 9/hr from here out that's only 3 days!The faucet is a good idea. I think we should do MtGox on a big one, or for several or something. A tight market is pretty much the most important thing for bitcoin right now. And we're only getting it because he wrote good code and takes PayPal risk for no profit right now.  Do you feel badly when ever the exchange rate moves against a trading partner? You buy a french hen from a french firm who prices in EUR, you have USD, they take dollars at an agreed on exchange rate, before they convert the rate moves. Do you feel badly? If the rate moves in their favor do you think they should feel badly? It's a currency, people will agree on rates, those rates will change, no one should feel badly for fulfilling an agreement.I guess you win because the question is what people will think and if you think it, then you are right, some people think it. I mean if I trusted that the Fed would maintain the value of the dollar then I'd still have to trust you. I don't even trust that the dollar you are going to peg it to is going to hold value.Regardless, I think it would be interesting to watch. Oh, what a bold title.Auction closed.Or maybe just reposting with a lower minimum? Come on, this is like taking the vowels out of the names of G_D. It is what it is regardless of what people say. You're going to censor the board of references to bitcoin as money? So that later you can point to the fact that you tried to cover up the fact that it's a money? If it isn't a money, then just demonstrate that when you get hauled off. If you can't then showing where you tried to get everyone to hide the fact is not going to mean thing. If anything, you'll get conspiracy charges added. Good grief. I think bitcoin once widely adopted would be the absolute best currency ever. And if someone invents a way to transmit physical gold through the internet I will sell all bitcoins immediately. Gold would then be such an insanely good currency, it just blows my mind.
We all charge a fee of .01 for transfers less than .01 right now. Not that that changes the issue fundamentally, just stating it. You mean when you lose wallet.dat you should still have your coins? He would have been fine if he didn't erase his HD. Oh, 1btc is small enough imo. If you go much lower than a nickel I won't get excited ;-)If the value of BTC increases by a lot then obviously revisit the issue. You could even have different size drawings occasionally. Though I suppose it would get weird with the rollover pools and whatnot. Yes, it is 'unlikely' because he only has 20%. According to my (very suspect) calculations freezing 2 blocks before gives him a 4% chance. So it's not like something he can just do and it'll work, but if he tried all year he might get it to work once. I'm just saying freezing an hour before isn't unreasonable and that makes it more like .0064% instead of 4%. And this will be reduced even more in the future by the dispersion hashing power. I'm very impressed by the speedy improvements.The claiming a duplicate is a pretty easy fraud still. Maybe just put the number purchased in parens after the ticket number if it is not 1.Another thing:ArtForz may have up to 20% of the power which means he would be able to know the winner 2 blocks before about 4% of the time. As other people get good code for GPUs it'll be less of a threat. I don't have any reason to think he'd do this, just trying to help make it robust. Making it 5 blocks would be pretty solid vs 20% power. In case it's not clear I'm suggesting he could solve 76774, not release, work on the 76775 early, learn the winner, bet, then release both 76774 and 76775 and win. Wait, even if 76774 is solved while he's working, if he gets a 76775 based on his 76774 then when he releases them it will be longest and accepted. So does he get it 20% or 4%? Either way, not so secure.Edit: if bets are locked when you hit 76773 then an attacker needs to build a 76773 also, that makes it 4%. Tiny transaction fees will stop a flood attack. Erm, I guess a flooder is in no hurry and as long as someone eventually does them for free, large blocks will be created. Married with child, happy with some things, enraged by others. 20-30yo, has penis, lives on island. Cool, I guess I'll see how much my wife wants it. It's such a long auction, I'm not going to bid until it's closer. Value fluctuations and all.  Yeah. During the overflow crisis I was thinking how there are two separate parts to Bitcoin. There is the "community agreement" on the rules and such and there is the software that we expect to enforce them for us. As long as the agreement part is strong we can handle temporary coding problems. And I have every reason to think that it will stay strong since a change without near consensus wrecks the thing for nearly everyone which makes getting any kind of support for a fundamental change that isn't super obviously best nearly impossible (I'm talking about like changing the coin value of a generate or something). If you share a number you share prizes. I've been making sure my bets add coverage to make sure they are unique. Of course they could get stepped on afterwards, so I'm not really safe.I realized also that you need to make the list of tickets public, it's the only way to be sure the operator isn't adding tickets after the draw. Being a huge company they are often slow. But that's a terrible example. Affiliate are a curse on poker. I clicked a bad affiliate link 6 years ago so I can't get the same rake back as most people on FT. I get excellent rakeback on PS with no affiliate. The fact that they don't call it rakeback doesn't make it spend any less well. I get over 40%, you are not going to get that without large volume though. Which is totally reasonable and fair, it's just like buying at Costco or from a wholesaler. I was thinking about options, not for 10 years, but more like 10 days. Maybe moving longer out over time.They could go both ways, people who want to lock in a row rate in case value skyrockets and people who need to hold a bunch for some reason mitigating their risk with a guaranteed floor. Ensuring the worthiness of counter-parties is probably the biggest issue. I don't really want to deposit with Bitcoin as much as play with bitcoins. And I'd rather do it on a site that doesn't insist on collecting all the info that these sites do.If someone does want to deposit with bitcoin to PS I can facilitate that now. Yeah, I don't have any hate. I try to say in every post in this thread that I appreciate people who make sites that take bitcoin. But if we don't let people know what we find bothersome and unpleasant then the world will be unpleasant for us. Maybe it will anyway. Yeah, T&C are bullshit. I mean are you really giving me an ultimatum? Don't you even want to put in a text box for a counter offer of terms? Does this need to be this way?If someone said "Please don't use up my bandwidth by hotlinging images, there is no way I'd ignore that." And if someone ignores you does it really matter if it was in the T&C? Are we going to court now?I'm sure you just used T&C because it's common, so I don't mean to blast you. But it would be awesome to do buisness with people who do it differently.All that said, do you ever hold funds or are payments handled by the parties directly? I think that's good. It just occured to me that you could have an optional password to allow someone to change their BTCOUT. Or even three options! No change allowed, change with passphrase and original BTCOUT, change with original BTCOUT only. It lets the user choose their level of security from error vs security from attack. Maybe it's awkward or too much work, I dunno. That is what I was thinking when I wrote that post, but now I realize that if the user lost a wallet, perhaps because they thought it was empty because it was, they would lose their eventual winnings because they no longer control that address.I don't see a way to recover accounts. How would you even do it manually? Trust whoever PMs you? Oh, I guess you could be fairly sure if they knew the address, but needed to change it because they no longer controlled it. But if they forget it all together (whole computer dead)? It is called the TAABL though, so I guess you can sacrifice forgetful user friendliness to maintain ease and anonymity?Or maybe there is a solution I cannot conceive of. The new look is great!How can you mess up on register? If you put in a bad BTCOUT? Can you do the parity test or whatever to verify that the BTCOUT is a valid address? What else mattes? If they accidentally give you their grandmother's address I guess she gets the winnings.
Wow, thanks Hugolp.To clarify, a super node does the same thing as a regular, but with more antenna power and more max connections?Can a network of only regular nodes work okay?Did they really used to sell that thing for $40? I've seen this mentioned before so it's not my idea, but I definitely agree with it.It makes zero sense from a global perspective to have multiple Bitcoinesqe currencies. Each will be weaker than their combination would be. A small government could blast us away right now, or a medium sized corp for that matter. If all honest people work on the same currency we will be much stronger than if we are split.But no one is looking out for the global benefit. On the individual side of things it makes no sense to start accepting a currency with all the same features as Bitcoin, but none of the places to spend or exchange. Bitcoin is transitioning right now from a great idea to an actual community and economy which will make it really useful. It has taken about a year to get this far, and a new currency would have the disadvantage of not getting the help of people already in Bitcoin's orbit. Additionally, a rational actor comparing two systems with the same features, one with huge backing and the other brand new, will always choose the widely used one.Now if the new version has some totally great new features then that's a different story. But a new name and different generation rate probably isn't going to do it.  So we do have your permission to link to our auctions? Those are "main pages"? Well, yeah, that's what I'd need to do, but since I'd have to buy/beg it from someone who can implement I'd prefer to have the main client just be what I want. Also I'd stay more comfortable with bitcoin on the whole if other people don't have a centrally controlled client. I know I could convince them to use a non-special-key version, but really that's what I'm doing right now.Messages only is not a big deal, but I think it does start down a "special user" path that I'd prefer not to follow. If someone does something bad with dollars (unrealistic I know) does this taint dollars? If the people you are associating with hold a double standard that extreme just stop associating with them. The number of people prepared to do force on you for ignoring them is smaller than you think.The idea that using a currency corrupt to it's core is totally fine, but using a better currency is bad because one time a bad person did a bad thing with it is ridiculous. I'm not saying you hold that view, just saying again that people who espouse it should not be listened too.I'll write more about my thoughts on your general point in a minute. If the team that is engineering the devices does it well enough then networks can spontaneously start anywhere where enough friends live close, then it can grow through acquaintances or even just a for profit who resells them saying "there's a good network of them between 5th st. and Riverside dr. or whatever. I can't remember if I made an account or not. Oh, wait I did; I made a bid even. If I delete it can I regain my linking freedom? I hate to bitch about someone who's obviously doing great service for bitcoin, but rejecting that kind of controlling crap is why I'm here at all.  I cut back to one machine when the difficulty rose. I just made my first block at the new difficulty w/ 2500khash. Should this move to the marketplace?Is there escrow? This is way to big to just send to a stranger with no rep at all.  Is he for real?!Can you link me to the terms so I can verify that craziness? No! If you do that they'll torture you until you give them the key Satoshi!But seriously, if the key has turn off power I'm not running that client. I really don't even like the idea of one person having ability to send messages. Even if I/we trust that person now, we might not later, or it might be a different person, or they might get tortured/bribed/blackmailed. I imagine this thinking comes from seeing all the people who haven't switched to 3.10 yet? Having enough different implementations that none is a majority would mean a bug like the overflow would only lead to problems with the improperly coded client and not with the whole chain. Unless people writing new clients mostly copied your code, then any problems would remain. But if they were written from scratch to do what they should then any problems would not overlap.Do I remember you saying you thought it would be a nightmare to have multiple implementations? I can't remember why you said that though. Just started reading, looks very good. To be clear, I think it's good how it is. I was just trying to understand what jgarzik wanted and why. If you use a new address of each ticket you have the same anonymity as the link generating way, right?I get what you mean about encouraging repeated use, I already did that. But anyone who really cares can just keep track of many addresses instead of many links. Ah, that is a no log-in solution. What is the downside to the easy log-in he has now? Haha thanks.  How would you see which tickets you had previously bought? Or cancel them?The login is only a return address. It's the easiest login possible.  It would be good to a permanent link bar somewhere so people can easy navigate between rules, buy tickets, make a deposit, etc. That's great! I'm buying a few more. It is a nice market. I definitely think he needs rewarded though. Maybe a bounty/gift to set the code free? If he's interested.23k BTC traded in the last 24hrs!
Wow, throughput, did you ask google why?Because it looks like they did it.http://www.google.com/search?q=google+search+info&hl=en&prmdo=1&tbs=rltm:1&source=lnt&sa=X&ei=8wNxTKaTIYL6swP9pbmPCw&ved=0CAcQpwU#hl=en&prmdo=1&tbs=rltm%3A1&q=bitcoin&aq=f&aqi=g10&aql=&oq=&gs_rfai=&pbx=1&fp=a602d8652b4f7ca It's worse than 1 in a million to hit all five. 5^16 = 1048576After 600,000 entries it'll still be worse than 50% to have hit. I think it'll be more fun if the jackpot can be expected to hit more than once a decade. I propose50% of the total pool for 3 perfect hits (1 in 4096)25% of the total pool for 2 rightmost hits (1 in 256)25% of the total pool for 1 rightmost hit (1 in 16)Any money not paid goes into the total pool for the next drawing.So if for example 4096 people each did a different number we'd have 1 winner for 2048BTC15 people who hit 2 for 68.26BTC each240 people who hit 1 for 4.26BTC eachThat seems roughly appropriate.If you really want to stick with the 1 in a million lottery, do not trap tons of money that can only be won by matching all 5, keep it all in one pool. And a way to buy X distinct random tickets would help let it be won inside of a year, maybe. At least people could throw down 200 tickets on impulse instead of having to type them all out, or even click a buy random 200 times.  Laundering always seems like the strangest way to describe a crime. I mean I get it, but connotation wise it just doesn't sound that bad at all."Yeah, the money was dirty so we cleaned it up a bit. It's freshly laundered now." It sounds like you did your chores! I'd measure it by the number of hamburgers they'll pay for a coin ;-) I really want to know where to see what would have won block 73000. Same issue? How do they pay it? How to avoid a chargeback?Pecunix has no chargebacks, right? Someone could run a market that held a balance in BTC and GAU to avoid constant Pecunix fees from day traders. Maybe MtGox would even set that up eventually. Hey! Volume data! Sounds very nice zooko. Keep us updated. I expect to feel dumb for investing only a number with two zeros. ;-) Feature, imo  I made a third account and it gave the 2 referrers the correct amounts. Can't tell about the random bit of course. Agreed, It's pretty much kickass awesome.I donate whenever i have to cycle through PayPal. I must hit over 100 pages a day though, ads should be worth something over there. Not that I want to see ads, maybe I'd pay to get them taken off. Unless they were varied, useful bitcoin related ads. How is leaving after first generation an attack? I was thinking about how you could start a network in a local area. If a person was willing to front a few dozen they could raffle them off at a county fair or something and distribute purchase info for losers. You'd be guaranteed the bones of a network if you got the right number/area.I wonder how fax machines caught on. If I was the inventor or producer I think I'd ship out a dozen units to each fortune 500 company to jump start it. This might just be semantics. But I'd say that the "pre-existing value" was the expectation of some people that it would be a good money.  I think .5 random, .25 to direct referrer, .13 to referrers referrer, .06 next, .03, .02,.01If the chain doesn't go that deep, give it all excess to the first in chain. Does that make sense to do? All the "have nots" have to do is find one thing that one "have" wants and exchange. Unless you are suggesting that everyone with coins will keep them all no matter what is offered, which is just not true. Or maybe before buying a used book every single bitcoin owner will verify that they are in fact trading with someone who already has bitcoins and not letting one of those dirty "have nots" into the club. A very silly thing to worry about.Will some people have more bitcoins than others? Absolutely. That's the point. People who provide more of what people want are rewarded. If someone invented water powered, flying, swimming cars. Even the most recently produced normal car would be an "old car" :-) http://www.bitcoinwatch.com/Daily total transfers and market prices. Nice. I wanted to, but I don't have any relationship with him, and didn't want first contact to be about bitcoin and seem spammy.
Pff, there was money before them and there will be money after they're done. When I try to make another account it says "user already exists" even though I use a new name and email. I guess it's the cookie? How to get a free bitcoin!? I think it's fine now, whatever you did fixed it. Now the ref link just takes me to my own account normally. Fixed! PM coming  Do you know if Steph is aware of Bitcoin yet?I owe him billions in donations. Okay, sorry, I shouldn't have described it like that. Here's what I actually get. That is not my bitcoin address. But I am logged in to MY ACCOUNT (19) because I was able to change my password. It is not harder to trade if LETS are worth more unless there is some divisibility issue. Imagine this even! Instead of one crazy old man peddling bullion and cars there is a whole stream of them. Every time before they leave they distribute the LETS back to everyone in whatever eccentric randomish method the man wants. There won't be a decrease in the money supply, but having tons of bullion and cars up for sale in LETS will surely increase their value (just in case, I'm going to say each man brings 3x the number off goods as were previously in the LETS economy). In this case there is not less money, but it is worth more. Is it still a problem? When I click a referral link while already logged in it takes me to a new password page. Not sure what should happen, just letting you know. Nice. I shouldn't even have assumed he did it. I know there are lots of people here with skills. Maybe we could call it "old money" instead of "real money" ;-) I move to town, mow a few lawns, take a few credits, move away or die. And people are hurt?What if I sell them all bullion and fancy cars and then move or die or hoard?A positive balance means that you have on balance helped people, zero is neutral, and negative means you owe. It is not bad to be owed favors or services or items and not cash them in. Did we get luck or is there a secret pager number that alerts Satoshi to emergencies  I don't think we use words in remotely the same way. Impossible things have never been done. Hiring a boy to mow your lawn illegally has definitely been done. Does Bitcoin own anything? How would I even tell? So appearing on the Bitcoin wiki is promotion by Bitcoin or not?  The employee and employer have some agreement. It doesn't concern me whatever they decide to do. It would be wierd if 'dollars' told them what they could agree to. Likewise it would be odd if LETS told someone what agreements they could make concerning how many LETS were owed. I mean what happens anyway?I tell a guy that if he mows my lawn I'll give him 10 LETS, but that if he doesn't mind waiting to get paid till next month I can give him 11. How does LETS stop me form offering to 'borrow' LETS at interest (over 100% APR even)? That's odd, I got the article when I clicked. I imagine it's at least theoretically possible to move the data needed through email. Others can better tell you if it's practical. Using services like MyBitCoin and BitMail can help people who aren't savvy enough to download a program. I think it's a good comparison and nice to understand the differences.I didn't realize "no interest" was integral to LETS. It's pretty silly to tell people that they can't value work now more highly than work in the future.  I think not. I think that when a client considers a block bad it gets the transactions that were in it and rebroadcasts them or puts them in a block themselves. I can't get into my account. Can you confirm that this is because I have brain damage and remember giving a password that I did not give? I gave an email right, can I reset?I am account 19.
Just to reduce the variance so that you can get 1BTC/day instead of 50 every 7 weeks. If there was an easy and secure way I guess I'd be a little interested. Ah, okay. I forgot about the other methods because I don't use them. Maybe I should look into them. Isn't the charge back risk just in a different place on the two markets?A market with a non-PayPal USD deposit method would be nice. I think it means one of those newfangled hypertextual links for connecting internet pages to one another ;-) cool. Ah, I'm 19!I was going to make another because I didn't use a referral link for anyone. I guess that doesn't matter since I'd be choosing randomly anyway. Am I too late? I'll do it now.edit:I sent 1. My sponsor is now 18. active:noJust waiting for it to clear, right? IF people with a stake in BTC generate to keep the system going THEN fees will be low enough not to be an incentive themselves. ELSE fees will rise until fees are an adequate incentive.http://www.bitcoin.org/wiki/doku.php?id=transaction_fee I responded to the post that thought that all coins were lost if the network split. That's right. It is under 21M because amounts less than .00000001 get rounded away. You could use bitlist or bidding pond. Yeah, I don't know where he got that from.3.75M BTC have been "released" The "marginal bitcoin" is trading for about 7 cents right now. I don't really know if it's useful to multiply those numbers together, but if you do you don't get $1.38M anyway. Has anyone received silver? How long did it take? That doesn't appear to be volume data. Does your payout depend on the action on both sides when you bet or the balance of action at the time of closing? Sorry, I'm thick. It's time of wager, right? What about when betting starts and there is nothing yet bet on either side? What are the odds? Even better would be a list of all trades in the last 24 hours (or ever). Sorry, slightly of topic, didn't want a whole new thread.Does ignoring work on this forum? It doesn't for me.I just realized it was ignore PMs. Is there a general ignore function? Yeah, I went over there and it was ridiculous. Why did you think they'd be interested? They hate money, not just the way money is now. It would be just terrible if people realized there was a way to post messages to the internet.   Oh, sorry to assume. It just seemed like a lot of things running. But still my understanding is that Bitcoin is supposed to throttle down automatically, but it often doesn't for me, so I do like I said. I don't think it's much like LETS. The main difference being that with LETS you can go negative without even finding a lender. I believe the total number of credits is always zero. This is weak because people can get negative balances and stop using. Also afaik LETS always has a central bookkeeper. These are very large differences. Can a currency be fiat without a central issuer? I really don't know. I also don't know if legal tender laws are a necessary or coincidental property of fiat. I think all fiat has had legal tender laws though. I mean if people are going to choose to use it without legal tender laws, then it must be a thing they want, which implies it's a commodity, right?I say bitcoin is a commodity currency. 
You have multiple cores I guess? I just change affinity in task manager to keep 2 cores not working on bitcoin, I never slowdown now. Fed can only bribe w/ dollars, but we have bitcoins.  But seriously, freedom is not giving extra to your masters. I'm in for testing for sure. Keep us updated. Something like C:\Users\[Your User Account]\AppData\Roaming\BitcoinThen delete the two files that start with blk. Should be blkindex and blk0001. Nice. I posted the mesh potato in other topics a few days ago.If bitcoin stays small and bad internet stuff happens I guess it could get split, but if it gets any kind of size and distribution it'll ust be impossible to keep us apart (at least many of us, for very long). This offers the same anonymity as using a new address each time? And you would still want to use a new address each time if you care because eventually you will be revealing yourself. There are surely better ways. It depends on what his goal is though. If you want to cap total exposure, then do that and tell people "Sorry, full up" If you want to keep bets balanced on both sides, just close the lagging side. OR spread a market and let the rate fluctuate and people bet with each other. It sounds like it'll be tough to compete with someone who has freedom. Not a bitcoin issue, go talk to Europe.Oh, I see, since we will probably actually use that decimal place. Yeah, use a damn comma, Europe. This thread is depressing. I am a newb. Why isn't this info created at the same time as the program? Why can't Satoshi just rattle it off?  The Bitcoin community hopes that it will generally remain free of intervention, perhaps with your support in the future.Or even better:The Bitcoin community hopes to generally remain free of intervention, perhaps with your support in the future.   Some people just don't know where they aren't welcome, Jeez...j/k what happens when you log in once you are at the econ page? Have you tried it with a different account? The whole form of it is bad though because it's not a conditional thing. We hope to remain free weather their legal organization helps us or not. Sorry. I wasn't helping because I'm not interested in legal action. I'll do grammar action though. I was talking about this part mostly:"..the Bitcoin community have hopes that it will generally remains free of intervention" I did not know that. After Googling "when I googled it" I realize I am not alone. Not that people on the internet have a clue, one person "google'd" something. That is a truly awful sentence. I'm sure you are right to some extent, but don't forget about supply and future expectations of supply. There are about 3.5M available bitcoins. I don't know how many USD there are but it's more than a few orders of magnitude more. There is way way way more demand for $$ than BTC, but there is way more supply too is all I'm saying. Or it can be a verb, "If you like my work, bitcoin me." So, to get a handle on what you are looking for:A simple private public key pair is no good because while one user belongs to each pair, many pairs can belong to one user. You want to make sure no one can have multiple identities? Here's the bar to beat cost wise. Hold everyone down at gunpoint, implant a heart monitor that explodes when removed and communicates with your server continuously. Look, if you tell people that you are going to be debasing the currency and that they can use it or not then that isn't stealing. So it's wrong to call the method in the OP stealing.But I don't want to invest into a system where my contribution is able to be watered down and given to everyone every year forever. It's also my guess that other producers won't want to get involved either.The people at the beginning are taking a risk, and they are the only reason the currency will have any value at all in the future. If people want to get involved by supplying more backing in exchange for an agreed upon amount of coin then they can, if not then they won't. It's my guess that they will, that's why I'm earning bitcoin by processing transactions and by supplying goods and cash. There is no guarantee that I am right and my various investments will pay. I am pretty confident judging my the growth of the community over the last month. There are people who were confident even earlier when it appeared even crazier and riskier, they will get paid more for the same investment.
I thought so, but still, some changes can be made. What is the change that solves this problem? New thread is good idea.If it has to be a raw material then you can't even include purified gold, which is a coherent definition, but not normal usage.My sense of the word commodity has strong emphasis on the homogeneous quality and fungibility and divisibility aspects. The "commodities markets" only sell the useful and common commodities, so absence from there means a thing is either not a commodity, or not useful, or not common, but doesn't tell which.  Really? Source? What? You can't make a gold coin out of gold only. You need equipment and energy too, and you cannot get those things back from the coin.AND you need equipment and energy to get gold out of the ground and you cannot get those back either. I don't think it's much of a risk. But it isn't aesthetically pleasing to me anyway. Not to mention that conversions like that ought be construed as offers, in which case I'd like to do some business. What if I had a factory and hired you as a consultant? Would you tell me avoiding costs altogether was the best thing? Many, many costs are worth it.Having a secure, open, P2P, pseudonymous, limited quantity money, is worth a ton. People who agree will pay the .001BTC or whatever to make a transaction if that's about what it ends up costing.   Thanks... Welcome, Willsway. 1. No2. Yes3. One month4. 5 (make that 6!)5. Fun and 'Profit' (don't know if it's actually profitable) You ignore all kinds of things that help solve this.Transaction fees will increase if blocks come more slowly because it will be more desirable to get your transactions in the next block.If an entity calculates that (fixed costs + variable costs < revenue) adjusted for risk the it is pretty unlikely that they will hit the (variable costs > revenue) easily at all and that is the shutdown point.These minters will usually have and use bitcoins themselves. This gives two extra incentives to operate at a "loss". They want their transactions to get processed, and they want to maintain bitcoin as a working system. Once you have enough to be concerned about you can make a 'savings account' and send it away and encrypt it. This is very easy to do with two machines, but certainly possible with one. Keep small every day money in the insecure wallet and larger savings in the encrypted one. You can decrypt, transfer, backup again, and re-encrypt to take money out of savings.I think making this easy and automated is on some todo list somewhere. I think that you are not understanding Bitcoin. It is not possible to get coins for free. You must do computational work which helps the system to be secure in order to get them.Also the coins will not stop being created for over 120 years.Yes, people will take things sometimes that they have not earned, why would you build a system specifically to benefit these people and harm those who are producing? Do you not think this will cause the producers to stay away? They will not stay away because they do not want to help people, they will stay away because they want to chose who to help. Giving coins to everyone every year has a practical problem also. How do you ensure that different people are actually different people? Will you set up a bureaucracy of identification? I suppose they will be paid with new coins as well? And perhaps an agency to police them, since they may abuse the power of creating money. Being important and powerful people they ought be selected democratically no? Alas, elections are not free. You should read about bitcoin and consider all that it accomplishes with no central point of failure or control. And also think of the fairness of everyone getting value for value provided. And the goodness of then being able to choose whom to help with that value, themselves, family, friends, or strangers. Well, okay. But you are just saying that if someone is willing to give enough money away they can change the price of something. I also agree that it probably won't diverge as quickly as it 'should' out of people's habit. If you can pay to hold parity for a generation you can probably hold it artificially and cheaply for a whole nother generation or longer.So.. we agree.The only variable would be how much does it cost. That commercial you describe could backfire. If bitcoin is known by 5 in a million in france and this would mean The Socialist would have to spend 10k to hold parity for a year and now bitcoin and zitcoin is known by even 50k in a million it will cost much much more even if most don't care about holding bitcoin, 1% of those would still be a huge increase in holding interest.But anyway, there is obviously some amount of money that would be enough, and figuring out what is would be silly.So, yes. If you pay people to use something they will use more than they would otherwise. Even something called zitcoin. Okay, why do you say only initially at parity? If you ever lose parity people will have reason not to hold zitcoins even for a short period. I'm confused as to how you are going to do that anyway. You are going to start with a hoard of BTC and zitcoin I guess or only zitcoin? Then you promise that you will buy zitcoin back 1 to 1 if people give you bitcoin for them? Or you sell them for $ cheaper than bitcoin with the promise of redeption for bitcoin?I'm trying to understand. Who buys the first zitcoin? Why would they buy it at parity? That's neat that you can compare them. Will you share with us how profitable each will be? Gresham's law says that people will choose to spend bad money when merchants are required to accept both good and bad money. If the king says " All of the coins I minted are forever worth 1lb" then you will select your ugliest, most shaved coin to spend first. If the merchant balks, you take him to the king for his beheading.Gresham's law does not say that people will choose to accept a less good money of their own will.  If you don't force people to use it, won't this happen:1. Get free money from Galuel.2. Sell it, if it is worth anything at all.3. Put it somewhere where it won't be debased by 5% per year, like bitcoin.Regarding the symmetry point, I can see how symmetry in time might be ideal or pleasing, but the only way to start something is to break symmetry. Even your system is unfair to people who died in 1980. They got none at all. Yeah, just don't leave to much on your phone, just like you wouldn't leave too much cash in your physical pocket. It would have been good for me, but they seemed to come 12 hours late. You have a utity-o-meter? You are sure I get 0 utility from having bitcoins? Your meter is broken.
Cool. I also want to confirm that the 4 years is just an estimate, it is actually tied to block generation, correct? Block 210001 will be worth 25BTC regardless of when it is found. Yeah, if the new one was identical it would be vastly inferior because bitcoin is, as you say, already being used.If it was a little better maybe it would get adopted for some niche uses. Maybe it validates faster and some people really need that or something else.It would have to be way better to abandon bitcoin completely and quickly. But this isn't a bad thing, being allowed to stop using a currency if something better comes along is good.  Good.Slightly off topic since it should not go in the article.Insti, how does the halving of the reward work exactly? Is it rounded down if there isn't enough precision? In about 10*4 years there will be a reward of 0.048828125 BTC will it be rounded down to .04882812 BTC? Will this result in a limit strictly less than 21 million? I only understand it a little better once I translate it out of Catalan!Is it similar to the potato? But they have 10k users?! At first I thought it was a computer program, but then I saw a device.  Are you aware of this?http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=782.0Backups need to be continual (after every transaction) or they will not have all the required keys to get your coins. Imo, keeping your savings in a secure wallet used infrequently is best. Use a different wallet for everyday spending. I don't know if any of this should go into the article.Maybe just "The file wallet.dat holds the keys that allow you to spend your coins. If that file is compromised so is your balance."It isn't a paragraph, so I guess you should find somewhere else to stick it.Let me think about the second part for a bit. There is a way. 1. Create a MyBitcoin account.2. Use http://www.promoprintinggroup.com/shortrun.htm or similar to print scratch tickets with the account name and password.3. Distribute. Common or not it sounds terrible to me. Being similar to mybitcoin just makes it worse imo. I mean if you want a descriptive name how about "Bitcoin Manager" or "Bitcoin Control Panel" or "Bitcoin Browser" or "Bitcoin in Browser". Indeed. Please don't water down my wine or my money. A growing money system is great!Growing numbers is just arbitrary and does not grow the system. The system grows whenever more people accept bitcoin as payment. In a system where everyone can get money for nothing money is worth nothing. A system where some can get money for nothing is a system of slavery.In bitcoin no one is getting money for noting, you must help process transactions to get the new money and anyone who can do that can get the money.  http://www.linuxjournal.com/magazine/mesh-potato?page=0,0This sounds very cool. A small network would probably just freely forward all calls/data. But I bet bitcoin would be perfect for prioritizing and incentivizing call relaying.  I no longer need a stopwatch. Glad the thread is being used though.  Having value is just a way of saying people want it. I want it, I bet you wouldn't decline if I offered you some at $4/oz. And regarding inherent, would you rather have something with a little inherent value or more 'non-inherent' value whatever that is. It's a non-distinction.Banks that can't convince people of their solvency will just go out of business in a free banking world. Maybe there is no 100% fool proof way to know the bank isn't tricking you, but it's the same with hamburgers. You can't be 100% sure they didn't water it down with dog brain, but my burgers taste pretty damn good, and there are things you can do or insist that they do to make it better. Watchdog groups, audits, glass safes, <some creative solution I haven't invented>, etc.We don't really have these technologies because we have a law instead, but that doesn't mean it's impossible to design ways of proving and verifying things. The only way! Ha! If your crowd might be defensive about their gold you could add, "Bitcoin makes a great compliment to physical gold." Yes, I like it. My i7 laptop can only get 2500k   Maybe add this at the end:Specifying a new account is a one click process, and the new account will be integrated with your old accounts. You see one balance that includes all of your accounts, but others see many separate accounts.I overuse parens like crazy, but I don't think they're needed here ;-) Nice. I know I said 18 days, but my luck realy wasn't that bad. I was turning off one machine for a few hours a day, and probably lost a day and a half in addition from internet troubles. SO probably 15-16 full days, oh and I wasn't even at 4k for the first week of that or so because I didn't have the faster generator yet.edit: So you were quite a bit more unlucky than me. What you are calling accounts we call addresses. I don't know if it matters much, do you think accounts is clearer? I think it implies they might have to keep track of a bunch of accounts is they want privacy. Maybe the ease of creating and using many address should be mentioned. I mean it's beyond easy, so mentioning that it's easy makes it seems harder than it is.
My understanding is that it finds an address or addresses that have at least the number of coins you want to send and sends the change to a new address.So if he had addresses with 1000, 2000, 2500, and 3500. It would have selected one of them (the lowest one?) and sent 1 away and sent all but 1 back to a new address of his. In this case he would not lose them all, just the remainder of what was in that one address.It appears he had only 1 address with coins in it. This is probably because he got them all from the market in one go. If that is not the case, then I don't know why he would lose them all. How about "have the features" or "have the necessary features of money" instead?Since you put the 21 million number here I would remove it from the top. Leave the finite limit part up top, just take out the number. You don't want people to think the particular number is important and puzzle over it while they read. The curious will be satisfied down lower.Oh, "tantamount" struck me as being wrong word usage. I don't have a better phrasing yet. So I would replace that paragraph with something like:"Bitcoin differs from other types of money."and then put that list you've got there already. I know someone was saying this in another thread and I decided not to fight with them, but it's wrong imo.Bitcoin is a commodity. There is demand for it, it is qualitatively uniform, and it is fungible.So yeah, it isn't backed by a commodity, but it is a commodity. Gold isn't even backed by a commodity. That doesn't make any sense, it is the commodity. I'm not saying bitcoin = gold. Just that neither are backed by commodities, but both are commodities.<still reading the rest> Is there a max adjustment? Or just a minimum difficulty? Heh, I meant keep validity because it covers order in any case that order would be necessary.  The stats page shows 73621 and 73622 being very fast, but the ones you mention only kind of fast.I've gotten 3 blocks in the last 40 hours after not getting any for 18 days. 4000khash combined. Wait, so you don't care if the botnet steals cycles from a computer that was won in a sweepstakes because that isn't real? If villain replaces the whole chain with a new longer one all the normal folks generates will be gone, this means they'll all be gone and villain will have all the generates. This isn't rally possible now because like 65000 blocks are "locked in"None of this should go in the article. Looking good. How about changing to "if many auditors disagreed" since that would in fact be confusing and includes dishonesty implicitly.I'd kill the "Obviously" too. It's offensive to anyone who doesn't find it obvious and begs the question of why you bother saying it if it's so obvious. I'm not sure, but order and validity might be redundant. If you try to spend before receiving it's invalid anyway. And I don't see any other context in which order matters.    Do you plan to automate it with a website?I am very interested in a general bitcoin prediction market. One model I was considering for simplicity would be to have "contract creators" write terms and mark winners. So you create "New England to defeat New Orleans by 2 or more points" users make offers to buy or sell this contract based on who they expect to win just like offers at MTGOX or other exchange. You would easily get a reputation for marking the winners correctly and the payment would be automated. Other people could write political contracts or economic predictions or whatever. People who write crap like "I'll be happy on January 23rd" just won't get action.Anyway, sorry to hijack your thread, just wondering if you might be interested in something like that. I just realized you should be using address in most places that you used account. How about working on this to replace the last two paragraphs:By choosing to accept the longest chain as valid users do not have to trust any particular individual or organization. They need only trust that the total honest computing power is greater than any villain. However; a powerful, self interested villain is more likely to prefer to collect the large number of block generation rewards than to destroy the system. Right, but even that wouldn't be acomplished by putting in "false transactions" it would just not include all the 'legit' generate transactions and have all the generate transactions for itself. Okay, I guess those would be "false generate transactions". Absolutely agree.There is a difference between forking bitcoin and starting a new currency. I think both are 'moral' or whatever I just don't think there will be enough CPU power dumb enough to fork bitcoin. There very well could (certainly will?) eventually be a new currency system. Maybe it will be different enough to coexist by satisfying different needs, or maybe bitcoin will get blow away by something just totally better. As always, the first to realize what will work best get rewarded. It's getting very good. It's a lot of work.Regarding the bold: Is that really possible? They won't be correctly signed. The main forking attack is to remove transactions that you already made in order to double spend. Bitcoins are a commodity by almost any definition. They won't be mining at a loss. If the average cost per transaction is .00003BTC and the BIG BIT BANK charges .00007 there is a huge profit opportunity to charge .00006. If it actually costs about .00003 then you can't complain about being charged 'high fees'. Ugh, that's awful. Oh, that's no worry, if the transaction fees are huge it will just incentivize medium size players to move in and offer slightly lower rates. Being the biggest 'bank' because people are choosing to pay you for your services is way different than being the biggest bank by forcing everyone else out with laws and weapons. Oh, man. Why did you send the 1? Were you just testing to see how the backup worked? Why with so many coins?That sucks.
Not really.A group can only corrupt bitcoin if they are in control of so much that they would never want to. If Bernanke had personal income of half US GDP do you think he'd be willing to debase? Do you think the damage/inconvenience this would cause would make a strong incentive to just start a new chain with the different rules?I was thinking this is a nice thing about bitcoin. Only a majority is required for an attack, but you need even more than a simple majority for a smooth rule change (only for certain kinds of changes I realize). Even if you get 60% to say they'd prefer it to change, will they want it enough to work on a network 60% the size? If half of them won't give up that much then you've only got 30%. Not to mention the difficulty of gauging how much support you have before you actually try. "I'll switch and I have 20000khash!" Okay, add up all the claims... Do you routinely worry about tempting people to steal things? Should you feel badly when your company invents an awesome new product because people now have more incentive to steal money to buy it? This is ridiculous. Why is 'real' in all caps? You think money is only real if it has magic faces printed on it? If this victim was losing airline miles you would care less?How often have you worried about botnets in the past? Have you done anything about it? What about showing the one(?) address to which the change was sent? Is there a change address if change happens to be 0? Hopefully a good number of users will understand that using a "non-compatible with the current majority rules client" is going to result in a huge number of people making transactions that get delayed and generated coins disappearing which will damage the system's usefulness and the confidence of people in the system. The particular scenario you mention is unlikely I think. In 3 years individuals who don't understand won't be minting hardly anything. This is true, except maybe the part about the fours. I've had a few trades. The 15BTC/$1 rate is still good.  Why doesn't this show up in the client? Am I blind? "Closed listings" or "Completed Auctions" link below the "All listings" should be good. Maybe you'd need to change "All listings" to "All current listings" or something if you did that, though, to emphasize that everything in the "All listings" is still winnable. This is right. More fundamentally you are offering two different thing tied together. I'm sure some people would just straight up pay for ad space on the hugest billboard in bitcoinland. And a different, but overlapping group would like a lottery. I don't see the usefulness in combining them, though I may be missing something.I think it would be cool if purchased pixels filled the screen instead of blank ones. Like auto zoom over the purchased portion and as it fills everything will shrink, and you can manually zoom over what you want to see. One thing I just though about is that often these transactions are not symmetrical in the sense that if you ship me some coins and then I ship product I could have screwed you, but you never had a chance to hurt me. So when these are reported maybe it should be noted who was the actual trusted party and who was just at mercy.Also the rough size of the transaction is important. Fourteen successful transactions with various partners will make someone appear to be trustworthy, but if they were all <20BTC I don't want to ship first on a 3kBTC transaction. Definitely need to keep old auctions available to view. To show site activity is most important now, but it's also good for people to see what prices things are going for and what people are interested in. Fair enough. Anything that pushes up the value of bitcoin can only do it by actually adding backing (cash, cars, whatever) to bitcoin. So I say it's 'natural'. Quick, clear communication with Zero. Will trade again. I think it's the pixel thing is cool even without the lottery. I think you should just charge a little for space and kick back some every day or week or whatever. However you do it 100k is way too much to start with, both because you won't get it for years (or ever) and because of the trust thing. V for voluntary I tried it out for a bit. It seems good. Can we play for BTC eventually?  This was immediately in my mind.It's easier to 'artificially' drive the price up than down though, that's for sure. Well then where do they come from? If anyone can make them, then who polices the limit?That's what I think when I read that part. It might be counter intuitive, but you can actually decrease the spread and profit at the same time.It the spread is HIGH BID: .05 and LOW ASK: .06 and you place a BID of .052 and an ASK of .058 then you decrease the spread and profit by $.006 per coin. The risk is that only one of your offers is taken and the price moves away from your other one. Possibly leaving you either with BTC of $$ that you don't want, unless you are somehow indifferent.If you want to give money away to increase the value of BTC then just pick a floor at which to support BTC. Say coins can be sold for .061 right now, choose .07 as a floor and offer that until you are out of cash to burn. If you sell them back in you'll be undoing the manipulation that you did. I don't recommend this btw.The best thing you could do, imo, is provide whatever good or service you can in return for BTC.
I've never had a transaction not go in the next block, so doesn't that mean everyone is hearing of all transactions?  The computational operation is not preformed on each transaction. Usually there are hundreds of transactions involved in one block, and afaik, there don't need to be any.I'm not saying you should elaborate much, but you don't want to be inaccurate. Maybe say that new transactions go in the blocks. These two parts might appear to many to be a contradiction.I don't know if it fits in your article (or is even any good at all), but I was thinking of a telephone analogy.Imagine everyone can listen to all conversations, hardly private, right? But if they can only associate the call to two numbers and not to any person, you can still have privacy. However if someone is able to link you to your number (maybe you gave it to them previously) you lose your privacy. Privacy is restored by making a new number for each call.This would be a bad system for phone calls, but it works great for money.Someone else can confirm, but I think this is why they call it pseudonymous instead of anonymous. Well said. Buyer puts full amount in and seller puts 5% in, now it costs something. Oh, that does make sense.I see why they wouldn't put it in the client though, accidentally deleting the wrong addys would be expensive. There should be a hide this addy button though. I'm sure with a little knowhow you could modify the wallet file to forget them.  Is there really a need to do anything but hide them?  Oh, that is odd then, that would be like not finding one in over 500 hours, possible I guess, but getting out there The difficulty went up again just after 3.8 was out. I have not gotten any with 4000khash in about 15 days, so 90 minutes of 8000k doesn't mean much. I'm sure we'd know if 3.8 wasn't generating any blocks. More blocks in the chain help against a certain type of attack, but I think the current CPU power of the swarm is much more important. An attacker can work off of the whole current chain, so if he can catch up from just 1 block behind he can "rewrite history".   I think he just doesn't want to see it anymore. That could obviously be an option in a future client. My understanding is that you don't get any coins from the guy you pay. Your transaction simply involves you sending all of the coin from one of your address; some to the person you are paying and the rest to one of your addresses (change). You don't need to trust his payment.If you are trading with a trusted partner why can't you just pay when you get a machine? It does seem pretty steady lately. I think with volume so low compared to the total supply we are likely to get some swings for a while yet though. I'm not sure, but I think it's a future thing and/or just means lots of connections and connected CPUs for faster hashing. Why dose it say there are 31 users online? That can't be right. I will be offering Poker Stars money for bitcoins for a long time.Pokerstars.com has the best software, support, and game selection on the net. I've been playing there for years.Old offer (9/9): I buy Bitcoins with my Poker Stars at a rate of $.06/BTC Old offer (10/7): I buy Bitcoins with my Poker Stars at a rate of $.065/BTC Old offer (10/10): I buy Bitcoins with my Poker Stars at a rate of $.08/BTC Old offer (10/22): I buy Bitcoins with my Poker Stars at a rate of $.09/BTC Old offer (10/25): I buy Bitcoins with my Poker Stars at a rate of $.10/BTC Old offer (10/27): I buy Bitcoins with my Poker Stars at a rate of $.125/BTCOld offer (11/1): I buy Bitcoins with my Poker Stars at a rate of $.14/BTC Old offer (11/5): I buy Bitcoins with my Poker Stars at a rate of $.20/BTCOld offer (11/7): I buy Bitcoins with my Poker Stars at a rate of $.25/BTC Old offer (11/9): I buy Bitcoins with my Poker Stars at a rate of $.20/BTC Old offer (11/15): I buy Bitcoins with my Poker Stars at a rate of $.25/BTC Old offer (2/09): I buy Bitcoins with my Poker Stars at a rate of $.85/BTC Current offer (2/10): I buy Bitcoins with my Poker Stars at a rate of $1/BTC, up to $400. $5 minimum. That's odd. Are you set to be logged in forever?About once a day, usually at night the site just doesn't work for me. I'd say or about 2 minutes. Anyone else? I think it's a great idea for a separate service. The currency can be bitcoin or something else even. I think it's a great example of how public goods can be funded without coercion. I don't think bounties can provide every public good, so don't derail this thread trying to straw man me. I'm having trouble parsing that. You say agorists do think voting will work? Or just that this isn't a good enough distinguishing characteristic from libertarians? I agree that some libertarians don't believe voting is good if that's all you mean.  Well it sounds like someone needs a line of bitcredit. Do these companies give largish payments to you? Is it linear, or do you need large amounts of people to accept offers to get good revenue?Also it was misleading to me to read "fill out offers", you actually have to buy stuff for almost all of them. But you would get paid, right? You mean you don't have the money to bridge the cash flow gap? 
I don't think that's quite right. Most libs will vote and advocate for politicians to rule over us, they just want nicer, less intrusive ones.Agorists actually do live and let live and this will have the effect of "starving the beast". It is not aggressive to avoid aggressive people. Are the non voters out on the next day? That seems to be half of our players.   I just want to say, I've been trying to conjure USD in my basement for years. It was hard work, it was time wasted. I have generated no USD. So goodbye dollar  Hello, BTC.Money on Poker Stars available for bitcoins. Put things you want to buy with bitcoins in this thread.I want a used stopwatch that is good for running. Simple is best; Stop, start, clear.A picture or link to similar and an offer that includes shipping to Hawaii would be great.I know tons have people have one sitting in a drawer. Interesting, why would you want to sell it instead of taking the revenue stream? Or is it hard to find offers or something? I really don't know anything about this.On Chrome, the chat text box is slightly wider than the whole right panel which causes a small scrollbar to appear. I think it would look a lot better if the right panel was 25% wider. Did you know about this? You don't need to wait for it to get in a block to have way better certainty than PP or checks. Why is it crucial? One system doesn't have to be used for all needs. If interstellar money is needed people will choose whatever is best for that, same if people need their money in less than a second. Cool, do you think you'll expand to non-'junk' like eagles any time soon? Yeah, backed is if you promise to exchange all BTC for silver at a certain value. It's cool that you are trading, Will you ship to Hawaii at the listed price? Yeah, I don't mean to rush. First day should probably be the longest so we can see if we have everyone. Imaginary money? So we can pretend to give you bitcoins?I'm actually trying to learn some web programming now. I was thinking if I build anything to do with coins (you know cause it's real money) I'd need someone to hack me until it got secure. That'll be a ways down the road. I'll keep you in mind. What time is it? This day is dragging on and I think Quantumplation is hiding, lets just hang 'em already. I'm going to give mine to the first adequate, but if a better one comes out shortly after I'll throw more for sure. This is a nice exercise in what happens when you give free stuff away.Hint: People try to get the free stuff.I do think it's a nice idea, I'm not saying you shouldn't do it. It would be silly to sell 10k all at once in one market. MTGOX can absorb 6k above .05 right now.edit: I'm not criticizing your pricing at all though. People should keep in mind that a first offer ought not be the lowest offer unless you are in a hurry.  Is it better for me to work this hour or to take a break? Working might grow the economy, but that doesn't mean it's better. And there's no way to know if working this hour will even grow the economy more over a long time period than taking a break. If I work straight from this point until I collapse, short term growth will be larger, long term  will suffer very much.You could prop me up for a while by paying $100/hr, then $200/hr, eventually 10k/hr, then bust. Your goal ought not be too keep me working constantly, but to determine how much my labor is worth to you and offer no more than that. That gives me accurate info about how needed my work is and I'll determine the best amount to allocate.So no, more growth now is not always better. EVEN IF all you care about is growth, because of long term consequences of cramming growth into the current period. Can the fee rules be arbitrarily complicated? And is the size limit hard wired or completely up to the node? Does including more slow down your hashing rate?   Bondage is a fairly common fetish, afaik. Nice, I hadn't read the address wiki. I'm a newb, so I'm looking to have my thoughts fixed.This makes it sound like this "John is trying to spend 45, he has 50. Go for it John."Is that close to what is happening or is it more like this:John selects a coin which is actually a code of some sort and tells the coin where to go, possibly splitting it and sending some change back to himself. Other nodes check the code on that coin, they do not need to check all of John's coins.I'd like to know more about the connection between the code and the amount and how that can't be tricked. I guess this is what everyone knows? How much bitcoin is attached to each address/code? What's the right terminology?It's cool how it is like a trillion times easier to verify a valid block than to find one, that should get mentioned.I don't know if it's right to say a transaction is "sealed" after one block. I know it's very likely to be good if it gets in one, but "sealed" is strong.Maybe say how the client is programed to vote correctly automatically and most votes are near unanimous. Is there ever legitimate disagreement? I suppose when two valid versions are found at nearly the same time, any other way?
In this thread we will work out how bitcoin works and what are good ways of explaining it to normal people.In another thread Martin posted: Yeah, if the video says bitcoin could only be better if there was unlimited coin production I'm not paying. Could be, he doesn't seem to care much for the sun. I just wrote out some stuff and realized it would derail the thread. I'm going to PM you Martin, and maybe we should start a thread for hashing (not intended) out how best to explain this stuff (and how it works, heh) QuantumplationI saw those teeth. It's the opposite for poker. More amateurs is good for the pros ;-)If we could just find a way for the pros to do porn vs amateurs I think everyone would be happy. In for 100.My criteria is, Satoshi says "That's accurate". Link takes me to 3.7 You mean to say that playing poker at poker sites is not illegal in the US, right?Running one would not be legal, afaik.Do you play much online? Really? It seems to me more likely that a bunch of people left/crashed than a whole new network half the size of the legit one has gotten to you.I'm probably misunderstanding. Wait, it's not about getting free stuff? See ya.N/m, I'm back. Just made some free coin via my good friend Arbitrage. Bitcoin does not prevent fraud. It simply isn't a fraud itself. You can still lie and be lied to, tricked into payment for bad service, no service, etc.  Are you saying the FED creates money and the banks just help hand it out? I completely agree that separate "banks" are just office fronts of the FED.If you don't think the FED creates money then where does it come from at all? Anonymity is a possibility with Bitcoin, not a requirement. You can add all the verification you want before you lend.How's this for a scenario. I sell you a car and lend you 90% of the cost. The car comes with 2 key cards, one for you and one for me. Your card works as long as you send a payment through the key control program to be forwarded to me. If I don't get a payment, I go pick up my car. Imagine all the various possible lenders and their risk/reward desires and imagine all the potential borrowers with their various expected returns and risks. How do you decide which projects get the funds and which lenders lend?It's just like any other market fundamentally! If no one else is lending then you get to choose the absolute best project and get to charge as high a rate as the project can bear. You will make huge profits if there is even one single excellent project out there because it's all yours. You could even take the seven best projects! Of course this isn't going to last, these huge profits are going to entice other potential lenders. They may not want to take the 8th best project, they may offer a lower rate than you did so that they can get the most reliable project. You can move down to a less good project, or you can compete on the rate.This market will tend toward clearing where all the best X projects being charged roughly according to their riskiness and the Y most willing lenders having bid each other down on rates getting paid according to their risk appetites. This will leave projects in the wings waiting for someone to be willing to take a tad more risk, and investors in the wings waiting for someone to come up with a tad better project.To address the "growing the economy" points. If a project returns less than it takes in then it is not growing the economy. The way we know someone is doing something productive is if there exist people for whom the outputs of the project are more valuable than the inputs were to anyone else. If people value the ingredients of an apple pie more highly before they are put together then it is wrong to say you are growing the economy by baking pies. You might as well be damaging apples with a fork and reselling them. You are making resources less valuable if you are not turning a profit. Why can't you start working from the lockin? Ah, because you don't get the difficult set back to 1 that way. Cool. I guess you aren't seeing the transactions being redone because the accounts had no valid coins at all, right? This would be amazing. http://www.bitcoin.org/wiki/doku.php?id=transaction_fee This has information on the current fee schedule that the standard client uses.You are free to charge more or less, but right now since no one is sending more or less it wouldn't matter. Likewise you could modify your client to send a transaction that requires a fee with no fee or less fee, but no one will block it unless they have modified their client.I wonder is there a way to view transactions that are waiting because they do not have the associated fee? I realize there are probably none, but eventually that data would be useful for determining a custom fee schedule. I don't quite understand. Do you mean preparing some chain ahead of time then feeding in a bunch of blocks when you get a valid block?I doubt that's what you mean since the basic idea is that you can't work ahead because you need the hash from the previous block to start working ahead. How do you cheat time?
You can think of it like that if you want, but it's not a 'low risk'Driving around town is a low risk because you have a fatality rate of like 0.0000005. We're talking about a much smaller than .0000000000000000000000000000000000000000001 chance of losing the contents of one wallet. It's seriously dumb to call that a risk. It's on the scale of worrying about passing through your chair. This is interesting to me. What is most robust?1000 nodes all with 9 connections1000 nodes with 8 connections and one with 1000 connections1000 nodes with 8 connections and ten with 100 connectionsIf you only connect with nodes 'near' your node then having only a few seems like a problem. If it's totally distributed then I think having the connections distributed would be better, but I really don't know.Another thing to consider is how huge the profit opportunity will be if the network starts to get fractured. Everyone will want their transactions to get put in the next block for sure before an actual split and the fee will get bid up, this will give nodes incentive to make sure they can stay connected to those at risk and collect their fees. And thereby the network will not get split. I mean if a government ties down traffic they might actually run the nodes themselves for profit or some corrupt official who knows how to get away with it (n/m, no corruption in governments). No you aren't. Unless I misunderstand you want a minority of honest users to be able to stop a majority of thieving botneters. The system as it is right now protects the majority, you are advocating ending that. I'm sorry if I was unclear. I don't mean that you don't have to trust someone to build your client (unless you can do it yourself I guess). I'm talking about the protocol which is all peer based giving someone special power to send instructions. I realize it isn't something to worry about because it isn't going to happen, it would be a totally different project.Now if someone wants to build a client that checks for updates by pinging some central server, whatever, I might even use it. But it's important that anyone be on the same footing regarding building clients, no one gets to use to chain to send messages. Oahu.But I have lived in Asheville, NC, and may again. That's not so far from you guys. There really is love in this world for centralized points of failure and control. You want Satoshi to have special powers? That just raises his value as a target of force, blackmail, corruption, etc.If you want to trust people, by all means do it. But I'm looking for an alternative to centralization, that's why I'm here and running nodes. I won't run a node if I know it treats any other nodes as special. That post was deleted? I don't get why at all.  Interesting for sure. I don't think I need it right now, but I'll keep it in mind. I think there should be an "available balance" listed, but as it is there is no way to sell what you don't have the trade appears on your list as "not enough funds" and is not listed in the chart. I don't think that's what he means. The transaction will be made completely, but both will hold part of the key required to spend that money. If they are satisfied they ship the money to the appropriate person. There is not disputing with the block chain. They either work it out and use the code like everyone else does for all transactions, or they don't work it out and the money stays locked up. He took it down for repairs. It was fun, I hope it's back soon.Or if not, that someone else makes one. The chart does need improved. But what is actually happening is that the numbers are being rounded to different precisions for the dot placement and the cursor over display. If you bid .064 and .0641 they will show up in the same place and the same price displayed in cursor over box. If you bid .064 and .0643 they will now be in slightly different places, but the box will still show .064. It wouldn't really matter at all if you could get an exact list of offers. The chart gives a pretty good impression, the list would give you actual exact offers. You can always get the full precision of the lowest ask and highest bid in the trade tab. How do you know this? I was explicitly told otherwise. I'll check my source in a minute. You can give someone a wallet file. It is just that they couldn't verify the contents while offline, right? So it would be pretty much the same as a transfer. Are you saying volume is decreasing?The number of BTC traded on that exchange is decreasing. Assuming the $ is worth about what it was last month, the value of BTC traded is not really decreasing.And there is another market with increasing numbers of BTC traded. Thanks Cy,Looking forward to many more trades, with you and anyone. Right, Australia. I heard about that. iirc, if you never registered they don't even bother you and if you did they want you to claim illness or similar. to avoid the fine. Is that roughly the case?I also remember hearing a non-trivial % fouled their ballots and thinking that was pretty damning to the idea that people don't vote because they are lazy. Hundreds of thousands of people who were in booths weren't willing to sanction their masters.  Weird, why is there no copy to clipboard for the sending tab in the address book? If you just labeled the addresses with a name size and date then you could copy them out of there into a document that could be searched. Surely it's just an oversight that you can't copy them out. If Bitcoin takes off it will be interesting to see what similar systems are created. Approach the limit faster? slower? More frequent block generation? Whatever it is will have to overcome the head start Bitcoin has. It would have the advantage though of people being able to buy them with already established BTC instead of PayPal or such.However an alternative is implemented tough there is no reason to think it will have the same value as BTC. In fact if someone started an identical system it would probably have less value forever. I don't vote either. I think it's wrong. I don't want anyone to force me and I will absolutely not attempt to use government to force others to do what I want. That said, voting is like attacking someone with a toothpick, it's almost never going to matter.
Go for it man. If it's got features I'm interested in you bet I'll trade it and use it. Buying things is not dishonest, but that doesn't mean you'll be fine if certain third parties find out. What is the procedure for someone who borrows and does not return the currency? If there is to be any procedure at all then identity will have to be verified (presumably by some special authority).  For sure.   Woah, I didn't say hoarding was ridiculous. If you value your coins more than the highest offer of goods, services, or other currency, by all means you should keep them. But worrying that "Bitcoin is going to collapse because everyone is going to hold all their coins no matter what because they are absolutely guaranteed to increase in value." is ridiculous.  I promise you it isn't. I can extend credit in any currency I have to anyone I choose.It may seem this way because the money you happen to use is printed by one special organization, but that is not a property of all money. And even with central money I can extend credit up to the amount I have. If your client says 0/unconfirmed then afaik that means it knows that it needs to continue to be broadcast until it gets into a block. I don't know why it would take 2 hours though, maybe someone else knows. Do you normally only have 4 connections? I think the number of addresses is like 33^62 (26+26+10?) that's over 10^94. If a trillion people each have a trillion addresses that's 10^24. The odds of picking a taken addy even after all that is so vanishing it's absurd. And no 10^24/10^94 is not 1/4. That's 8BTC to do 5000, but 25BTC to do 5001, intentional? My understanding is that right now you could combine a few in one block for free, then a few more, staying under the limit each time. But... the fee system will eventually become a bunch of competing fee systems as time goes on. Would the downside be the cost of the "putting back together" transaction once they were in one wallet and you needed to spend a bunch of them together? I have about $60 on FT and a large amount on PS. No way. I'm still in business. I have large quantities available and will forever. Just PM or post here to strike a deal. Considering the size you are interested in how are you guessing what price you will have to pay? The markets are thin compared to what you want you may drive the price considerably. I don't mean to imply you haven't considered this, you sound like you've got it together, I'm just interested in your thoughts. What happens if someone has 1,234,567 BTC and won't sell any at any price?/sarcasmBut seriously, something on the ridiculousness of worrying about hording. And the absurdity of worrying that your coins are going to be worth too much. These are common worries because we all live in the world of "spend it all quick it's losing value". That'd be cool. I'd like a widget that shows MtGox and BCM on my desktop. BCM is closed for me all day. I wonder if he'll eventually run it 'round the clock. NoAgenda, where do we find BTC prices on your site? Or do you negotiate after someone tells you they want an item each time? Right on, if every time they close an exchange two open that are a little trickier to find they just won't be able to stop it.Lol, maybe we'll get weed and BTC from the same guy. I have no idea what I'm talking about. I don't know how many cores I have, probably one. I just bought a laptop with an i7 core and thought that's what it meant. I'm going to just watch and listen for like a year (that's not a promise).I have 8 cpu graphs in the task manager. Does this mean I have 4 and they are hyper threaded?Really I'm done derailing you guys now. The exchanges and mybitcoin do this already.
My guess is that this is fine if you trust the source or don't mind defaulting. If it's in a block 1/unconfirmed it's 'mine' so it's good to go right? What about 0/unconfirmed, can I still send without problems? The fee makes the market less liquid, and by a lot more than 2%. People offering trades going both ways trying to make a profit drives this together which means a better price for people who come to buy or sell. The fee, in addition to making a 2% spread the absolute minimum disincentive this behavior. The spread was at 15-20%, it's going to get a lot closer now.There is another market, so if yo have a high spread and they don't you will always have the worst bid and asks.An exchange site wants the spread down because that attracts customers. Once there is a thriving market is a better time to monetize with small fees or ads.I donated. I think the site is coming along nicely. I bid 1.00BTC on the 50 dinar note. It says the current bid is still 0.00. It also says my bid is 0.00. When I try to rebid 1.00 it says " You are the winning bidder and cannot place a bid lower than your previous maximum bid." I hit 2700, up from 1250 stock.I have 7 cores, how do I tell how many it's using? Can I control it? I'm confused now, I don't see a VS or an Intel folder. When I unzipped vcredist_x64 I'm getting a bunch of numbered folders 1028, 1031, etc. I ran Setup and when I rerun it it just wants to repair Microsoft Visual C++ x64 Redistributable to it's original state each time.I've also just noticed that it's getting incoming blocks like 3 or 4 at a time. It could be they're coming in close together, but I think I'm getting them like simultaneously. EDIT: Okay, I see it now. OS is 64-bit. I loaded the runtime. It works now, but is the same khash as the x86.  Yeah, we agree. If he's just putting off the default he's a scammer.I wouldn't hold your breath.Though I think weed is just dumb, not intentionally malicious.  Okay, I'm not trying to be some kind of genius or arrogant or anything. I'll just wait for the program. Amazing. ~1250 up to ~2200.Is this for real? Other machine from ~600 to ~1350 I'm a total newb, I tried to use Olipro's file and it failed because I was missingMSVCR100.dll I got it, now it says "The application was unable to start correctly." Should I just not mess with this? Is it supposed to be all good to go?Just say Olipro's new thread. Got it working, so sweet. No need to write a program imo, just show us the math for the actual odds. Really? There is some difference between his money and other's money? I say if he fulfills all promises he is not a scammer. I bid 1.00BTC on the 50 dinar note. It says the current bid is still 0.00. It also says my bid is 0.00. When I try to rebid 1.00 it says " You are the winning bidder and cannot place a bid lower than your previous maximum bid."I don't know if this seller made a mistake, or not. But it seems possible that he's going to send me this note for 1BTC and not charge shipping to Hawaii. I don't know if he meant that, is it possibly a site error? Is it easy for a newb to try this stuff? You mean it will be slow for months because it was difficulty was ramped up and then someone bailed? In order fall to 25% wouldn't 75% of the computing power have to be pulled? If someone can do that they control the project anyway. Really? I would think/hope that the real one is way more robust. No? Nice.Is it possible to put any kind of message in a block or does it have to be 'clean' or 'perfect' in a sense? I ask because that's more important than the number of nodes you talk with being willing to change. If you see that 80 of the 100 most recent blocks were created by clients ready to change then you could be confident and switch. This goes fundamentally against the decentralized nature of the project. Absolutely no one is special except as people choose them to be. Anyone can distribute any version, breaking or not, that they wish. 12 hours? Not sure exactly because I went to bed and when I next checked it was there. That's pretty cool. What was Satoshi wanting to wait for?
Is there some minimum value that N has to have? Are you sure that N is exactly zero for Bitcoin? I'm eagerly awaiting "loss of confidence attacks". fruidian? Or intentional?  thanks, downloading now.I played one game, no problems, board looks nicer too. I need to work now though, catch you later on hopefully. He now claims that he shut down that server farm long ago and that he has all he needs. Fair enough, if that's true, then by block 70,560 the difficulty of BTC coin generation will take a nose dive.We're generating over 9 blocks an hour, so it's going to slow down. Right? Thanks marketmaker, that's only a little worse than how I thought it was. I think the markets are probably more vulnerable than whatever you were doing because people can essentially buy cash. And with the long window for charge backs, they can do it many times. I would hope though that canceling 48 small transfers would throw up some flags at PayPal, but who knows. Hey, dw. I just thought of something. As time passes people may forget about orders, if they end up getting called on, they may not use that email address anymore, or maybe just not be interested. This would clog things up pretty badly though if say the price were falling through 29 orders that were 2 months old.Just saying maybe there should be an expiry date. Maybe user specified, but with a 1 month max or something. Geez, I can't afford much more. I'll take 41 and 14. Ah, when I made my comment I didn't realize it was cut and paste from here. Think about how insanely valuable a computer is. Many people would pay 5k, 10k, 20k if that's what it cost to make them, they really are worth that much (to a lot of people) thankfully their value doesn't set the price. Anyone can come in and profit on the difference between cost to produce and value to the customer. This causes the price to drop until there isn't enough margin to attract more producers.The same thing is true about bitcoin. And entry is very easy. Hmm, fibs.com says winfibs is no longer available for download. No, sorry. See the information is accurate so they must have got it from here or the wiki, so it doesn't count. /sarcasm I'd still like to do this sometime. I've played some games though and it's gotten stuck between moves. What client should I use? He verified other's blocks and passed on transaction info, right?  Aren't you paying attention? He doesn't want your damn centralized money, he was those decentralized paper ones. I think we're on the same page. Similarly, the fewer people using the lower the value and therefore the lower incentive to invest resources to cheat. I eventually got the email, very slow though. If you only give out .1% of the remaining balance each time they'll need a lot more than 1000 to run it dry ;-) I was thinking it would be neat to give away like .1% of available coins to any new IP address. As it is any donation that puts it over 500 just gets eaten quickly (maybe by people who do IP magic).  Taxes aren't voluntary. Might be willing to pay a fee though. That's like a tautology. 
That's silly logic, it'll even out. Eh, you want to tell me how you know how many nodes "the authority" has? And how many there are? The rules are already on my computer, no one can change them. If "the authority" changes his rules, he'll be ignored.You can distribute software.If you are thinking that there are some rules written somewhere other than in the code you are running then you are wrong. Nice, I used to read LRC. He's got a lot of readers.  This is a problem. I got an email saying someone had bought .1BTC for $.061. I don't really mind the tiny trade, but maybe you should throw up a small minimum. The real problem is the my balance now says $.01. Is that my balance? It shouldn't be. But since it says it, it kind of should be. You should do something so that that doesn't happen any where. I just got a long string of 9s in the bitcoins sold field. That's really not barter. If you strapped some logs together with some vines would you say you bartered them for a raft? Someone else has to get something in order for it to be barter.We could say that we build coins because they are valuable to us. I've been playing the aristocrat slots because the jackpot is huge. I thought I noticed that I was mispayed for three double bars, but thought maybe I missaw one of them. This time I got a screen shot. Uploaded with ImageShack.us Who's money are you going to destroy? Wouldn't the way to get the money to destroy be to sell the basket of goods? That's not how it works. If fewer people generate, then generating will be more profitable because the difficulty will relax. Not to mention the people who generate because they like to have anonymous easy money, or have substantial Bitcoin savings and want the system to keep working. Um, am I confused? You would restore your backup because you lost your wallet. So I backup, spend, loose my wallet. The backup is not reliable, I don't have any change keys.I have to back up the wallet after every transaction, sent and received.I just thought of another possibility. If I know I will never be using smaller units than .1 BTC I can churn my balance until it only contains tenths. Now I backup and can spend in increments of tenths without needing to make a new backup. Bleh, until someone sends me a 50. Does anyone know if I have a 50 and 3000 tenths if it will always use the tenths first? It ought I would think. Some people bought houses for bad reasons. If you buy a house to live in and the price falls absolutely nothing changes, you can still live in it. If anything you might get lower property taxes. If you were buying houses to flip, speculate, whatever then you were wrong this time and you lose money. You ought lose money too because you were the reason too many damn houses were built.And another thing. If houses fall in value and you need to move you pay less for the new place also. It's an interesting question, but I can already get many things for BitCoins, everything really, since I can get USD for them. I love some Mises, but if things happen that a theory says don't happen then the theory is wrong, not reality.I don't think it's to much of a stretch to say that some people started offering valuable goods for coins because of a future expectation that the coins would be a money. I mean they are limited in quantity, easily transferable, and private. They have desirable attributes. Okay, my final (for now) answer is that they actually were a valuable thing as soon as they were created. They have properties people want therefore they have value. It should be obvious that this is not the case. Voting "yes" almost always gives the government more power, and who is voting "yes"? Members of the government. Who are each people, who look after their own interests as they should. We should follow their lead and look out for our interests. I'm and I'll pay. 22 for me please Okay, gotcha now. This seems super cool. I have an android, I do not have a headless client. I do have a computer I can dedicate though.  Sorry, I got distracted, and now I need to go to bed. Hopefully tomorrow night (20ish hours from now) Are we having any PayPal charge backs? I heard people can charge back for a long period, it would be awful if someone did thousands in transactions in a month and charged it all back. What is PayPal's procedure for this? How will we show goods provided?When we send PP are we okay to do it as a gift to avoid fees? Are you considering a way to keep trader's USD on site if they want. It seems silly to buy coins with PayPal, pay fees, sell coins, pay fees, repeat. If I could just move a chuck to a safe, no fee place I would trade a ton. What is the check on the managers? Why can't they just issue themselves credits?Craigslist freeloaders are the people who actually buy stuff, is this right?
I'll try, I just downloaded realfibs. My name is FreeMoney.edit: just realized it's been two hours since you posted, let me know if you're still here. Yes Stars rakes. They don't rake transactions though, those are free. We could wager privately though and only play the lowest stakes there which would cost 10 cents each.Until a Bitcoin poker client is set up we will need to manually transfer all entry fees and winnings anyway.   I think it would be better if you found a source of random digits that isn't controlled by one or us. Maybe the last digits of some absurdly precise meteorological data that is published frequently.It's not that I don't trust someone for a few coins, but it'd be nice to have a system that scales and new people and unlucky people know can't be rigged. I don't like to either, but I haven't been able to swear off dollars yet. I just got private tournament creation privileges at Poker Stars. The lowest stakes are $1 + .10 fee. I would gladly send a dollar for Bitcoins at a very good rate. Poker stars software is topnotch. I will also cash the winner back to Bitcoins if they wish.Let me know if this sounds good. If someone organizes, I'm in for any stakes.  The expected number of Bitcoins has been going down, but the expected value is not really. 10 days ago coins were worth like half a cent. They've been between 6 and 9 cents lately. 15 times harder for 15 times more valuable coins.It would be neat if someone could think of a way for users to agree to commit to pooling received coins. This would smooth it out a bit. Excellent work. It all sounds good, but this especially. I am not 100% clear on this and would like someone to explain.I read that you can have problems if you backup, spend some, and then load the outdated backup. This is because you will have the key to the already spent coin, but not the key to the "change" that was generated and is not in your backup. So you need to redo the backup after every transaction or risk having unspendable coins.I think a solution to this would be to have a "savings account" that rarely receives transfers and always keep a backup of it. And have a "spending account" that you wouldn't be devastated to lose. Each coin will be allocated in this arbitrary way exactly one time. Every future allocation will be based on voluntary transfer, usually gifts or in exchange for value. Yeah, the initial distribution is arbitrary. To me it is vastly better than someone saying "This is the money you all must use; only I can create it and I can create as much as I want."The initial distribution will end up being unimportant. If BitCoin succeeds it will be the people who provide value who are the BitCoin rich.If it ends up being a fail and is rarely used for trade then the generators will have most of the Coins, but they won't be worth much. What do freeloaders do on craigslist? Are listia credits pegged to the dollar? Just buy 100 BTC as insurance against this happening. If the terrible deflationary spiral does happen you will be crazy rich and not particularly care about overpaying because you just can't break that 100millionth down into 10 billionths to buy a sandwhich. just tip 9billionths, be a baller. You can afford it, after all you socked away 100 billion billionths. These two paragraphs seem contradictory to me. In the first the problem is that there is too much excess computing power required to get the stamp. In the second the problem is that you only need 1mhash/sec to give false stamps.The beautiful thing about it imo is that as incentive to list false transactions increases the difficulty  will rise right along with it. If we had static difficulty you could certainly say "Geez, we're burning so much to accomplish such a trivial thing" after a while with more interest it might be about right, but then as it grows more and the difficulty of sending false blocks does not increase you could say "It takes hardly anything to tip this beast over" But in the current model this doesn't happen because the difficulty is linked to the most recent observation of power being dedicated. What happens in those few seconds if the coin was double spent? Are you notified before the next block comes in? Every 2014 blocks the difficulty is automatically adjusted so that at the average hashing speed of the last 2014 blocks it will take 2 weeks to create the next 2014 blocks.What this means is that if you load 1000x more computing power into hashing than the rest of us combined you will get nearly all of the remaining 2014 coins until the reset, but then even at your phenomenal speed the next 2014 will take you 2 weeks. Only about 2 blocks will be generated by other people, but you won't generate anymore than all of the blocks. Now if you could increase your power 1000x every 2014 blocks for a long time then yes you could get a lot of blocks. You are still going to run into the halving of coin awards and are absolutely maxed at getting the rest of the coins that will ever be created, about 17.5M more. Anyway, the point is that if you hold 21 BTC you will never have fewer than 1 millionth of the coins, no matter how fast your computing is or how fast your computing speed increases. Absolutely nothing stopping you. Imagine a newcomer hears about both though. The older one will have a larger community, more development, more shops, more nodes, etc. To lure people to yours something will probably have to be different.A new one will have the benefit of quicker generation for an individual. This is offset by the lower value of them, but there's still something to be said for the psychological rewards of consistent generation. Although maybe it would get boring to quickly generate cheaper coins compared to the thrill I just got randomly getting my second generation in a week, worth about $4 I suppose. Clearly the wiki community knows how to run an open encyclopedia, and clearly I'm biased. I still feel the need to say though that the "human race" has not been independent verified. It's only those damn humans ever talk about it. Thanks for those links ichi. I haven't finished the gun one yet. Both are very cool. I'm wary of sending much money to near strangers before anything has been done. But if the basics are built I'll buy in then and supply money to improve, market, maintain, etc.
It's not that big of a deal really. When you buy something it often ships the next day. For trading on the exchanges the coins have already cleared so that isn't a problem either. I guess it could be annoying if you had to wait to get a software code or something instead of it being instant. I'm pretty new too, but I want to clear something up.When you generate you are looking for valid blocks. Right now a block gives you 50 coins. Every 4 years (exactly or approximately?) this will decrease by half. This means there can be an unlimited number of blocks, but only 21 million coins. I don't really get it, if there was a group of 11,000 UFO researchers who called themselves UFORO and spent hours every night searching would they get no article unless someone who did not want to join took them seriously enough to write peer reviewed papers?I think BitCoin has great potential, blah blah, but that doesn't matter. Thousands of people are doing something that's at least moderately interesting. I can't see what the harm of putting a neutrally worded article in the worlds largest encyclopedia is. It isn't like the thing is going to get to heavy to sit on a shelf. n/m Unless I'm misunderstanding, we know the coin can be traced through BitCoin addresses, but that doesn't tell us who or even how many people have had the coin. Sure the site makes money off of hosting, but having a big spending loser will attract others, which will give the site more to rake. ;-)Of course, my prediction is that my predictions are bad, so what's that worth? I'm playing there now. I think it can be taken care of naturally.When you propose a prediction you spell out all terms in detail, including the judging fee. When X judges have volunteered you randomly pick a subset of them and let the trading begin. As a judge or bettor I'd be most comfortable with very clear terms. If judges only get paid when they agree with a majority then judges will prefer easy to judge terms because they are much more likely to get paid. It doesn't have to be a simple majority either. Maybe 3/4 or 7/10, this can be specified in the details.I expect standard forms for terms would emerge and would be self reinforcing because it's easiest to predict how people will judge in established formats.If someone gets this up, I promise to lose a lot of money predicting all sorts of things inaccurately.  KYTrader, you say to email with amount sent and address sent from afaik you can't see that when money is sent.Ah, just realized you might not be planning on using that to verify who sent, but only to know where to send refunds payments to in the future. I think multiple peer judges who don't know who each other are until afterwards and get paid for choosing the same way as the majority might be a good way to go. There's no way to do this is there? I'm fairly concerned about this. I really don't understand though. Can't transactions get arbitrarily badly backed up if there is a limit to the size of the transactions file? 113k so 13k carries over, 122 in the next time period plus the old 13 is 135 so 135 carries over etc. Isn't it a huge problem once we start averaging hundreds of thousands of trades per block? Wait is that money poison for all time or does it get reduced somehow? Can you get transaction fees without finding a block? I'd keep almost all cash and no bank balances if I could get paid in cash and didn't have to cash checks and if I didn't need to fly in order to move; I can't expect TSA and other Feds to leave me and my stuff alone in an airport. Even if BitCoin is the hugest smashing success ever and one hundred millionth of a BTC buys you a 10oz gold bar someone can easily invent a payment system for smaller amounts. It can be based on the same sort of cryptography, or better cryptography, or something totally different. And if you like it you can buy some of it with your super valueable hundred millionths. I agree that reactions to this 'problem' that I've seen are bizarre. It's the farthest possible thing from a problem. "Nooooo.... what if tomorrow morning all my pennies can buy me mansions and sports cars and I can't find a saw so I can't buy any bread. Noooo..." When laws are bad, I recommend breaking them. Still at your own risk of course. But risk isn't so bad.  Interest rates are just another price. They are the price of money now in terms of money at some point in the future. The market can determine the price of money just like it determines the price of onions. If no one is interested in 2-5% then it will be 10-12% or 30-35% if no one wants to lend for less than that and no one wants to pay more to borrow then there won't be such a thing as lending (I think that's about as likely as everyone deciding the production costs of onions are more than they are willing to pay, but what do I know?).   I don't think this is so good because there is no one market rate. There are and will be multiple exchange markets that have different 'last' trades due to different closing times, down times, random large orders to buy or sell pushing prices temporarily apart. Arbitrage seekers will move them together over time, but while the markets are so thin you can have moves of 20% in minutes. I think it's best to quote a price, but note that it's subject to change. Maybe when buyers make offers in terms of BTC they should give an expiry time or date at which they are no longer committed to buying at that price.  You actually found servers to rent at a price to make this profitable? 
I have v3 w/ no forwarding and never get more than 8. The bogymen you are talking about are not completely clear on the 10k page tax law (in US) either.  This sounds pretty awesome. Keep us updated. If you can't restore a backup that is out of date at all then won't you have to backup after every transaction?Is this a possible solution? I have two computers, I use one all the time for small transactions. I occasionally sock away a large amount to my other machine just by transfering then I also immediately backup that machine's wallet.dat to a secure place. I think BitCoinExchange has set rates by the manager of the site, but they do change. BitCoinMarket is a market with the rates based on what other people are willing to trade at. Oh, yeah. It doesn't have to be two vending machines though. I could even send the coin to my friend then immediately spend it at the vending machine. I think the way things are you aren't safe to release until the transaction is embedded in a block that the majority finds acceptable. It will go instantly, but I think the issue is confirmations. Even if you accept just 1 confirmation it will take an average of 10 minutes to get it. In this time the cheater could go to another vending machine and then just let the two accounts duke it out for his one payment while he eats two snacks.The first solution that comes to my mind is a "verified insta-cash: service. You ship them some amount, they verify it within an hour or whatever and give you a card with credits that goes into vending machines and such. Or you could have an account with the vending company. Or you could use some physical currency, we don't necessarily need just one type of money. Lots of small exchanges might be the ultimate equilibrium. Sure they can spend 4months and $3M to hunt down and harass someone who is exchanging $2k/day. But if there are 528 more all around the world they might not even bother stopping the first one. Oh, missed that. That's a valid point. If lots of scammers are making new accounts then the value of having an older established account with a good rep will go up. Obviously we'll occasionally have to trust newbies to get things started, but you can start dealing with them with smaller amounts. I don't think it's a fundamental problem is all, solutions can be found.The value of BTC has risen a lot in the few days I've been here. I notice lots of prices that are high now because people aren't used to adjusting downward quickly. Obviously the increase in value will slow down, but in a longish auction you might end up getting bids in the beginning and then no more because the BTC are more deal at the end of the auction than they were at the beginning. I'm not really saying much here, just that I'd expect people to prefer short auction lengths. Of course not too short because you want enough people to see it before it goes offline. Yeah, no one legit would send multiple packages of the same weight. And would't a dealer be sending different weight packages anyway?I'm not saying there aren't problems, but those aren't them. I am very interested in playing Texas Hold'em for BitCoins. I don't know how I can help, I'm not much of a programer, but I would consult for free on the gameplay side of things. Maybe even put up some seed money. And I would definitely play some poker. I got my payout, thanks. Are you doing it manually as a precaution or because it's hard to automate?The games are fun. Do you plan to add anything like multiplayer poker in the future? I imagine you could find an open source poker client pretty easy. I've been running two laptops. One does 1280k/sec and the other 580. The 580 found one first. It does run 24/7 though and I make my faster one stop when I do other stuff.Oh, I keep hearing that there should be 6 blocks an hour, but it seems more like 80. And didn't the difficult just rest? So shouldn't it be close to the goal? I must have some misunderstanding. Ah, okay. So you can choose which to accept it doesn't give you the lowest available ask automatically?Also, my desire for bitcoins has been satisfied for now. I bought 500 for $15 PayPal. If you insist on only doing legal things you can't do much. It would have had to be accepted by someone in order to be shown as "last" though, right? The market is reporting the last trade at 1.8USD/BC. What is going on? 500 right now. I posted a 300 offer on the market. I'll do both if I get takers. I see that if I bid 3 cents at bitcoinmarket I'll be the first filled, so I'm going to do that. I'll still be willing to buy some from anyone here though.
