pool owners? Great! Go LSD....! Request sent! AI Coin cannot sell the coins created without requiring a MSB license. We were in the process of obtaining a FinCEN license, which is a US Federal License that specifies what sort of reporting is required to FinCEN. That agency routine accepts registrations. Our would-have-been partner exchange Bittrex is already registered with FinCEN, but not licensed in the 48 US States as an MSB.Our attorneys said that all US cryptocurrency exchanges are categorized as MSBs as they interpret the FinCEN guidance issued last year. Although that requirement is not being enforced currently, AI Coin would have no available means of exchange in the USA should it have launched without the licenses, and a crackdown by the States shut down all the altcoin exchanges in the USA. Launch PostponedOn the advice of our diverse set of financial and regulatory attorneys, we are postponing the launch of AI Coin until such time as we have obtained the necessary money services business licenses in 48 States, and BitLicense or equivalent licenses in jurisdictions requiring them. To go forward without those in place would make our business plan a legal risk.Development continues. I was watching too, but joined very near the end. Otherwise you would have seen "Stephen Reed" on the list.It was interesting to see Matt Eden - the smoker, who I chatted with at the recent Texas Bitcoin Conference. I read this thread almost every day. As an altcoin developer who is launching a company promoting its cryptocurrency, this thread is oh-so-valuable commentary on what execution mistakes not to make, and especially that the moral character of a company flows from the top down. I will create the launch announcement thread next week, and retire this one.The software license fee will be large, and furthermore the dollar share provided to the fixed number of super peer miners will be capped so that they earn a maximum of $1500 per month. From the viewpoint of the 20 or so super peers that may seem unfair, but it is a really good deal compared to operating a modest bitcoin or scrypt mining operation. Firstly, the equipment is rented from a datacenter at less than $500 per month, and the operator is not responsible for what the datacenter provides: site security, provisioning, DDoS protection, electricity and bandwidth. AI Coin software uses its intelligent agents to be relatively self-administering. We do not need to attract any more super peer operators beyond those already expressing interest and operating super peers on our demo network. We will have super peers in the USA, Iceland, Belgium, Italy, India, and Australia. At launch, AI Coin will create its new blocks in more places than Bitcoin's top six mining pools.Our business plan entails the spending of the new aicoins, 7,200 each day, to optimally benefit the current and future users. A goal is to grow the aicoin price along the trajectory followed by Bitcoin over its six year history. We are not novel as Bitcoin was at the time of introduction, but we can spend aicoins for marketing, advertising, promotion, education, customer service, etc. in ways that the Bitcoin Foundation simply cannot. Metrics to measure the results of our plan execution include aicoin price relative to bitcoin and litecoin, number of ai-cointalk.org members, social media mentions, number of transactions, value of transactions, number of unspent transaction outputs, and so forth. Discovering customers and optimising the advertising expenditures is a solved problem. We will simply follow best practices.In order to have funds to pay for the promotion and other means to bring AI Coin to the mainstream, it is necessary not to overspend for network infrastructure as does Bitcoin, nor overspend to make the rich richer, as does the typical proof-of-stake altcoin.The best way to acquire aicoins will be to either buy them at Bittrex, or to earn them as a part-time contractor by performing tasks that benefit our system or our community. Note that US residents contractors will have to give the company bookkeeper (herself a part-time contractor) their name, address and SSN for our 1099-MISC federal tax reporting. 1. The whitepaper theme was to convince Bitcoin to adopt this technology, therefore it will be as close to Satoshi's specifications as possible. We start at 50 aicoins created every 10 minutes, the rate halving every four years for a total of 21 million aicoins.2. We want to take AI Coin mainstream and that means whatever privacy is built into the latest Bitcoin Core version we will have too. In addition, AI Coin encrypts all message traffic between its peers, and has gateways for client access, so a service like blockchain.info for aicoin would not be able to assign IP addresses to transaction endpoints.3. Regarding sidechains, when Bitcoin Core supports them, AI Coin will also because we stay current with Bitcoin Core. We are launching on version 0.9.3, and after the network is proven stable we will migrate to Bitcoin Core version 0.10.0 or 0.10.1 if that gets released in time. Part of the motivation for sidechains is the notion that Bitcoin is not suitable for all the world's transactions. Gavin famously said, "why would I want my coffee purchase on the blockchain". But AI Coin actually wants to handle all the world's transactions. AI Coin has a rationally designed network - a super peer well connected ring, and spokes out to ordinary peers. We will not overbuild the infrastructure. Where Bitcoin replicates its blockchain on 10000 plus full nodes, AI Coin needs only about 50 blockchain archiving peers with suitable geographical and jurisdictional diversity. Given such redundancy in peers, AI Coin peers can each use inexpensive disk drives in non-redundant configurations. The cost per stored byte is such that AI Coin can store transactions indefinitely for 100x lower transaction fees relative to Bitcoin. The AI Coin dust level is correspondingly lower relative to Bitcoin - i.e. if an aicoin had the same price as a bitcoin, then the aicoin transaction fee would be 100x lower in fiat value. Furthermore, because the AI Coin network is so much less expensive to run, the transaction fees should cover the expense when the mining reward diminishes in the fullness of time. Interesting that you should say that. I would guess that you are a proof of work miner. AI Coin super peers will be limited in number to avoid over investing in network infrastructure. If we limit the super peers to 20, I see no problem achieving that given the number already on our demo system. Ordinary, non-mining peers will split a pool of aicoins contributed to by the mining super peers. There will be no limit on the number of ordinary peers, but they must have high availability in order to share from the pool. The software license will need to cap the dollar equivalent amount of aicoins shared by all peers. It does not make sense to overpay for network infrastructure when promotion, features and partnerships would do more to attract new users. AI Coin has intelligent software agents that will automate software distribution and network restarts, thus making it rather easy to keep a super peer running. We use Docker containers to assure an immutable deployed application. The persistent data volume is mapped to the host. Well, what is worse from your point of view is that the intelligent agent software has a provisional patent application pending. Most of the source code will be available for inspection, and could be copied and used in jurisdictions that do not permit nor honor software patents. Each of our peers wraps a branded recent version of Bitcoin Core, which will always be open source.AI Coin's technology allows for instant spending of received aicoins. This is zero confirmations. No Finney attacks, no undoing transactions, nor double spend fraud. The network has a rationally designed topology. In only two hops, a transaction from a wallet reaches the super peer whose turn it is to create the next new block. That gives worldwide subsecond response time.AI Coin Inc, the company behind its cryptocurrency, optimally spends its majority share of issued aicoins for promotion and development. There is no substantial expense for electricity nor specialized mining equipment. Proof-of-Stake, although mentioned in our May 2014 whitepaper, is actually not necessary for the current implementation, which does not routinely have disagreement. Instead we will have a human-in-the-loop to oversee the distributed intelligent software agents that operate the network. Super peer operators on several continents will take turns monitoring the network and each other.What will make this coin take off, if indeed it does, is simply that a single company, engaging its enthusiastic community, spending most of the issued aicoins with the single goal of optimising the benefits for current and future users, succeeds in executing its mission. It turns out that if the company owns all the coins, even for just the day they are created, it would be an "administrator" of a central repository from which tokens are issued and redeemed according to FinCEN guidance published last October. We knew this and assumed that we could obtain the money services business licences in the 48 US States where they are required as we progressed after launch. Our legal advice now is that we cannot launch under the previous business plan as that entails a legal risk in the USA.Reaper mentions the new plan, which is to have a conventional altcoin minting method whereby independent operators create the new aicoins each day and pay a software licence fee to the company, which in turn promotes and develops AI Coin for the benefit of operators, current and future holders. Even this business plan is subject to tweaking, as the software license may create an situation in which the deal between the company and its independent operators creates what the US SEC views as a security, which is subject to onerous regulation. As a lay person, my reading of the regulation and court decisions is that because the company is not the *sole* provider of effort which makes the deal valuable, then the deal is not a security. Instead I believe it is similar to retail store franchise agreements in the USA in which a share of store revenues is sent back to the franchisor. The analogy is that aicoin mining operators, its super peers, must perform effort too in order for the deal to be valuable. AI Coin Inc is seeking the advice of attorneys who know this sort of law. Fortunately, our president works in New York City, and networks conveniently with such law firms. If the software license becomes a poor choice due to SEC regulations, then another method to try for the desired revenue split would be to have a distinguished super peer owned by the company that gets more turns to create aicoins than the other super peers. Thanks a lot for your constructive feedback!Our team agree today to remove the animated robot graphic and make the ai-coin.org website better with respect to an audience beyond gamers. Plus we will do a better job for mobile.Our inspiration sites that look great on large screen and on mobile too ...Monero - https://getmonero.org/home (one page without vertical scrolling)Ripple - https://ripple.com/ (aimed at financial institutions, good use of customer recommendations which highlight Ripple benefits, my favorite but obviously expensive) Dash - https://www.dashpay.io/ (scrolling with menu tabs, significant rebranding of privacy-centric Darkcoin) Thanks for your awesome contribution! It is emotionally difficult this close to launch to go back over work we thought was accomplished, but as our advisors tell us - branding is very important. I am taking this up with my co-founder before mentioning it on our dedicated forum. AI Coin's forum has our old blue logo. Do you like that one better?  I plan to post your constructive comments on our forum where they can be discussed by our most enthusiastic supporters, one of whom is a web designer and branded our website. AI Coin Inc has a rather transparent management style and I thank you for helping us to be better.We have a modest budget for advertising before launch. Do readers have an opinion of where to advertise? CoinDesk has a relatively large number of visitors for example. In my May 2014 whitepaper, I proposed a dramatic change to the way that the Bitcoin blockchain is secured. I changed my approach due to the prevailing wisdom among core developers that radical innovation should take place in altcoins first. AI Coin would have to be very successful in order to grow to the point of diluting Bitcoin's market cap.Sorry to lose your vocal support, but happy that our community has reached out to you already.We are attending the Texas Bitcoin Conference, and will launch at Inside Bitcoins New York, April 27-29. I would be glad to meetup and discuss cryptocurrency.http://ai-coin.org The company is the sole miner of AI Coin. The 7,200 aicoins created each day will be sold on an exchange or otherwise directly paid for expenses.AI Coin, the company, will initially own the aicoins minted each day, and will transparently pay expenses with them, or with fiat obtained from daily sold aicoins. Our expenses are planned to optimally promote the value of aicoin, and to benefit our community. We will hold a substantial reserve in fiat to cover customer losses that are our fault. We will pursue both a Bit License for New York State operation, and Money Services Business licenses in the 50 US States, as well as similar licensing in other jurisdictions that are important to our customers.We are seeking integration with at least one payment processor before launch, and that depends on obtaining an exchange before launch. Hi everyone.Drew Hingorani, myself, and our active community plan to launch AI Coin at the Inside Bitcoins Conference New York, April 27-29. I have been silent the past few months here as we worked on the first provisional patent covering our solution to what we characterize as certain Bitcoin problems. We now have a dedicated modern forum where you can see technical information, as well as our pre-launch activities. The super peer demonstration network has been minting 50 test aicoins every 10 minutes for over 60 days. We have branded a MultiBit wallet for AI Coin, which you can download for Windows. We have a branded QT wallet for the Mac. You can see our minting and transaction activity on our branded Insight Blockchain explorer. Our chief innovation vs Bitcoin for customers is that AI Coin has immediate settlement - sub second response time. The QT and MultiBit wallets have been modified to permit immediate spending of received transactions. Our chief innovation for the business is that our cooperative mining secures the blockchain with network-wide algorithmic trustworthiness, and without conventional mining expense.AI Coin, the company, will initially own the aicoins minted each day, and will transparently pay expenses with them, or with fiat obtained from daily sold aicoins. Our expenses are planned to optimally promote the value of aicoin, and to benefit our community. We will hold a substantial reserve in fiat to cover customer losses that are our fault. We will pursue both a Bit License for New York State operation, and Money Services Business licenses in the 50 US States, as well as similar licensing in other jurisdictions that are important to our customers. Customers can buy aicoins from an exchange after launch, or can perform specified tasks as contractors for us and be paid in aicoins. The company will subsidize certain customer, payment processor and merchant activities to give aicoin a comparative advantage over other crytptocurrencies with regard to transaction friction. Our transaction fees will be 100x lower relative to Bitcoin and we will likewise accommodate microtransactions.Important among our contractors are the operators of our network. We plan to pay $1000 per month to super peer operators which host their servers in DDoS-protected secure datacenters. We anticipate having enough of these in the network backbone to claim that AI Coin is more decentralized than Bitcoin with regard to the geographical locations in which new blocks are added to the blockchain. Likewise we plan to pay $50 per month to operators of ordinary computers that dedicate home or office computers 24/7 for the purpose of archiving the AI Coin blockchain. We need between 50 - 100 of the archiving peers to assure redundancy, and to have plenty of network gateways for customer wallets.We have a growing, active community who contribute ideas, artwork, programming, social networking and so on. They enthusiastically want to bring AI Coin to the mainstream.Our forum:  ai-cointalk.org .Website: ai-coin.orgDemonstration blockchain explorer: texai.dyndns.org:3000Join Us-Stephen Reed I modified Insight to work with the altcoin that I am developing.Your problem communicating with your altcoin's version of bitcoind. Most likely it is not configured to accept RPC connections from Insight. Here is the configuration file that I used OK.Code:# this instance accepts incoming connectionslisten=1# listening portport=8333# maintain an extra transaction index that allows the RPC getrawtransaction call to operatetxindex=1# allow the local Insight process to send commands to this instancerpcconnect=127.0.0.1# allow rpc commandsserver=1# change these to what you want - they must match what is coded in Insightrpcuser=rpctestuserrpcpassword=rpctestpasswordPM me for more help as I am not watching this forum daily.-Steve Right. the altcoin A.I. Coin is currently alpha testing its Linux core derived from Bitcoin Core, its MultiBit-derived wallet for Windows, and its Insight-derived block explorer. Notable changes to Bitcoin source code involved removing the annoyance of waiting for confirmations before spending recently received funds. A.I. Coin uses a single nomadic mint with a non-forking blockchain. The network parameters are otherwise identical to Bitcoin, 21 million aicoins total, 50 aicoins generated exactly every 10 minutes with a four-year block reward halving. No block rewards are spent on mining equipment nor on electricity for hashing. The network is secured by software agents inspecting each other's tamper-evident data structures and signed activity logs.A.I. Coin is to be launched in March 2015.Stephen Reed A.I. Coin will launch with a minimum of five super peers, located in geographically dispersed datacenters.  The founding super peer operators will vet candidates that become new super peers when needed due to growing transaction volume. A joining node cannot become a super peer otherwise.
Huobi reports $467 currently while Bitstamp is below at $442. Here is the one-day resolution chart of Bitstamp prices showing the rally approaching the $470 level where I drew the resistance trend line down from the November 2013 peak. We are looking for a breakthrough to the upside past $470, which would indicate a strong rally.  Additionally, the number of transactions excluding popular addresses, as reported by Blockchain.info, is at a relatively high level. I am hoping for a breakout above the trend, which would indicate a powerful rally. Here is the one-week resolution Bitcoin Price chart with support and resistance trendlines that I drew. The recent rally from $318 should encounter resistance at $460. Each distributed agent/role has a self-signed X.509 certificates for digital signatures and for SSL/TLS communication channel encryption. The tamper-evident data structures, e.g. agent logs, are signed by X.509 certificates. I plan to use the solar flux chaos value as you suggested in the KSI scheme which ties together all the distributed tamper-evident data structures into a temporal merkel tree whose root hash value is widely known.Could you help me understand how transient IPv6 addresses can be used to sign hashes? The system needs the X.509 certificates to establish unique agent/role identity that persists over time.I really appreciate the thought that you have given to this project. Yes, each full node votes the stake of its operator, which may be offline in a cold wallet. The stake is composed of the unspent transaction outputs that are controlled by the full node operator.The peer that hosts the mint is selected by the configuration agent from among the super-peers. The simplest method is to take-turns round-robin. The duration of the mint responsibility is a parameter that can be adjusted. Given that the mint hosting schedule can be efficiently published in advance to all peers, then the mint hosting duration could be anywhere from 10 minutes to perhaps one week. CPOS is designed similar to a conventional financial network, except that hardware and operations are provided by unrelated parties. The direct attack would be to compromise 51% of the stake-weighted peers.The least expensive and perhaps least effective attack is a DDoS attack on certain network IP addresses. The super peers will be located in datacenters which have DDoS protection services. The ordinary peers should be too numerous to effectively attack, which is the defense that Bitcoin uses.The main advantage of CPOS is that there is single mint and one version of the blockchain, leading to immediate transaction settlement.The main disadvantage of CPOS is that its design has not yet been tested in production. Thanks for thinking about this project when reading about related tech! Privacy Extensions for Stateless Address Autoconfiguration in IPv6The A.I. Coin network is connected via known TCP IP addresses. A client joining the network uses a built-in list of seed IP addresses to reach one or more full-nodes which provide configuration information that includes more IP addresses. Could you elaborate on the positive implications?  At the Hasher's United Conference, I spoke about Cooperative Mining. The conference was recorded, and Kris Stinson has uploaded my talk to YouTube.What is Cooperative Mining Bitcoin? Stephen Reed. Filmed at Hashers United Oct. 10/14The corresponding six slides (PDF) are here.At the conference after my talk, Drew Hingorani and I decided to co-found A.I. Coin for launch in March 2015. My current short term A.I. Coin development goal is to get three Docker containers running A.I. Coin, accepting transactions and creating new blocks. Here is recent evidence of the tendency for gold and bitcoin prices to move in the same direction, and have similar trend reversals. This is a chart of gold prices at a one-day resolution...And here is a chart of bitcoin prices, likewise with one-day resolution... Here is the one-week resolution chart of Bitstamp prices. I drew a resistance trendline down from the November 2013 peak  and a support trendline touching the capitulations. It forms a bullish falling wedge pattern, which this site says is resolved by an upwards breakout 68% of the time.The KDJ indicator on the bottom of the chart is saying oversold as the purple line has a value less than 20.I have noticed a price direction correlation between bitcoin, and gold and oil. The latter two have been in a slump this summer. Gold is falling because equity market investments are more profitable given stimulative monetary policy, and oil is slumping because there is new supply in the market due to hydraulic fracturing technology, i.e. tight oil. I suppose that fundamentally gold and oil should continue to slump and if indeed bitcoin is linked to these, then perhaps bitcoin will continue to slump too. On the other hand, bitcoin transaction volume for bitcoin is continuing towards a new all-time high, which should be bullish for bitcoin - apart from any connection to gold and oil. Hmmm. Just now a sell order of several hundred bitcoin at market has pushed the price down below the ask wall, which has moved above my order book horizon on Bitcoin Wisdom. The last value I recall was in the 15000+ range.... eating popcorn - which is entertainment food here in the USA.[update, the wall has been reduced to 15757 and is joined by a smaller wall 694 @ 298 - And that smaller one is bought in one order as I write!] From what I see, and from what others have commented on this thread and others, the trading behavior is unprofessional. Namely, that professional order-execution traders would have gained more revenue for the seller. Plus, according to Bitcoin Wisdom, the Chinese exchanges are reporting prices $10 higher than the ask wall on Bitstamp. Who would sell on Bitstamp if they had a choice? According to the volume chart, the $300 ask wall on Bitstamp is being devoured at the rate of about 1000 BTC every 30 minutes. I would be pleasantly surprised if there is any left to buy when my local ATM opens for business. Possibly the trader believes that $300 is a price milestone that will attract sufficient buyers to move the entire lot with no slippage. One might argue that a better strategy would have been to randomly sell much smaller lots in the preceding weeks. But who knows the motivation and its urgency?Every order on Bitstamp for the last two minutes has been a purchase. The wall has been nibbled down to 16908 BTC. Huboi reports $312.77 on Bitcoin Wisdom, so maybe arbitrage is happening too. The wall has just been nibbled away to 17936. I hope it is still there in the morning Austin time, so that I buy a small piece of it when my local ATM opens. A 1200 chunk was bought just moments ago. The cost of arbitrage allows the Chinese exchanges to be somewhat higher than Bitstamp. The price is flat because there is no one willing to sell lower at these remarkably low prices. Buyers are not numerous enough to buy the whole block and move prices higher.The ask wall is currently 18130 BTC. I have not seen anything like this either - and sure would like to get a piece of it - when my local ATM opens.  Here is a notable ask wall on Bitstamp, currently 19607 BTC for sale at $300. Buyers are nibbling as I watch. I hope to get a small piece for myself if the lot is still for sale Monday morning Austin time. The collapse of the 2013 bubbles is reminding me more and more of the great bubble collapse of 2011, when I watched bitcoin fall from $30 to $3 and did not buy any more  - ugh. I am buying fractional coin each month and do not plan to trade until we get the next bubble peak, i.e. I am buying now regardless of indicators.  However algorithmic trading methods are very interesting. I just learned about the KDJ indicator, and maybe from you. I like the weekly chart and the long term swings.Do you have a preferred time-resolution for the KDJ indicator - assuming zero trading fees as can obtained on the liquid Chinese exchanges?-Stephen Respectfully, intangible things do not combust. Nor would I destroy it if that is your meaning, rather I plan to adjust it given more data. That was my projection back in April. I plan to refit the model to the price or market cap data at the next bubble peak or year-end 2014, whichever comes first. Meanwhile, I have steadily bought more bitcoin - the most recent purchase from my local ATM two days ago.The model ...https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0ArD8rjI3DD1WdFIzNDFMeEhVSzhwcEVXZDVzdVpGU2c
Nice charts. I especially like the central tendency illustration over the past 12 months.Here is the one-week resolution log chart of Bitstamp prices with your regression line approximated by me. The bottom technical indicator is the KDJ as provided by Bitcoin Wisdom. A backtested strategy suggests buying when the J line (purple) rises above 50 and selling when the J line falls below 50. Thanks for contributing to this discussion!You suggest a way that mining payouts can be filtered out of the ordinary bitcoin transactions, so that we have a more principled data series of economic bitcoin transactions as input to a Metcalfe Law network-effects model relating either bitcoin price or market cap. A scan of the recent blocks created could be used to filter out transactions output directly or indirectly from a coinbase, i.e. 25 BTC block reward transaction.In addition to perhaps obtaining a less noisy Metcalfe Law model, I wonder if the unexpected might occur. Satoshi envisioned that miners would be enthusiastic supporters of Bitcoin, and I was there back in 2010 to see that happen. If we remove the effects of their reward-based transactions from the data series, we might end up with more noise instead of less, if indeed the filter removes a substantial portion of the daily transactions.For the present, I will continue to rely on the Blockchain.info data series for the Number of transactions excluding popular addresses. I invite other modellers to pursue alternatives and share their findings. When Satoshi Dice used dust transactions to indicate wager results, Blockchain.info developed the simple algorithm of discarding transactions that involved any of the 100 most popular addresses each day - Satoshi Dice of course being high on that list. https://blockchain.info/popular-addressesWhen I was mining for BTCGuild on my GPU rigs a couple of years ago, I suppose that the origin pool payer address was the same for each miner. It might be harder today if the pools are using unique payer addresses to enhance anonymity.  Looking over my daily payout last spring from LeaseRig.net, I do not see any address reuse.Any miners on this thread know if their daily pool payouts originate from the same address from day to day? I consider mining transactions to be economic, but of lesser importance than using bitcoin for purchases or earned income. I suppose that network difficulty is arguably unrelated to transaction volume, and that the correlation you observe is merely a coincidence. I could argue that vertically integrated industrial mining leads to fewer miners and thus fewer transactions required to pay them.I suffered through a steep increase in mining difficulty the week in June-July 2010 when I first downloaded bitcoin and began CPU mining on my then-awesome quad core AMD server. Within a few hours I solved my first block, but the next one took a week and that was it for solo CPU mining. I learned of Bitcoin from the widely read Slashdot blog article, and that same article was also read by many system administrators who proceeded to install the software on the hundreds and thousands of computers that they managed. According to the Blockchain.info data series, the number of daily transactions back then was about 200-300 and did not match the sudden difficulty increase from 24 to 182 - a factor of 7.5x.I will be speaking on a panel presentation on the subject of mining algorithms at the Hasher' United Conference in Las Vegas this month. I wonder what mining equipment vendors' answer will be to the question of the relative proportion of small miners vs large miners over time. Yes, and thank you for the helpful clarification.Mathematically, the logistic model has the property of decreasing exponential growth, which is most obvious on a log graph as we near full adoption. It is only a falsifiable hypothesis that a logistic model can explain bitcoin prices. My reason for choosing this model was to fit the obvious constraint that exponential price growth must eventually end. Perhaps we are at that point now, but I believe not based upon the steady improvement in Bitcoin transactional infrastructure. http://www.bitcoinpulse.com/There is at least one mathematical theory of price bubbles that could be used to elaborate this logistic model, but I hesitate to combine them for fear of unsound overfitting given the additional number of parameters whose values must be set. The bitcoin logistic model has only two parameters: the maximum price and the full adoption duration. As stated in the original post, my high price of $1 million is simply a guess. I could get a better fit on the logistic model with the data series to-date by assuming a high price of $2500. But that implies that we are near or have passed the adoption midpoint - which is hard to believe.Alternatively, I am intrigued by the suggestion that the logistic model is a better fit to market capitalization data than to price data, because market cap takes into account the supply of bitcoin that meets the demand of the marginal new adopter.I shall prepare another model using bitcoin market cap, but I would very much like to wait until the new year or a bubble, whichever occurs first because bubble peaks are easy to recognize and bottoms much more difficult. The right hand side of the model graph is hand fit to balance the central tendency and it is not clear yet where that region is for the bubble that peaked in November 2013. Thanks to you and to the foundation for the Developer Guide.Most of the conversation is on-topic. Not trollish behavior I believe. Crowdsourced projects need to air their issues, while achieving consensus on their policies. I would accept that this observation weakens the Metcalfe Law hypothesis with regard to Bitcoin network effects. But as Peter_R has shown in his charts, there is considerable variability in the data series, although over time the correlation is significant. I continue to wait for the 7-day smoothed number of transactions excluding the 100 most popular addresses to exceed 80000. That would be an all-time-high. And if bitcoin price is still depressed then that would be stronger evidence against the hypothesis. Perhaps I can change that opinion. I suppose that because Bitcoin Core was written by Satoshi in C++, that language is the traditional approach in cryptocurrency. C++ is arguably more performant than Java, but the latter's many security and productivity advantages are well known. For example ....1. Java has a number of excellent Integrated Development Environments which enable the faster design, writing, debugging and regression testing of applications. In contrast, Bitcoin Core developers often use command line tools.2. Java is inherently safer than C++ in that security is provided by a runtime environment which abstracts the underlying operating system and hardware.3. Java encourages reuse. Notably, I use the Bouncy Castle cryptography library in this project. 4. Java source code is easier to read and understand than the same behavior written in C++. Please look at the source for BitcoinJ on GitHub vs the Bitcoin Core source on GitHub. More programmers have been taught Java than C++. Unfortunately, I believe that Satoshi received a Computer Science degree before Java was popularized in the late 1990's.5. The community you speak of probably does not develop applications for Android, the world's dominant mobile device operating system, which because of the reasons I mention, strongly favors their rebranded Java language.Bitcoin Core developers are stuck with the messy C++ code Satoshi left them, and have been forced to rewrite half of it, according to Gavin Andressen. In this project I have made very modest changes to C++ Bitcoin Core to repurpose its testing behavior, allowing the creation of a new block every 10 minutes with a trivial proof-of-work. I treat bitcoind as a slave process entirely controlled and proxied on the network by Java software agents. Thus this project retains full feature and bug fidelity with the Bitcoin protocol, and compatibility with existing wallets and processors via a set of TexaiCoin seed IP addresses and port.Writing in Java, i.e the NetBeans IDE on Ubuntu, enables me to swiftly explore alternative implementations of new features. As suggested in a prior post by Scumby, I am currently working on keyless signature infrastructure as part of the tamper-evident log module. I am using SHA-512 hashing as provided by Bouncy Castle. Each full node's logs will be temporally salted with the current Solar Flux indicator and hashed into a network-wide, timestamped merkle tree whose root value is widely known and archived, e.g. into an operators' mail list. This prevents equivocation misbehavior by a peer which cannot undetectably report an incorrect version of its state to an attesting peer, who verifies the target peer's version state hash in the distributed provenance merkle hash tree.I am so glad to be using Java. Self-signed X.509 Certificate TransparencyIn this project I need a tamper-evident log-store of X.509 certificates replicated in, or otherwise available to, each container. I could simply trust a remote peer's certificate upon first use, but that method does not prevent a man-in-the-middle attack. A better alternative is a replicated tamper-evident log-store that is checked by the sender for correct listing of its IP address and certificate. The message recipient verifies the message signature of the message using the certificate looked up, or previously cached, for the sender's qualified role name: container-name.agent-name.role-name.Each peer agent/role that communicates beyond its container to a remote agent/role will generate its own self-signed X.509 certificate and safeguard the private key in the local container encrypted keystore. I am thinking about following the keyless signature infrastructure (KSI) design suggested by Scumby in which a growable binary merkle hash tree timestamps and stores the certificates along with a Solar Flux Index chaos value. An index over the log-store records keys consisting of the qualified role name, and values consisting of the IP address and certificate of a peer agent/role. A later-dated entry for a peer supersedes an earlier-dated entry in the log-store, which permits container operators to occasionally migrate from one IP address to another. I expect paid super peers to have static, seldom changing IP addresses. Lesser-paid, blockchain archiving nodes, may execute using a residential internet connection having a dynamic IP address, which would not be recorded in the certificate log-store. The tamper-evident log for the certificates would be part of the downloaded container for a new installation, and would be updated securely by polling a sufficient number of peers once connected to the network.The previous version of Texai used a Chord distributed hash table to contain the certificates. But for TexaiCoin I have removed the Chord library as it was another moderately complex attack surface that could be avoided by using a simple tamper-evident distributed data structure.  I see now. For this reason and to filter out other non-economic transactions, Blockchain excludes the 100 most popular addresses when calculating the data series that I follow. Awesome.This is a nice complement to what Peter_R calculated. I hope that transaction quantity growth continues for the next few months. My hypothesis is weakened a bit with this chart which shows transaction quantity relatively surpassing market cap in the summer of 2012, without a major new bubble. I briefly chatted with Gregory Maxwell on #bitcoin-wizards last spring as I was publishing my whitepaper on Bitcoin Cooperative Proof-of-Stake. Certainly the Bitcoin core developers are skeptical that anything other than proof-of-work can solve the distributed consensus problem. He graciously wished me well with regard to my approach, and I believe that the core developers, e.g. those chatting in #bitcoin-wizards IRC channel, will have more pointed questions and comments when this project's working code is deployed into production, vs commenting on a whitepaper.Satoshi designed bitcoin, I think, by adapting a napster style peer-to-peer network, e.g. omitting the central index server, to support an anonymous digital currency. His envisioned users were also operators who mined bitcoins using their laptops, from residential internet connections, while joining and leaving the network at will. This is the context of how core developers view distributed consensus.In contrast, this design fits the Satoshi Social Contract into a conventional distributed enterprise-style financial network, e.g. omitting central control. Its envisioned users are wallet owners and payment processors. Its envisioned operators are non-affiliated paid system administrators who securely provision identical software containers on bare metal dedicated servers in geographically disparate datacenters. The system is innovatively managed by peer-verified software agents having no single point of failure. The nomadic mint agent builds a canonical non-forking blockchain, which is widely copied, and allows immediate transaction processing without confirmations.Andytoshi, a core developer and mathematician here in Austin, said to me over lunch: "But this is not Bitcoin!". He elaborated to say that a single mint was opposite of what Satoshi wanted. Andytoshi was not then persuaded by my argument that a peer-verified nomadic mint solved the problem of trusting a central mint. Rather he was interested in the vulnerabilities my scheme might have with regard to attacks and network faults in which the system must come to agreement on the correct or optimal version of system state, e.g. who gets to be the mint, and what happens if there are forged blockchains. That is why this project needs to reach production for such fault scenarios to be designed, tested and reported. Here is the 15-minute resolution chart showing what I believe to be a short-covering bitcoin price rally. Large blocks are being purchased on Bitstamp. Gold prices have rallied a bit in the last hour too.  And here is the daily gold/USD price chart which shows a small rally coincident in time with today's bitcoin price rally ... Here is the 15-minute chart of Bitstamp prices showing what I believe to be a short-covering rally. It will be interesting to see if this continues past a few more days.... Short covering rally would be expected. Sorry, that I am very busy with my altcoin development. I will add the data series from Blockchain.info on bitcoins in circulation ...Total Bitcoins in Circulation (CSV) Thanks Scumby for your articulate understanding of my work. I examined the DRAO website and have written a message to their webmaster asking about why the displayed solar flux index is months old instead of current. Another potential micro-revenue service for TexaiCoin would be to wrap an API around the daily solar flux measurement and its recent archived values.I am constrained to keep the blockchain structure unchanged so as to maximise the opportunity that my changes will someday be incorporated into Bitcoin Core. But that does not keep me from creating a parallel data structure as you describe for KSI, which I now somewhat comprehend because of your explanation. The blockchain must remain a public ledger in its entirety, but I can envision a KSI process as you describe to irreversibly record blockchain hashes at each new block.And here is a link to a recent Ahto Buldas' paper which at first glance may be what you are describing ...Keyless Signatures’ Infrastructure: How to Build Global Distributed Hash-TreesCould you elaborate on the non-shared portion of the KSI hash tree? This appears to be the key to irreversibility. If an adversary had more than 50% of the nodes in his control, then he could out vote the legitimate nodes - right?I believe that I can publicly publish the blockchain hash as well as the KSI top hash when each new block is created as a trust anchor. For example it would be easy to automatically publish those in a dedicated forum such as Yahoo or Google groups in append-only style where the account is administered by TexaiCoin core developers. Likewise the system could append hash value entries to an otherwise readonly Google Docs spreadsheet. Then an adversary would have to hack each of these public records to maintain integrity with his forged blockchain. According to this chart of the smoothed adjusted number of bitcoin transactions, the uptrend of the past few months could, if continued at the same pace, surpass the previous all time high 0f 76394 within two to three more months. In the history of this data series, a new all time high has always been associated with the inflation stage of a price bubble. This is my falsifiable hypothesis: if the 7-day average of the number of transactions excluding popular addresses as calculated by Blockchain.info exceeds 76394, e.g. reaches 80000, then bitcoin price will be rallying into a new bubble.Among the ways this notion could be wrong is that transaction volume is now including more bitcoin tumblers to provide anonymity, or some other sort of non-commerce transactions, not filtered by Blockchain.info's simple algorithm.
Scumby,What you say is very interesting. Satoshi designed the current Bitcoin proof-of-work system to prevent an adversary from presenting a forged blockchain as legitimate. My approach makes that difficult by having only one canonical version of the blockchain, in which the current hash is widely known, in which participants are identified by certificates, and in which misbehavior is detected by verifying peers.This is a desirable property for the blockchain or agent logs. I want to understand the circumstances allowing an adversary to forge such a blockchain. I seem to comprehend how a KSI + chaos blockchain could be tamper-evident, but the forgery attack is one in which the adversary replays transactions from some point in the history, with some change in their own favor, recalculating the merkle trees and block hashes at each step. The forged block chain is thus internally consistent with no evidence of tampering unless compared with the final block hash of the legitimate blockchain.Does KSI as you understand it somehow make replaying of the blockchain building process impossible - as I described that process above? Even if not, your mentioning of a public chaos value is a good idea for convincing observers that the blockchain was not constructed prior to the timestamp associated with the public chaos value. I could use the daily radio flux at 10.7 cm as reported by the U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction Center, or can anyone suggest something published and archived by a more international source? Indeed.For reason you mention, I have stripped out the work-in-progress, natural language dialog and face-recognition aspects of Texai from the code that I am committing to GitHub for TexaiCoin. When I talk with coin developers at the Hasher's United conference in Las Vegas next month, I will be talking about a multi-agent software system which can cooperate to mine coins with no effort and still be as secure as Bitcoin. My approach to artificial general intelligence is to follow Alan Turing's advice back in 1950, which is to create a system capable of being taught skills and then to teach it. My implementation uses the robotic-inspired architecture described by James Albus, in which his hierarchical control network of software agents has been elaborated by me to model a human organization. For TexaiCoin, I have 27 simple agents which cooperate and will check each other to operate an altcoin network with no trusted third parties.I could have implemented these agents for TexaiCoin using any one of several agent frameworks, but it was the security aspects that motivated me to repurpose my existing AI code. Concerned about the need to ensure Friendly AI in a distributed network operated by anyone downloading the code, I designed the AI code years ago to be secure against intruders and hackers. I incorporated X.509 certificates for that purpose. Currently, I plan to use tamper-evident logs and remote attestation to strengthen Texai against attackers. I will be able to market TexaiCoin as having genuine artificial intelligence, thus helping this altcoin and its innovations to be distinguished from other thousand-plus altcoins. I do not plan to say much initially about the OpenCyc knowledge base that is part of each deployed container.TexaiCoin ideally will become a platform upon which third-party developers can add vetted skilled agents, and receive payment in TexaiCoin for the benefits gained by the collective infrastructure, or from the proceeds of services for sale, e.g. an API. I will start with the document timestamp service as a demonstration. I will add a high level goal to the system to pursue self-improvement, e.g. to increase revenue and coin value via tasks performed by paid developers. Humans will be able to perform tasks specified in the same manner as for software agents, but with a secure web form or secure email as the communication channel. I think that the system paying one person to perform the task, and paying two non-affiliated others to check the work should be safe. Thanks for the help, Scumby!I wanted to offer a document timestamping API which would not necessarily be evidence in a court of law but would provide a distributed, robust service implemented with micropayments. This is an excellent implementation suggestion for this skill, which is required by the nomadic mint which timestamps incoming transactions. I would then be easy to expose this skill as a money-making microservice API. Apparently the Bouncy Castle cryptography library I use has a time stamp protocol server that I will evaluate.Keyless Signature Infrastructure is interesting. I understand Merkle trees and this is similar. I will stay with self-signed X.509 certificates for identification, digital signatures for messages, and message channel encryption.  I did not see the interview, but be careful to distinguish between side-chains and tree-chains. The former is a method of funding a new crytpocurrency from sequested bitcoins. A side chain is not mined rather it gets its value from the sequestered bitcoins. The sidechain is a public ledger but is not the bitcoin blockchain and can accept different sorts of transactions that does bitcoin. A tree chain is a method of mining bitcoins such that attacks are more difficult. Tree chains use the bitcoin blockchain and no other. Peter Todd is most interested in tree chains. Adam Back is most interested in side chains. Both ideas require changes to Bitcoin Core and those developers are conservative with regard to radical changes unless their paid staffing increases - I think. Accelerating Bitcoin’s Transaction Processing, Fast Money Grows on Trees, Not Chains I would wait until the next bubble peak to adjust the model, or 2015 whichever is first. The left end of the logistic function is constrained to fit through the first recorded price. The right end of the model, I try to fit so that the recent variation is balanced above and below the line. If I were to fit the line today, I would balance the current price against the peak last November, and the trend line would likely pass through the low price in April 2014. Thanks to all of you for watching this model unfold. Here is the chart of adjusted number of bitcoin transactions. I chose a two-year duration, with seven day smoothing, and with a log scale. Note that the current value is now higher than all but a few days at the November 2013 peak. Should this trend in transaction volume continue, I expect that bitcoin prices will rise also. Here is the chart from Blockchain.info showing the Number of transactions excluding popular addresses. It is for a two-year duration, with a log scale, and includes the data points. Note that the latest value is higher than any preceding point except for a few days at the peak last November. Should this data series continue to climb, I expect that bitcoin prices will also move upwards, perhaps within a couple of months. Here is the one-week resolution chart for Litecoin vs Yuan from the liquid OKCoin exchange. Note that the rightmost candle, which just started its week, is relatively close to the resistance line that I drew from the December 2013 peak. It would be notable if LTC punches up through this trendline as did Dogecoin recently. Here is the one-week resolution chart for Dogecoin vs CNY as presented by Bitcoin Wisdom. Note the strong upwards breakout from the bubble collapse resistance trendline that I drew from the January peak. Merged mining with Litecoin appears to have convinced speculators that the risk of a 51% attack has greatly diminished. Thanks! This thread has numerous nuggets of wisdom for cryptocurrency developers.My latest thinking is a coin with the same parameters as Bitcoin. Verified turn-taking replaces proof-of-work. Block rewards are shared among high-availability full node operators, who must join the Bitcoin foundation, ultimately as voting members, or local equivalent in order to support Bitcoin Core developers. Here is the link to the academic reference used in my white paper: Remote Attestation on Program Execution . Essentially, the idea is to embed digital signatures of the log's hash to that point by attesting remote peers into a given peer's own log. The researchers call this technique entanglement, but I understood it more readily as peer-notarized logs that prove whether or not a particular log has been tampered with.As a result of my rewarding conversation with CIYAM above, I recently decided to have each node operator be their own certificate authority. My scheme does not rely on a chain of trust from a central certificate authority, indeed I want to preserve that part of the Satoshi Social Contract which says there are no trusted third parties in Bitcoin. I need X.509 certificates to identify a peer solely by their published public key, and to encrypt traffic between nodes via TLS 1.2.  I do not need a chain of trust to tie a real name and address to the system nor to the certificate holder.There is a security concept called Trust On First Use (TOFU), which allows peers to record received self-signed certificates and trust them from that point forward. That is a relatively weak method which I plan to eventually augment by providing an easy to use method of emailing peer self-signed certificates from the peer to an archiving Texai software agent before first use. To identify a peer in the Texai network, I would  use the certificate, which cannot be forged due to the public/private key math, together with the IP address of the peer and to use encrypted email for out-of-band communication with the peer. For example a peer operator should receive a periodic digitally signed email from the system detailing their fair share of the  mining reward paid to their supplied address. This manual oversight by the operator precludes man-in-the-middle attacks that would divert the reward to another address.Sybil attacks may occur in Satoshi's Bitcoin . . .WeaknessesFull nodes in Satoshi's bitcoin identify themselves only by IP address. In the Texai network, that weak identity is strongly augmented by X.509 certificates. Software agents keep track of the uptime and verified good behavior of the network nodes. Satoshi's proof-of-work method makes it hard for an attacker to obtain 51% of the hashing power to attack the network. I plan for the occasional voting among Texai peers to be weighted according to respective peer stakes and each such vote shall be paid for by the system in proportion to the stake. Thus an attacker would have to obtain 51% of the aggregate stake, which has been proven to be more expensive for the attacker than obtaining 51% of the hashing power in a proof-of-work coin. To my knowledge, no proof-of-stake coin has been compromised in a 51% attack, in comparison ...List of Historical 51% Attacks on Altcoins I am working on the minimal set of Texai software agents that will operate a bitcoind instance on my Ubuntu laptop for hallway demonstration at the Hashers United Conference to be held in Las Vegas in October.Meanwhile, I learned about the Raft distributed consensus algorithm that provides an off-the-shelf solution to how to robustly select the mint agent from among the set of candidate peers. There is an implementation in Java at GitHub that I linked in the OP. And here is an animated illustration of the algorithm as prepared by Ben Johnson ...http://thesecretlivesofdata.com/raft/This algorithm is robust against failing nodes and partitioned networks, but not against byzantime, e.g. malicious peers. I will handle the latter using Nick Szabo's method of remote attestation of peer behavior by inspecting their respective tamper-evident log files. I was not aware that Dan will be at this conference. Awesome. Good that the conference organizers are reaching out to altcoins and treating cryptocurrency infrastructure provisioning and operation as an industry segment, e.g. at current prices, bitcoin mining revenue is $1.7 million daily.I shared ideas with Dan a few months ago and look forward to meeting him in person as well as Charlie Lee (Litecoin), Phil Mayer (Mastercoin), Poramin Insom (Vertcoin) and Vitalik Buterin (Ethereum).  Whitepaper: Bitcoin Cooperative Proof-of-Stake Stephen ReedNote that the May 2013 whitepaper above describes a hard fork of bitcoin. That cannot possibly happen unless TexaiCoin is successful and subsequently convinces the Bitcoin community that a good alternative exists for the current industrial mining method. Furthermore, the current approach is not proof-of-stake. Now the block rewards are used to pay for network infrastructure, developers and community support, e. g. through institutions such as the Bitcoin Foundation.I will briefly speak, describing my approach, at the Hashers United Conference in Las Vegas next month on the mining algorithms panel.  I wrote a whitepaper back in May describing a simple solution to this problem that also has the advantage of providing instant acceptance of transactions. One nomadic mint agent creates the new blocks on a non-branching blockchain. Peers verify the result and copy new blocks to their own copies of the canonical blockchain. A single writer to the immutable blockchain should be very fast. Full nodes share the block rewards without proof-of-work mining effort. Fewer than one hundred lines of code are modified in Bitcoin Core, provided that suitable software agents operate the distributed network.All core devs I speak to are skeptical, but some encourage my project anyway to see if there is a better way than Satoshi's proof-of-work. NFC bitcoin payment applications from mobile devices will likely be paid for, directly or indirectly, by the merchant. Even considering the cost of currency exchange, BitPay, for example, is less expensive for merchants than say Visa. Once a tipping point is reached after which merchants prefer to retain bitcoin revenue to pay some of their own expenses with bitcoin, then exchange to fiat is not required. I will not be performing remote attestation at the BIOS and kernel level until such time as the project is successful enough to employ a specialist. TrouSerS FAQRather, my approach is to perform remote attestation at the application level. Peers inspect each other's tamper-evident logs verifying expected good behavior and detecting faults.The Texai system works as you describe it as each node has an X.509 certificate. The system has a self-signed root certificate and is its own certificate authority. De-centralized Intermediate certificates are used to create the end-entity certificates for the nodes/roles. These intermediate certificates are widely distributed in the system. Each node has a copy of the root certificate, but not its private key. Note that Bitcoin Core allows TLS and X.509 certificates already for RPC calls and for the new Payment Protocol. Texai does not need certificates for nodes to ensure third-party verification of the association of a public key with either a web domain name nor an operator's real name. The certificate is used to contain and publish the public key and to permit TLS authorization and encryption of the network traffic. Each operator, indeed each communicating role in the network has a unique UUID that is its identity. The certificate guarantees that whoever uses it has the private key in their possession. I believe that each user could hypothetically create a self-signed certificate and the Texai system would still work OK.When generating x509 version 3 certificates I use RSA with a key length of 3072 bits and SHA256 with RSA as the signature algorithm. This works on Java 1.8 with the high encryption strength policy enabled, and also works to encrypt websocket traffic to Android and IOS clients. As certificate validation is entirely in my control, e.g at both endpoints of a TLS version 1.2 connection and with all the entries of the certificate available, I believe that the Texai network is resistant to Sybil attacks. 5000 posts is a lot of man hours. I have written only about 1200 and been logged in 26 days, 23 hours and 27 minutes since 2010. Wow. In your position I would follow the advice given to effectively deactivate your own account by faking the email and randomly changing the password.Regards and best wishes on your projects!-Steve Correct me if I am wrong, but unique change addresses have been used for a while with the bitcoin-qt wallet to help preserve anonymity. The rise in popularity of a particular wallet indicates some sort of economic progress, minimally an improvement in ease of use. Metcalfe's Law, as interpreted in the context of the Bitcoin network, says that the network is more valuable to each user as more nodes are added. Accordingly, the network now with more SPV client users is more valuable to bitcoin purchasers than was the same network back in April at $339 on Bitstamp.Do you rent your lodging now? Just curious. The number of unique daily addresses used does measure a degree of economic activity, making it a fundamental measurement rather than a technical trading measurement. The amount of new money coming in is unfortunately proprietary information kept by exchanges.The importance of the two fundamental indicators of adjusted transaction quantity and daily unique addresses, as calculated by Blockchain.info, is that there is a good fit between the square of these fundamental indicators and the bitcoin price. We may be witnessing Metcalfe's Law of network effects unfolding before us. Thanks to Peter R whose charts appear here.And by the way, you might explain whether you are serious about your byline "Sell your house to short BTC". Short position margin calls at Bitfinex could be ruinous if you are all-in.
Very likely it is industrial mining. There about 3600 new  bitcoins created daily by miners. Industrial miners must pay for electricity and constant upgrades. The electric utilities do not accept bitcoin yet, and I would guess same applies for parts required by mining equipment manufacturers who are often industrial miners too. Chinese miners most likely dump bitcoins on a domestic exchange for Yuan. That narrows the field to a European or USA based industrial mine.I will be briefly speaking on a panel discussion about mining algorithms at the Hashers United Conference in Las Vegas this October. The audience will be miners and those wanting to learn more about cryptocurrency mining. A good question for the folks I meet there is "What percent of your mined coins are sold to pay expenses?". Here is the Blockchain.info chart for the number of daily unique addresses appearing in transactions, smoothed with a 7-day moving average. It also suggests, given that recent numbers are similar to those in March, that the bottom is behind us. I do not watch this data series as much, as perhaps gambling transactions are not filtered out. Here is the adjusted number of daily transactions, smoothed with a 7-day moving average as calculated by Blockchain.info. Note that recent volume is above March levels, which suggests the bottom is behind us. I am closely watching this data series. Here is a close up view of a three-day resolution chart using Bitstamp prices. The top resistance line goes back to the November 2013 peak. The bottom support line touches only two candles in that same period. I am watching this pattern unfold. I hope that prices reverse and break through the resistance, e.g. a price above $560 now, or a price above $500 at the end of October. I am buying bitcoin only once a month now, conserving petty cash for infrastructure when I launch my coin. Here are the current cyptocurrency market capitalizations are reported by coinmarketcap.com. Note that Monero has fallen a place from 11th to 12th. Some of these coins are quite unlike Satoshi's Bitcoin, having more or less anonymous cryptographic tokens as the common feature. Supply marked with an asterisk cannot be proof-of-work mined. Here is the three-day resolution chart for Dogecoin vs CNY on Bter as presented by BitcoinWisdom. Note what appears to be an upwards breakout of the resistance trendline that I drew from the early 2014 peak. I have a silly favorite too, but exactly why does mine seem more convincing? It is because the logic of induction in this context has a sound connection to fundamental principles, and there is a reasonable upper bound on the scope, i.e. 100% dead, not 200% dead. Thanks for the search tip. You are awesome CIYAM!I spent the last 50 minutes watching an informative video on certificate man-in-the-middle attacks that linked in the OP. Fortunately, I can use SSLSniff to attack the network and trace the certificate validation through the Bouncy Castle source code to ensure that this particular attack vector is closed. I already set the X.509 Basic Constraints properly for the root, intermediate and end-user certificates. An additional hurdle for an attacker is that my system has client as well as server certificates, which I will test with the SSLSniff tool. I searched the Docker registry for a container with this already built, but it should be easy given these instructions.SSLSniff works on a LAN, e.g. public WiFi network. This design somewhat protected by virtue of white-listed IP addresses for known full nodes. I suppose the best defense against man-in-the-middle attacks is to use the same techniques as does the bitcoin protocol in which transaction messages are signed by the sender with their private key. I can modify the expected node heartbeat messages to include a signed hash of the inbound and outbound traffic which a network operations agent can check for omitted or extraneous messages performed by a man-in-the-middle attacker.A goal now is to accumulate a suite of attack tools such as SSLSniff, Metasploit, etc., and record TexaiCoin responses to those attacks to back up my claim that a cooperative coin network is as secure , if not more secure, than Satoshi's Bitcoin. Might I beg some more clarification on the X.509 attack surface given the details I provided?Thanks for your clarification. I will amend my claim accordingly to "double-spending fraud attacks, e.g. BitUndo".Double-spendingHere is the well known example of the Finney attack which is based upon double spending. To be clear, what I mean by double spending is the issuance of two or more bitcoin transactions such that at the time of issuance each receiver believes the transaction to be good, yet because the longest blockchain will only contain one copy of the transaction, there is the opportunity for fraud. The appearance of this service caused a great deal of consternation on the Bitcoin core developers mail list ...BitUndo  Respectfully, I ask you to elaborate a bit on both your points. I use the X.509 v3 certificate generation facilities provided by the well known Bouncy Castle Java library. I use the optional high encryption strength encryption policy settings provided by Oracle java. I use a self-signed root certificate that each node receives, and do not check for revocation when verifying certificate paths because in my system the certificate serves to digitally sign messages, to encrypt traffic, and to identify the full node. The subject item in the certificate is a UUID, not a real name to preserve the anonymity of the node's owner yet retain identity to preclude Sybil attacks.Bitcoin Core already includes X.509 infrastructure for remote procedure calls, therefore that technology has been vetted by them and run in production.Code:-rpcssl                                  Use OpenSSL (https) for JSON-RPC connections -rpcsslcertificatechainfile=<file.cert>  Server certificate file (default: server.cert) -rpcsslprivatekeyfile=<file.pem>         Server private key (default: server.pem) -rpcsslciphers=<ciphers>                 Acceptable ciphers (default: TLSv1.2+HIGH:TLSv1+HIGH:!SSLv2:!aNULL:!eNULL:!3DES:@STRENGTH)Regarding double spending, I use a single nomadic mint agent that timestamps each accepted transaction and broadcasts it back into the network for archival and verification. That is a so-called single-writer to the canonical blockchain, which prevents double spending. Right?Regrading the peer review of my May 2013, whitepaper, the Bitcoin developers that I have contacted prefer to see working code and the test suite. All are skeptical that my cooperative ideas solve the distributed consensus problem. Regardless of what AnonyMint actually suggests, I wonder if you have a point with Ecuador.  Suppose, in some possible world differing greatly from reported plans, that Ecuador's Central Bank clones Bitcoin Core and modifies it slightly so that the Central Bank is the sole mint which can mine the digital currency. Furthermore, in this possible world, Ecuador retires its dependence on the US dollar and mandates the new digital currency as legal tender.In this purely hypothetical scenario, this particular crypto-currency becomes 6x the market capitalization of bitcoin given Ecuador's M2 at $36 billion. All financial institutions performing transactions with Ecuador, e.g. payment card processors, bank wire processors, foreign exchange traders, etc., would all have to modify their respective software systems to accommodate Bitcoin protocol transactions and settlement procedures.I suggest that in this scenario, Bitcoin is surpassed.But it is likely according to reports that Ecuador will squander the opportunity as did Canada a while ago. Satoshi created Bitcoin partly because sovereign governments are not trustworthy with respect to debasing their currencies. They effectively keep a portion of M2 growth for themselves or to prop up failing banks. Peer agents perform remote attestation of each other's behavior. Tamper-evident logs record context, inputs, actions, and outputs, which when replayed by a validating peer, confirm good behavior or detect bad behavior, e.g. a byzantine fault. The research that I referenced in the May whitepaper for this technique gives the math proving overall good behavior with up to 50% of the nodes faulty. In contrast, Satoshi's Bitcoin can be corrupted by a single mining node with 51% of the network hashing power.In addition to remote attestation of peer behavior, TexaiCoin will include a distributed network operations center equipped with a suite of open source information security tools that will detect intrusion and unauthorized changes to the host operating system and the Docker containers in which TexaiCoin full nodes execute. As funding from block reward permits, TexaiCoin network portals, that connect to wallets and external processors, will be protected against DDoS attacks by a traffic filtering service. Agreed. I keep a column in my data series for daily mining reward and currently it is $1.7 million at Bitstamp prices. Miners are likely selling most of this to pay for the upgrades Moore's Law provides.I will be speaking on a mining algorithm panel at the Hasher's United Conference in Las Vegas in October, where I will briefly explain to an audience of proof-of-work miners my alternative in development. Vitalik Buterin and Charles Lee will also be there to explain Ethereum and Litecoin algorithms respectively. Suppose that your idea gets adopted by certain countries which are the recipients of remittances, then bitcoin sent home from say the USA, could be used for another transaction before needing to be exchanged. As more and more vendors accept bitcoin, then perhaps a tipping point will be reached beyond which the need to exchange into fiat will diminish. Here is the nine month chart of Litecoin mining difficulty as presented by Bitcoin Wisdom. Note the more rapid increase from May through July as Scrypt (fixed) ASICs displaced GPU mining rigs for that altcoin. Hash rate increased almost 8x during this period in which litecoin prices fell 6x. Interesting that the hash rate has leveled off in the past month as litecoin prices capitulated in August.To a greater extent even than bitcoin, it appears that mining difficulty has no positive correlation with litecoin price. Here is a graph of Bitcoin Hash Rate growth for the last couple of months as presented by Bitcoin Wisdom. I believe from news announcements that mining is not only now industrialized, but becoming more vertically integrated as manufactures operate their own miners during that crucial period where return on capital investment is possible.There appears to be little correlation this year between bitcoin price and the mining difficulty. I find the Christian Bible enlightening by way of analogy. I hope that altcoins are not the False Gods ...Deuteronomy 13Emphasis mine. Lots of good stuff in the Bible. I do not mean that the world's total wealth cannot continue to increase exponentially, because I believe it will. Rather I am referring to the 10x average annual growth of bitcoin prices. That enormous rate of growth must end. How? Logistic models of population growth have been applied to the adoption of technology, and this is my attempt to put values into the variables of the formula. Upon full adoption, bitcoin price would move up or down in relationship to the overall economy.On this forum, trading advice is often handed out on the basis of the author's trading position. "To the moon" Bitcoiners are presumed to hold bitcoin, and sceptics are presumed to be short or perhaps just waiting for lower prices. I hold bitcoin, and attempt to post my interpretation of facts - most of my posts are charts with some lines drawn on them.If the logistic model is a good fit to the situation, eventually the curve will flatten out. Indeed a case could be made that is what is happening now, with the price at full adoption say  between $1000 - $3000. But the arguments in favor a higher price were made years ago by Rick Falkvinge, which I linked to on my logistic model thread ...Regarding altcoins, I accept the widely held view that they will become valueless unless they offer some innovation that makes some people believe that they have value, in particular transaction value. When and if bitcoin rallies again to another bubble, it will probably lift all speculative altcoins as did the November 2013 bubble.Perhaps the logistic model is better applied to the sum of all cryptocurrency market caps rather than to bitcoin alone, to account for the issues you have raised. But I will leave the model as is for at least another year on the belief that bitcoin will merely incorporate into itself, any particular innovation that would otherwise surpass it. I suppose that one can examine the smartphone industry and observe that the first movers are not today's champions. Regarding cryptocurrencies, I think that they have value primarily because some people consider them valuable, in particular valuable for transactions. In the collapse from the bubble peak of November 2013, blockchain altcoins available back then, e.g. Litecoin, Dogecoin, Peercoin, Namecoin, etc. have collapsed to a greater extent than bitcoin. What is interesting is the change in the relative market capitalization of altcoins in the last few months as various innovations are put on the market in the midst of a flood of me-too altcoins. Suppose, in some possible world, that Ecuador mandates its digital currency by making an altcoin. Its M2 is about $36 billion right now, much greater than bitcoin at $6 billion.------My own coin under development is meant to demonstrate a technology that I hope will one day be incorporated into Bitcoin to replace mining proof-of-work. Indeed.As I said above, I plan to refit the model next year or sooner if we get another bubble peak before the end of this year. The logistic assumption anchors the origin of the graph at the first reported bitcoin price on the left. The right hand side, namely the most current prices, is most important when hand fitting the function. The important idea that this model brings to the analysis of bitcoin price data is that exponential growth of bitcoin prices will end.Here is a logistic model applied to the adoption of smartphones ...Considering, how small the relative number of bitcoin transactions is compared to the number of credit card transactions, I suppose that we are currently in the Innovators stage, or at the beginning of the Early Adopters stage.
I bought some fractional bitcoin today from my local gunshop's ATM. Feels good. I remember holding fiat at Mt Gox waiting for $45-50, then prices reversed at $66. I bought back in the rally. Ugh. I understand your argument, as I maintain a logistical, e.g. S-curve model, of bitcoin price data presuming that the price is correlated with the population of adopting bitcoin speculators. I use $1 million for the arbitrary, guessed-at maximum price. Likewise I hand-fit the logistic function in November 2013, and will re-fit the function sometime next year given more data.https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0ArD8rjI3DD1WdFIzNDFMeEhVSzhwcEVXZDVzdVpGU2c Ahh ... but where are the network effects in religion with respect to Pascal's Wager? Do more believers make a certain God more likely to exist? Unlike religions which for the most part have immutable doctrine, Bitcoin is defined by software which can be changed a large consensus of its community. I am hoping my altcoin under development has such an effect on Bitcoin, by demonstrating that certain alternative technology is better. Here is the log chart of adjusted number of bitcoin transactions as calculated by Blockchain.info. Note that the most recent value is above any previous except for a few weeks at the bubble peak in 2013. Bitcoin transactions are growing in number and bodes well for the potential growth of bitcoin prices. Not God Exists, but rather Your God Exists. Cuts the odds a bit, and introduces the dilemma of choosing the right religion/faction for those who Believe. Here is the one-week resolution chart from Bitstamp. On it I have drawn two trendlines suggesting a damped oscillation pattern that might breakout mid October. The green candle I was watching a couple of weeks ago, turned out not to be a hammer on any of the high volume exchanges that Bitcoin Wisdom charts. Litecoin prices are still well constrained by the bubble collapse resistance trendline. This is the one-week resolution chart from BTC-e vs the dollar. If the price pattern over the last four weeks is a damped oscillation, then prices should converge near the present level of $4.7. At that level, prices reach the trendline again in the second week of October.  Here is the most recent 7-day moving average chart of adjusted number of bitcoin transactions from Blockchain.info. Note that the dip in late August has reversed back towards upward growth. I am closely watching to see if the number can exceed the previous peak near 75,000 per day. Currently the smoothed value is 67,330 per day.  This diagram supersedes the one posted earlier. Note that I do not plan to fork any existing proof-of-work coins, rather I am demonstrating an alternative approach that I hope will one day be adopted by Bitcoin, Litecoin, Dogecoin, Namecoin ect. developers. TexaiCoin is designed to run within a Docker container on the Linux operating system. If you want to run this but have only Windows or a Mac, then the VirtualBox software environment can be installed to allow Linux to run on your computer. TexaiCoinAfter completing the minimal required changes to my fork of the Bitcoin Core code for creating new blocks with trivial effort, I have been reflecting on how best to demonstrate the technology. Today I am re-branding this thread accordingly as TexaiCoin.I would like to demonstrate TexaiCoin at the Hashers United Conference in early October. It will not then have all the features needed for a public release but I can say that when released, TexaiCoin will have the same parameters as Bitcoin and will launch with a genesis block and no premine. This coin is to be marketed as a cryptocurrency especially suited for microtransactions and immediate acknowledgement that the accepted transactions will appear in the next block.  Because the USA has relatively good compliance with income tax payments, we have a rather progressive tax structure in which half of taxpayers pay little or no federal tax but a small proportion of high income companies and individuals pay the majority of federal revenue. Many US states follow the federal lead with regard to state income taxes. Interestingly, Florida and Texas do not have state income taxes and rely on other taxes for revenue. All in all, I consider the US tax system to be comparatively progressive in structure, e.g. soak the rich, yet perhaps less tax as a percentage of national income vs. say some European countries which soak the middle class through VAT. In the USA, the rich are fighting back politically, as a recent court decision permits corporations to contribute funds to political campaigns as if they were individuals, enabling the so called 1% to punch well above their weight so to speak when it comes to electing low-tax officials. Also value added taxes are popular in Europe which exaggerates the price differences at retail vs the USA. Here is a one-week resolution chart of Peercoin from BTC-e. Note that proof-of-stake coins are not necessarily immune from the bubble collapse. PPC has fallen 14x from its peak. I believe that economic transaction volume is a key support of bitcoin prices vs some altcoins which have been held mostly for speculation.  Here is an illustration of how a server in the Texai network will be configured with Docker containers that provide isolation between cryptocoin daemons, e.g. bitcoind, and the Texai software agents that control them ... Here is an organization chart design for the nodes within a particular server in the Texai cognitive architecture. Each node contains roles, which are the software agents that collectively perform the node's mission. Roles, in turn, have skills which are Java objects that provide perception and action behavior. Arrows depict the asynchronous task message passing from superior to subordinate roles. Likewise, perceptions, e.g status reports flow upwards from subordinate to superior.Each node has the following essential roles ...GovernanceRoleHeartbeatRoleNodeLifeCycleRoleNodeLoggerRoleThe TopFriendshipNode is the topmost node in this hierarchical control network. It's mission is governance, moreover ensuring that the system is friendly.The NetworkConfigurationNode contains the NetworkConfigurationRole which performs the node's mission of scheduling the nomadic software agents such as the MintRole.The NetworkOperationsNode contains the NetworkConfigurationRole which performs the node's mission of network operations management. It contains the BootstrapRole which has the skills to on-board a new server into the Texai network. It contains the RecoveryManagementRole which supervises recovery from a fault. It contains the SoftwareProvisioningManagementRole which supervises software provisioning, e.g. version upgrades.Cryptocoin operation nodes may contain the following roles ...CoinSeedRole - Uses the Texai encrypted torrent library to seed new servers with the cryptocoin's blockchainBlockchainArchiveRole - replicates the canonical blockchain with new blocks created by the nomadic mint agentMintRole - The nomadic cryptocoin minting agentRewardAllocationRole - The nomadic cryptocoin block reward allocation agentFinancialAccountingAndControlRole - The nomadic agent which balances the blockchain against processed transactions, and provides traffic statistics to network operationsPrimaryAuditRole - the nomadic agent which has primary responsibility for verifying the behavior of the MintRole and RewardAllocationRoleSecondaryAuditRole - has secondary audit responsibilitySoftwareProvisioningRole - performs software provisioning for a particular cryptocoin's Docker containerRecoveryRole - has the responsibility for a particular cryptocoin's recovery from a faultCoinPortalRole - has the responsibility of public communication with a cyptocoin's native protocol to client wallets and transaction processors.The TorRelayNode contains the TorRelayRole which has the simple skill of running a Tor relay instance that encrypts and obfuscates network traffic for those cryptocoin clients that wish additional anonymity by using Tor. I completed modest modifications to Bitcoin Core that allow the mining of a new block with no effort. The source code branch is named no-pow-mods on my fork of the bitcoin repository at GitHub. My code is here.The new bitcoin configuration option is added to .bitcoin/bitcoin.conf, where the parameter is the height of the blockchain at the moment of the fork...The command on Linux to create a new block and then return is ...And here is the block reward added to my test wallet ...Next step is to write a simple Java software agent to send the generate command to the running bitcoin-qt instance every 10 minutes. I claim my cooperative system is trustless in the sense that the source code is open source for inspection, and what few human agents, e.g. developers, network managers, etc., are subject to at least dual control. The self-signed root X.509 certificate is public except for the private key. Even if the root private key were made public after the issuance of a fixed number of intermediate certificates, I do not see the vulnerability. TLS/SSL traffic is encoded by the end-user (software agent,  not bitcoin user) certificates. Outbound messages from a node are digitally signed using the assigned certificates held by software agent roles hosted by that node.The chain of trust flows from the root certificate through the intermediate certificate to the end user certificate. The validating endpoint has its own copy of the root certificate which it obtained upon being on-boarded into the network. Sybil attacks, I believe, cannot be accomplished, because both endpoints know each other's certificates in a system in which persistent network connections are managed by distributed, redundant network operation centers. Not to quibble, but in my two decades of enterprise billing and payment system experience, I found that reasonable data security practices prevented loss of customer funds. I believe a public trial of cooperative Bitcoin will demonstrate its resistance to hacking - or not.
I suppose then that the root certificate private key should be destroyed immediately after creating a sufficient number of intermediate certificates. The system treats the root certificate as it treats the blockchain. Each is widely replicated and tamper-evident by way of comparing the local copy with what all the other peers have. This notion is resistant to byzantine faults up to 50% invalid peers.In contrast to Satoshi's Bitcoin, a cooperative system can use a portion of the block rewards to employ data security firms to perform periodic audits as does the payment card industry. I would have this system at least as secure as the existing payment systems. Ok. In this system each full node has a copy of the root certificate. The distributed certificate servers use an intermediate X.509 certificate. Validation by TLS/SSL endpoints at the full nodes perform validation of the chain from root --> intermediate --> end-user, which is a software agent role.Suppose the root key is lost somehow. The chain validation still works. The software does not check for certificate revocation. Bad nodes are simply banned. Would you care to elaborate on the X.509 certificate authority vulnerabilities you mention? For example, I use the Bouncy Castle Java libraries. The routes between super peers of the networks are not public knowledge, only the portal nodes have well known IP addresses.Here is what Wikipedia has to say ... http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X.509#Problems_with_certificate_authorities. I have a self-signed root X.509 certificate that I use to generate intermediate certificates that in turn allow distributed servers (GitHub) to generate X.509 certificates for each node, i.e. the operator, and for each agent role. There will be numerous certificates in the system. I use TLS/SSL to authenticate both endpoints of a network connection, so each party knows who it is communicating with - knows the other node, knows the software agent in the node, and knows the role, e.g. skill set, that the particular agent is using.End users with an SPV wallet, i.e. not a full node, connect without additional encryption to DDoS-protected portals that are certain paid full nodes in the system. How I Explain Cooperative Bitcoin Versus Satoshi's BitcoinSuppose, in some possible world, that the gathering of transactions, maintenance of the blockchain, and the hashing calculation is performed by humans with calculators in a Satoshi-style proof-of-work system. Bitcoin today is sort of like these humans working independently in unseen chest-high cubicles and when the solution is found the winning miner stands up and claims the reward.But alternatively, in a single room, the humans could retain their anonymity by masks or other disguise and cooperate to create a new block with no effort by taking turns, round robin, in order to collect the reward on schedule every 10 minutes. Each cooperating miner would maintain their copy of the canonical blockchain for backup.Intelligent agents permit efficient, verified, cooperative behavior.Central to my hypothesis, is the notion that Bitcoin is valuable because some people think it is valuable, not because X effort was consumed to create X value in bitcoin. Indeed, there no need to solve a problem that can be designed out of the system. From my whitepaper ...Note that Satoshi's Bitcoin is designed for frequent disagreement among full nodes as to which is the correct blockchain - because all miners are simultaneously attempting to create the next block. In a cooperative system, only one node creates the block according to a pre-arranged schedule. The other nodes verify the actions of the nomadic mint. Disagreement in this system is not designed in, rather it is the result of a fault or an attack.The primary user improvement I offer is ...Transport Layer Security using X.509 certificates issued by the system's distributed Texai certificate authority credentials the system's paid full node operators. Each packet within the network is thus encrypted against tampering and tamper-evident logs at each full node permit remote attestation that allows peers to verify each other's good behavior. The trustless behavior of this system is provided by software agents whose algorithms are open source.Furthermore,  highly automated network operations management allows this system to react quickly in the face of attack or catastrophe. Customer service is provided to answer user's inquiries.  All of this is paid for by the block rewards at no additional cost to users - who pay 100x lower fees than the Satoshi system.The Cooperative Bitcoin system is free or low cost to use because it is compatible, given a change in seed IP address, with all existing wallets and services. The source code and non-security-related data are open source and free to download and use. The system, e.g. existing operators, vet new operators according to system administration skills and compliance with the system-specified hardware and software. As block rewards grow in value with increasing adoption by users and subsequent rise in coin price, additional operators can be paid throughout the world. Volunteer full node operators can use the system software to act as blockchain archival nodes, as a last resort disaster recovery of the blockchain and in-flight transactions. The Elevator Pitch For This ProjectThe system that I'm developing forks Bitcoin and other major PoW coins into separate networks, I avoid the Byzantine Generals problem by using authenticated cooperating agents rather than anonymous competing nodes. If distributed uncoordinated behavior is designed out of the system, then there is no need for distributed consensus.I take a conventional high performing global financial network architecture, and adapt it to maximally preserve the Satoshi Social Contract, e.g. the user experience. My technique permits instant, certain-to-be-in-the-blockchain transactions with 100x lower fees. How? Because a nomadic mint agent creates new blocks for a widely replicated, non-forking, canonical blockchain with trivial PoW effort. The block reward fees pay qualified full node operators to secure the distributed peer network using conventional data security methods, e.g. TLS/SSL, DDoS filtering, fail-over, digitally signed logs, network operations centers, security intrusion detection and mitigation, customer service, etc. I studied the introduction to the Skycoin paper and skimmed the rest. It may indeed prove better than Satoshi's Bitcoin with regard to securing the network at lower cost.The system that I'm developing forks Bitcoin and other major PoW coins into separate networks, I avoid the Byzantine Generals problem by using authenticated cooperating agents rather than anonymous competing nodes. If distributed uncoordinated behavior is designed out of the system, then there is no need for distributed consensus.I take a conventional high performing global financial network architecture, and adapt it to maximally preserve the Satoshi Social Contract, e.g. the user experience. My technique permits instant, certain-to-be-in-the-blockchain transactions with 100x lower fees. How? Because a nomadic mint agent creates new blocks for a widely replicated, non-forking, canonical blockchain with trivial PoW effort. The block reward fees pay qualified full node operators to secure the distributed peer network using conventional data security methods, e.g. TLS/SSL, DDoS filtering, fail-over, network operations centers, security intrusion detection and mitigation, customer service, etc. Young Genius vs Old MasterThe New Yorker article from 2008 on late bloomers brought to my attention by HackerNews might, if one were generous, analogously apply to 63 year old me, substituting developer for painter/artist, project for painting ... Information Security For Cloud Services - Article SnippetsCatastrophe in the cloud: What the AWS hacks mean for cloud providersThe 2014 cyber security roadmap3 Critical Best Practices for Encryption Key Management on the IBM i I completed the modifications to bitcoin core C++ code that allow a new command line option -nopowafter=<n>, where n is the blockchain height, i.e. the blocknumber, at the time of the fork. My additions and changes can be inspected at my GitHub account for TexaiCognitiveArchitecture https://github.com/TexaiCognitiveArchitecture/bitcoin/tree/no-pow-mods in the branch named no-pow-mods.Next I need to operate bitcoin-qt in a debugging mode in my NetBeans IDE, i.e. C++ integrated development environment, and use bitcoin-cli to send setgenerate commands and see if the block gets created and that the block reward is subsequently present in the bitcoin-qt wallet with a new address. I have two bitcoind instances running in my lab and they tend to utilize excessive upload bandwidth even with one connected only to the other, and with each of them not listening for inbound connections.On Ubuntu 14.04 LTS I installed trickle which performs network traffic.Code:$ cd <directory containing bitcoin-qt>$ trickle -u 10 -d 20 ./bitcoin-qt -listen=0 -maxconnections=4These settings allow me to receive updates to my local blockchain replica, while limiting the consumed bandwidth. Thanks for sharing these Peter, they are awesome. Here is the two year chart of the adjusted number of bitcoin transactions from Blockchain.info. Note that in the past few days the smoothed log graph has turned downwards. The seven day moving average removes most of the noise caused by day-of-week variation, but looking back over the history of the chart it appears there are noisy movements remaining. So I will be closely watching this latest trend of the transaction quantity to see whether it reverses sharply over the next week to move higher, or whether it continues downwards.I believe that there is currently a divergence in the relationship between bitcoin price and number of transactions. The transaction quantity is now above March 2014 levels but the price is not. Let's see how this situation resolves. Today I removed the very large data repositories from GitHub as they were beyond the size guidelines of GitHub. I have them hosted at Mega instead.I am now studying the source code of the Bitcoin Core. I am looking in particular at the -regtest option and how in conjunction with the setgenerate Command Line Interface option, the bitcoind program can be made to generate a block with a single hashing attempt. I plan to introduce a new option ...Code:-nopowafter=<n>    After block <n> generate and verify proofs of work with trivial difficultyMy plan for the CPoS nomadic mint agent is to slave a running instance of my modified bitcoind program to a supervising agent that runs in the separate local Texai Java process. The agent will configure the slaved bitcoind with the -nopowafter=317439, for example, and then command the bitcoind instance to generate a new block every ten minutes with the setgenerate 1 CLI command. I had hoped to leave bitcoind completely untouched but the regtest option is tightly coupled to certain permissive testing behavior that I do not want for CPoS production. Perhaps I can begin a hard fork of the Bitcoin blockchain for alpha testing September 1 GMT. I plan to open the network to the public when I have it migrated to at least one enterprise server, and have the software agents that proxy bitcoind completed. Note that I have not yet developed the tamper-evident logs that are the key network security feature of CPoS.When open to the public for beta testing, I expect you to find your bitcoin holdings from before September 1 intact, once you configure a separate Bitcoin wallet to connect to certain IP addresses that I will provide. Note that bitcoins on the CPoS network are an altcoin - they are not bitcoins on the main network. Today I completed the revision, testing and upload of the Texai modules that will provide the foundation for cooperative proof-of-stake for Bitcoin. GitHub has the source code files and I have uploaded the large RDF repositories directory and the large Maven artifacts directory to an account I established at Mega. Shortly I will clean up GitHub by removing those large data directories.Next steps in CPoS development will be to download and study Bitcoinj which I will use as the adapter to communicate with bitcoind. Bitcoinj is written in Java and bitcoind, which I plan to leave mostly unchanged, is written in C++. Texai is written in Java. Here is the coinmarketcap.com list of crypto-currencies sorted by 24-transaction volume. There is certainly no surprise that bitcoin and litecoin have the first two places. It is interesting that BitsharesX and BitcoinDark have rallied this week when others were weaker.  Supply figures with an asterisk indicate that the coin cannot be mined, i.e. not proof-of-work. Interesting too, how many of these are ranking higher this month. Here is the one-week resolution chart of Litecoin / Yuan as reported by the very liquid OKCoin exchange. The rightmost candle now has a technical shape that suggests indecision, and with relatively high volume indicates that the recent price capitulation has either ended or paused. As the resistance downtrend line from the November 2013 peak has not yet been convincingly pierced to the upside, conventional TA wisdom says the down trend from the peak has not yet reversed. Industrial miners will seek the least expensive power, cooling and labor. ASIC fabrication plants have the ability to continue scaling in spite of impending lithography limits by advancing to 3-dimensional monolithic circuits.  I expect that even small advances in hashing per watt will induce industrial miners to replaced their older rigs in less than a year, because of the relentless pace of difficulty increases in PoW coins.As Tim Swanson well describes in his recent book, the marginal profit gained by miners when PoW coin prices increase is swiftly accommodated by an equal rise in the mining difficulty as competing miners add to their existing capacity.I recall solo mining a couple of bitcoin blocks back in June 2010 after a popular tech blog brought Bitcoin coin to my attention. Within a few weeks, I shut down my quad core CPU miner as, on this forum, system administrators were bragging that they had installed bitcoind on hundreds, if not thousands, of computers at their workplaces. Difficulty soared back then, not because of any new mining tech, but rather because the capacity could be added and it was. I do not have an opinion on whether their project as a whole has any merit, but I do like certain ideas that are shared with my own project. Namely, paying full node operators to secure the network. I believe that Satoshi PoW coins mis-allocate their block rewards which could be better spent elsewhere, provided the blockchain is secured in a free, distributed, transparent, and trustless manner as Satoshi required for Bitcoin.Perhaps Satoshi believed back in 2009 that Bitcoin users would generate bitcoins on their own personal computers so that each user ran a full node, securing the network, and receiving appropriate remuneration by way of bitcoins mined. But, by 2011 in his last posts on this forum, Satoshi came to believe that industrial mining was the future, with the vast majority of non-generating users connected to a few centralized miners, e.g. the big pools that we have today, with the current 7000 Bitcoin volunteer full nodes unpaid, and mining few if any bitcoins. 
Here is the weekly chart from Bitstamp where we are watching the rightmost candle which presently has the technical shape of a hammer. This candle is only 4 days old so it could end up with a different shape. Conventional TA wisdom regarding hammers is that they often indicate a trend reversal when following a significant downtrend, e.g. April 6. The time resolution is not important as candlestick TA is fractal in that sense. On the other hand, a hammer can also occur in the midst of a trend as happened September 29, 2013.Because the price previously stabilized around $650, that would be a resistance zone if indeed the trend reverses to a rally.An important aspect of TA is that traders and algorithmic bots look for these patterns and take action. So even if you think TA is unsound, it is an indicator of the possible actions of speculators and their trading bots. That could happen, but I suggest that current holders will simply wait and see what happens to the price of forked coins. The price of a coin, I believe, depends mainly on the quantity of economic transactions its users are willing to make. Metcalfe's Law, as applied to coin prices, says that the price of the coin should be proportional to the square of the number of transactions. My goal therefore is not to get big investors to buy, or even to hold - rather my goal is to get payment processors to accept my forked coins because of their performance - namely immediate acceptance and 100x lower fees. I plan to also use a variety of marketing promotions, allocated from block rewards, to induce users to transact the forked coins.The first market will be microtransactions, which should lead to high transaction quantity but little in the way of amount.My interpretation of Satoshi's writings are different than yours. He had little to say about the unequal distribution of bitcoin wealth, which is important because he owns so much of it. Obviously, CPoS overturns Satoshi's brilliant solution to the problems of electronic cash, yet I attempt to maintain the Satoshi Social Contract to the greatest extent possible, e.g. no trusted third parties, create a new block every 10 minutes and have a maximum 21 million bitcoins ever. If we agree that the semantics of trust are "confidence placed in an agent by making that agent the nominal owner of property to be held or used for the benefit of one or more others", then I entirely agree with AnonyMint that software agents can be trustless. We do not need to have confidence that a software agent will do the right thing if we can inspect the source code and its peers can verify each other peer's correct behavior. This is how Satoshi's Bitcoin operates, indeed that is how any enterprise financial system works. Years ago while working at a bank, my code was routinely checked by a data security officer. Daily runs of the bank's software had a staff of people in the Controls department that verified the accounting inputs and outputs of the system. The bank did not need to trust that I would perform my job correctly, rather others would verify my work before it entered production, and others would verify the results of the calculations. Customers, on the other hand, trusted the bank because we were subject to audit by the board of directors, by the State government and by the Federal government. And if the bank failed despite the audits, then customer deposits were insured to a certain limit by Federal insurance. Thanks!!I have 5 280x GPU cards, which should get 450 h/sec each. According to an XMR mining calculator, that works out to .22 BTC per month. It would not pay my electric bill in Austin, Texas, but is very satisfactory as a noisy space heater that offsets my electric heating bill in my Colorado mountain home over the winter. An additional expense is maintaining the internet service when I am not there. That. Plus the current PoW coins are in a sort of unstable equilibrium, in which their operating situation is locally optimal, even though a hard fork to reallocate the mining reward would be greatly beneficial to the community. As Tim Swanson explains in his recent book, the core developers of Bitcoin do not have the staff nor the consensus to make a great change to how Bitcoin works. Disruption must occur from the outside and start with a market PoW cannot currently address - I will try microtransactions for example. My CPoS scheme will directly test this hypothesis and will certainly fail if you are right. In contrast, perhaps cryptocurrencies are valuable solely because some people think they are valuable. Industrial mining appears to be concentrating in locations with the least expensive power and passive cooling. Increasingly, ASIC manufacturers are vertically integrating with industrial miners. The fact that mining equipment rapidly becomes obsolete means that an ASIC space heater will offset electrical heating costs for one  season at most. Then the rig is simply not worth running at all, e.g. too noisy. I have three GPU mining rigs ready to heat my Colorado mountain home should GPU-algorithm coins ever again be profitable to mine, but I doubt that I will ever take them out of storage.PoW secures a blockchain that only needs securing because anonymous, possibly malicious, peers compete. Conventional financial networks are secured at much less expense, and the block rewards of PoW coins should be better spent elsewhere. Yes, andytoshi personally, and gmaxwell on IRC. Before writing the whitepaper I met with andytoshi here in Austin, Texas and we discussed the issues of achieving consensus in a distributed system. He believed then that my ideas were not Bitcoin, as I sidestep distributed consensus by not having a Satoshi-style, join-and-leave at will, anonymous, volunteer peer-to-peer system. CPoS has paid-for, authenticated full nodes that are permanently operated by geographically dispersed, non-affiliated system administrators. CPoS is cooperative and achieves trustless behavior via transparent software agents that verify each other's actions. Gmaxwell, I believe, wants to see the working system.Core developers will likely closely scrutinize the nomadic central mint that enables all CPoS advantages. As I plan to use bitcoind as is, I actually do not need core developer acceptance of a pull request for changes to the Bitcoin Core software. Rather my code encapsulates a slave bitcoind instance and proxies its connections to the secure network CPoS manages.I plan to explore microtransactions as a route to more general acceptance, as CPoS has benefits for this up-to-now unserved market, namely 100x less transaction fees and immediate acknowledgement  for inclusion in the next block.Should CPoS prove successful in its forks of the popular PoW coins, then I expect the system to use a portion of the block rewards to hire a relatively large number of developers to join those already working on Bitcoin Core.I am dropping the idea of paying dividends to existing coin holders, as the system stake is provided by the paid-for full node operators. The block rewards are better spent to improve the coins, and encourage their use in transactions. I too hope that candle is a hammer, or more generally ends the week at its highest level. Correct in that I am not a crypto-currency expert yet, but my whitepaper has been received well enough to credential me for a modest speaking role at the Hashers United Conference to be held in  Las Vegas this October. There is little new in the way of crypto that I bring to this community.I am however a programmer with decades of Cobol and database experience in networked enterprise financial systems up to 1998. Subsequently I worked as a Lisp and Java programmer and project manager for Cycorp, a DARPA contractor performing artificial intelligence research. Now 8 years early retired from a salary job, I have drawn on both experiences, bringing a fresh approach to solving the problems Tim Swanson best describes in his recent book about Bitcoin.Regarding the political and economic aspects of bitcoin, I am naively optimistic and defer to you on those issues. Here is the one-week resolution chart of LTC vs CNY from the liquid OKCoin exchange. The rightmost green candle could be a long-awaited trend reversal for litecoin prices, given the relatively high volume . . . Here is the one-week resolution chart from Bitstamp. The rightmost green candle is not yet a week old but it appears that the downtrend has reversed . . . The CPoS system is not yet deployed so we do not know its vulnerabilies, but it's design is very unlike existing PoS systems and so AnonyMint's criticisms of PoS would not apply. His other criticisms of how far incumbent special interests would go to stop the replacement of fiat would hold however.When I first discussed proof-of-stake ideas with Bitcoin core developers, they said that solving the distributed consensus problem was the main issue. I thought about it and sidestepped that problem by starting with a conventional financial transaction network design and altering it to maximally preserve the Satoshi Social Contract and protocol compatibility with the existing Bitcoin network.  I designed geographic dispersion and non-affiliated node ownership to achieve resistance to government shutdown. I used a cognitive architecture to enable trust-free software agents to transparently operate the system. I achieve all the technical and performance advantages of a central mint, but avoid a single point of failure or trust by using a nomadic software agent to create new blocks.There can be no 51% percent attack unless an attacker successfully impersonates a majority of the paid-for full nodes. CPoS makes this hard in the same way that VisaNet safeguards credit card transactions. CPoS full nodes are authenticated by X.509 certificates issued from the Texai certificate authority. All traffic between nodes is encrypted with TLS/SSL. Each CPoS full node does not use DNS to navigate the network, rather static IP addresses are securely transmitted offline. Private keys will be secured by hardware. A paid-for set of network operations centers will actively manage the network with regard to intrusion detection and mitigation.In CPoS there is one canonical copy of the non-forking blockchain that paid-for full nodes will replicate. Volunteers may download CPoS software to replicate and verify the blockchain too. In CPoS there is no competition of miners to create the longest chain, rather the single nomadic mint agent creates new blocks for the whole network without competition, and at no effort. Bitcoind already has this no-effort PoW ability for regression testing.There can be no Finney attacks because CPoS transactions are immutable once they enter the network. An issued transaction is routed directly to the nomadic mint agent's current full node along redundant paths. An acknowledgement of the accepted transaction is immediately broadcast into the network so that users know their transaction will be contained in the next block. This method also prevents lost or ignored transactions. Unlike the Satoshi Bitcoin network and its altcoin clones having best-effort volunteer full nodes, CPoS paid-for full nodes are high availability, high bandwidth, and rationally connected for maximum performance and redundancy.There can be no double spends in the CPoS network because there is one canonical blockchain and issued transactions are routed to the nomadic mint along the fastest path. The CPoS is not peer-to-peer allowing full nodes to join and leave at will - rather it is a permanent network of peers with an optimal topology.I am keeping proof-of-stake in the project title but my thinking is evolving away from using block rewards to pay dividends to existing coin holders. Users can migrate from PoW to CPoS forks because of features and transparent investment of the block rewards directly into making the Bitcoin Core and other infrastructure better.-Stephen Reed Yes, these will be four premined altcoins, in which users will find their coins present if acquired before the date of the fork. The fork simply copies the original blockchain at a certain announced moment in time, then creates new blocks without effort according to the coin's specifications, e.g. Bitcoin - every 10 minutes. In CPoS, geographically dispersed, redundant full nodes take turns creating new blocks as a certain nomadic software agent periodically migrates from node to node. Non-generating nodes replicate and verify the canonical blockchain. The core code for each altcoin, e.g. bitcoind for Bitcoin, is run as a slave by CPoS which provides the encrypted and authenticated network (TLS/SSL) between nodes. My goal is to ultimately persuade users to migrate from the original coin networks to the respective CPoS networks by virtue of customer service, improved performance, e.g. effectively immediate confirmations, and 100x lower fees. Wallet and service owners should be able to reconfigure their seed node addresses to join the CPoS network. By design, CPoS does not have the well known vulnerabilities of Satoshi's Bitcoin, e.g. 51% attack, Sybil attack, Finney attack, lost transactions, miner-ignored transactions, selfish mining, partitioned network, etc. Rather CPoS has a set of new to-be-found vulnerabilities because the Texai code base has never been used in production. DDoS attacks will be mitigated by paid-for DDoS traffic filtering at each full node. Best-effort volunteers operate the existing PoW networks, whereas CPoS operators will be paid professionals.I expect CPoS altcoin prices to be very low at first, growing in proportion to the square of their respective transaction quantities. As the the CPoS altcoins grow in value, the system be able to keep pace with transaction growth by adding more paid-for full nodes. I would vet the first operators, prioritizing system administrator and data security skills. I suppose monthly payments of $5000 in coin should suffice to attract the talent CPoS needs to provision the specified hardware and bandwidth. As block rewards grow with price increase, the CPoS system would pay C++ developers to join the Bitcoin Core team. I believe, for example, that blockchain spent transaction pruning as proposed by Satoshi would be a valuable contribution by CPoS to the cryptocurrency community.The Texai cognitive architecture should become a compelling platform for third-party application development, as the various Java software agents will pay each other with bitcoin microtransactions for micro-services rendered, and will pay each local operator for the agent's fair share of the infrastructure. https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=584719.0 Just curious, do you have any data on proof-of-work coins versus those which cannot be mined, e.g. pure proof-of-stake coins? Here is the one-day resolution price chart for dogecoin vs Chinese Yuan from the Bter exchange. The last green candle suggests the beginning of a trend reversal but it is not as convincing yet as the equivalent litecoin chart. Here is the 1-day resolution chart of Litecoin from BTC-e. Ignore the June 30 candle whose price action was not present on the more liquid Chinese exchanges that day. I believe that litecoin is possibly reversing trend and could test resistance near $7, especially if bitcoin prices have reversed trend and rally for some days. On the other hand, if litecoin does not rally towards $7, a dampened oscillation pattern suggest prices converging in a few days at $5,50. Here is the three-day resolution bitcoin chart from Bitstamp. Prices have rebounded strongly from the support line around $450. Given the increasing quantity of transactions this month, perhaps this is a price trend reversal that will push prices towards $600 again. If that happens, the next resistance would be around $660. I shared a conference call with Daniel Larimer, listening to progress on DPOS and explaining my own work. I commend Dan and his team. My greatest interest in DPOS is not how they secure the blockchain but rather the Distributed Autonomous Corporation, which I believe can be implemented in my Texai cognitive architecture.As I consider the design of my own work, I see less reliance on proof-of-stake as a method to secure the blockchain, and much more emphasis on traditional financial software techniques. CPOS will have a single mint agent that migrates over a network of paid full nodes, creating new blocks without effort, and whose results are verified by other agents that replicate and verify the canonical blockchain. My approach is much less complicated than reinventing Satoshi's design from scratch. I merely encapsulate bitcoind and control what nodes it connects with, and give one of them at a time permission to generate the block. I plan to fork the most popular PoW coins Bitcoin, Litecoin, Dogecoin and Namecoin on separate networks with separate branding - CPOS-B, CPOS-L, CPOS-D and CPOS-N respectively. To buoy prices, I would allocate a modest portion of the block rewards as dividend payments proportional to unspent transaction outputs. The remainder of the block reward finances generous support of full nodes and developers. The extreme low costs of CPOS with regard to PoW - which consumes the entire block reward, allows CPOS to offer 100x lower transaction fees. That feature, together with modest dividends and immediate acknowledgement of accepted transactions, should entice users to migrate over to CPOS from the PoW networks. All they need to do is configure new seed node addresses on their wallets and services. Their pre-fork coins will be present for spending. According to Coinmarketcap.com, 8 of the top 20 coins by market cap cannot be mined. I would say that Proof-of-Work has substantial competition from other proven mechanisms to secure the shared transaction ledger.
The coins I would fork are currently the highest market capitalization Satoshi proof-of-work coins. Perhaps in a few more months, Dogecoin will fall out of that group. Or on the other hand, a rally in Bitcoin might lift most altcoins as happened November 2013. I understand your points about the relative merits of coins. But, analogous to current industrial mining, I want to position the CPOS system as an agnostic platform that secures the network for a variety of branded coins without controlling their respective business communities, and thus isolated from their behavior. The CPOS system would drop a coin whose block rewards no longer pay for the storage of their blockchain. CPOS will enable each supported coin to have lower transaction fees and immediate, certain acknowledgement that accepted transactions will be included in their respective blockchain. CPOS operators, as directed by the software, will contribute a significant portion of respective block rewards to the Litecoin and Dogecoin foundations for use as those communities see fit. Furthermore, CPOS supported coins will not be subject to 51% attacks. Their transactions will be immutable and thus not subject to double spend attacks. All traffic between paid-for full nodes is TLS/SSL encrypted, and because each such full node is identified by a unique X.509 certificate, there will be no Sybil attacks. To buoy coin prices and to encourage user migration to the CPOS fork, I would establish a CPOS system policy that allocates a modest portion of block rewards to post-fork unspent transaction outputs in the blockchain as a dividend.Once the system is up and running, new coins can be enrolled in CPOS during the coin's development process by substituting CPOS for the otherwise required mining pool, on the condition that the developers clone Bitcoin Core, i.e. bitcoind, software. Aside from premining, promoters can pay themselves by owning the foundation that CPOS funds via block rewards, or by accepting payment directly from CPOS to add features - again via block rewards. Planning to make another bitcoin purchase today, and maybe some litecoin too. Feels like a final capitulation in altcoins. Here is the 6-hour resolution chart of the LTC/USD currency pair from the BTC-e exchange. Note the two down legs of the great capitulation of 2014. Prices fell 28% in two days from $6.865 down to $5. Then fell another 30% from $5 down to $3.5. From the November peak price at $48.48, litecoin prices have fallen 13.85x. This is a more dramatic bubble run-up and collapse than the great bitcoin bubble of June 2013.These litecoin prices have fallen to approximately twice the pre-bubble valuation and thus are very tempting, insofar as the analogy to the great bitcoin bubble holds . . .  August 18, 2014 Status and Thoughts.I have about half of the Texai cognitive architecture migrated to GitHub. The knowledge base repositories are larger than GitHub guidelines, so I need to find another more appropriate cloud data server, e.g. Dropbox for those. I configured three separate computers in my lab with the same development environment to ensure redundancy and to document the build recipe. The configuration for developers is . . .Ubuntu 14.04 LTS on bare metalOracle Java 8 with JCE highest level security policyNetbeans 8.0 Java IDEMaven 3 DockerThe Docker platform is currently used to host a Jenkins continuous integration server that I uploaded to the Docker container registry.My GitHub page is https://github.com/StephenLReed?tab=repositories.My Docker repository page is https://registry.hub.docker.com/u/stephenreed/jenkins-java8-maven-git/.I would like to have bitcoind in an agent-controlled, non-verifying proxy by early October, 2014, for hallway demonstration at the Hashers United conference in Las Vegas. Consequently, I will upload broken aspects of Texai that have no relationship to Cooperative Proof-of-Stake, as the agents I need to write are dependent upon working code embedded in those otherwise broken dialog modules.------------Here are my latest thoughts about how CPOS will work. I am considering hard-forking the popular Satoshi blockchains: Bitcoin, Litecoin, Dogecoin and Namecoin. They would operate on networks separate from the Satoshi originals and be branded respectively CPOS-B, CPOS-L, CPOS-D and CPOS-N. Users would be required to configure their respective client wallets, payment processors, mixing services, etc., to respective CPOS seed node addresses - that's all. There are no changes required to the client protocols I believe. The forks could come much earlier than January 2016, depending upon the ambition of the network and the state of system testing.I would use a portion of block rewards to pay geographically dispersed operators to run full nodes for these plus a Tor relay. Each operator would be required to provision a high-availability enterprise server in a datacenter having redundant high bandwidth Internet connections. Specifications for the server will include protection against DDoS attacks. As operators will be relatively well compensated, I expect to add new servers only with increased market capitalization and transaction traffic. VisaNet runs the majority of the world's credit card transactions with only two datacenters, so less than ten geographically distributed servers with likewise separate ownership may be adequate to start. Supposing that CPOS grows to the same market capitalization that Bitcoin has currently, then 10,000 distributed paid servers could be justified.I would choose either CoreOS or Ubuntu LTS for the base operating system, and use Docker containers for the cryptocoin bitcoind software, where each coin gets its own container. Likewise the tor relay gets its own container. Each server would run the latest identical software and as the network grows in size, there are existing softwares to manage the worldwide deployment of Docker containers. Unpaid volunteers could download and run the CPOS agent software to record blockchains and verify peer agent behavior, but would not be permitted to operate agents that mint new blocks or that provide support services to other agents.Governance of the CPOS network will be performed by the Texai cognitive architecture, in which simple transparent algorithms enforce policies decided at periodic meetings of the node operators. Each operator will be required to purchase a commercial membership in their local Bitcoin Foundation. A portion of the block rewards will fund developers tasked via the Texai cognitive architecture. Each paid person performing a task for the system will have at least two other non-affiliated paid persons check their work. A portion of the block rewards will fund development of the Texai architecture, Bitcoin Core, and relevant altcoin features. Supposing that CPOS coins grow to the current market capitalization of bitcoin, then 300+ developers could be supported. Paid human participants in the CPOS system, e.g. operators and human agents, could be anonymous but would be required to possess X.509 certificates for digital signatures and network authentication. Likewise they must provide verifiable contact information. All communications in the network are digitally signed, TLS/SSL encrypted, and logged. We want the network to be trustless in the sense that Satoshi's Bitcoin is trustless, but paid participants must be held responsible for their behavior via cyrptographic credentials and tamper-evident logs.I expect the block rewards of the CPOS coins to greatly exceed the transaction revenue with respect to paying for the system. Consequently, I would set transaction fees to the lowest sensible values which I believe are 100x less than what bitcoin charges. Rather than $.05 fee at today's bitcoin price, I would set CPOS transaction fees at the equivalent of $.0005 which encourages the use of microtransactions. As an example of "eating your own dog food", the Texai software agents will pay each other for services rendered using bitcoin microtransactions. This will encourage software developers to write skills for the system, as they will receive the net earnings of software skill they provide in accordance with a scheme to maximize innovation.In accordance with the precedent set by Satoshi's Bitcoin, the CPOS network will not be a legal entity in any jurisdiction. The network, despite Tor anonymity capabilities, will not place servers in jurisdictions where their operation would be against the local law. The network will pass through all earnings, e.g. block rewards, transactions fees, and software agent income, to human participants who will pay taxes according to their local jurisdictions. Ha! That was my handle back in the day of posting on the peak oil site - The Oil Drum, before technical innovation in the oil sector killed it.My point in posting these charts is twofold, first to witness the dramatic altcoin speculative bubble collapse, and second to observe to what extent factors such as mining algorithm affect the degree of collapse. I am working on a cooperative proof of stake mining method to hard-fork popular Satoshi-style proof-of-work cryptocurrencies. The respective forked blockchains would be continued on separate networks and not corrupt the original versions. My method secures a blockchain network using conventional financial data and network security enforced by a trustless multi-agent cognitive architecture, and paid for by the block rewards. Micro-transactions enabled by immediate, certain acceptance and extremely low transaction fees suggest the initial market. I will be speaking in a modest role at the Hashers United conference in Las Vegas in October if anyone would like a meetup.-Stephen Reed. Here is the one-week resolution chart for peercoin as reported by the BTC-e change, priced in bitcoin. Note that the combination proof-of-work and proof-of-stake coin has collapsed slightly less than pure proof-of-work altcoins - down 6.68 from the November 2013 peak relative to bitcoin. And here is the one-week resolution chart for litecoin, priced in Chinese RMB as reported by the very liquid OKCoin exchange. The bubble has steadily collapsed from the November 2013 peak, with a great capitulation beginning about 7 days ago. Perhaps industrial miners are selling their mined litecoins to buy ASICS in fiat. Hobbyist miners in contrast, often mine in order to acquire coins for long term holding - regardless of economics. Here is the 3-day resolution chart of dogecoin priced in bitcoin. Note that bitcoin has dropped 2.4x from its November peak. Valued in bitcoin, the DOGE bubble has collapsed almost 13x from its corresponding peak. Litecoin prices on BTC-e are now nibbling at the 23K wall at $4.00. Volume has been relatively high after $7.00 failed to hold.Here is the 30 minute chart from BTC-e showing the wall... Here is the descriptive chart post on my thread that refers to excellent work posted elsewhere on this forum.Metcalfe's Law Explains 10x Price Growth Vs. 3.2x Transaction Quantity Growth Note the strong growth of bitcoin transaction quantity in the past month below. Metcalfe's Law suggests that bitcoin price is proportional to the square of the transaction quantity. Perhaps the growth in transaction quantity predicts a price increase, or conversely transaction quantity will soon plummet to match its lows of early summer. Here is the weekly chart of Litecoin vs. Bitcoin, from the BTC-e exchange. Litecoin has fallen further relative to bitcoin following the November 2013 peak. When bitcoin began its ascent last September, litecoin was was slow to follow. It may be that as bitcoin soared past its previous all time high set at the peak of the April, 2013 bubble, speculators began to believe that litecoin was undervalued with respect to bitcoin.Therefore, litecoin may fall further even if bitcoin begins a new bubble, then sharply reverse as bitcoin passes its all time high. The grinding collapse of litecoin looks similar in shape to the collapse of the great bitcoin bubble of June 2013, in which bitcoin declined 10x from the peak. In USD terms, litecoin fell from a peak of $48.48 on BTC-e last November to $4.37695 right now. Unlike Bitcoin, Litecoin continues to collapse according to the resistance trendline from the November peak, dropping to below $5 today on BTC-e ... [reposted from the rpietila quality TA thread]Here is an interesting chart comparison between the great bubble of June 2011 and the November 2013 bubble. The general shape is that of a dampened oscillation. Because 2013 was a year in which two bubbles occurred, perhaps the November 2013 bubble will have a longer period of collapse than the April 2013 bubble.This is the weekly chart from Mt. Gox from the 2011 bubble . . .And here is the current weekly chart from Bitstamp . . . Here is an interesting chart comparison between the great bubble of June 2011 and the November 2013 bubble. The general shape is that of a dampened oscillation. Because 2013 was a year in which two bubbles occurred, perhaps the November 2013 bubble will have a longer period of collapse than the April 2013 bubble.This is the weekly chart from Mt. Gox from the 2011 bubble . . .And here is the current weekly chart from Bitstamp . . . Here is a weekly chart of litecoin that clearly illustrates that unlike bitcoin, it has not broken the long term downtrend from the November 2013 bubble. This chart reminds me of the great bitcoin bubble of June 2011 and its aftermath - a drop of about 10x. Hashers United ConferenceI will be participating in a panel discussion at the Hashers United Conference to be held in Las Vegas, Nevada, USA on October 10-11. The panel topic concerns mining algorithms and my modest role will be to briefly describe Cooperative Proof of Stake for Bitcoin. Sharing the podium will be notable crypto coin designers.This is a great chance to meet up. If you like, PM me.http://hashersunited.com/ After returning from vacation I found that the disk drive on my server crashed. When rebuilding the system I decided to make it identical to my development desktop and use Docker to contain the Jenkins continuous integration application that I used to run on the server. Having a second development computer makes it easier to bring one along on vacation, and also a documented and scripted build for developers that this project will ultimately pay to enhance CPOS Bitcoin.Docker is a Linux based technology that enables applications to run efficiently in secure containers. I created a Docker container for running Java continuous integration with Jenkins, Maven, Java 8, and Git. This is a generally useful contribution to the Java development community.The repository for my container is https://registry.hub.docker.com/u/stephenreed/java8-jenkins-maven-git-nano/And here is a screenshot . . . Blockchain.info does not plainly show their data gathering algorithm for this series, so I suppose that the answer is from the title of the chart. I would iterate over the set of daily bitcoin transactions and count the number of unique addresses taken from the inputs and outputs. The seven day moving average is taken over the daily counts and can be displayed according to a charting option which I chose. Alternatively the raw data shows daily counts that clearly have a day-of-week component.Here is a link to the chart with its default linear scale and daily data . . .https://blockchain.info/charts/n-unique-addresses Here is a two-year, 7-day moving average, log chart of the number of unique Bitcoin addresses used, which is provided by Blockchain.info. Note the growth in the most recent few weeks which confirms the growth in Bitcoin transaction quantity noted in a previous post. Metcalfe's Law would indicate higher bitcoin prices, unless this fundamental trend reverses. Metcalfe's Law, as interpreted by Peter R for Bitcoin, says that prices are related to the square of the number of participants, i.e. nodes in an economic network.
The logistic model of bitcoin prices that I maintain shows a relatively large deviation downwards from the trendline that I hand fit back in November 2013. I plan to refit the trendline after the peak of the next  bubble whenever that is. It is difficult for me to believe that we are anywhere near the midpoint of adoption.My model indicates that the trend price for today is $2,405 and obviously we are far beneath that price on Bitstamp.https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0ArD8rjI3DD1WdFIzNDFMeEhVSzhwcEVXZDVzdVpGU2cThe adjusted number of bitcoin transactions chart from Blockchain.info suggests that fundamentally Bitcoin is resuming transaction quantity growth in the past few weeks . . . Here is the latest bitcoin adjusted transaction quantity graph with log scale and 7-day moving average. Note the transaction quantity in the month of August  is now above May levels. The Bitstamp bitcoin price in May peaked at $683. As a US taxpayer, the tax treatment of bitcoin transactions is most favorable when Bitcoin is categorized as a commodity, such as gold. I endorse the domestic legal actions of the Bitcoin Foundation in this regard.If and when some national jurisdiction chooses Bitcoin as a legal tender currency, we in the USA may pay ordinary income taxes on the gains resulting from using bitcoins to buy stuff. My understanding that foreign currency held for investment however, e.g. a possible future Bitcoin currency, receives favorable tax treatment when sold for dollars.Bitcoin is a currency however right now, simply because enough people worldwide believe it to be one. It certainly has the primary properties of a currency: Durability, Divisibility, Transportability, and Noncounterfitability. The document loaded in Linux/Libre Office for me but used a lot of CPU so I was suspicious. Anyway, the content was not directly related to a logistic model of pricing. I have a thread on the logistic model as applied to bitcoin prices here . . .https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=366214.0and a shared spreadsheet with graphs here . . .https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0ArD8rjI3DD1WdFIzNDFMeEhVSzhwcEVXZDVzdVpGU2cThe math of the logistic (S-Curve) model is simple. f(x) = 1 / (1 + e-x). On a linear graph you get the familiar S-curve, but that is not very useful yet for bitcoin because prices have increased on average 10x every year so a log graph is best right now.If bitcoin prices were to exactly follow the logistic function then the following properties would hold . . .1. At the beginning starting from zero adoption, the growth is approximately exponential, decreasing rapidly near the midpoint.2. At the midpoint of adoption, the growth is linear.3. At the ending with full adoption, the growth is zero, decreasing rapidly after the midpoint.Note that currently prices are substantially lower than my model projects. I do not believe that we are yet near the midpoint of adoption - so I expect either to revise the model lower or to witness a surge in prices sometime in the next few months. According to Peter R's interpretation of Metcalfe's Law, to support the historical 10x annual average growth in bitcoin prices, transaction volume needs to grow an average of 3.2x annually. We are not there yet - but the last 30 days might just resume the historical trend. Here is the one-year chart of adjusted bitcoin transactions showing the 7 day moving average on a log scale. Note that in the last 30 days the trend is somewhat higher. I accept Peter R's argument that there is a Metcalf Law relationship between the transaction quantity and the price, namely that price is proportional to the square of the quantity. Supposing the transaction quantity increase trend holds, then that should support higher bitcoin prices . . . Here is the Bitstamp price chart at 3-day resolution. I drew the price resistance line at $681. The rightmost candle currently has the form of a "hammer" which often marks a trend reversal. We could be moving up from here into the $600's this month. On the other hand a hammer can also indicate the midpoint of a trend - but there is an abundance of good news and no bad news so I expect sentiment to not get worse.The expected July rally did not occur. I am wondering to what extent 2014 price action will resemble 2012 price action as both these periods followed a year of dramatic rallies. CPOS Bitcoin will create a new block exactly every 10 minutes, so on average the CPOS Bitcoin blockchain should be equal in length to the original Satoshi Bitcoin blockchain after the fork. Transaction counts per block will differ because of the relative popularity of the two forks.Additionally I want CPOS Bitcoin to reliably accept low fee transactions and especially microtransactions to highlight an important advantage of CPOS. Thanks for the tip!-Steve Sorry, I was on vacation. The regular updates have resumed. I resolve to perform the updates in the future even on vacation.The widely expected July rally did not occur. Bitcoin transaction volume has been relatively flat this year, and I believe that a resumption of bitcoin transaction growth will fuel the next rally. I just arrived at my summer home in the Colorado mountains, where I will escape Austin heat for a month.The spreadsheet has been updated. Interesting that the trend price is growing at $25 daily. I have migrated a few more code modules from the Texai system over to the Texai CPoS code repositories on GitHub. Notably there is an implementation of BitTorrent over TLS/SSL which I will later use for rapid blockchain update of new full nodes.Texai previously used the Chord distributed hash table to find peers, but I want to replace this mechanism with something else that can connect the CPoS network and be subject to remote verification by peers. Continuing the pattern I set by a single writer to the canonical blockchain, which is then widely replicated, I suppose that the MessageRouter will use a shared dictionary of full node IDs and IP addresses. This shared tamper-evident dictionary would be maintained by a single writer and widely replicated. Changes to the dictionary should be verifiable by peers.I will think about this feature and also the tamper-evident logs required by the blockchain operations. I believe that there is a Java abstraction that both these use-cases may inherit from.Here is my contribution activity chart from GitHub. The migrated and tested code from Texai now totals 42,000 lines of Java source code, not including the 450 regression test methods. Another great idea. I will add a glossary to the OP. I completed upgrading the Bouncy Castle cryptographic libraries. I added two more modules from Texai now that their dependencies are in the project. The first is support for bittorrent messages, which is required by the SSLBitTorrent module to be added after the Network module is added. And the second is support for the Albus Hierarchical Control Network - AlbusHCN module, that is the Texai agent framework.Over 300 unit tests are running OK on my local continuous integration server, which automatically rebuilds the project whenever I push new updates to the GitHub source code repository. Over 32,000 lines of Java source code have been added to the project, not including the regression tests.I expect that I will add less than 10 more modules from Texai before I am ready to begin coding the first Bitcoin CPoS test case, which simply runs two slave full nodes that take turns hosting the nomadic mint agent which creates new blocks, without yet performing the required verification of the peer tamper-evident logs. I did not know about Web ID. Your ideas are great. I was using UUIDs (random) as subject UIDs in the X.509 certificates I generate. I can revise the server to accept a Web ID from the user, and return the certificate as you suggest. Actually I have intermediate X.509 certificates that issue the end-user certificates. The root certificate is self-signed for texai.org - so no dependency on a trusted third party as a Certificate Authority.The full node will host multiple agents and each agent can have skillful roles. The roles message other agent-roles in the network and need certificates to sign their messages if leaving the full node and going across the network. I can use UUID subject certificates for this purpose. I use a single IANA port already reserved for Texai, over which I will run TLS/SSL encrypted messages for Bitcoin, plus HTTPS for network operations, and BitTorrent for rapid provisioning of new full nodes.For the past couple of days, I have been upgrading the Bouncy Castle Java cryptographic libraries to the newest versions. When those unit tests all work again, I will add the TLS/SSL networking code from Texai, and after that the agent framework from Texai.An RDF API would be straight forward. I use the Sesame quad store to contain RDF statements. I will leave bitcoind and the blockchain alone, but the quad store will contain the OpenCyc knowledge base, and persisted java objects. I wrote an RDF entity manager which persists Java objects analogous to how Hibernate does it with a relational database. Here is the 3-day resolution Bitstamp chart, in which I have drawn the resistance line at $835. This would be a target for the current rally at which point it may hesitate before moving higher . . . The unsustainable super-exponential growth that characterized the three great bitcoin price bubbles is very much like the other academically studied asset bubbles. It is true however that the two bubbles of 2013 collapsed to a price very much higher than the starting bubble price.I, like other occasional traders, love bitcoin bubbles. I pushed the OpenCyc RDF repository to a new GitHub repository - https://github.com/StephenLReed/texai-rdf-repositories. Also there are a couple of testing repositories, Test and Benchmark.The OpenCyc repository is used as the commonsense ontology, i.e. vocabulary and taxonomy, for organizing the conversations between Texai agents.At the moment, some of the unit tests for the RDFEntityManager module are broken. The RDF repository files are comparatively large and so I moved them to a separate GitHub repository to make commits to the Java source code repositories faster. The X509 certificate server project is now on GitHub and is working with my local Jenkins CI (Continuous Integration) software such that whenever I push a source code change to the GitHub project, Jenkins automatically downloads the changes, builds the project, and runs the regression test suite.Here is the GitHub project page . . .And here is my local Jenkins CI server page for the X509CertificateServer project . . .
I configured Jenkins continuous integration software on my local server, and now it rebuilds the project whenever any source code changes on the GitHub Texai project. About 170 unit tests pass OK. There are two downstream projects that are not yet on GitHub. The JavaCV is a computer vision library that I will not be using with Bitcoin CPoS, and the second is the Texai X509 certificate server which I will later add to GitHub as a project. Yes, I have been buying fractional bitcoin every workday since March at my local Bitcoin ATM because the Log10 difference from trend has been largely negative. The current price is $585, and the expected price according to the average trend is $1,624. Supposing the bubble peaks in July, then I expect a selling target price of $4000-$5000, and higher if the bubble is postponed. I added the Texai Java module X509Security to GitHub at https://github.com/StephenLReed/texai. 41 unit tests passed OK.X509 certificates are commonly used by websites to authenticate servers in the HTTPS protocol. In Texai, both endpoints of the communication channel authenticate themselves during the TLS/SSL encryption negotiation with X509 certificates issued by the Texai certificate authority server  - which has a certain self-signed certificate as the root certificate. Only full node operators need to be concerned about these certificates when they initially install the software. I pushed, i.e. uploaded, two Java modules to my GitHub project repository at https://github.com/StephenLReed/texai. The first was the main project Texai which has been pruned down to one maven module - Utilities. I upgraded the Java platform to 1.8 and am using NetBeans version 8.0 as the programming environment.The Utilities module has 133 unit tests that passed OK. I use three different static bug-finding and style checking tools. Next to adapt and push to GitHub are the RDF Entity Manager and X509Security modules.Although the Bitcoin core developers have the advantage of portability and performance with their C++ language choice, I for one, am much better off using Java. It will be much, much faster for me to adapt the existing Texai Java source code than to learn C++ well enough to adapt the existing Bitcoin Core source code. When Bitcoin CPoS is deployed for testing starting this year and for ultimate launch in early 2016, it will only be designed to run on paid-for full nodes, that will get paid only if the full node executes the specified configuration. At the moment I am thinking that the full node operators will be instructed how to run Ubuntu Linux LTS, i.e. the long term stable version, Java 1.8, the CPoS Java components, and the then available Bitcoin Code bitcoind executable. Unlike the Bitcoin core developers who have to design and test code to run on Windows, Linux, MacOS, and other platforms, Bitcoin CPoS will be designed and tested to run on one platform, chosen for optimum security. A Blockchain-Based Exchange Between Proof-of-Work (PoW) Bitcoin and Cooperative Proof-of-Stake (CPoS) BitcoinImagine that in early 2016 there are two versions of the Bitcoin blockchain and network. There is the legacy Satoshi Bitcoin network with proof of work mining. And there is the new fork CPoS Bitcoin blockchain and network. There will be a need to exchange value between the two blockchains as hopefully, the new fork becomes more valuable when users appreciate its benefits.An nomadic exchange agent in the CPoS system would be connected to the PoW (old fork) network using a suitably configured bitcoind instance. The exchange agent could thus transact on both Bitcoin blockchain forks, i.e. PoW-fork and CPoS-fork simultaneously. Each user of the exchange would have both a PoW Bitcoin wallet and a CPoS wallet, which are two instances of the same program pointed at different networks. The wallets would be used to execute market orders. Multiple signature transactions should permit limit orders, in which the exchange agent provides the second signature when required as the limit condition is met.There would be a one-hour settlement time on the PoW-fork side of the exchange transaction. The CPoS-fork side of the exchange transaction would occur at the end of the transaction settlement period. The exchange agent would not have a hot wallet, as all transactions are performed on the respective blockchains. The earned trading commissions would be distributed immediately as microtransactions to the exchange owner. The exchange agent would have an API for charting sites. Trading bots could use that API to determine the market situation, and use their own bitcoind instances, in lieu of wallets, to perform the trades.Being on-blockchain should allow fees to be lower as the design is simpler and there is no exchange hot wallet to secure. Without any connection to fiat currencies, it should be easy to find jurisdictions to operate the nomadic exchange in which the wallet interface alone is sufficient - without an enrollment that requires certain identification. CPoS To Be Implemented Using the Texai Cognitive ArchitectureThe Texai cognitive architecture will be used to implement the multi-agent network that connects bitcoind, i.e. Bitcoin Core, instances together and enables a single nomadic mint agent that is the core idea of CPoS.Here are references and videos about my work with Texai . . .Natural Language Approach of the Texai Project Stephen Reed's Texai project presentation recorded at the 2008 Artificial General Intelligence ConferenceOpenCyc Commonsense AI Tutorial - part 1 Stephen Reed presentation recorded at the 2009 AGI ConferenceOpenCyc Commonsense AI Tutorial - part 2  Bootstrap Dialog: A Conversational English Text Parsing and Generation System Stephen L. Reed, Texai.org, presented at the Artificial General Intelligence Conference, 2009. Texai presentation at AGI-2009 recorded video Stephen ReedTexai presentation slides at AGI-2009 Stephen ReedTexai is a cognitive architecture to achieve artificial intelligence via a dialog system whereby mentors teach the system skills. For Bitcoin Cooperative Proof-of-Stake, I will remove the demonstration dialog modules, leaving modules that perform . . .X509 certificate server - provides Texai X509 certificates when installing full nodesX509 authentication - each agent and each hardware node is assigned an X509 certificate for pseudonymous authenticationSSL/TLS network - communications between authenticated full nodes are encrypted with X509 certificates on both endpointsSSL Bittorrent - the torrent protocol is encrypted and used to catch up the blockchain on relaying full nodes as requiredWebserver - full node statistics and network operations are presented to the operator via HTML pagesAlbus Hierarchical Control Network - a robotics-inspired multi-agent network consisting of agencies, agents, roles and skillsRDF Entity Manager - a Java object persistence framework that uses an RDF quad store as the storage. RDF is a semantic web language for knowledge representationOpen Cyc - the open source RDF version of the Cyc commonsense knowledge base, which provides the extensible ontology that structures what Texai agents know and can doMy work plan for the remainder of June is to upload the selected modules to GitHub and begin implementing the first system test case which is a single relay agent full node communicating with a single mint agent full node. The initial version will not perform any peer validation, nor DDoS traffic scrubbing. Note that I need to test whether my approach requires any changes to the Bitcoin Core bitcoind code. I think not.Here is how I will slave bitcoind to the Texai network . . . Thanks! I fixed the specifications links and permissions on the reward policy link. The LinkedIn profile is probably something I cannot change. I will add the whitepaper abstract to the OP. I encourage the spread of CPoS as a technique to altcoins. I expect that public system tests meeting all challenges will sway the Bitcoin community by the time of an early 2016 launch. I commend your line of reasoning regarding the increasing fundamentals. According to Peter_R's interpretation of Metcalf's Law that says bitcoin prices have a relationship to square of the number of users, addresses and quantity of transactions. The site Bitcoin Pulse has an excellent set of fundamental adoption data series. For prices to increase as they have in the past, 10x annual price growth is supported by 3.2x growth in the adoption fundamentals. My own CPoS project  has as one of its benefits, low transaction fees and capacity for many more micro transactions than Satoshi's Bitcoin.  The whitepaper describing Bitcoin Cooperative Proof-of-Stake (CPoS) is here.Essentially, CPoS has a single nomadic mint agent that periodically moves its state from one full node to the next. The single mint canonically timestamps each directly received new transaction and broadcasts an acknowledgement to the network. There is a thus a single blockchain appended to by the mint's slaved bitcoind instance, and the remaining full nodes replicate their own version of the blockchain to verify the mint agent's behavior. Indeed the CPoS response time has no relationship to the block creation cycle, as the single nomadic mint agent canonically timestamps each received transaction. The round trip number-of-hops is less with CPoS because the mint is the hub of an organized hub-and-spoke, super-peer network. I chose to keep the Satoshi precedence of 10 minute block creation intervals, for the sake of the Satoshi Social Contract - not for any other reason. I believe that CPoS's optimum network configuration will permit more transactions at lower user fees. This is an indicator that I need to create and test. Yes I have a single mint which solves many problems that annoy bitcoin users. That mint is nomadic because it's verified object state periodically moves from full node to full node. What i call a nomadic mint agent is isomorphic to the notion that full nodes take turns being the mint. Each other full node, having the role of relay agent, closely verifies the log output of the mint agent.Because CPoS has a single mint there is immediate acknowlegement by the mint when it queues up a received transaction. There is no chance of a double spend or that an orphan block can be created. CPoS has a single, non-forking blockchain which is simply appended to by the mint's local slave bitcoind instance with trivial Satoshi difficulty effortMy first system test will be two full nodes in a box, cooperating to create new blocks, and quickly exchanging relay and mint roles. Another system test will be three full nodes in a box, performing an exhaustive regression test of  failure modes of one of the three nodes..Could you point me to a writeup of your algorithm? Or if this is still exploratory, then could you explain more about how proof-of-stake works in your system to create new blocks? Does your system, like Satoshi's, permit a forking blockchain? Note that any such blockchain forks could confuse the user accessing the minority branch. CPoS To Be Written in the Java programming LanguageI made the big decision a few days ago to write my new Bitcoin system in the Java programming language rather than C++ and the Boost library used by the Bitcoin code contributor team. The Java alternative became possible given the evolution of the design into incorporating bitcoind unchanged but slaved to a new component that contains the agent behavior, but has minimal dependence upon the objects and functions defined in bitcoind.I will use the bitcoinj client implementation classes as the network adapter to the local bitcoind instance, as well as the adapter for bitcoin data structures.I have been working with Java for as long as it existed, and I have written over a hundred thousand lines of Java code for my previous artificial intelligence project. There is a thorough suite of unit tests and a continuous integration development environment already in place. My previous project was named Texai. I shall continue using the Java package naming convention "org.texai.bitcoin.*" for the Java source code ported from from the old project.I concede that Java is slower by 30% or more than the equivalent C++ algorithm. But I do not believe that performance is an issue until very high transaction rates are tested. Aside from a comfort with Java, I believe that its runtime checks reduce the bugginess of production code, Personally I can write code much faster in Java than in C++. Right. My main theme is to implement Nick Szabo's idea about agents with non-forgable logs, what an academic paper I cite calls tamper-evident logs. The proof-of-stake is used mainly to deter Sybil attacks, as there is only a certain amount of stake in the post-fork bitcoins that will be thus qualified for dividends.The single nomadic mint is permitted by the notion of cooperating agents that do not trust the mint, but rather allow it to timestamp the incoming new transactions from clients. The peers verify the mint operations by replaying the operations themselves as they each assemble the blockchain replicant locally in canonical timestamp order. The single mint in turn permits a non-forking blockchain and definite transaction acknowledgment back to the client with sub second response time. Bitcoin Centralization Problem Evolving Into Trusting a Third Party - GHash.ioSee: Who cares about the 45% Ghash.io have - will you care when they are at 51%?I responded . . .I claim CPoS will have no trusted third parties. Humans who act as paid agents for the system will themselves create tamper-evident logs justifying their observable actions, which can be checked by a certain number of human agent-peers. Good question. I am quite open to borrowing and sharing ideas with altcoin projects. I of course examined next last month when writing my whitepaper, but I felt at the time that PeerCoin alone was a sufficient example of existing proof-of-stake implementations.I will revisit transparent forging. The truth is that proof of work leads inevitably to a single hasher-pleasing dominant mining pool. The hashers have sufficient trust in that pool to permit a 51% attack, that hashers think is not a threat. Hashers have observed that the pools are well behaved, and those pools are efficient due to competition. The dominant pools knows that if there is misbehavior they will be possibly ruined by deserting hashers.Thus proof-of-work as a means to secure the Bitcoin blockchain now fails Satoshi's design of a system in which there is no trusted third party. . I suggest a better system in a discussion thread elsewhere on this forum. The Bitcoin ETF's should be live by then. That would fuel the 2015 bubble. If there is a single bubble this year, then perhaps 2015 will be similar to 2013 and have two bubbles. Come back at least once a year to check in. The price today is $664.11 per bitcoin. Because payments to miners from pools occur every day, I suppose the day-of-week variation is due to consumer and investor behavior. Likewise bitcoin exchange volume drops on weekends.
There will probably not be any investment income from holding bitcoins in the near future. The rate of deflation is simply too high for anyone to pay back a loan in bitcoins. This one way that Bitcoin upsets the old paradigm. You actually must spend part of the principal, if you are not earning bitcoin from rents or a salary.See the (SSS) - A Sane and Simple bitcoin Savings plan. Here is a great comparison and prediction set of charts from reddit user lowstrife. The numeric labels are Elliott Wave counts. Heiken Ashi is a candle stick chart variation. What I get from these charts is a sense for a sideways price consolidation - the flat - which occurs before the super-exponential portion of the bubble. The blue bars in the June 2014 chart are a projection of what lowstrife believes is a bubble peak in late July . . . Summer 2014 Bitcoin Bubble - moral_agent's BubbleWatch from redditIn the Daily Discussion thread on Reddit BitcoinMarkes, moral_agent posts an album of charts titled Bubble-watch. Here is the explanation.Here is my favorite chart from his series, that scales the previous bubbles and aligns them by troughs. If the next bubble is indeed very similar in shape to the preceding two bubbles, then we could expect the Summer 2014 Bubble to peak in late July.  Prolexic advice on securing a re-engineered Bitcoin network.David from Akami, who acquired Prolexic phoned me to set up an appointment with a sales engineer. Their preferred solution involves an interface with routed network having BGP. This means that each Bitcoin full node would have its own router that guides message traffic to other full nodes. DDoS protection for the entire Bitcoin network would be $20-30K per month.Akami's other solution, the Proxy Solution, is designed for HTTP traffic, and thus works on ports 80 and 443. Not Bitcoin. The Bitcoin network would need to acquire a /24 autonomous system (AS) number. Here is the three-day resolution chart on Bitstamp showing the pause around $650 that some observers expected. When the rally penetrates this resistance, the next pause could be near $800. If it takes the rest of this month to do that, then I expect the bubble to get going in July and rapidly ascend beyond the all-time-high of $1163. In the Bitcoin Cooperative Proof-of-Stake project I founded, I am listening for ideas regarding the proof-of-stake policy. I believe that all I need is to assure that stake is not double-voted. I believe that could be accomplished with a 30 minute hold time for the to-myself transaction. Less hold time would be better, because if my project achieves wide approval and is actually launched in January 2016, then once a week when the stakes are recorded, worldwide transactions would be greatly diminished.Note that CPoS does not need proof-of-stake to secure the blockchain. There is a single non-forking blockchain appended to by a single nomadic mint agent that makes double-spending impossible. Tens of thousands of paid full nodes merely replicate the blockchain - and verify the behavior of the trustless mint agent via tamper-evident logs as suggested by Nick Szabo years ago. Distributed consensus is easier to solve when full nodes identify themselves with public keys, sign all messages, and justify their behavior.I have shared ideas with three altcoin developer communities so far. If they pioneer some elements of CPoS, then that will help me convince the Bitcoin community during the year of public system testing in 2015. Currently the Bitcoin core developers believe that there is no good alternative to proof-of-work. Advice on securing a re-engineered Bitcoin networkThis is the email message that I sent to Defense.net, Staminus Communications, Cloudflare, Black Lotus, and Incapsula. Here is a line drawn by me on BitcoinWisdom with more care - that still suggests a LTC breakout from the downtrend . . . Here is a line drawn using the tips of the candle wicks, that suggests LTC will breakout this week . . . It looks to me that Litecoin could follow Bitcoin in the next bubble. A rise from $11.253 to its previous peak at $48.48 would be a gain of 4.3x. Bitcoin in contrast is at $658 and a rise from here to its previous peak at $1163 would be a gain of 1.76x. Speculators understand that when Litecoin joins the rally, it can appreciate at a faster rate than Bitcoin.Probably the same circumstances hold for other altcoins.Here is the one-week resolution chart for Litecoin illustrating that its price has broken through the resistance trendline that I drew from the November peak . . . Interesting. I see the fibonacci fan lines tool on BitcoinWisdom but I have not used it. Here is an explanation I found Fibonacci Fans By nonlinear, super-exponential growth, the academic paper means that the growth rate of the asset bubble is itself growing, this is unsustainable and leads to the bubble peaking. We have seen this in each of the bitcoin bubbles and is very dramatic in the final week of such super-exponential growth. We may see prices, for example, double from $2700 to $5400 in a week or less, before collapsing back towards say $2700. Awesome. Thanks for pointing that one out. Communication with the BlackCoin FoundationBlackCoin is the number 8 cryptocurrency when ranked by market capitalization. Today I corresponded with Adam Krykow, from the BlackCoin Foundation.I responded . . . Looking at the price records for the three previous bubbles, we see . . .June 9, 2011 peak at $32 - doubling from $16 in 4 days.April 10, 2013 peak at $260 - doubling from $130 in 7 days.November 29, 2013 peak at $1163 - doubling from $581 in 13 days. The November peak is interesting because the rally to $758 on November 18, doubled from $359 in 6 days. I therefore thought that $758 was the peak, but the correction down from $758 was only to $379 which did not appear deep enough to me and other observers that day. I suspect that the next bubble, being widely anticipated will have one or more dramatic pre-peak spikes that double in about a week.I will combine the doubling time indicator with a threshold from the Log10 Delta From Trend chart when predicting the next peak. Tracking the 2014 Bitcoin Bubble - First DoublingI am tracking the number of days it takes the bitcoin price to double. This is a proven indicator for determining when a bubble is peaking. There is academic research that quantifies the super-exponential growth during an asset price bubble, but the math is much simpler when counting days-to-double. Historically, the bitcoin price peaks when prices are on a pace to double in about a week.The first doubling leading up to the next bubble took 51 days, which is the difference between $340 on April 10 and $680 on May 31.I will be watching for . . .Second doubling - $1360 (perhaps July)Third doubling - $2720 (perhaps July)Fourth doubling - $5440 (I think the late July peak will be near this value)Fifth doubling - $10880 (probably will not happen unless the peak is in the fall)The academic research is Fearless versus fearful speculative financial bubbles D Sornette, JV Andersen - International Journal of Modern Physics …, 2002A significant quote from the highly cited paper . . . Thanks! The theme here is more observation than prediction. We can make a guess about the trend and figure out what the consequences are in advance, should our guess prove true. At the current pace, the dramatic breakout rally will reach $800 in about a week. I and others expected a stall at $650 but that does not appear to be happening - yet.I keep track of the days to double as a bubble peak indicator. The first doubling from the April 10, 2014 low of $340 would be at $680. That price point could be tomorrow at this pace. Interesting that now Huboi is leading Bitstamp upwards today. BitcoinWisdom lists Bitstamp at $642 and Huobi at $651.66/4070.08. This rally has been very strong ever since the breakout from the months long downtrend. Here is the Huobi 3-day resolution chart . . . I shall soon begin recording the price doubling times. In the past, bitcoin when the price doubles in a week or less, then the peak is very close.What I anticipate, based upon the June 2011, April 2013 and November 2013 bubbles . . .The low recorded in the collapse of the November 2013 bubble - $340First doubling - $680 (June)Second doubling - $1360 (July)Third doubling - $2720 (July)Fourth doubling - $5440 (I think the late July peak will be near this value)Fifth doubling - $10880 (probably will not happen unless the peak is in the fall) If we get to $269,000 by July 1, 2016 then I would say 50%. Otherwise who knows. The Metcalfe's Law model is compelling. 
Bitcoin Cooperating Agent DesignHere is the first portion of the project specifications . . . Bitcoin Cooperating Agent Design And here is the 6-hour resolution chart from Bitstamp, showing the 10 day rally reaching prices not seen since March . . . The Bitcoin wiki has an article on scaling here that addresses 2000 transactions per second. That is doable. And I have a project to re-engineer the Bitcoin network that makes it even more doable, should I succeed.Currently, I suppose that the mining reward is mostly spent on new mining equipment and power. The equipment manufacturers may accept bitcoin payments. So a portion of the mining reward may stay in bitcoin and not be exchanged for fiat.  In the summer of 2016 the block creation reward is scheduled to again halve to 12.6 bitcoins per mined block. My logistic model has a trend price of about $840,000 for July 1, 2017. So three years from now, 1800 daily block creation reward bitcoins would have a fiat value of $151 million. Even if converted entirely into fiat, I think that figure is achievable by worldwide investment. And the growth could also be attributed to the payment of mining rewards to hashers. I perform a couple of transactions each day. One of those is a daily purchase of fractional bitcoin from my local ATM, and the second is a small bitcoin payment from someone who leases one of my three GPU mining rigs to mine altcoins. I am postponing Bitcoin spending during what I believe is the run up to the next, widely expected, bubble.The Bitcoin Pulse web site tracks numerous fundamental Bitcoin adoption statistics. The number of transactions has fallen off in the last couple of months, but over the past two years transactions have grown exponentially at the rate of 3.2x annually. Some think that off-blockchain transactions are responsible for the recent fall-off. Off-blockchain transactions would be those performed between accounts at Coinbase for example. According to Peter_R's Metcalf Law model, the bitcoin price is proportional to the square of the number of transactions. An increase of 3.2x in bitcoin transaction quantity supports a 10x increase in bitcoin price. Currently, transaction volume is about 60,000 daily. To support prices 1000x greater than today we need transaction growth 31.6x greater. That works out to 1.9 million transactions per day. Is that doable in three years? We are now two weeks after the breakout of the resistance trendline from the November 2013 peak. It appears the next resistance could be at $650 where prices stalled for a while on the way down. This is the 3-day resolution chart from Bitstamp. Goldman Sachs is wrong and is spreading FUD because part of their business model is threatened by Bitcoin.What makes the current payment system expensive is that transactions can be reversed and the system accepts a certain amount of fraud from customers and merchants both. The current payment system has a pre-Internet legacy workflow.Bitcoin is non-recourse. When Bitcoin becomes the common currency, there will be less need to exchange it into fiat to make or accept a payment. In some possible world in which a Satoshi is worth $100, holders almost never sell and the world economy runs on a tiny fraction of the Bitcoins mined. Bitcoin Cooperating AgentNothing that the core developers maintain will be touched. The agent code, in this case a Relay Agent, will run the non-generating bitcoind instance. Bitcoind communicates with the reference wallet, bitcoin-qt, and also with the optional command line interface. Simplified Payment Verification wallets communicate with the listening bitcoind.The notable change is that the bitcoind instance is configured to communicate with other full nodes only via the Relay agent. -Stephen Reed Get a cup of coffee or a stronger stimulant and read the now classic thread I AM HODLING. The original post was written in the crash that followed the November 2013 peak.The author, GameKyuubi, is admittedly drunk on whisky, sharing a tale of woe, yet his impaired judgement says to hold on, not sell. In his honor, the term HODL has entered our forum lexicon.One of my favorite posts on that thread was just a few days ago. Bitcoin then @ $581 . . . I chose the maximum value of $1 million because there a plausible arguments by others that justify such a price. My model is about the adoption by people and organizations buying bitcoin. Perhaps in three years half of all such investors/speculators will have made their respective investments.There is a provocative model of bitcoin prices as the realtime unfolding of Metcalf's Law, well charted by Peter_R. I reference it Metcalfe's Law and Complete Triumph of Bitcoin Indicate $100 per Satoshi in 2022Suppose that it takes until 2022 for complete adoption. The Metcalf Model price is $10 billion per bitcoin, and $100 per Satoshi. Hard to believe that now, but I am working on a change to Bitcoin that helps move us in that direction - I believe. Visit my thread in Alternate cryptocurrencies for the whitepaper. Yes, I suggest that we have. I hope for consolidation at this point, not a retracement back to $510 or so, where the price previously stalled for a couple of days. No it is simply the trendline value, in red below, for this date. The model is here. Note that I simply guessed at a maximum price of $1 million at full adoption. The short term triangle I present below lacks the drama and importance of the recently broken trendline down from the November 2013 peak. I suppose that it will break out to the upside in a day or two. Or conversely drop down to test $550 again.My logistic model trendline value is $1404 rising over $10 each day.This is the 2-hour resolution chart from Bitstamp drawn with BitcoinWisdom . . . I suggest the opposite of what you say is true.Wikipedia . . .(1) The Internet began as ARPANET which was a method to interconnect numerous incompatible networks - none of which survive today because users were drawn to the largest compatible network.(2) mobile phones, I suggest that Android is move valuable than Windows phone for developers because more people use Android.(3) commodities, I suggest that sugar is more valuable than stevia for bakers because more people use the former.(4) commodity/securities exchanges, I suggest that the NYSE was more valuable than the Philadelphia Stock Exchange for traders when the latter was still independent becuase the NYSE had more traders using it.(5) I suggest that JP Morgan Chase Bank is more valuable than the local bank down my street for customers, because more people and businesses bank at Chase. Indeed.There is no intrinsic value. I lease three GPU rigs for script on LeaseNet and am feeling pressure from Gridseeds right now. The chains are already on them.With debt. In the case of Bitcoin, what is considered dust today is result of the relatively high transaction fee required to prevent blockchain spam. I suppose that there is a possible world in which current dust becomes quite valuable as Bitcoin appreciates to prices that are inconceivable by most observers today.Code:224 TB disk drive cost $ 0.000000000224 $ per byte 225 Bitcoin transaction bytes 0.0000000504 $ per bitcoin transaction 600 $ per bitcoin 0.000006 $ per Satoshi 119.047619 Bitcoin transactions stored per Satoshi I can imagine a possible world in which the blockchain is the primary ledger for machine-to-machine microtransactions - given inexpensive widely replicated storage.
Yes, and accordingly I will think about you and your fount of good advice when I make my almost daily trek to the ATM to buy some fractional bitcoin. CPoS Network ProxyI have been thinking about a way to deploy CPoS in a way that minimally impacts Bitcoin Core, and their pull request regime. The idea is to have CPoS code execute as a network proxy for bitcoind - the Bitcoin Core program. A paid CPoS full node operator would launch the CPoS program - preferably automatically upon start of the server, The CPoS proxy would configure its bitcoind to have a single peer, namely the collocated proxy. That bitcoind, by default, would have generation turned off. The CPoS proxy would connect to other such proxies forming the super peer network described in my whitepaper. All the agent related code would be implemented in the proxy. The proxy-to-bitcoind communication protocol code would be adapted from bitcoind source code for complete compatibility. The proxy-to-proxy communication protocol would be inspired by FIPA agent-to-agent protocol.The single nomadic mint would launch bitcoind every 10 minutes, and configure it to generate the new block. After creating the new block, the mint would shut down its bitcoind. Alternatively if the bitcoind RPC (remote procedure call) interface permits sufficiently robust dynamic control of block generation, then that would be preferable.Bitcoind would verify transactions received from the proxy and build the blockchain replica with new blocks provided by the single nomadic mint agent via the proxy. The full-node's tamper-evident log would be maintained by the proxy. The bitcoind instance would listen on its standard Internet port for SPV nodes, e.g. mobile wallets, and process their requests. For full nodes desiring local Bitcoin-QT wallets, the proxy would launch the wallet after launching bitcoind. The wallet would communicate with bitcoind directly, and not the proxy.If and when the blockchain hard fork planned for early 2016 succeeds, the proxy code I write can be merged into the bitcoind code for a single program by willing core developers. This possibility constrains me to write the proxy in the language of bitcoind, which is C++ and the Boost library.-Stephen Reed The awesomeness of Bitcoin is revealed by simply holding some over a multi-year period. Eventually one feels the exhilaration of the original poster. Here is the latest chart of Log10 delta from trend, which is most helpful when considering relative bitcoin price bubbles . . .The three charts and calculations of my logistic price model are published in a shared Google spreadsheet here. I plan to follow Risto's guidance with regard to the percentage of holdings to trade. I would like to capture 50% of the move - hoping for a double, but I would settle for less. My trades would be so small as to not effect the market, unlike the same percentage of Risto's holdings. Timing the peak could be different this time around, in that November 2013 had a pre-peak at $731 before the actual peak at $1163. I expect perhaps multiple of those pre-peak super-exponential rallies that mislead timers such as me. I removed the Venetian Bankers Problem link and fixed the TenderMint link. Thanks for pointing out my errors.Its interesting that defenders of Bitcoin proof-of-work believe Satoshi's Bitcoin to be the solution to the Byzantine General's Problem, or more generally the only working solution to achieving concensus in a distributed system. But the academic field of Byzantine Fault Tolerance does not mention bitcoin with the notable exception of Andrew Miller's paper whose only citation is from me. Even when granted that the bulk of such papers were issued before 2009, Satoshi did not reference any in his defining Bitcoin paper nor stimulate much discussion of BFT algorithms when posting to this forum.Google Scholar search for Byzantine Fault Tolerance-Stephen Reed It appears that Litecoin, and probably other altcoins as well, are late to this recent bitcoin rally. Here is the BitcoinWisdom 3-day resolution chart for the LTC/BTC currency pair. Observe how litecoin has fallen in price relative to bitcoin, especially in the recent nine days.In the bubble that peaked last November, litecoin was late to the rally but then appreciated more rapidly than bitcoin. A good trade might be to wait until litecoin joins the rally and then switch a portion of the at-risk capital from long bitcoin to long litecoin or your favorite altcoin. At the peak, as you judge it, sell the altcoin, and wait to buy back later for a fraction of the peak price. This is not a trade for me as I have plenty of risk exposure in bitcoin and do not desire any more volatility. The rightmost data point has a value of -0.373 . Interesting, In CPoS, I would pay full nodes to upgrade to 24/7 dedicated symmetric business class Internet connections. The full nodes would be expected to be permanently connected and executing the current version of the reference Bitcoin Core software. Their share of the block creation reward, paid daily, would be decreased if not always connected. The daily bitcoin creation reward is now $2,124,360. I would allocate $30 daily to each full-time full node. Yes, I simply guessed at the $1 million maximum price for bitcoin. But whether that price is $20K or $100K or higher, the rate of growth before the mid point of adoption is approximately 10x annually according to results when I varied the model's parameters. I believe that if indeed the maximum price is $1 million then we will get there before 2020 according to my model. OK. That idea is not going to gain wide acceptance in the Bitcoin community. A proof-of-stake altcoin startup might try paying for order flow.I suggest that Bitcoin full node owners have an annual convention to tweak the reward allocation policy executed in code by what I call the Reward Agent. I would not change the Satoshi block reward schedule, that cuts the reward in half in the summer of 2016 and again in 2020. But I desire that the reward be rationally spent on facilitating the adoption of Bitcoin via superior infrastructure. Meanwhile Bitcoin moving strongly upwards. I presented my whitepaper today and engaged contributors to the Bitshares project on the Beyond Bitcoin podcast . . .https://bitsharestalk.org/index.php?topic=4713.0I was invited back for a more technical discussion after I have a chance to re-study Dan Larimer's Delegated Proof-of-Stake (DPOS)I introduced a new thought that is not in the whitepaper and that is that the block creation reward, in addition to funding infrastructure and developers, could also subsidize transactions to the extent of negative transaction fees, should the abuse problem be addressed. Imaging paying Amazon or any other global Internet retailer a week's worth of block creation rewards, i.e. $13 million to get them to accept bitcoins as payment. I call this notion paying for order flow. Thanks for mentioning my project. I am only beginning to integrate my work into Bitcoin. The Bitcoin core developers are skeptical yet encouraging, and await "neat technology". Very likely my code will be implemented into one or more altcoins next year, in parallel with system testing on a Bitcoin testnet. If the proposed system can pass all the challenging tests proposed by skeptics, then I believe that I win over many of not most of those whose approval I need before a hard-fork of Bitcoin.I would like to keep this thread focused on technical analysis - and my project is far, far from influencing price. A year from now I hope that situation changes. Bitcoin has increased in price on average 10x annually. That is quite enough risk / reward for me. I get nervous whenever I sell bitcoin waiting for the price to go lower. Much better to be long in bitcoin except for the bubble peak - as Risto has guided me. GitHub  notes . . .Bitcoin GitHub repository=========================Code:$ git clone git@github.com:StephenLReed/bitcoin.git$ cd bitcoinSynchronizing the my bitcoin branch with the origin bitcoin repositoryhttps://help.github.com/articles/syncing-a-forkCode:# initialize my local bitcoin branch repository$ git clone git@github.com:StephenLReed/bitcoin.gitCloning into 'bitcoin'...Warning: Permanently added the RSA host key for IP address '192.30.252.130' to the list of known hosts.remote: Counting objects: 36043, done.remote: Compressing objects: 100% (9795/9795), done.remote: Total 36043 (delta 26003), reused 36043 (delta 26003)Receiving objects: 100% (36043/36043), 28.65 MiB | 611.00 KiB/s, done.Resolving deltas: 100% (26003/26003), done.Checking connectivity... done$ cd bitcoin# list the current remotes$ git remote -v origin git@github.com:StephenLReed/bitcoin.git (fetch)origin git@github.com:StephenLReed/bitcoin.git (push)# add the upstream remote repository$ git remote add upstream https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin.git# verify the current remotesorigin git@github.com:StephenLReed/bitcoin.git (fetch)origin git@github.com:StephenLReed/bitcoin.git (push)upstream https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin.git (fetch)upstream https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin.git (push)# Grab the upstream remote's branches$ git fetch upstreamremote: Counting objects: 1142, done.remote: Compressing objects: 100% (587/587), done.remote: Total 1142 (delta 758), reused 805 (delta 553)Receiving objects: 100% (1142/1142), 2.70 MiB | 569.00 KiB/s, done.Resolving deltas: 100% (758/758), done.From https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin * [new branch]      0.6.2      -> upstream/0.6.2 * [new branch]      0.6.3      -> upstream/0.6.3 * [new branch]      0.7.2      -> upstream/0.7.2 * [new branch]      0.8.1      -> upstream/0.8.1 * [new branch]      0.8.3      -> upstream/0.8.3 * [new branch]      0.8.4      -> upstream/0.8.4 * [new branch]      0.8.5      -> upstream/0.8.5 * [new branch]      0.8.6      -> upstream/0.8.6 * [new branch]      0.9.0      -> upstream/0.9.0 * [new branch]      0.9.1      -> upstream/0.9.1 * [new branch]      0.9.2      -> upstream/0.9.2 * [new branch]      blockheaders -> upstream/blockheaders * [new branch]      freenode-verf -> upstream/freenode-verf * [new branch]      master     -> upstream/master# List all local and remote-tracking branchesgit branch -va* master                         4765b8c Merge pull request #4087  remotes/origin/0.6.2           40fd689 Bump version to 0.6.2.2 for osx-special build  remotes/origin/0.6.3           6e0c5e3 Revert "Update gitian descriptors to point at stable git repo"  remotes/origin/0.7.2           32a928e Use github for final 0.7.2 release  remotes/origin/0.8.1           34d62a8 Set version numbers for 0.8.1 release  remotes/origin/0.8.3           40809ae Bump version numbers for 0.8.3 release  remotes/origin/0.8.4           839c7d1 Update the bloom state on the real object, not the temporary one.  remotes/origin/0.8.5           ef14a26 Bump version numbers for 0.8.5 release  remotes/origin/0.8.6           03a7d67 Release notes for 0.8.6  remotes/origin/0.9.0           92d25e4 build: fix explicit --disable-qt-dbus  remotes/origin/0.9.1           026a939 gitian: Version bump for Qt dependency  remotes/origin/HEAD            -> origin/master  remotes/origin/blockheaders    b24aa4a Saving work...  remotes/origin/freenode-verf   7612e72 FreeNode verification  remotes/origin/master          4765b8c Merge pull request #4087  remotes/upstream/0.6.2         40fd689 Bump version to 0.6.2.2 for osx-special build  remotes/upstream/0.6.3         6e0c5e3 Revert "Update gitian descriptors to point at stable git repo"  remotes/upstream/0.7.2         32a928e Use github for final 0.7.2 release  remotes/upstream/0.8.1         34d62a8 Set version numbers for 0.8.1 release  remotes/upstream/0.8.3         40809ae Bump version numbers for 0.8.3 release  remotes/upstream/0.8.4         839c7d1 Update the bloom state on the real object, not the temporary one.  remotes/upstream/0.8.5         ef14a26 Bump version numbers for 0.8.5 release  remotes/upstream/0.8.6         03a7d67 Release notes for 0.8.6  remotes/upstream/0.9.0         92d25e4 build: fix explicit --disable-qt-dbus  remotes/upstream/0.9.1         026a939 gitian: Version bump for Qt dependency  remotes/upstream/0.9.2         2585310 Add missing LOCK(cs_main)  remotes/upstream/blockheaders  b24aa4a Saving work...  remotes/upstream/freenode-verf 7612e72 FreeNode verification  remotes/upstream/master        97b53b5 Merge pull request #4152# Check out our local master branch$ git checkout masterAlready on 'master'# Merge upstream's master into our own$ git merge upstream/masterUpdating 4765b8c..97b53b5Fast-forward .tx/config                                        |    7 + Makefile.am                                       |    4 +- configure.ac                                      |   47 +- contrib/debian/bitcoin-qt.install                 |    2 +- contrib/debian/bitcoind.install                   |    3 +- contrib/debian/changelog                          |   13 + contrib/debian/control                            |    8 +- contrib/debian/manpages/bitcoin.conf.5            |    3 - contrib/debian/rules                              |   21 +- contrib/devtools/README.md                        |   40 +- contrib/devtools/symbol-check.py                  |  113 +++ contrib/devtools/update-translations.py           |   66 ++ contrib/gitian-descriptors/gitian-linux.yml       |   22 +- contrib/gitian-descriptors/gitian-osx-bitcoin.yml |   65 ++ contrib/gitian-descriptors/gitian-osx-depends.yml |  160 ++++ contrib/gitian-descriptors/gitian-osx-native.yml  |  179 ++++ contrib/gitian-descriptors/gitian-osx-qt.yml      |  192 ++++ contrib/gitian-descriptors/qt-linux.yml           |  263 +++++ contrib/macdeploy/macdeployqtplus                 |    4 +- doc/README_osx.txt                                |   71 ++ doc/bootstrap.md                                  |    7 +- doc/build-unix.md                                 |   43 +- doc/release-process.md                            |   54 +- doc/translation_process.md                        |   29 +- qa/pull-tester/pull-tester.sh                     |    3 + qa/rpc-tests/README.md                            |   29 +- qa/rpc-tests/netutil.py                           |  134 +++ qa/rpc-tests/rpcbind_test.py                      |  152 +++ qa/rpc-tests/util.py                              |   32 +- share/genbuild.sh                                 |    2 +- share/qt/Info.plist.in                            |    6 +- src/Makefile.am                                   |    2 +- src/Makefile.include                              |   12 +- src/base58.cpp                                    |  183 ++++ src/base58.h                                      |  259 +---- src/bignum.h                                      |  595 ------------ src/bitcoin-cli.cpp                               |    2 + src/bitcoind.cpp                                  |    9 +- src/chainparams.cpp                               |    6 +- src/chainparams.h                                 |    5 +- src/compat.h                                      |   10 +- src/core.cpp                                      |    4 +- src/init.cpp                                      |   26 +- src/json/json_spirit_reader_template.h            |   12 +- src/json/json_spirit_value.h                      |   32 +- src/key.cpp                                       |   72 +- src/key.h                                         |    3 + src/keystore.cpp                                  |    3 + src/leveldb/Makefile                              |   11 +- src/leveldb/db/filename.cc                        |    9 +- src/leveldb/db/log_reader.cc                      |   23 +- src/leveldb/db/log_test.cc                        |   40 +- src/leveldb/db/repair.cc                          |    1 - src/leveldb/db/version_set.cc                     |   14 - src/leveldb/include/leveldb/c.h                   |    1 - src/leveldb/include/leveldb/db.h                  |    2 +- src/leveldb/include/leveldb/slice.h               |    2 +- src/m4/ax_boost_base.m4                           |    5 +- src/main.cpp                                      |  453 +++++---- src/main.h                                        |   51 +- src/miner.cpp                                     |   15 +- src/net.cpp                                       |   67 +- src/net.h                                         |    8 + src/netbase.cpp                                   |  198 +++- src/netbase.h                                     |   36 +- src/protocol.h                                    |    1 + src/qt/Makefile.am                                |   11 +- src/qt/bitcoin.cpp                                |   24 +- src/qt/bitcoin.qrc                                |    1 + src/qt/bitcoingui.cpp                             |   17 +- src/qt/bitcoingui.h                               |    2 +- src/qt/bitcoinstrings.cpp                         |    1 + src/qt/clientmodel.cpp                            |   14 +- src/qt/clientmodel.h                              |    5 +- src/qt/forms/optionsdialog.ui                     |   24 + src/qt/forms/rpcconsole.ui                        |   33 +- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_ach.ts                      | 1053 ++++---------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_af_ZA.ts                    | 1055 ++++----------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_ar.ts                       | 1492 ++++++++--------------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_be_BY.ts                    | 1053 ++++---------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_bg.ts                       | 1271 ++++++------------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_bs.ts                       | 1053 ++++---------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_ca.ts                       | 1053 ++++---------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_ca@valencia.ts              | 1096 +++++---------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_ca_ES.ts                    | 1059 ++++----------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_cmn.ts                      | 1096 +++++---------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_cs.ts                       | 1509 ++++++++--------------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_cy.ts                       | 1053 ++++---------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_da.ts                       | 1175 +++++------------------ src/qt/locale/bitcoin_de.ts                       | 1200 +++++------------------ src/qt/locale/bitcoin_el_GR.ts                    | 1101 ++++----------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_en.ts                       |  123 ++- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_eo.ts                       | 1061 ++++----------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_es.ts                       | 1082 ++++----------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_es_CL.ts                    | 1108 +++++----------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_es_DO.ts                    | 1030 +++----------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_es_MX.ts                    | 1055 ++++----------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_es_UY.ts                    | 1053 ++++---------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_et.ts                       | 1057 ++++----------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_eu_ES.ts                    | 1053 ++++---------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_fa.ts                       | 1065 ++++----------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_fa_IR.ts                    | 1053 ++++---------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_fi.ts                       | 1713 ++++++++++----------------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_fr.ts                       | 1069 ++++----------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_fr_CA.ts                    | 1099 ++++----------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_gl.ts                       | 1120 +++++----------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_gu_IN.ts                    | 1053 ++++---------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_he.ts                       | 1096 ++++----------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_hi_IN.ts                    | 1053 ++++---------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_hr.ts                       | 1063 ++++----------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_hu.ts                       | 1067 ++++----------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_id_ID.ts                    | 1795 +++++++++++------------------------ src/qt/locale/bitcoin_it.ts                       | 1468 ++++++++-------------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_ja.ts                       | 1263 ++++++------------------ src/qt/locale/bitcoin_ka.ts                       | 1122 +++++----------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_kk_KZ.ts                    | 1053 ++++---------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_ko_KR.ts                    | 1145 +++++----------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_ky.ts                       | 1100 +++++---------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_la.ts                       | 1059 ++++----------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_lt.ts                       | 1061 ++++----------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_lv_LV.ts                    | 1718 ++++++++++----------------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_mn.ts                       | 3375 +++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ src/qt/locale/bitcoin_ms_MY.ts                    | 1053 ++++---------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_nb.ts                       | 1034 +++----------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_nl.ts                       | 1216 ++++++------------------ src/qt/locale/bitcoin_pam.ts                      | 1053 ++++---------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_pl.ts                       | 1042 +++----------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_pt_BR.ts                    | 1143 +++++----------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_pt_PT.ts                    | 1564 ++++++++---------------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_ro_RO.ts                    | 1032 +++----------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_ru.ts                       | 1077 ++++----------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_sah.ts                      | 1096 +++++---------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_sk.ts                       | 1545 +++++++++--------------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_sl_SI.ts                    | 1073 ++++----------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_sq.ts                       | 1053 ++++---------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_sr.ts                       | 1053 ++++---------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_sv.ts                       | 1489 ++++++++--------------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_th_TH.ts                    | 1053 ++++---------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_tr.ts                       | 1073 ++++----------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_uk.ts                       | 1061 ++++----------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_ur_PK.ts                    | 1096 +++++---------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_uz@Cyrl.ts                  | 1096 +++++---------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_vi.ts                       | 1053 ++++---------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_vi_VN.ts                    | 1053 ++++---------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_zh_CN.ts                    | 1073 ++++----------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_zh_HK.ts                    | 1096 +++++---------------- src/qt/locale/bitcoin_zh_TW.ts                    | 1180 +++++------------------ src/qt/optionsdialog.cpp                          |    5 + src/qt/optionsmodel.cpp                           |   15 +- src/qt/optionsmodel.h                             |    3 + src/qt/receivecoinsdialog.cpp                     |   19 +- src/qt/receivecoinsdialog.h                       |    8 +- src/qt/receiverequestdialog.cpp                   |   25 +- src/qt/receiverequestdialog.h                     |    7 + src/qt/rpcconsole.cpp                             |    8 +- src/qt/rpcconsole.h                               |    2 +- src/qt/test/test_main.cpp                         |    1 - src/qt/transactiontablemodel.cpp                  |    2 + src/qt/transactiontablemodel.h                    |    2 + src/qt/transactionview.cpp                        |   35 + src/qt/transactionview.h                          |    3 + src/qt/winshutdownmonitor.cpp                     |   57 ++ src/qt/winshutdownmonitor.h                       |   29 + src/rpcblockchain.cpp                             |   50 +- src/rpcclient.cpp                                 |   52 +- src/rpcmining.cpp                                 |   10 +- src/rpcmisc.cpp                                   |   17 +- src/rpcnet.cpp                                    |   69 +- src/rpcprotocol.cpp                               |   12 +- src/rpcprotocol.h                                 |   24 +- src/rpcrawtransaction.cpp                         |   23 +- src/rpcserver.cpp                                 |  192 ++-- src/rpcserver.h                                   |    6 + src/rpcwallet.cpp                                 |   18 +- src/script.cpp                                    |   72 +- src/script.h                                      |  220 ++++- src/test/DoS_tests.cpp                            |    5 +- src/test/Makefile.am                              |    3 +- src/test/{README => README.md}                    |    4 +- src/test/base58_tests.cpp                         |    4 +- src/test/bignum.h                                 |  180 ++++ src/test/bignum_tests.cpp                         |  224 ----- src/test/canonical_tests.cpp                      |   17 + src/test/data/script_invalid.json                 |   29 + src/test/data/script_valid.json                   |   89 ++ src/test/data/tx_invalid.json                     |   63 +- src/test/data/tx_valid.json                       |   68 +- src/test/netbase_tests.cpp                        |   37 + src/test/rpc_tests.cpp                            |   16 + src/test/script_tests.cpp                         |    6 +- src/test/scriptnum_tests.cpp                      |  196 ++++ src/test/transaction_tests.cpp                    |   50 +- src/test/uint256_tests.cpp                        |  210 +++- src/test/util_tests.cpp                           |   49 +- src/txdb.cpp                                      |   10 +- src/txdb.h                                        |    2 - src/uint256.h                                     |  528 +++++------ src/util.cpp                                      |   99 +- src/util.h                                        |   39 +- src/wallet.cpp                                    |    6 +- src/wallet.h                                      |    2 + src/walletdb.cpp                                  |    2 +- 202 files changed, 23277 insertions(+), 66633 deletions(-) create mode 100644 .tx/config create mode 100755 contrib/devtools/symbol-check.py create mode 100755 contrib/devtools/update-translations.py create mode 100644 contrib/gitian-descriptors/gitian-osx-bitcoin.yml create mode 100644 contrib/gitian-descriptors/gitian-osx-depends.yml create mode 100644 contrib/gitian-descriptors/gitian-osx-native.yml create mode 100644 contrib/gitian-descriptors/gitian-osx-qt.yml create mode 100644 contrib/gitian-descriptors/qt-linux.yml create mode 100644 doc/README_osx.txt create mode 100644 qa/rpc-tests/netutil.py create mode 100755 qa/rpc-tests/rpcbind_test.py delete mode 100644 src/bignum.h create mode 100644 src/qt/locale/bitcoin_mn.ts create mode 100644 src/qt/winshutdownmonitor.cpp create mode 100644 src/qt/winshutdownmonitor.h rename src/test/{README => README.md} (87%) create mode 100644 src/test/bignum.h delete mode 100644 src/test/bignum_tests.cpp create mode 100644 src/test/scriptnum_tests.cpp# push my local bitcoin branch to my branch repository at GitHub$ git push origin masterCounting objects: 1460, done.Delta compression using up to 8 threads.Compressing objects: 100% (361/361), done.Writing objects: 100% (1065/1065), 2.03 MiB | 112.00 KiB/s, done.Total 1065 (delta 880), reused 887 (delta 702)To git@github.com:StephenLReed/bitcoin.git   4765b8c..97b53b5  master -> masterTo make a change to the bitcoin repository . . .How to create a PULL requestCode:$ git checkout -b niftynewfeature # Create a feature branch ... edit, test, re-edit, re-test...$ git commit -a$ git push git@github.com:StephenLReed/bitcoin.git niftynewfeature:niftynewfeatureGavin: Submit a PULL request by going to your fork's GitHub page, selecting the branch containing the changes you want pulled ("niftynewfeature" in the above example), and then poking the "Pull Request" button.  Enter a good description of what your changes do and why they're a good idea and how everybody and their brother is already using them to make the world a better place . I have a project that greatly improves Bitcoin as magnet for development, infrastructure, paid order flow, and marketing. These advantages will scale linearly with market cap and thus marginalize altchains - even as they pioneer or subsequently adopt similar improvements. If the alternative technology extends Bitcoin or otherwise runs on the Bitcoin platform, then that will survive and prosper. Sidechains for Bitcoin, under somewhat stealthy development today, could provide the platform for branded coins and niche/innovative features. In the wake of the rally now under way, I suppose that like in the November 2013 bubble, altcoins will be late to the party and fade as the bubble subsequently collapses. Assuming that altcoins as a sector are more volatile than bitcoin one could stay long in bitcoin for the moment. When the weekly price growth rate of the altcoin leaders meets or surpasses the bitcoin price growth, then  switch to the altcoins you prefer, and sell at the peak, switching back long into bitcoin during the collapse. Agreed. My observation is probably good only for a short period or if there is some news-induced sell off later on. Because there was a pause at $800 for the month of January, I sort of expect prices to linger there for a while before soaring beyond the previous all time high. Conventional charting wisdom says that a strong resistance trendline, once broken through, becomes a source of support. In the below 3-day resolution chart that illustrates the trendline from the November 2013 peak, I suppose that this line now marks territory that bitcoin prices may never visit again, e.g. sub $400. Using the winklevii as an example. They won $65 million from Mark Zuckerberg. They invested some millions in bitcoin for the adventure. They think big. There are others . . .
Buffet will not buy bitcoin until he is convinced that the brand is a sort of monopoly and immune to a superior technology. That is still a question, so long as the foundation's chief scientist calls Bitcoin an experiment.Buffet's companies will be mid to late adopters. I believe that they will use bitcoin to replace bank payments when it is obviously better to do so.We are early adopters, paying perhaps one-thousandth the price now that Buffet or his successor will pay in a few more years. I watch this chart daily. Three days ago I believe that the collected data was corrupted  34,888 is too low. Earlier that day values were higher. From March, the recovery in transaction volume seems to lag. Others have suggested that this is due to an increasing portion of transactions occurring through payment processors such as BitPay and coinbase, which may be performing off-chain settlement if both parties have off-chain accounts at the payment processor. Today I am working on my first bitcoin pull request. Following Gavin's instructions How to create a PULL request.I am using the NetBeans C++ IDE on Ubuntu, which is not what most core devs use apparently. They use tools from decades ago, and depend on clear thinking, not the intelligent abilities of modern Integrated Development Environments. The core devs mostly ignore compiler warnings as long as the code builds and tests OK. NetBeans dynamically parses the code in its editor and warnings are highlighted. I messaged sipa on #bitcoin-dev about some cruft in main.h and he is fixing that. Now I want to fix another warning/bug in main.h myself.I am using Gavin's procedure for a pull request to fix just one line of code that will not really make any difference at all in how Bitcoin works. My plan for the next few days is to fix all the warnings that are easily fixed in the source code as revealed by NetBeans.Then I need to get a couple of bitcoind instances running in a single machine testnet.And I will begin to document how to write the tamper-evident log that is a key component of this project. The core devs have been helpful and have encouraged me, as is right, to explore an idea as an easily revised document, rather than as blind-alley coding. Thanks for responding. I need very much to continue listening if there is any hope of achieving the wide approval this project needs to launch in early 2016. I am now downplaying the payment of dividends to those who offer hot-wallet stakes. I think that needs to happen to the extent required to prevent an attacker creating many controlled puppet full nodes and out-voting the correct nodes when a detected inconsistency requires correction. The bitcoin core developers are skeptical yet awaiting "neat technology". The daily mining reward has risen to $1.8 million. I suggest that a well funded team of say 200 programmers can easily be paid from this sum to out-compete subsequent forks. The system I am presenting has a one-time opportunity to re-engineer the network, while preserving the Satoshi Social Contract. The reward schedule, the blockchain format, the fixed number of bitcoins, and the decentralized, trustless protocol  are untouched. The system remains a global distributed database, with additions to the database by consent of the majority, based on a set of transparent rules they follow.  Metcalf's Law, as charted by Perter_R, would suggest that the user base need only grow at a third of the rate of price growth. His model is that the network value, i.e. the market cap, is proportional to the square of the number of network nodes, e.g. number of investors, number of transactions, or number of Bitcoin addresses. Price growth averaging 10x annually is accordingly supported by 3.2x annual growth of new users, which works out to 13-14% average monthly growth in users.http://www.bitcoinpulse.com/ as most know has many adoption indicators being tracked. Here is a 3-day resolution chart of the breakout rally that probably marks the end of the November 2013 bubble collapse. My logistic model says the prices must rise about $10 each day to stay parallel with the long term Log10 trend. The trend price for today by the way is $1344. Respectfully, I do not understand the irony. Could you please elaborate on your reasoning that allows an interpretation the opposite of what I perhaps poorly wrote? If we are going to drive Visa and bank wire transfers out of business, then our network needs to be better than theirs. It cannot depend on part-time laptops and ADSL connections. It can be supplemented by those sort of home computers, but the network needs to be non-stop, redundant, and robust in case of power failure and Internet connection outages.Enterprise class servers and networks are a solved problem. All it takes is money. Each day block creation rewards total about $1.6 million. There is plenty of money to give Bitcoin the hardware it deserves and to pay people around the world to run full nodes - if and when CPoS replaces PoW. The response was . . .Bitcoin is not a democracy. It's a micro-government, but where those with the hashing-power are for ever the rulers of Bitcointopia. There is no necessity to preserve the existing wealth. If the system is superior it will earn it of the market. And so we have a market of competing currencies. The incentives are high enough for people to make a better invention. Starting from scratch in software is often a good thing. Initial Install of Bitcoin Core and wallet . . .Following Jameson Lopp's directions http://coinchomp.com/2014/04/03/set-ide-developing-bitcoin-core-ubuntu-linux/I have the branch from GitHub at https://github.com/StephenLReed/bitcoinI followed the directions in build-unix.md. I have Ubuntu 13.10. I added the bitcoin repository - ppa:bitcoin/bitcoinOf the options, I chose to install libdb4.8, libboost1.53 and libminiupnpc-dev.I executed ./autogen.shI executed ./configure until no errorsI executed makeOKI installed NetBeans for C++ and compiled the bitcoin project OK. NetBeans gives hints as to problems it finds in the editor pane and I messaged sipa on #bitcoin-dev about this unresolved forward reference in main.h . . .sipa said it should be . . .The change built OK in NetBeans, so the next step is to run the provided regression tests. The regression tests ran OK. The bitcoin core code only has perhaps 30% of Satoshi's code remaining. It can change.The proposed system takes pains to preserve as much as the Satoshi Social Contract as possible. That is what users see. For them nothing much should change, and what does change should be much better. Full nodes are the foundation of Satoshi's Bitcoin. My proposal pays for upgrades so that they may process all the world's transactions.  A comment from the bitcoin-development email list . . .I'm doing a hard fork, too. In my version 78% of the wealth will go to me, which I will redistribute on based on personal preferences. Come and join me into a new and obviously superior system. More seriously though: the paper is not bad, but I can guarantee you that Bitcoin will never change that drastically. That's the whole point. It has an indestructible kernel (think DNA). Rather it will do a slow death, probably in 5-10 years. If you care for PoS than just launch your own.  Thanks for commenting on my whitepaper. I linked proof-of-stake and infrastructure incentives because reallocating the block creation rewards yields $1.6 million daily, which pays for a lot of infrastructure, transaction fee subsidies - and just say 200 paid developers.The banning of misbehaving nodes is an unclear statement on my part which is an attempt to characterize how a bitcoind instance currently disconnects from peers who repeatedly send invalid messages to it. That aspect of bitcoind I would not change. I extend that behavior so that peers actively replay each other's operations to check for consistency. When an inconsistent peer is identified by a quorum of its peers, it is disconnected - for some temporary period. And the reason would be made clear to the disconnected peer owner by an alert. Relevant chat log from the #bitcoin-wizards IRC channel . . .<gmaxwell> stephenreed: Yes, bitcoin is ugly in many ways. I spent a decade working for a company building huge routers for internet backbones and working with big providers... I'm well familar with big communications infrastructure.  Bitcoin uses non-scalable mechnimes in a way which "can't work" to achieve an end— an anonymous decenteralized consensus— which "isn't possible" by conventional thinking.  In practice, so far, it does work.  ...<gmaxwell> ... And I'd love to see something that achieved the same ends, but wishing it doesn't make it so... The uglyness in Bitcoin is not an accident, not a result of ignorance... the problem space truly is hard.. . .<gmaxwell> At one point I wrote long winded essays that what bitcoin achieves— a decenteralized consensus— was precluded by physical law. I was wrong, because I didn't consider the right relaxations of the requirements (the the consensus could be eventual and only so under certian economic assumptions, that a vote could be sufficiently sybil resources through the provable expendature of physically finite resources and at the same time ...<gmaxwell> ... create the incentives the first required). There might be similar alterations of the assumptions or requirements that yield alternative solutions. I certantly hope so.  But I'd expect the presentation any successful attempt to start with a very clear statement of what the assumptions and limitations are, and how it addresses the hard problems that arise in this space.<gmaxwell> (well to be clear, I'm already aware of some different designs with different assumptions— e.g. there are some proposals which achieve awesome properties— fast, secure, and scalable— that depend on a simple majority of non-anonymous signing registrars being honest. E.g. the compromise decenteralization to get basically every other property you could ask for)<stephenreed> adam3us: I saw the link to Chris' paper on the dev mail list, read it, and asked him for permission to use it as a reference in my paper. He gave it.<gmaxwell> adam3us: Amiller, jbonneau and others have been working on a systemizing bitcoin knoweldge paper: https://github.com/citp/bitcoin-sok. . .<stephenreed> gmaxwell: this is a key paper that I referenced - http://iris.csail.mit.edu/irisbib/papers/aaom:sosp21/paper.pdf    Attested Append-Only Memory: Making Adversaries Stick to their Word, Chun et al. Their math says it is byzantine fault tolerant with respect to relicas less than 50% faulty. Then I use timeline entanglement to make the logs tamper-evident. Also a reference from my paper.<stephenreed> gmaxwell: Nick Szabo explained the benefit of unforgeable logs as you probably alreadky know.<gmaxwell> stephenreed: I believe I've read this before? Will check... but generally the problem the clasical approaches have is they do not work in the model of anonymous membership. You have have agreed in advance the identity of the members of the participants in the system. (and have some method to be confident that they are not mostly sybils of a single party)<stephenreed> gmaxwell: given your network architecture experience, superior to my own, would you say that such a network could indeed handle all the world's transactions?<stephenreed> gmaxwell: in my system the peers provide a controlled bitcoin address both for identity and for signing their non-transaction messages. That is the audit trail peers can easily verify.<stephenreed> gmaxwell: Sybils are prevented by the need to sufficient stake them.<gmaxwell> stephenreed: Bitcoin the payment network? of course not, but it doesn't need to for bitcoin the currency to handle all the worlds transactions (if the world wished it so).  With a sold, throughly secure and decenteralized base we can run additional payment systems on top of bitcoin to achieve additional features and scale.<stephenreed> gmaxwell: I mean is the super peer network truly capable of handling all the worlds transactions? I think so based on what I read about VisaNet and SwiftNet.<gmaxwell> stephenreed: If the identity is a propery inside the system how do you prevent simulation?  An example of simulation attacks: past participants leave the system, someone obtains their keys, recovers a snapshot from when they were still a quorum, then plays forward creating a new alternative history.  A new entrant joins the system, he can tell that someone cheated (by the conflicting signatures) but how can he distinguish which state ...<gmaxwell> ... is the 'real one'?<stephenreed> gmaxwell: the point is weakened if the peer behaves correctly. A thief to the original owner - but that is same in the current system with regard to hacking a hot wallet.<andytoshi> stephenreed: the problem is that you have humans determining which transactions go where, so there is no canonical "behaves correctly" in this case<stephenreed> The orginal history was created by a very carefully single nomadic mint. Did you get that point? All full nodes replicate the single version blockchain.<gmaxwell> Those thefts happen all the time, even when there is something significant at stake— in my example though they keys could be stolen after the peer has no involvement with bitcoin at all and will lose nothing in an attack (and in fact, may gain handsomly by facilitating an attack)<stephenreed> gmaxwell: created by a very carefully watched single nomadic mint agent ...<gmaxwell> stephenreed: I'm not sure I follow your question wrt super peer network. My own prior comment was that I believe the bitcoin ecosystem in total would be able to handle all the worlds transactions, if we wished it to.<adam3us> gmaxwell: i think the scale question should be with the caveat that to interestingly scale, the main bitcoin properties should still be available to all users (unseizable, unfreezable, user control) for that to be an interesting scaling architecture.  its less interesting if we have a $100k min transaction clearing network with unseizability for them, but trust me for users.  (less but still interesting, viz international banking freezes and spats)<stephenreed> gmaxwell: Indeed a mesh network could have preferred connections and that is how I intend to modify the core to become a super peer network.<jgarzik> noooo<andytoshi> stephenreed: to a newcomer, the original history and a forked history may be indistinguishable as far as legitimacy goes. it's hard to verify things like "carefully watched" even if you are forcing your superpeers to basically be visible economic entities (since they need so much space and bandwidth)<gmaxwell> stephenreed: There are a great many things you can do if you have a centeral point of trust. And lots of ways to achieve audiability where misconduct of that agent is visible... Thats a viable approach but _very_ philosophically different from Bitcoin, because that agent is still trusted. (I wonder if you've seen the original p2pfoundation announcement of bitcoin? http://p2pfoundation.ning.com/forum/topics/bitcoin-open-source )<jgarzik> somebody else proposed a super node network at the AMS conference<jgarzik> how many variants of "but, if we just TRUST these guys over here a little bit more" do we need?<stephenreed> jgarzik: my ideas are not new. The super peer idea evolved out of the p2p stuff back when Satoshi was looking at napster.<stephenreed> gmaxwell: My software agents are trustless as Szabo suggests. The unforgeable log enables peers to validate.<stephenreed> jgarzik: Super peers have superior network/server capability but run the same code base. <jgarzik> same code base or not is immaterial<stephenreed> andytoshi: yes visible so that cooperation is assumed but cheating quickly detected. The network reengineering can easily handle the increased traffic - point to point, not mesh.<andytoshi> detecting cheating is easy, determining who is/isn't cheating is not<andytoshi> stephenreed: even if you get trustless software agents (e.g. by auditing their behavior or somehow TPM-verifying that they are clean VMs running only your software) you still have (a) random coins, e.g. for peer selection, and (b) user decisions, e.g. transactions, which are inputs from the real world and therefore can be used to introduce distortions and/or forks<stephenreed> jgarzik: material because tamper-evident logs record every action, inputs and outputs of a peer.<stephenreed> andytoshi: that point addressed in the paper linked above - less than 50% faulty agents can be tolerated.<adam3us> stephenreed: how can i audit a network entities tamper-evident logs? TPM remote attestation?<jgarzik> andytoshi, indeed.  And RE detecting cheating, Sybil'd views can make you particularly vulnerable<stephenreed> adam3us: yes, but I omitted TPM attestation from the paper because current implementations are too proprietary. I want a TPM enabled stack that says your current release of bitcoind is running and nothing else - no keyloggers etc.<stephenreed> adam3us: here is the paper on TPM attestation that I studied - http://www.mysmu.edu/faculty/xhding/publications/stc08.pdf<gmaxwell> stephenreed: These are all neat technologies that we've talked about in here and ought to exist as part of the greater bitcoin ecosystem... but they are really not a replacement for what Bitcoin provides.  E.g. the TPM hardware maker can trivially compromise those systems.<stephenreed> adam3us: For TPM I was looking at a bare metal implementation not a hypervisor.<gmaxwell> (I happen to have an IBM cryptocard myself— which is basically the pinnical of remote attest technology right now— ... and I've been playing around with the nexus operating system, which is a hypervisory OS that facilitates remote attest)<stephenreed> gmaxwell: right about TPM. I understand you need a license to use it in China for example. So remote attestation of unforgeable logs per Szablo works too.<stephenreed> gmaxwell: They are not a replacement for proof-of-work. They are a replacement that preserves the Satoshi Social Contract between developers and users. My ideas are half-baked now. The code to be written will speak for itself.<gmaxwell> Traditional reserve currencies are backed by power and authority of natition states— entities with the power to extinguish all life on earth (well, at least all human life)— and yet they do not behave in a way that many people consider trustworthy— they are rules by politics and personalities not by Law.  Some of them have apparently strong social contracts, and yet they do not prevent mission drift.<gmaxwell> Well I look forward to seeing some neat stuff!<stephenreed> I wish the Barcelona test harness was done. I need to orchestrate lots of peers to meet your challenges.<gmaxwell> (don't take my cycnism for dislike)<stephenreed> gmaxwell: according to Gavin's videos you are the core developer that I need to convince first - Thanks and wait for code.<stephenreed> Thanks for observing while I write the code of a lifetime.<adam3us> stephenreed: i would encourage generally to explain algo before coding it because its many orders of magnitude faster to explain an algo than to code it; that way you get feedback early if there are problems that'd need a rewrite<gmaxwell> Right well in particular make sure the high level objectives of the algorithim are clear before the details.  It's a lot of work to sort out the limitations in the architecture of an idea starting at the 'molecular level'.<jgarzik> Yes, gmaxwell is the gateway to a new universe ;p<gmaxwell> Hopefully not in the sense of some volcano-involving rital sacrifice.<gmaxwell> In other news, the bytecoin-derrived cryptocurrencies ecosystem is now using merged mining, there is now a fork that is merged mined against and of the 3 (or more?) prior bytecoin-derrived cryptocurrencies. (this isn't super news its a few weeks old, but its news to me)<stephenreed> adam3us: After making or reusing a test harness,  the first bit of work is the tamper evident log, which should be easy to document since I will look closely at the current debug log of bitcoind. The step beyond that would be timeline entanglement which makes the logs tamper-evident. I need to be able to digitally sign a peers log. The functions I need should already be in the core, provided I can capture the key p<stephenreed> air somehow.<sipa> "the keypair", which?<stephenreed> sipa: If you have been following the conversation, then Szabo style unforgeable logs can be created if peers sign  each others logs. I propose for a peer operating a full node to provide a key pair for that purpose, e.g. a bitcoin address public/private key pair.<sipa> you say "capture the keypair somehow" -> which keypair?<gmaxwell> stephenreed: in bitcoin the blockchain itself is the unforgable log, but because the system is anonymous (there are no enumerated identities) they are signed via cumulative proof of work instead of a traditional digital signature.  Debug.log is orthorgonal, it's just for software QA, and very little of it is about information which is interesting to other parties.<stephenreed> sipa: Well the QT wallet securely stores private keys so I suppose I would reuse that method. <sipa> nodes have nothing to do with wallets<sipa> it's a historical accident that satoshi's software does both<gmaxwell> stephenreed: normally bitcoin keys in wallets are intended to be single use, one transaction. As sipa notes we've been slowy working towards seperating the functionality.<stephenreed> separation is great. My purposes require that a peer sign another peers log to make it tamper-evident. I need for the node operator to provide the private key to bitcoind. The wallet has a method to input and securely store private keys. I may need the wallet in order to received daily dividends from the "reward agent".<sipa> sounds like you just need something like a host key<sipa> independent of the wallet<stephenreed> sipa: how would you store it?<sipa> oh, you also use it to receive coins?<stephenreed> sipa: I need to receive bitcoins yes but that may be orthogonal<sipa> you get rewards for running a full node?<stephenreed> sipa: I hope that you will read my whitepaper ... https://docs.google.com/document/d/1C4m-MFnxw0JjDorzrKs_IRQRqD9ila79o0IDt6KsbcE<andytoshi> sipa: as i understand it, that is part of stephenreed's proposal because he has mechanisms by which peers enter and leave the system (which include proving some amount of dedicated resources as a sybil prevention)<stephenreed> sipa: I also have a good set of extended references on the bitcointalk thread OP - https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=584719.0<andytoshi> stephenreed: you want to separate bitcoin addresses from authentication, you can attach addresses (for receiving funds) to your ID by signing them with your auth key, but because addresses are supposed to be ephemeral they are not well-suited to auth on their own<stephenreed> sipa:  The whitepaper describes -  a proof-of-stake version which uses a single nomadic verifiable mint agent and distributed replication of a single blockchain by compensated full nodes to achieve 6-hop, sub-second transaction acknowledgement times. Plus it pays dividends to holders instead of paying miners. Subsidized transaction fees are thus lower.<sipa> sounds like a very different trust model than bitcoin<sipa> (which is not a bad thing, but suggesting it as a replacement seems strange)<stephenreed> sipa: a different trustless model yes. Cooperate to save effort, and verify peers to ban cheaters.<sipa> bitcoin isn't fully trustless, and neither is this <stephenreed> andytoshi: I will  note your comment. <stephenreed> andytoshi: compared to todays bitcoin, I strongly desire permanent full nodes and would allocate sufficient reward to them to make that happen. SPV nodes can come and go.<andytoshi> i guess you mean quasi-permanent, like tor, and that's another hard problem (though i don't believe it's impossible) to incentivize in a sybil-resistant way<stephenreed> andytoshi: You must think that there is a hard problem that I am missing. I appears simple to me to keep track of peer uptime. I would create another agent to perform that duty.<andytoshi> stephenreed: the hard problem is getting people to stay up when it's costing them resources and maintenance<stephenreed> andytoshi: the peer would be identified by IP address and offered public bitcoin address. I would pay them to stay up. The current reward is $1.6 million per day divided by say 10000 full nodes!<andytoshi> right, but it's easy to farm IP addresses and route them to a single box, it's hard to prove that every IP corresponds to disparate physical resources<stephenreed> andytoshi: That is true of the current system where full nodes are hosted for $19 per month in a data center sharing a portion of some server. Replication of the blockchain is very important.<andytoshi> it's true but why would anyone bother? it doesn't improve the decentralization or value of the network (which is the only incentive to run a full node today, besides goodwill and geek cred, which are also not helped by standing up sybils)<stephenreed> andytoshi: Identity is supported by the controlled bitcoin address offered by each full node. The more stake, then more likely they are to be Sybil resistant.<stephenreed> andytoshi: If there was a way for a software probe to determine, and to ensure, dispersed geographical locations - then I would use that.<andytoshi> we had a recent discussion on ##crypto (or was it here?) about cryptographic proof of location, and i think we landed on "it's probably impossible" at least on earth since attackers can use fast airborne radio waves while honest parties have to use slow quantum signals in fiber optics<andytoshi> regarding sybil resistance, if i have a lot of stake i'll get more reward but that still doesn't incentivize me to start more physical nodes. i'll open as many fake ones as my stake allows<andytoshi> if anything using stake as a gatekeeping mechanism will cause your system to tend to oligarchy<stephenreed> andytoshi: have to go, but I think online wallet hosting will be the largest stake holders.<andytoshi> alright, ttyl, but as sipa says this is a large philosophical shift away from bitcoin Comment from the Bitcoin-development email list . . .I look at this and agree of course that the nodes are decreasing, see,https://getaddr.bitnodes.io/   But when I see stuff in the white paperlike "misbehaving nodes" in the context of an "audit agent," a "singlenon-forking blockchain," the notion of "Misbehaving nodes" that would be"banned from the network" so as to "motivat(e) honest behavior," ~ really,all of this does sound as though a sort of morality is being formulatedrather than a mathematical solution.This is not to say that the white paper hasn't addressed a problem thatneeds to be addressed, namely... the problem of the nodes disappearing,and a few other things.  But to take that and then layer onto that theissues associated with proof of stake... There does seem to be a simplerway to address this and I think first without suggesting the complex issueof some kind of thing that would involve dividends for those in aproof-of-stake system, consensus achieved by stake-weighted voting, and soforth, one would be better off removing all references to voting andstake, and determining ways simply to incentivize more substantively thosewho actually run a full node.  Additionally I am hesitant to characterizebehavior as has been described in the white paper, as it would seem that(in such a system) there would be an inclination or a tendency to excludecertain patterns or groups of participants rather than determine ways inwhich all participants or potential peers can serve the network. As a result of writing the whitepaper and listening to constructive comments, e.g. yours, about the proposed Bitcoin system, I am persuaded that paying dividends to stakeholders is a lower priority than investing bitcoin block creation rewards into a network capable of processing all the world's transactions.This system needs a way to prevent an attacker from establishing numerous puppet nodes, who by acting in concert, could outvote the correct nodes and allow misbehavior. Proof-of-stake provides a means to limit the ability of an attacker to outvote correct nodes. The assumption is that correct nodes will offer sufficient stake in a hot wallet in return for a certain amount of dividends.The reward allocation policy is most certainly going to be contentious, and increasingly so as the technical barriers are overcome by working code through the end of this year. Core developers are skeptical of my ideas. But if they are won over by working code, then what to do with the $1.6 million daily block creation reward is moved from fantasy conjecture to pressing importance. The block creation rewards increase with the price of bitcoin, halving in the summer of 2016 to 12.5 bitcoins per block, but staying at that schedule through 2020. Supposing bitcoin indeed reaches $1 million per bitcoin in 2017-2018, then the daily block reward in 2017 might be $1.8 billion per day.Provided that network infrastructure is generously funded, including just say two hundred paid developers, and that sufficient dividends are paid to support proof-of-stake voting, why not subsidize transaction fees with the block creation reward? I can imagine circumstances in which bitcoin transaction fees could be negative. Visa could not compete with that. The challenge is to prevent abuse, e.g. we could figure out a way for merchants to identify themselves and subsidize transactions paid to them. Just wondering from your user name if you are a fellow miner? If so, would you be better off buying dividend paying bitcoins with the money you otherwise set aside to upgrade your rigs? The bitcoin bubble and bust cycles tend to ruin miners. I keep my GPU scrypt rigs leased out for bitcoin on LeaseRigs. I will not sell the cards, I just migrate the mining algorithm away from ASICs. Ok, I sort of get your chain of reasoning but I think it is faulty. Its not so much about where the purchasing power came from, but to me rather how it is spent. For example dollar bills can be literally burned. That is a form of useless spending. Or dollar bills can be used to buy bitcoins. That is better in my opinion, regardless of how much coal was consumed to create those dollars in the first place. And that is all I have to say on this until the code to be written can speak for itself. Great start in your role as chartist. Plus it is much more fun to chart a breakout. Finally we had a week in which the saying "this week is critical" actually held true. The answer is Yes. But I do not follow your argument. A better response from me will have to await the availability of code to test.
And the rally is looking better hour by hour. Here is the 3-day resolution chart from Bitstamp that shows the penetration of the resistance trendline that I drew back to the November 2013 peak.I suppose that fiat holders waiting for prices to go even lower are buying back in a panic now. This happened to me last summer and I vowed never again. I am going to the the Bitcoin ATM to buy my daily fractional bitcoin. Comments from the Bitcoin core developers mail list . . .Referring to the subsidy for miners as "wasting it on miners" isn't going to garner you much favor. I subsequently removed the word "waste" from the paper and substituted "effort" where needed. Thanks Andrew for your thoughtful comments. I will keep them in mind as I devise the system test plan, that in turn guides the code to be written.I will attempt to orchestrate public test scenarios that include the bad things you describe, and show whether the system works or not. If the system works, then indeed proof-of-work will be shown to be a wasteful Bitcoin design. If the system handles various byzantine faults and misbehavior, then the algorithm's adopted from Nick Szabo and others I reference will manifestly demonstrate a solution to what up to now has not been solved in Bitcoin.As the tests proceed next year, I hope first that the simple tests work, and second that you and others propose more difficult challenges. Sorry - that statement is no longer operative. I love Java but after a month of study I realize your point entirely. Everything related to bitcoin core will be C++. There will be no reference pool software, because there are no mining pools in the final design. I will use python to needed testing tools, beyond what has been already contributed to bitcoin at GitHub. This rally is looking more like a real breakout above the resistance trendline that goes back to the November 2013 peak. When I say faster, I mean the typical customer check-out experience at point-of-sale. You verify the payment account at a terminal, swipe a card, and collect the receipt. When I say more certain, I mean to cover the odd case where a bitcoin transaction makes into a block after a certain delay, or the less likely, but worse case when the transaction never gets into a block. The bitcoin network forwards transactions on a best effort basis. There are no guarantees that the transaction will be recorded into the blockchain.Proof-of-stake was immediately recognized as a very attractive idea when first proposed back in 2011. It is the main reason why PeerCoin has the 4th highest market cap. Satoshi admitted that his design would eventually force miners to congregate in locations with the least expensive power, as math shows that competing miners will use all the block reward to support their efforts. Yes this is a problem that this design does not handle directly. Rather I consider it the sort of catastrophe that is best dealt with by a network operations center. In the case of current Bitcoin, the lead core developers can issue an alert, and mobilize the community to download a new software version. In constrast, enterprise data networks, especially the incumbent financial data networks have network operations centers that rehearse detection of, and recovery from such faults.This design provides funding for such a center, run in a decentralized manner by autonomous trustless agents to the greatest possible extent. The whitepaper is in its final draft. There is no working code yet so the ideas are half-baked so to speak. I want to code everything minimally by year end 2014. I am used to Java and enterprise style regression tests, automated builds and continuous integration servers. I have forked the GitHub repository for Bitcoin and will keep my branch up to date with the main branch.I like NetBeans for Java, and will first experiment with getting C++ installed there. My development box is Ubuntu and I also run a local Ubuntu server. What is significant about the price jump is that it went through the resistance trendline. Every single previous price jump since the November 2013 peak has failed to do so. This is the first one. If it simply goes back down to 430 or so, then who cares. But if the Bitstamp price can stay above the trendline for a significant period of time - that is important. According to my logistic model, prices need to climb almost $10 daily to stay parallel to the long term up trend. This could be the long awaited breakout. 6 hour resolution on Bitstamp. Another week or so above the resistance trendline would be good. Huobi is penetrating the resistance trendline drawn from the November 2013 peak with good volume. I would like this to continue into next week - going sideways is enough. The number of transactions excluding popular (gambling dust) addresses chart continues to rally. This could be a confirmation that the bottom of the November 2013 bubble collapse is behind us. The last few months of this data series may now be impacted by the purported increasing portion of economic bitcoin transactions that are occurring off the blockchain, e.g. as immediate exchanges of value between Coinbase accounts. The sideways sort of rally on Huobi is about to touch the resistance trendline drawn from the November peak. Every other time this year the price could not convincingly penetrate that trendline. Note also the declining volume.Is this time different?Log chart at 3 day resolution . . . Thanks. I added 8 hours to compensate for the 4 hour outage. There was a power failure that took down this rig and SS1 - and they did not automatically reset when the power was restored, as they should have. This happened while I was asleep. When I awoke and checked the rigs, I manually reset them.In the months I have been leasing the rigs this sort of outage has happened perhaps twice for each rig. Very sorry, and thanks for helping my rigs become the most-rented on LeaseRig. 1. Bitcoin achieves efficient trusted payment between pseudoanonymous peers without the need for a trusted third party. Because the non-Bitcoin economy is greatly burdened by rent-seeking trusted third parties, e.g. banks, Bitcoin has great disruptive potential that is drawing substantial venture capital and entrepreneurs. The payment mechanism is a public ledger and programmable money. Bitcoin is a extendable technology platform - analogous to the Internet.2. Bitcoin provides a deflationary store of value because a maximum 21 million bitcoins will ever be created. The substitution of bitcoin for fiat will substitute the virtue of savings/prudent spending for the vice of dis-saving/immediate indulgence. Bitcoin as currency will profoundly impact on the world's economy and culture, e.g. no more ruinous boom and bust credit cycles. Not analogous to the Internet. I would guess the opposite. 2014 may be more like 2012 because 2011 was the great bubble, and 2013 had two bubbles. I suppose a bubble this summer and then a drop back to $3000 through year end. The model value for May 12, is $1259 and the recorded price of $442.5 is a record -.454 Log10 units below the trend. That is my appraisal of the current situation too. The moving average of adjusted quantity of bitcoin transactions is on track to surpass an April peak this week. To me this indicates that the long term downtrend in the price series from last November may indeed break within the next four weeks on Bitstamp, and perhaps in two weeks on Huobi. The logistic model is here . . .https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0ArD8rjI3DD1WdFIzNDFMeEhVSzhwcEVXZDVzdVpGU2chttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Logistic_functionaliro38's model? Regarding trading bots and systems for Bitcoin, I am very much hopeful that Chinese exchanges while expanding outside the mainland, bring with them the high volume and good order depth that resulted from their competitive policies of zero-fee trading.I would like to see OKCoin or Huobi host the BTC/USD currency pair with zero fees. It pains me to add up the round trip commissions that I paid Mt. Gox. I wrote a Mt.Gox bot but never deployed it. Market making bots, e.g. Volume Weighted Average Price algorithm, use realtime technical indicators to make frequent trades near the spread. Exchange commissions make operating such bots unprofitable.
Indeed. SlipperySlope was my then-so-clever handle at the peak oil blog The Oil Drum, which I carried over here back in 2011. On Reddit I am frugal-guy. The SlipperySlope user name here has no semantic relationship to Bitcoin.-Stephen Reed Thanks for that! Those alpha Captchas were hard.I see that many former Scrypt providers have migrated to X11. Is it worth the switch? Could you elaborate with some justification? I concede in advance that bitcoin price series have been difficult to forecast, yet clear patterns appear in the history. Here is the 2-year log chart of the number of transactions excluding the 100 most popular addresses from Blockchain.info. Appears like a double bottom in the past 30 days - especially if the moving average rises substantially above 60,000 transactions. The 100 most popular addresses are excluded because Satoshi Dice used non-economic dust transactions to indicate results of bets. Assuming, that the bitcoin price is one million USD at full adoption, here is the S-Curve from my model. Note that the previous bubbles are not detectable on the linear chart because we are far away from full adoption . . . The Log10 deviation from trend was indeed inspired by rpietila, but the logistic, i.e. S-Curve trendline is my own hand-fit as of November 11, 2013. The value of -0.45 for May 6, 2013 is the lowest that was ever calculated by my model. I bought some fractional coin at my local ATM yesterday and will do so every weekday this month, as I did last month. The Whitepaper Final DraftBitcoin Cooperative Proof-of-Stake Log10 delta from the trend . . . Adjusted number of transactions, as reported by Blockchain.info . . . May 5, 2014 UpdateThe November 2013 bubble continues to collapse, as apparent from these updated price charts. Because of the close fit provided by the Metcalfe Law relationship between the number of transactions and the historical price series, I have also included the corresponding chart that shows a two month downtrend in the number of transactions.The logistic model calculates the trend price today at $1,187. Accordingly, today's price of $428 is a relative bargain. April 10 at $340 is the lowest price reached after the November peak at $1163. The downtrend has not yet been broken.Here is the updated logistic model presented in Log10 form . . . Right on that!In the great bubble of June 2011 some of us were waiting  for the bubble to collapse all the  way back to  $1. The price had fallen for a while from  $32 and stuck at $17 and then $15. When it fell through $10 we thought oh well cheap coins but they may get cheaper. I recovered what ever losses I had in coins by buying back at $6. Then we waited while prices went lower and lower. $2 was the bottom only for a short time. Those waiting for $1 got left behind. Good to be in coins and not get left behind.I made a great mistake in the April 2013 bubble collapse not really paying attention to Risto like I should have. I wanted that bubble to be like the great bubble and for prices to go back down  to $40 from the peak at $266. Risto said that demand from his precious metals customers was very strong and was predicting much  higher prices by year end 2013. I  got left behind on the drop down to $65 when I was in dollars instead of coins. I hated that feeling.Now I stay in coins and buy more at bargain prices. It feels good to buy. I will trade the next peak, but not the collapse. Do you think that the April low at $338 was the bottom for this bubble? From the Wiki. Although based upon the number of blocks, it is effectively a calendar schedule too, because the system attempts to average 10 minutes per block. The Hard ForkCopied from the poll thread . . .The Bitcoin brand is not an enforced trademark and the core developers have a policy of neutrality with regard to controversy. My project, to be deployed at the beginning of 2016 after a year of public testing and scrutiny, will use the then-current blockchain as the initial distribution. The new version will exchange transactions with the old version on the existing network. Both versions will reject any transactions tainted by rewards created by the other version after the hard-fork date.I need at least a three to one advantage with regard to peer full nodes on my version. For proof-of-stake to work I need the cooperation of the largest holders. I need the cooperation of transactors such as third-party wallet providers, hosted wallet providers, and nearly all the major exchanges. One or more transitional SHA-256 multipools will provide untainted bitcoin for its participating ASIC miners. During the year of testing, the project open source will be provided to at least one altcoin already in circulation.There will be three prices for bitcoin after the hard-fork. The main price will be for untainted coins mined before the hard-fork. The second price will be for coins tainted by proof-of-work rewards issued after the hard-fork. The third price will be for coins tainted by proof-of-stake rewards issued after the hard-fork. I expect selling pressure on the tainted proof-of-work coins as ASIC miners necessarily must sell to buy equipment and purchase power.The new version will be have the features, to attract the needed majority . . . immediate transaction acknowledgment for incorporation into the blockchain, which is checkpointed every 10 minutes following the new blockmining rewards distributed via pools in proportion to provided stakestransactions will be included that have lower fees than present and no-fee transactions will be much more likely to be acceptedonly one version of the blockchain exists, has broad consensus approval and is widely replicatednetwork cryptographic audit trailThe consensus of users, as designed by Satoshi, will pick the winner. Unless the odds beforehand are very much in this project's favor, the hard-fork will not occur as fragmentation of the system hurts us all. Yet the wastefulness of the current system compels a timely solution. The Bitcoin brand is not an enforced trademark and the core developers have a policy of neutrality with regard to controversy. My project, to be deployed at the beginning of 2016 after a year of public testing and scrutiny, will use the then-current blockchain as the initial distribution. The new version will exchange transactions with the old version on the existing network. Both versions will reject any transactions tainted by rewards created by the other version after the hard-fork date.I need at least a three to one advantage with regard to peer full nodes on my version. For proof-of-stake to work I need the cooperation of the largest holders. I need the cooperation of transactors such as third-party wallet providers, hosted wallet providers, and nearly all the major exchanges. One or more transitional SHA-256 multipools will provide untainted bitcoin for its participating ASIC miners. During the year of testing, the project open source will be provided to at least one altcoin already in circulation.There will be three prices for bitcoin after the hard-fork. The main price will be for untainted coins mined before the hard-fork. The second price will be for coins tainted by proof-of-work rewards issued after the hard-fork. The third price will be for coins tainted by proof-of-stake rewards issued after the hard-fork. I expect selling pressure on the tainted proof-of-work coins as ASIC miners necessarily must sell to buy equipment and purchase power.The new version will be have the features, to attract the needed majority . . . immediate transaction acknowledgment for incorporation into the blockchain, which is checkpointed every 10 minutes following the new blockmining rewards distributed via pools in proportion to provided stakestransactions will be included that have lower fees than present and no-fee transactions will be much more likely to be acceptedonly one version of the blockchain exists, has broad consensus approval and is widely replicatednetwork cryptographic audit trailThe consensus of users, as designed by Satoshi, will pick the winner. Unless the odds beforehand are very much in this project's favor, the hard-fork will not occur as fragmentation of the system hurts us all. Yet the wastefulness of the current system compels a timely solution.A project whitepaper is the first step to gaining the required expert support, and I am gathering my thoughts in preparation for writing it.Bitcoin Proof-of-Stake I am buying small amounts almost every workday. By this weekend, the current rally on Huobi 6-hour resolution chart could once again get close to the long term resistance trendline. I drew the line it so that it was penetrated on April 16, but on the Bitstamp price chart that same line held all the back to the November peak. Many chartists are thinking it will breakout in May. Another goodie from the original proof-of-stake thread, in which Mike Hearn talks about forking the blockchain and running experiments. That is my plan for 2015. Here is the earliest reference that I could find to proof-of-stake, using the search tool of this forum. Care to comment here? My own first thought is that because non-standard transactions do not become part of the permanent record, I would seek a different means of recording the vote . . . I think it is simply engaging our wits to persuade each other and to learn. When I read what you write, I think about it, and maybe a few hours later, I think some more.And when I read Peter_R's comments, I did not exactly laugh out loud, rather I grunted. I studied the book he mentioned before the date of the title. It was then, and remains to this day, a devastating critique of totalitarianism and linguistic legerdemain. Each of those phrases I had forgotten four decades ago - and he brought them back to life.
The quality of writing on this thread amazes me. Although I recognized technical triangles in daily stock charts for decades, it was not until I actually watched realtime bitcoin tick by tick trades with a revealed order book, that I realized why they happen. It is exactly as you say. The dampened oscillations that frequently characterize bitcoin price charts at disparate time resolutions result from price discovery converging towards the trader's consensus. It now appears that adjusted transaction volume is headed down over the last two days, lagging the price movement by about three days . . . My Bitcoin Proof-of-Stake project could provide 2 second or less transaction acceptance using a single temporary mint. The Satoshi Social ContractBitcoin core developers speak of the Satoshi Social Contract as those features of Bitcoin that have been promised by Satoshi, and upon which the integrity of Bitcoin rests. For example, releasing a new version of the Bitcoin Core client that increases the upper limit of mined coins breaks the social contract between the core developers and bitcoin using public.In this project, proof-of-work will be replaced by proof-of-stake, and a pure decentralized peer-to-peer asynchronous mesh network will be replaced by a hierarchical peer-to-peer synchronous network. To what degree of severity, does this project break Satoshi's promises, and can the result be called Bitcoin despite claimed advantages?---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Here are the notable promises extracted from the defining whitepaper Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System by Satoshi Nakamoto.From the Abstract . . .*   Bitcoin is a purely peer-to-peer version of electronic cash that allows online payments to be sent directly from one party to another without going through a financial institution. Retained as-is.*   The Bitcoin network timestamps transactions by hashing them into an ongoing chain of hash-based proof-of-work, forming a record that cannot be changed without redoing the proof-of-work.  The data structure is retained with a zero-difficulty proof-of-work.*   Bitcoin messages are broadcast on a best effort basis, and nodes can leave and rejoin the network at will, accepting the longest proof-of-work chain as proof of what happened while they were gone. Bitcoin messages are routed along fault-tolerant paths from the originating peer to a certain peer having the role of temporary mint, which echos each received transaction back to the network as instant acknowledgment that it will be included according to order received in the ongoing record chain. From section 1. Introduction . . .*   Bitcoin is an electronic payment system based upon cryptographic proof instead of trust, allowing any two willing parties to transact directly with each other without the need for a trusted third party.Retained as-is.*   Transactions that are computationally impractical to reverse would protect sellers from fraud, and routine escrow mechanisms protect buyers. Mechanism changed - to be explained.*   Bitcoin is a solution to the double-spending problem using a peer-to-peer distributed timestamp server to generate computational proof of the chronological order of transactions. Retained as-is.*   The system is secure as long as honest nodes collectively control more CPU power than any cooperating group of attacker nodes. Mechanism changed - to be explained.From section 2. Transactions . . .*   Bitcoin defines an electronic coin as a chain of digital signatures. A payee can verify the signature of a received transaction by computing the transaction payer's digital signature and the payer's public key. Retained as-is.*   [Because the private key is required by the payer to sign the transaction, if the private key is lost, then the transaction cannot be performed.] Retained as-is.*   Bitcoin transactions are publicly announced. Retained as-is.*   In the event of multiple transactions from the same address, the earliest issued transactions counts, and subsequent others are dropped. Retained as-is.*   Bitcoin is a system whereby the participants agree on a single history of the order in which transactions were received. Retained as-is.*   The payee has proof that at the time of each transaction, the majority of nodes agreed it was the first received. Retained as-is.From section 3. Timestamp Server . . .*   Transaction are gathered into blocks. Retained as-is.*   The blockchain consists of timestamped blocks whose embedded hash includes the hash of the previous timestamped block, forming a chain. Retained as-is.From section 4. Proof-of-Work . . .*   The block contains a SHA-256 hash having a certain number of leading binary zeros, determined by increment a number-used-once until a value is found that gives the block's hash the required zero bits. Retained as-is for backwards compatibility, but the zero-difficulty means the effort is trivial.*   Proof-of-work difficulty is determined by a moving average targeting an average number blocks per hour. Changed - the difficulty is always one, which is the lowest value.From section 5. Network . . . Changed - to be explained.*   The steps to run the network are as follows:New transactions are broadcast to all nodes.Each node collects new transactions into a block.Each node works on finding a proof-of-work [with specified difficulty] for its blockWhen a node finds a proof, it broadcasts the block to all nodes.Nodes accept the block only if all transactions in are valid and not already spent.Nodes express their acceptance of the block by working on creating the next block in the chain using hash of the accepted block as the previous hash.*   Nodes always consider the longest chain to be the correct one.*   Nodes receiving two different version of the next block, work on the first version received, but abandon that branch if a longer chain is received from any peer node. *   Transactions reaching many nodes have a high probability of being included in a block.*   Nodes missing a broadcast block may subsequently know to ask for it by number when the next block is received the gap recognized.From section 6. Incentive . . .*   The first transaction in a block is a special transaction that starts a new coin owned by the creator of the block. Retained as-is.*   The new coin awarded to the block creator is the only way to initially distribute coins into circulation.  Retained as-is.*   The transaction fee is equal to the transaction's input value minus its output value and is added to the block reward received by the block creator. Retained as-is.*   The incentive may help encourage nodes to stay honest.  Retained as-is.From section 7. Reclaiming Disk Space . . .*   Transactions are stored within the block in the configuration of a Merkle Tree, with only the root included in the block's hash. Retained as-is.*   Once the latest transactions in a coin is buried under enough blocks, the spent transactions before it can be discarded to save disk space. Retained as-is.From section 8. Simplified Payment Verification . . .*   It is possible to verify payments without running a full node. Retained as-is.*   Verification is performed by querying network full nodes until the SPV node probably has the longest chain of block headers. The transaction timestamp indicates which chronologically ordered block must contain the transaction. The SPV node requests that block's Merkle branch and determines the presence of the transaction to be verified. Retained as-is.*   The number of following blocks is a measure of confidence that the chain will not be reverted back to before the transaction was accepted into its block. Changed - to be explained.*   A SPV node is more vulnerable to attack as it depends upon the honesty of its connected full nodes. Retained as-is.From section 9. Combining and Splitting Value . . .*   To allow value to split and combined, transactions contain multiple inputs and outputs.  Retained as-is.*   [The inputs must be unspent to create a valid transaction. When the transaction is accepted by the network, its inputs are regarded as spent, and its outputs are regarded as unspent in the absence of a subsequent transaction having that coin as an input.] Retained as-is.*   Despite the recursive chain of dependency on a transaction's inputs, there is never the need to extract a complete standalone copy of a transaction's history. Retained as-is.From section 10. Privacy . . .*   Privacy can be maintained by keeping public keys anonymous. Retained as-is.*   New public / private key pairs may be used by the receiver of each transaction to keep them from being linked to common owner. Retained as-is.*   Multiple inputs to transactions indicate common ownership of the inputs due to the necessity of the owner signing each of them with private key corresponding to the input's contained public key. Retained as-is.From section 11. Calculations . . .*   Honest nodes do not accept an invalid transaction as payment. Retained as-is.*   Honest nodes do not accept a block containing an invalid transaction. Retained as-is.*   An attack is possible in which the attacker changes one of his own transactions to take back the money he recently spent. Changed - to be explained.*   In order for the double spend attack to work, the attacker must control a majority of the full node connections, i.e. the 51% attack.  Changed - to be explained.From section 12. Conclusions . . .*   Nodes work all at once with little coordination. Changed - to be explained.*   Nodes do not need to be identified, since messages are not routed to any particular place and only need to be delivered on a best-effort basis. Changed - to be explained.*   Generating full Nodes vote with their hashing power expressing their acceptance of valid blocks by working on them at will, and rejecting invalid blocks by refusing to work on them. Changed - to be explained.*   Any needed rules and incentives can be enforced with this consensus mechanism. Retained as-is.From the released Bitcoin Core program, as described by Wiki: Controlled supply . . .*   The rate of block creation is approximately constant over time: 6 per hour. Retained as-is.*   The number of Bitcoins generated per block is set to decrease geometrically, with a 50% reduction every 4 years. Retained as-is.*   the number of Bitcoins in existence will never exceed 21 million. Retained as-is.From Satoshi's comment in Bitcoin 0.3.2 released*    There are checkpoints to prevent very probably needless verification of the oldest portions of the blockchain. Changed - to be explained. mBTC pronounced embee. Easy to say in any tongue. I am very busy at the moment, but I will enter this commendable wisdom of crowds contest when I get the time. Cheers! I believe that a good time to revisit both models, beyond keeping them up-to-date, would be somewhere near the bottom of the next bubble. Perhaps in the late fall. By then we should see more adoption for ordinary transactions and perhaps a lesser proportion involving an exchange. Likewise with the worldwide growth of the Bitcoin Economy there will be more opportunity for small world effects to disconnect the Metcalfe Law model from its up-to-now very close fit to prices. Thanks so much! My new project needs this level of scrutiny or it will fail . . . Bitcoin Proof-of-Stake As a child I think that I understood what frugality, savings and compound interest meant over the long remainder of my life. Frugality is against human nature; perhaps evolution favors one who would eat today and conceive tomorrow.I am OK with the current wealth distribution. As I say, capital flows to its wisest custodian. And perhaps Bill Gates is a wiser custodian for his vast estate than would be millions of other Americans should that estate be leveled. I am postponing my artificial general intelligence R&D for the duration of the Bitcoin proof-of-stake project, which should succeed or fail in 2016.  I believe in the concept of the Technological Singularity, and indeed Bitcoin is a milestone along that path.J. Storrs Hall says it all, without mentioning Bitcoin, in . . .“The Age of Moral Machines”: an interview with J Storrs Hall on nanotech, AI and the Singularity.He, and I too, think of the Singularity as giving us all the opportunity to take early retirement. I believe that capital flows to its wisest custodian, and with the advent of AGI, intelligent computers will control capital far beyond today's algorithmic trading. When the constraint of limited human labor is removed from a conventional model of economic growth, the result is super-exponential. We cannot really foresee the trajectory beyond - hence the notion of Singularity. How the fruits of machine labor get distributed to we humans is a progressive politician's dream. The drawbacks of the Welfare State are removed if no person must be motivated to work. The issues are mainly that we, being human, desire some sort of meaningful work. What might that work be? I would not care to discuss the general technological future any further because I must focus instead on a detailed and convincing whitepaper for Bitcoin proof-of-stake. I believe that the triumph of capitalism is complete. World events over the past few decades and the ebb and flow of welfare-state governments have precluded the mass confiscation of Bitcoin for economic leveling and such. I do expect small percentage rate wealth taxes, which are already applicable in certain jurisdictions, as are estate taxes which also apply to bitcoin.My intuition is that as bitcoin continues its 10x average annual price appreciation, then large holders will tend to save, and will only spend on necessities and the most certain of investments. Take the example of Bill Gates who, while CEO of Microsoft, began setting aside a stash of cash equal to the company's annual sales. This tactic has been widely copied. Perhaps $1 trillion USD is held as a cash safety net by large enterprises worldwide. Likewise sovereign wealth funds are saved for necessary and very deserving possible future expenses. Do you generally hold to the intrinsic value argument, that is ironically used against bitcoin by its detractors? Some say that digital virtual currencies have uncertain value because they cannot be used for anything else, e.g. precious metals have a use as jewelry. Fiat currencies have a non-intrinsic value as legal tender for the payment of taxes.Theory of money allows for the absence of intrinsic value insofar as the particular currency is widely accepted as having value. I argue that an electronic cash, peer-to-peer payment system, operating without trusted intermediaries has value due to its comparative utility - even without being legal tender anywhere yet. Permit me to add that banks create credit that fuels the boom and bust cycles that cause the misallocation of economic resources. In a possible Bitcoin world, great wealth, perhaps inconceivably great, is available for spending on good causes without the need to borrow. Satoshi believed, as do I, that miners by competing with each other invest in equipment and power equal to the value of the mining reward. He said . . .The cost of proof-of-work is not merely equal to the power used, it is indeed equal to the mining rewards - $557,358,000 annually at today's quoted price. I concede that this is a lower figure than the 10% of the world's economy consumed by the financial sector, yet it is a waste because Satoshi could not conceive of proof-of-stake, nor did he debate the concept. The existing idea of hashing proof-of-work instead was adopted for Bitcoin. Transitional SHA-256 Mining MultipoolThanks for the idea about hashing power.This project will create, or otherwise facilitate, a transitional SHA-256 multipool which pays its participating SHA-256 ASIC hashers in bitcoins free from the taint of inputs dependent upon rewards created by ASIC miners after the fork. At launch of this project, the Bitcoin Network will regrettably split to some degree as bitcoins mined by the new proof-of-stake version cannot be spent by proof-of-work clients and vice versa. A condition of the launch is that the number of full nodes in the proof-of-stake version greatly outnumber their counterparts in the proof-of-work version, in particular that the major bitcoin exchanges and online wallets support the proof-of-stake version. The ASIC miners who continue to operate their rigs can obtain new-version bitcoins by joining this new multipool, which in addition to mining proof-of-work version Bitcoin, will also mine altcoins sharing the SHA-256 algorithm. Very interesting. Learning from BlackCoin experience,  upon launch of the Bitcoin Proof-of-Stake project, an old version pool is launched which pays participating old-version ASIC miners new-version bitcoin via automated transactions at an exchange. The old bitcoin mined at the pool is sold for new bitcoin - depressing the price of the old and lifting the price of the new.Bitcoin Proof-of-Stake projectTransitional SHA-256 Mining Pool I am studying Satoshi's paper in order to extract the terms of the social contract. Then I will author a project whitepaper to describe Bitcoin Proof-of-Stake in an academic format suitable for review. What I have thought about so far assumes well-behaving and bug-free agents operating in an ideal network - abstracted from the real network used by Bitcoin today. The whitepaper must allow for misbehaving and buggy agents operating in a possibly broken network. The new system must be shown to work without any trusted agents. The more convincing math that is in the paper - the better. The developer consensus can be moved by logic and math.The year 2016 is the last year for awarding 1,314,000 block reward bitcoins, then the block reward halves for the subsequent four years. I would tentatively set January 1, 2016 as the project launch date, because the reallocation of the block rewards is the enticement for switching transactors and holders over to the new version. I will revise a small portion of the Bitcoin Core C++ source code, and create a reference pool Java software program before the end of 2014, and then use all of 2015 for public testing in a sandboxed Bitcoin testnet. At least one altcoin, e.g. bytecoin, could be forked by others to test proof-of-stake in the wild in 2015.A controversy over the future of Bitcoin can only hurt its price and utility. All further actions of this project must be non-confrontational to the maximum degree.  By this definition, this project is intended to be a fork, indeed what bitcoin core developers call a hard fork. Deal. And thank you so much.
Your issue is noted, and thanks for bringing it up. My code will be open sourced on GitHub, where presently sits a cloned Bitcoin repository . . .https://github.com/StephenLReed/bitcoinMy plan is the keep this branch up-to-date with regard to released versions of the main branch.My ideas about reward distribution change almost every day. For example today I am mulling simply allocating the block rewards, e.g. $500 million this year, to the super-peer pools, and let them compete for acquiring proof-of-stake shares from client full nodes. With the exception of certain full nodes in the P2Pool, existing ASIC miners do not participate in the Bitcoin network. They provide shares of hashing power to their respective pools in return for daily payouts. My pitch for Bitcoin 1.0 would be to the pools who could retain a lot more of the $500 million passing through their hands each year. There are only 12 or so to persuade. There are about 7300 other full nodes that verify the blockchain and have the power to ban other full nodes who misbehave. Either a majority of existing full nodes must migrate to this project's version, or they must somehow be greatly outnumbered by new paid full nodes on the new version. Other powerful entities in the Bitcoin network include the exchanges and payment processors. Nearly all of these must be on board with the new version. I believe that they would be swayed primarily by popular opinion, and to a lesser extent by the possible zero-confirmation, and lower fee transactions, made possible by the single temporary mint. I plan a friendly takeover of the blockchain in some possible future world, where I am effectively invited to do so by Bitcoin experts, media, and the public. There will be no doubt those who get spun out on the old blockchain with the old client. But I simply do not see how they could compete with this project. I want the bitcoin experts to recognize this project as an unimplemented Bitcoin system. That requires passing a very strict test regarding the Satoshi Social Contract. A draft project whitepaper will formally specify how everything is to work. It will no doubt be revised many times, perhaps even after coding and testing reveal glaring errors on my part. Yes, the question posed on the bitcoin-wizards irc channel was . . .I need to work through the math of proof of stake consequences for blockchain forgery. I also have ideas for full nodes performing queries to several of the super-peers who in response give the current hash - similar to how SPV nodes trust the network, and which I now must study. Misbehaving node problemWith a hub and spoke network architecture, what guarantees that information received by the endpoints has not been corrupted by an intermediary? Satoshi solved this problem with proof-of-work embedded into the blockchain which makes forgery difficult.How does proof of stake prevent forgery? Bitcoin Proof-of-stake Super Peer Network DiagramHere is a proposed network diagram for how Bitcoin scales to accommodate all the world's financial transactions plus the numerous additional transactions expected from transaction-bots, e.g. the Internet of Things. One of the illustrated super-peers is the temporary mint that creates the new block on the blockchain that contains all the new transactions that efficiently flow inbound from wallets at the spoke endpoints. Transactions reach the mint in at most 3 hops. New blocks efficiently flow in the opposite direction, from the temporary mint super peer out to the full nodes that verify and replicate the blockchain.Unlike the current Bitcoin network, all connections are SSL/TLS encrypted with X.509 authentication at both endpoints. X.509 certificate management has not yet been designed. Satoshi's network protocol does not need encryption to protect the contents, yet why let anyone even count transactions before they reach the public blockchain?Note that I have not yet designed the procedure to re-join two such networks after a catastrophic separation - the split brain problem. After-the-fact Distributed Consensus and RepairI proposed the super-peer, round-robin mint, as a solution to the decentralized consensus problem. Thoughtful critics have questioned the central power of the temporary mint. My initial response was to use a weak analogy with the mining pool situation today in which miners judge which pool is most honest. I think that response satisfactorily covers mining rewards, but says nothing about the risk under my scheme that the temporary mint could misbehave constructing the new block - then what?I am now revisiting distributed consensus using the notion of checkpoint. Immediately after the new block is created by the temporary mint, there is one chance for collective malfeasance detection and repair. In my scheme, there are 100 well-compensated super peers having at least a total of 8,000 compensated full nodes - the current number - as direct clients. I task each of these with validating the performance of the temporary mint in the 10 minutes before the mint responsibility gets passed along to the next super peer.Correct block creation should be easy to verify. Only a single new block may be added to the blockchain. All the transactions in the new block have been circulated around the super peer ring. They are well interconnected, so none get lost. The audit trail provided by the temporary mint explains how its algorithm selected or did not select particular transactions. Likewise the audit trail, available for algorithmic inspection, lists the aggregate stake-shares submitted by the temporary mint for its direct client full-nodes, as well as the aggregate stake-shares submitted by each of the super peers. The distributed block reward portions to each super peer can be verified. I mean to ensure that every aspect of the temporary mint's behavior provides justification that is subject to algorithmic verification by thousands of peers.As a first thought, I suppose that a quorum of super peers and their respective full-node clients verify the actions of the temporary mint. If a certain number of them invalidate the actions of the temporary mint, then the new block is reverted in the same manner as current full nodes deal with a wrong fork. The reverted transactions join the set of those awaiting incorporation into a new block, and the next temporary peer recreates the new block. The misbehaving peer is algorithmically penalized, to an extent not yet designed.I dub this idea "after-the-fact distributed consensus and repair", provided that it has not already been invented by one of the bright minds around here. Could you suggest some web pages, documents or discussion threads here that I should study?I am starting here . . . What are checkpoints in bitcoin code? and a critque . . .Bitcoin code has checkpoints, controlled by centralized small group of people.[update]OK, I read a few posts and instantly got it. The Bitcoin Core code has blockchain data information encoded into it as constants, to prevent the full node from processing purported forks from before a developer-consensus date where those developers believe that the blockchain is immutable. This the sort of software engineering pragmatism that skirts the edge of the Satoshi Social Contract and one can understand the idealistic debate around it. That empty debate is a precedent for what I need to do. The social contract is about certain unchangeable aspects of Satoshi's design. I believe that checkpoints are a great example of how the social contract is maintained while bowing to practical software engineering realities.  I, for one, am not critiquing other proof-of-stake implementations. The defense of NXT and PPC is up to their respective supporters, which can happen here as we all can learn from the debate.The super-peer network I've proposed together with a round-robin single mint, is very attractive from a software engineering point of view. Namely 2 hops from transaction origination to blockchain. Only one confirmation is required. No redundant work. No orphans, No forks. Highly scalable with a high performance backbone which is a good thing because transaction growth is 3.2x annually.Questions are focused on the super peers and the sorts of things that can go wrong with them. Answering these questions is my focus at the moment. Personal communication with andytoshi . . .I will ponder your questions a bit. My solution necessitates centralization in order to avoid the distributed consensus problem. I suppose that with a sufficient audit trail the other super peers and perhaps any validating full node can detect misbehavior after the fact. There is a degree of human trust in today's network. Miners trust pools to fairly deliver the corresponding rewards. Almost all the rewards are distributed in this manner. I argue that the algorithmic portion of the social contract already accommodates human trust. I make it no worse I think. This delegation scheme is close I think to how the existing Bitcoin network actually creates coins. A mere dozen or so greatly centralized entities - the pools - create nearly all the coins. I rely on people's judgement to select primary and backup pools because that works today. My reference pool implementation will publicly log, in a realtime manner, all the operation details for audit by anyone. Anyone can check the calculations of reward distribution and why-or-why-not particular new transactions were incorporated into the block.The super peer network, and round robin single mint, are indeed centralized - but no more I argue than the current system. Experts say that the distributed consensus problem prevents proof-of-stake from ever working. Rather than solve this problem that has stumped better minds than mine, I remove the distributed part. This stretches the Satoshi Social Contract but does not break it I argue, when compared to the pros and cons of the current system.Here is how I think about the centralization scheme of this project. Could it defend itself against a particular adversarial legal jurisdiction? Yes, because the pools can be located anywhere in the world. If one pool is taken down or subjected to a DDoS attack, the super peer Chord ring automatically heals, and the disconnected full node clients automatically connect to the prearranged backup pool. At this point I believe Satoshi's fears of government ban or reprisal are overblown, yet they are still possible. What is more likely to attack Bitcoin centralization are patent trolls emboldened by short sighted notions of software intellectual property protection and greedy for the large sums of money flowing now through the network. Suppose my code infringes on someone's patent claims. I am not afraid. Operators of pools and full-nodes have some degree of anonymity and can move around to avoid the trolls. There is a need to continue the block reward schedule to preserve the Satoshi Social Contract. The value of bitcoin depends on our belief that what we bought into will not change, especially that it will not get worse. Getting rid of wasteful proof-of-work, which by trend grows to $5 billion sometime in 2015, is the main thing. Satoshi created the notion of block rewards to motivate miners. In this project, the need for miners to provide wasted work is removed. The motivation to maintain the integrity of the network and blockchain is moved directly to pools who today create new blocks and to their client full nodes that validate and replicate the blockchain.The Bitcoin network I propose in this project should be secured to financial enterprise class security and performance at a far lower expense than what the existing network is doing buying mining rigs that will certainly be junk in two years and for power. But what to do with the surplus rewards? I say grant them because Satoshi created a  block reward schedule that this project is held to. I welcome your ideas on how to distribute the awards, in addition to ideas that I have. The Bitcoin Proof-of-Stake project thread is https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=584719.msg6397403#msg6397403 . A descriptive post there is . . . https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=584719.msg6415632#msg6415632 . Thanks for clarifying your point. Thanks for an idea how to automate it. I was thinking that clients enroll with a pool, and possibly change to a different pool, manually using their judgement as is the case today with regard to miners and their pools. Perhaps this aspect of trustworthiness does not have to be defined algorithmically. I believe you mean https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=354573.msg3793765#msg3793765, which is the first thread I could find on the topic. I will study the whitepaper. Thanks for the tip. I am open to all improvements. Well, the first thought that comes to mind is to distribute the open source code, in the Java language, for operating a compliant pool. I would create a reference pool if I cannot sign on at least one existing Bitcoin mining pool. New pools would join the super-peer network In the same manner that Bitcoin Core clients connect to the existing network via a built-in set of IP addresses - I think,Bitcoin pools, and altcoin pools today are advertised by their promoters, and joined by clients on the basis of human judgement. I would retain that working aspect of the status quo. Somehow they form up and compete. To be fair, pools could have other pools as clients without losing the super-peer topology benefits.The nodes are mining pools that, like today, advertise and solicit clients. The 100 is arbitrary. It is a simple a round number larger than the effective number of nodes that control bitcoin mining today. Slightly more decentralized than today. The idea is to have a high bandwidth Bitcoin network backbone to handle every one of the worlds financial transactions plus all the machine-to-machine transactions coming with the Internet-of-things. Coin age as I describe it above is a to-myself transaction. If this is not what you mean, then please clarify. A Bitcoin Super-Peer NetworkAndytoshi, a participant in the bitcoin developers mail list advised me to solve the problem of distributed consensus. While thinking about this problem, advice given to me by others in this forum came to mind. I will attempt to solve Bitcoin proof-of-stake by solving a simpler and larger problem, revisiting the thoughts of Satoshi, in light of how Bitcoin has come to operate.Satoshi quit commenting on this forum about the time that slush started the first mining pool. Satoshi's defining paper had no provision for pools, yet in the recent four-day period, a mere 68 public and private pools mined all the bitcoin . . ..https://blockchain.info/pools?timespan=4days. . . out of a total 7,650 full nodes, and 2.6 million online wallets reported by Blockchain.info and Coinbase.https://getaddr.bitnodes.io/Today's Bitcoin network is different than what Satoshi may have envisioned in his defining paper, but it works. I believe that the Satoshi Social Contract, between developers and users, accommodates a variety of network topologies and responsibilities. To overcome the problem of how to provide distributed consensus about which version of the blockchain is correct, I propose to build a blockchain that does not fork. The coin-creating responsibility is assigned to one agent, rotated round robin every 10 minutes among the 100 largest trustworthy such agents.A super-peer network of 100 or less pools use Chord technology to form a robust ring. A mining-permit token is advanced around the ring every 10 minutes. The pool with the token creates the new block and via solicited proof-of-stake shares, distributes the block creation reward to its clients, and to the other super-peers in the ring in proportion to their reported proof-of-stake shares. The proof-of-stake shares are to-myself transactions with a 10 minute age, in which the transaction amount in bitcoin is input into the reward distribution algorithm executed by the super-peer. Proof-of-stake shares are thus analogous to proof-of-work shares submitted to a pool today by client hashers.Here is a diagram of Chord ring topology. These are the closely connected super-peers - the 100 pools - of the proposed Bitcoin proof-of-stake network  . . .I seek two sorts of critiques, (1) if this does not work then how could it be modified to work? (2) what are the likely attacks? I also want to be sure these ideas are clearly stated.If the idea maybe could work then it has these advantages over the current Bitcoin network, beyond the efficiency argument of proof-of-stake vs. existing money-consuming proof-of-work . . .A single instance of bitcoind is deterministically chosen to create the new block - there are no redundant block creation attempts, no forked blockchains, no orphans and no waste.Internet bandwidth usage is greatly reduced in a topology where client blockchain validating and maintaining full-nodes communicate with a single pool, and potentially with a set of backup pools. High bandwidth and high availability channels between pools reflect the status quo with how Bitcoin works today.Human judgement of pool trustworthiness removes the need to algorithmically provide it - again this is the status quo.Because new transactions can reach a pool in one hop, and reach the pool creating the new block in one more hop, network latency is reduced, potentially allowing a reduction of confirmation times, and reducing the possibility of double-spend versus the current Bitcoin network.The reward distribution algorithm does not have to be strictly in proportion to the offered bitcoin stake, rather it could and should be distributed in part to the super peers in return for substantial bandwidth and data security costs that they incur. Full node operators should receive sufficient reward to accommodate their expenses validating and replicating the blockchain, whose transactions grow at 3.2x annually, far in excess of Moore's Law cost reductions. The remaining large portion of the block creation reward, I propose to distribute in a manner which disproportionately rewards smaller stake holders, and perhaps somehow those wallet-owners not running full-nodes. The manner of distribution should should somehow dispel "the rich get richer".Your thoughts?
I would keep the blockchain as is. The best case for redistribution to add to Satoshi's social contract would be to make permanent the up-to-now unspent coins that Satoshi mined while alpha testing the live chain. Put this up for debate and see if Satoshi surfaces to comment. He could easily have disposed of, or overwritten, the private keys as they were used to create his stash of 980,000 according to http://bitslog.wordpress.com/2013/04/24/satoshi-s-fortune-a-more-accurate-figure/. So sorry . . . https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0ArD8rjI3DD1WdFIzNDFMeEhVSzhwcEVXZDVzdVpGU2c  I created the Bitcoin Proof-of-Stake Project thread . . . https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=584719.msg6397403#msg6397403.Your advice is excellent I believe regarding solving the simplest problem first. The problems to address as viewed by a member of the developers email list . . . [April  13, 2015]On the advice of our diverse set of financial and regulatory attorneys, we are postponing the launch of AI Coin until such time as we have obtained the necessary money services business licenses in 48 States, and BitLicense or equivalent licenses in jurisdictions requiring them. To go forward without those in place would make our business plan a legal risk.[October 22, 2014 - I changed the project name to AI Coin. Drew Hingorani is the co-founder and President, I am CTO]The A.I. Coin project is a multi-year effort to achieve a no-proof-of-work mining implementation in an cryptocurrency that ...Meets or beats the existing proof-of-work implementation with regard to securing the blockchain against attack.Provides sub second response time when acknowledging transactions for certain incorporation into the blockchain, in contrast to Satoshi's Bitcoin which only promises best effort which takes more than a second to reach all nodes and takes minutes on average for the first confirmation.Does not permit double-spending fraud attacks, whereas Satoshi's Bitcoin sometimes does, e.g. the BitUndo service.Meets or beats the existing implementation with regard to no trusted third parties, as Satoshi's Bitcoin is evolving towards hashers' trust of a single, dominant industrial mining pool.Preserves to the greatest possible extent, Satoshi's social contract between developers and users.Specifies how a nomadic mint agent creates new blocks without effort, and allocates block creation rewards to secure the distributed network using conventional data security techniques.Permits the issuance, relay and blockchain storage of microtransactions having 100x lower fees than Satoshi's Bitcoin.Explicitly pays for for the creation, ongoing enhancement, and operation, of the enterprise-class, scalable, secure, and robust networking infrastructure that can accommodate all the world's financial transactions. In contrast, the Satoshi Bitcoin full node network consists of mostly unpaid volunteers.Provides a multi-agent framework upon which human agents and intelligent software agents can be vetted, integrated and paid for skills delivered.Note that the May 2013 whitepaper below describes a hard fork of bitcoin. That cannot possibly happen unless A.I. Coin is successful and subsequently convinces the Bitcoin community that a good alternative exists for the current industrial mining method. Furthermore, the current approach is not conventional proof-of-stake, rather the block rewards are used to pay for network infrastructure, developers and community support, e. g. through institutions such as the Bitcoin Foundation. It appears that there is no need to pay staking dividends to secure the network.Whitepaper: Bitcoin Cooperative Proof-of-Stake Stephen ReedA hard-fork reconfiguration of the peer to peer Bitcoin network is described that substitutes tamper-evident logs and proof-of-stake consensus for proof-of-work consensus. The block creation rewards and transaction fees are reallocated to establish and staff a secure financial data network capable of handling the world’s transactions with sub-second response time. The new system pays dividends to stake-offering bitcoin holders. In contrast to Satoshi Nakamoto’s mesh network consisting of competing peers, this system uses an enterprise class network that is efficient, robust, and scalable, consisting of cooperating peers. The network backbone nodes host trustless nomadic agents. Thousands of distributed full nodes are paid to replicate a singleton blockchain built upon every 10 minutes by a nomadic mint agent whose actions are verified by its peers. This arrangement enables immediate acknowledgment to an issuing node that its transaction has been accepted. Less effort means that subsidized transaction costs will be lower. Network reconfiguration enables the processing of numerous microtransactions. Stake-weighted distributed consensus is achieved when necessary with less than one-half arbitrarily faulty nodes. Important invariants of the Satoshi Social Contract between core developers and users are maintained: The reward schedule, the blockchain format, the fixed number of bitcoins, and the decentralized, trustless protocol  are untouched. The system remains a global distributed database, with additions to the database by consent of the majority, based on a set of transparent rules they follow.GitHub: TexaiCognitiveArchitecturestephenreed@yahoo.comLinkedIn: stephenreedmobile: 1-512-791-7860Descriptive posts . . .A Bitcoin Super-Peer NetworkAfter-the-fact Distributed Consensus and RepairBitcoin Proof-of-stake Super Peer Network DiagramTransitional SHA-256 Mining MultipoolThe Satoshi Social ContractThe Hard ForkBitcoin Proof-of-Stake Node Roles and Responsibilities, from the Whitepaper being writtenCPoS Network ProxyBitcoin Cooperating Agent DiagramBitcoin Cooperating Agent DesignCommunication with the BlackCoin FoundationAdvice on securing a re-engineered Bitcoin networkCPoS To Be Written in the Java programming LanguageCPoS To Be Implemented Using the Texai Cognitive ArchitectureA Blockchain-Based Exchange Between Proof-of-Work (PoW) Bitcoin and Cooperative Proof-of-Stake (CPoS) BitcoinAugust 18, 2014 Status and ThoughtsTexaiCoinSelf-signed X.509 Certificate TransparencyProject Development Approach . . .Migrate the Texai cognitive architecture project to a public GitHub repository.Write software agents to sandbox the Bitcoin Core program - bitcoind, demonstrating the smallest possible network.Write additional software agents to complete the verification of peers, migration of responsibilities, and network operations.Reading List, the current situation . . .Bitcoin open source implementation of P2P currency Satoshi Nakamoto, February 11, 2009Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System Satoshi Nakamoto, 2009Bitcoin Protocol Specification Protocol Version 0.8.6 Krzysztof OkupskiASICs and Decentralization FAQ andytoshiA Treatise on Altcoins Andytoshi, January 9, 2014Anonymous Byzantine Consensus fromModerately-Hard Puzzles: A Model for Bitcoin Andrew Miller, Joseph J. LaViola, Jr.The Proof-of-Work Concept Daniel Krawisz, June 24, 2013What are checkpoints in bitcoin code?Bitcoin Hurdles: the Public Goods Costs of Securing a Decentralized Seigniorage Network which Incentivizes Alternatives and Centralization Tim Swanson, April 9, 2014Learning from Bitcoin’s past to improve its future Tim Swanson, April 27, 2014Satoshi Client Operation: Overview bitrickGlobal Bitcoin Full Nodes DistributionDNS SeedsNetwork Propagation StatisticsDNS Seeds AvailabilityEstimating the number of bitcoin miners Organ OfcortiWiki - ScalabilitySome Thoughts on Bitcoin Dan KaminskyDan Kaminskys thoughts on scalability Mike HearnPSA: The amount of full Bitcoin nodes is dropping. Please consider running a full node.Bitcoin Nodes: How Many is Enough? Jameson LoppWhat Are Bitcoin Nodes and Why Do We Need Them? Daniel Cawrey, May 9,2014An Order-of-Magnitude Estimate of the Relative Sustainability of the Bitcoin Network Hass McCook, June 5, 2014Transactions Withholding Attack AnonyMintThe Sybil Attack John R. DouceurWiki - Common Vulnerabilities and ExposuresWiki - WeaknessesDeanonymisation of clients in Bitcoin P2P network Alex Biryukov, Dmitry Khovratovich, Ivan Pustogarov, May 28, 2014On The Longest Chain Rule and Programmed Self-Destruction of Crypto Currencies Nicolas T. Courtois, May 2, 2014Primecoin: Cryptocurrency with Prime Number Proof-of-Work Sunny King, July 7, 2013CryptoNote v 2.0 Nicolas van Saberhagen, October 17, 2013Fullnode Provision full nodes in a datacenter for $20 per monthOn Mining Vitalik ButerinThe Anatomy of a Money-like Informational Commodity: A Study of Bitcoin [Kindle Edition] Tim Swanson, August 3, 2014 - also available as a free download An Investor's Investigation Into The Mining Statistics Of Bitcoin Alternatives DevtomeThe Math Behind Bitcoin ericrykwalderReading List, suggested improvements to the Bitcoin network . . .Information Propagation in the Bitcoin Network Christian Decker, Roger Wattenhofer, 2013On Bitcoin and Red Balloons Moshe Babaioff, Shahar Dobzinski, Sigal Oren, and Aviv Zohar, June 2012Accelerating Bitcoin’s Transaction Processing, Fast Money Grows on Trees, Not Chains Yonatan Sompolinsky, Aviv Zohar, 2013O(1) Block Propagation Gavin Andresen, August 2014Bitcoin Improvement Proposals GitHubCould Bitcoin Transactions Be 100x Faster? Nicolas T. Courtois, Pinar Emirdag and Daniel A. Nagy, August 2014A Scalability Roadmap Gavin Andresen, October 6 2014Enabling Blockchain Innovations with Pegged Sidechains Adam Back, Matt Corallo, Luke Dashjr, Mark Friedenbach, Gregory Maxwell, Andrew Miller, Andrew Poelstra, Jorge Timón, and Pieter Wuille, October 22, 2014Reading List, the incumbent competition . . .SWIFT Messaging Services Distributed Architecture Phase 1 SWIFT, 2009Pricing made easier For new SWIFT customers SWIFTVisaNet The technology behind Visa VisaInside Visa's Data Center Network Computing, May 19, 2013Digital Currency Deep Dive: Is Bitcoin Cheaper and More Efficient than Traditional Payments? David S. EvansReading List, proof-of-stake . . .Proof of stake instead of proof of work QuantumMechanic, earliest reference - July 10, 2011Proof of Stake ripper234, March 11, 2012Proof of Stake (Bitcoin Wiki)Proof of blockchain fair sharing Bitcoin WikiCrypto-Currency Market CapitalizationsProof of Stake Coin ListWhat Proof of Stake Is And Why It Matters Vitalik Buterin, Bitcoin Magazine, August 26, 2013User:Gmaxwell/alt ideasCan we have a serious, constructively critical, but respectful discussion about Proof-of-Stake and "nothing at stake"?Proof of Stake Andrew Poelstra, May 28, 2014Peercoin WhitepaperDecentralised currencies are probably impossible (but let’s at least make them efficient). Ben Laurie, July 5, 2011Delegated Proof-of-Stake (DPOS) Daniel Larimer April 3, 2014What are the pros and cons of Ripple's consensus as compared with Bitcoin's proof-of-work? David Schwartz, April 25, 2013Video: How Ripple Works - The Consensus ProcessSlasher: A Punitive Proof-of-Stake Algorithm Vitalik ButerinIt will cost you nothing to ”kill” a Proof-of-Stake crypto-currency Nicolas Houy, 2014POS is MORE vulnerable to 51% attacks than POW (even though wiki says the opposite) Reddit /r/BitcoinSerious 2014Proof of Stake Velocity: Building the Social Currency of the Digital Age Larry Ren, April 2014TenderMint: Consensus without Mining Jae KwonProof of Activity: Extending Bitcoin’s Proof of Work via Proof of Stake Iddo Bentov, Charles Lee, Alex Mizrahi, Meni Rosenfeld, June 2014Cryptocurrencies without Proof of Work Iddo Bentov, Ariel Gabizon, Alex Mizrahi, June 2014Proof of Stake Investment - HBN/PHS/TEK/CAP and more StakeHunterReading List, misc altcoin ideas . . .A TorPath to TorCoin: Proof-of-Bandwidth Altcoins for Compensating Relays Mainak Ghosh, Miles Richardson, Bryan Ford, and Rob JansenCyptocoins List, may be sorted by volume CryptochartsDecentralized Autonomous Organization WikipediaFactom Whitepaper - Business Processes Secured by Immutable Audit Trails on the Blockchain Paul Snow, Brian Deery, Jack Lu, David Johnston, Peter Kirby, December 2014Reading List, global networking . . .Global Networks: Engineering, Operations and Design, G. Keith CambronReading List, super-peer network introduction . . .Designing a super-peer network Beverly Yang, Hector Garcia-Molina, 2003Chord: A scalable peer-to-peer lookup service for internet applicationsReading List, super-peer network service discovery . . .One Ring to Rule them All: Service Discovery and Binding in Structured Peer-to-Peer Overlay Networks Miguel Castro, Peter Druschel, Anne-Marie Kermarrec, Antony Rowstron, 2002Discovery of Stable Peers in a Self-OrganisingPeer-to-Peer Gradient Topology Jan Sacha, Jim Dowling, Raymond Cunningham, and Rene Meir, 2006Reading List, network security and fault tolerance . . .Distributing Authorities and Verifying Their Claims Nick Szabo, 1997 The God Protocols Nick Szabo, 1999Confidential Auditing Nick Szabo, 1998Advances in Distributed Security Nick Szabo, 2003Trusted Third Parties Are Security Holes Nick Szabo, 2005Pacemaker: Fighting selfishness in availability-aware large-scale networks Fabrice Le Fessant, Gigdem Sengul, Anne-Marie Kermarrec, 2008 An Approach to Generalising the Self-Repair of Overlay Networks Barry Francis Porter, 2004Byzantine consensus in asynchronous message-passing systems: a survey Miguel Correia, Giuliana Santos Veronese, Nuno Ferreira Neves, Paulo Verissimo, 2011The Byzantine Generals Problem Mark Nelson, March 18, 2008Practical Byzantine fault-tolerance and proactive recovery M. Castro and B. Liskov, 2002Byzantine fault-tolerant transaction processing for replicated databases Aldelir Fernando Luiz, Lau Cheuk Lung, Miguel Correia, 2011A Robust Byzantine Fault-Tolerant Replication Technique for Peer-to-Peer Content Distribution Ayyasamy Sellappan and Sivanandam Natarajan, 2011Secure routing for structured peer-to-peer overlay networks M. Castro, P. Druschel, Y. C. Hu and A. Rowstron, 2002Performance and Dependability of structured peer-to-peer overlays M. Castro, M. Costa and A. Rowstron, 2004Authenticated Data Structures, Generically Andrew Miller, Michael Hicks, Jonathan Katz, and Elaine Shi, 2014Byzantine Fault Tolerant Public Key Authentication in Peer-to-Peer Systems Vivek Pathak, Liviu IftodeSecure History Preservation through Timeline Entanglement Petros Maniatis, Mary Baker, 2002 PeerReview: Practical Accountability for Distributed Systems Andreas Haeberlen, Petr Kuznetsov, Peter Druschel, 2007Secure Network Provenance (Technical Report) Wenchao Zhou, Qiong Fei, Arjun Narayan, Andreas Haeberlen, Boon Thau Loo, and Micah Sherr, 2011Remote Attestation on Program Execution Liang G, Xuhua Ding, Robert H. Deng, Bing Xie, Hong Mei, 2008Attested Append-Only Memory: Making Adversaries Stick to their Word Byung-Gon Chun, Petros Maniatis, Scott Shenker, John Kubiatowicz, 2007Attestation Turns Crash Tolerance into Byzantine Tolerance Jonathan Herzog, Jonathan Millen, Brian O’Hanlon, John D. Ramsdell, Ariel Segall, Intel Trusted Execution Technology for Server Platforms, William Futral and James Greene, Apress Media, 2013vSphere Security and the Virtualization Layer VMwareEnhanced Cloud Security with HyTrust and VMware IntelBuilding Trust and Compliance in the Cloud with Intel ® Trusted Execution Technology IntelEnsuring Content Integrity for Untrusted Peer-to-Peer Content Distribution Networks Nikolaos Michalakis, Robert Soule, Robert Grimm, 2007DEFEATING DDOS ATTACKS Cisco SystemsClosing the Floodgates: DDoS Mitigation Techniques SymantecCloudFlare security CloudFlareDenial of Service attacks and mitigation techniques: Real time implementation with detailed analysis Subramani rao Sridhar raoThree-Tier Security Model for E-Business: Building Trust and Security for Internet Banking Services Yu Lasheng, and MUKWENDE Placide, 2009Baseline Requirements for the Issuance and Management of Publicly-Trusted Certificates, v.1.1.9 CA/Browser Forum, August 4, 2014 NIST SP 800-57 Recommendation for Key Management Part 3: Application-Specific Key Management Guidance NIST, May 2014 Distributed Systems Mikito TakadaIn Search of an Understandable Consensus Algorithm (Raft) Diego Ongaro and John Ousterhout, May 2014Daily Solar Data U.S. Dept. of Commerce, NOAA, Space Weather Prediction CenterLatest Solar Radio Flux Report from DRAO, Penticton Natural Resources CanadaKeyless Signatures’ Infrastructure: How to Build Global Distributed Hash-Trees Ahto Buldas, Andres Kroonmaa and Risto Laanoja, 2013Efficient Data Structures for Tamper-Evident Logging Scott A. Crosby, Dan S. Wallach, 2009Efficient Data Structures for Tamper-Evident Logging slide presentation Scott A. Crosby, Dan S. Wallach, 2009Origin-Bound Certificates BrowserAuth.netTexai Cognitive ArchitectureNatural Language Approach of the Texai Project Stephen Reed's Texai project presentation recorded at the 2008 Artificial General Intelligence ConferenceOpenCyc Commonsense AI Tutorial - part 1 Stephen Reed presentation recorded at the 2009 AGI ConferenceOpenCyc Commonsense AI Tutorial - part 2  Bootstrap Dialog: A Conversational English Text Parsing and Generation System Stephen L. Reed, Texai.org, presented at the Artificial General Intelligence Conference, 2009. Texai presentation at AGI-2009 recorded video Stephen ReedTexai presentation slides at AGI-2009 Stephen ReedDeveloper bookmarks . . .Using Git Support in NetBeans IDE NetBeansConfiguring Jenkins continuous integration server to work with Git uvdDeveloper Documentation bitcoin.orgDoxygen generated documentation for the main bitcoin branchWiki - Running Bitcoin, describes the command line optionsHow to start your own mining pool using bitcoind + eloipool.Wiki - Protocol specificationWiki - Protocol rulesWiki - List of address prefixesBtcd + getwork + cgminer = profit Conformal SystemsAnnouncing Statoshi: Realtime Bitcoin Node Statistics Jameson Lopp, May 7, 2014 Programming With TrouSerS David Challener, June 13, 2011PeerReview DownloadsBlockCypher full-nodes APIHow to set up an IDE for developing Bitcoin Core on Linux Jameson LoppHow to create a pull request Gavin AndresenA Hacker’s Guide to Git Joseph, Wildly InaccurateFoundation for Intelligent Physical Agents, Specifications FIPAHowto: PCI-DSS Hardened Ubuntu 14.04LTS Systems OperationsUse the Built-in Security Features in Your FOSS Distro OpenSource, September 10, 2013DEFCON 17: More Tricks For Defeating SSL Moxie Marlinspike, January 15, 2011DockerAre LXC containers enough? Matt on CloudIs it safe to run applications in Linux Containers? Jerome Petazzoni, Docker, August 20, 2014ExoticVPS.com Listing 681 VPS hosts in 97 locations throughout 8 regions.Border Gateway Protocol WikipediaBGP & Anycast Cloud HostVirtualFee Schedule American Registry for Internet NumbersCoinffeine Exchange AlgorithmCoinHook listens to Bitcoin addresses so you don't have to Pelle BraendgaardBitcoin Address Shortener for the Blockchain Reddit discussionTransaction fees Bitcoin WikiVirWoX MicroPayment API VirWox*** Complete Guide on How to Create a New Alt Coin *** Bitcointalk, June 4, 2013Open Whisper Systems encrypted voice for mobile joget workflowEasy Joget v3 for Absolute Beginner MadengWebID W3CHow to create scrypt based altcoins? How To Clone Scrypt Based Altcoins for Fun and ProfitIntroducing Toshi - An Open Source Bitcoin Node For Developers CoinbaseHow to run your own e-mail server with your own domain Lee Hutchinson, Ars Technica - Feb 16 2014Java Coding Guidelines - Security Software Engineering InstituteMemory Wallet an altcoin JavaScript walletWhy you should build an Immutable Infrastructure Florian MotlikHits-of-Code Instead of SLoC Yegor Bugayenko, 2014Bitcoin Core version 0.10.0 Release Notes December 28, 2014GitHub & SourceForge Developer bookmarks . . .Texai TexaiCognitiveArchitecture GitHubbitcoin-testnet-box, Create a private, difficulty 1 bitcoin testnet freewil GitHubCoinpunk open source hosted wallet kyledrake GitHubFree Java class file shrinker, optimizer, obfuscator, and preverifier ProGuard SourceForgeCopycat - Java implementation of the Raft concensus protocol  kuujo GitHubAndroid Bitcoin Wallet App schildbach GitHubinsight block explorer front-end bitpay GitHubinsight block explorer API (back-end) bitpay GitHubToshi, An open source Bitcoin node built to power large scale web applications coinbase GitHubblockpop, Proof-of-publication with the blockchain petertodd GitHubGoogle bitcoinj adapted for A.I. CoinBitcoin Cartographer mikehearn GitHub Yes, It is a Google spreadsheet in their cloud. Anyone can read or copy it for their own modifications. Most every evening I get the Bitstamp closing price from Bitcoin Charts and post in the Calculations sheet. The three graphs get automatically updated. Risto inspired all that you see there. https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0ArD8rjI3DD1WdFIzNDFMeEhVSzhwcEVXZDVzdVpGU2c Please focus this conversation for my purposes. I would like to define the problem to be solved as the simplest modification to Bitcoin that enables the riddance of wasteful PoW using efficient PoS. I desire the result to become the Bitcoin brand by virtue of recognized lowest vulnerability and broad acceptance. Within the framework of PoS, I want to keep every other aspect of Satoshi's social contract with users that binds today's Bitcoin core developers. There is more freedom with respect to mining pools, which I now believe can replace the stratum protocol with something else that has full nodes as clients and fairly pays daily bitcoin dividends at the 10% annual rate. Bitcoin core developers do not, as a whole, maintain mining pool software and there are fewer obstacles for radical change. I, for one, will make such a observation, it could be too low though, as was the case for the November 2013 peak. I will be combining a measure of super-exponential growth, namely days to double the price, plus a new measure of distance from the average trend line in a manner similar to rpietila. I plan to sell via a spread of orders, about 30-40% of my stake, when and if the below graph indicates a value of +0.4, with buy-back orders placed 50% or so lower depending on the exchange's depth charts. If enough traders did this then the bubble would be lessened or have a stronger sawtooth pattern on the way up, as traders easily learn from patterns. With bitcoin, many new traders do not have the experience we do, and so the next bubble may be similar in shape to the preceding two . . . Because many miners liquidate their rewards to replace obsolete equipment and to pay power bills, I expect the net sales of daily mined bitcoins to be less under proof-of-stake. Your argument about inflating the money supply is unclear. Here is the most substantial response from the bitcoin developers mail list to my initiative . . .An attacker modifying a past block would have to redo the proof-of-stake of the block and all blocks after it and catch up with and surpass the effort of honest nodes, as Satoshi wrote for proof-of-work. I need to ensure that proof-of-stake works for this.I will move the continuing technical side of this discussion over to a new thread in the Project Development sub-forum. Here is the latest Huobi chart at 3-day resolution to show more clearly the short-term trend reversal at the long term resistance trend line. The trendline perhaps did not predict the reversal but perhaps was a landmark so to speak for traders who routinely draw such trends on the own charts.Clearly Huobi is leading Bitstamp lower. They solicit coin off-exchange too. I have an account set up for 25 bitcion minimum sale and purchase with one of their VPs. I read somewhere the rumor that they solicit bitcoin from BitPay, whose bitcoin-accepting vendors may immediately sell bitcoin for dollars. I will be examining PPC, NXT and whitepapers for ideas that I can implement in such a way as the result can be called Bitcoin. The difference would be the absence of wasteful Proof-of-Work, and the presence of mining rewards distributed to full nodes in proportion to the amount of bitcoin each is willing to expose to the network. Coin age is a good starting point.I should leave alone the coinbase transaction whose output sends the reward to a single recipient and depend upon an envisioned reference peer-to-peer pool or other pool to fairly distribute daily dividends to pool members.  Bitstamp was up earlier in the day and I felt the opposite emotion for a while. Here my analysis of the moment with a chart . . .https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=400235.msg6385540#msg6385540 Here is the Huobi chart at 30-minute resolution. The resistance trend line is one I drew days ago - which extends back to the November 2013 peak. Note the trend reversal immediately after the Bitstamp-led rally of the preceding hours failed to punch through the trendline that any trader could draw. I suppose that technical traders, and perhaps algorithmic bots were triggered then to squeeze other traders who had long margin positions.I will be visiting my local Robocoin ATM to get some more coin in the morning. Bitcoin Core developers share this intelligent concern, namely "the rich get richer" problem. Indeed Europe and the USA are reading an economic best seller on this topic - that I have downloaded from a tip on this forum to my kindle.This gets quickly into a defense of the freedom of capital to seek its wisest custodian, including the dumb wisdom of never selling an income-producing asset.I concede your point utterly, claiming without proof, that the political process will evolve to fairly mitigate this problem. It is bigger than even Bitcoin and will be solved or otherwise dealt with by various jurisdictions worldwide in the fullness of time.Meanwhile, I for one, favor the concentration of great wealth in the hands of those saved it up and boldly spend it to advance our civilization as they see fit - even to Mars. Lets talk as miners then, as my very first posts on this forum concerned mining. Here is a photo of one of my three mining rigs. This open design rig has 6 x 5770 cards that hash at a total 0.98 MH/s performing altcoin scrypt-mining for renters. They pay me in bitcoin, which indeed subtracts from the altcoin economy and adds to our Bitcoin economy. These cards despite their age, mined tens of bitcoins for me back when BTCGuild was just getting started. I abandoned mining when SHA-256 ASICs arrived to begin the exponentially soaring difficulty that continues to this day. I did not then, and will not now pre-order ASIC rigs whose return on investment is so uncertain. I will migrate the litecoin-compatible scrypt-mining rigs to Vertcoin-compatible scrypt-N when scrypt-ASICS arrive this year. I will keep running those loved rigs for a long time when I move them to Colorado to heat my mountain home.I ask you, as a small scale bitcoin miner, have you run the numbers to determine whether you would be better off simply holding bitcoin instead spending cash on  ASIC rigs?But I think your main objection is belief that bitcoin values will drop if PoS is introduced into Bitcoin. In the best possible world, PoS adds great value to bitcoin as less of daily mining reward gets sold to pay for power and new rigs. Holders are motivated not to sell and that lifts prices. Interest will heighten, especially when 401-K investment funds observe that not only does bitcoin appreciate, it also pays high dividends. The adoption of Bitcoin is apparently mathematically chaotic in the sense that certain small changes to the present situation lead to large and unexpected consequences. There is simply no precedent for Bitcoin, and therefore we depend upon argued imagination. I believe that is the spin-out proposed by Peter_R. While there is any chance of retaining the Bitcoin brand and its connected customers, I will work entirely in the framework proposed by Satoshi who allowed for changes via a consensus of full node miners. There are about 8300 of those today, and a million wallets at Blockchain.info.In a possible world a couple of years from now, there is a peer-reviewed and invulnerable Proof-of-Stake version of Bitcoin Core - not yet deployed but running great on a large scale Bitcoin testnet. The sales pitch to Blockchain.info is simple. Blockchain.info arranges to lease m3.large instances from Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud that support Bitcoin Proof-of-Stake Bitcoin Core full node instances for an online wallet. Blockchain.info makes an offer to its million customers to pay a minimum of annual 10% bitcoin dividends to each online wallet that chooses Proof-of-Stake on the condition that at least 50,000 enroll. Blockchain.info keeps a fee of 2% of the earned rewards. 50,000 low-latency, well-connected full nodes on the new Proof-of-Stake version easily outvote 8,300 full nodes on the old Proof-of-Work version and on the pre-announced day, the blockchain forks. Ordinary bitcoin users are unaffected. Suppose at that time bitcoin is valued at $10,000. The daily mining reward is 3,600 bitcoin divided among the 50,000 Blockchain.info enrolled wallets. Blockchain.info's daily commission is $720,000 from which they pay for the Amazon instances at $72,000 daily, a gross profit margin of 90%. The deal is great for the 50,000 enrollees who get daily dividends each of bitcoin worth on average $705. Of course these numbers are for the early adopters. Once the remainder of the million online wallets enroll, the average daily dividends drop by a factor of 20 yielding a daily average dividend of $35 dollars.From a simplified, possible world business case such as this example, it is clear to me that a very large opportunity exists to disrupt the disrupter. The challenge is to create an invulnerable and broadly acceptable Bitcoin Core Proof-of-Stake.
This is so awesome. Sort of like figuring the the number air molecules in a particular breath that were at one time exhaled by Napoleon. . . . Key to your understanding, but misleading to someone who does not appreciate the reality of bitcoin mining. When you say "find them yourself", it means buying shares at a bitcoin cloud mining company, or leasing a mining rig, or buying a bitcoin mining rig and buying electricity to operate and cool it. Return on investment for a miner is only positive because the price of bitcoin has risen on average 10x per year. In the bitcoin coin mining sub-forum, when a new person asks "what miner should I pre-order?", the conventional wisdom response is "just buy bitcoin with the money you would have spent on the miner - you will come out further ahead". I would restate your point, weakening the distinction . . There are two ways to get PoS coins: buy them from an adopter or use your coin stake to certainly earn them yourself.There are two ways to get PoW coins: buy them from an adopter or buy stuff and use that stuff to probably earn them yourself. The thread poll also indicates a skeptical majority. I sent an email message to the bitcoin developer mail list asking for permission to branch the source code on the GitHub repository and begin researching a Proof-of-Stake version of Bitcoin. No comment so far. I noted that I understood that Proof-of-Stake is listed as as a prohibited yet disputed enhancement on the Bitcoin wiki. Prohibited features are those which break the social contract between the Bitcoin developers and Bitcoin users.I am preparing to devote the next year or two at least to the branch. I will create a project in the Project Development sub-forum to transparently track progress. I will keep this thread and poll alive to engage and potentially educate anyone who is not a developer or technical expert.As an indication of my commitment to this Bitcoin improvement project, I am now using my real name and recent photo where possible. I regret postponing my AI research, but the coding decisions I made years ago have stood the test of time, and will endure until I fund them with future bitcoin valuations. I read somewhere the plausible rumor that whale buyers, e.g. Second Market, solicit from BitPay and Coinbase, because many bitcoin accepting merchants trade bitcoin for fiat as they receive it. Thanks so much for the links which I am bookmarking now for analysis later.I posted a message to the bitcoin developers mail list asking for permission to branch Bitcoin Core for the purpose of researching Proof-of-Stake, while finding its vulnerabilities and fixing them. A public dairy of the research could be published on in the Project Development sub-forum - "Bitcoin Proof-of-Stake Project". Could you please elaborate on the nature to your objections. The public consensus cannot be moved towards Proof-of-Stake unless all objections are reasonably addressed.[/quote]simple, i like it just as it is. thanks.[/quote]I agree with the broad principles of conservatism. They have served my household very well over the decades.Is it that a change has an unknown risk associated with it? And this risk to you is not worth the change I propose despite the assurances of my two arguments? Hi everyone.I added an opinion poll to the first page, to quantify how you feel about this issue.The argument I make for the change has two independent points . . .(1) The existing Bitcoin system of using Proof-of-Work to prevent double spending is wasteful, and growing so 10x worse each year. In about four more years at that rate, governments will take notice of the $100 billion worth of wasted electricity and perhaps ban bitcoin mining in some jurisdictions, using the incandescent light bulb ban as precedent.(2) The alternative Proof-of-Stake method to prevent double spending can be performed on an ordinary computer, and probably in a few years on a smartphone. Proof-of-Stake allows each of us to expose bitcoins to the network and receive annual 10% dividends. Everything else about bitcoin, in particular the promises made by Satoshi concerning mining rewards and the fixed limit remain unchanged.If you care one way or the other, please vote. Please look at https://ipominer.com/ for the sorts of new coins that are not yet traded on an exchange. The bet my renters may be making is that some of those coins will gain in value someday when exchange into bitcoin or litecoin is possible. As Satoshi Nakamoto foresaw, and as last year's blockchain hard fork demonstrated, you carry on as normal. The majority of v2 full nodes will build the longest valid blockchain, and v1 nodes will only create orphans. Let me be more clear. In the best case, I would like Proof-of-Stake to be owned by Bitcoin Core developers before it gets turned on. I would help develop, document and test Proof-of-Stake on a Bitcoin sandbox testnet that receives new transactions from the Bitcoin network but does not otherwise interfere with it. I get the notion that existing and planned Proof-of-Stake altcoins are a short-term bet that Bitcoin continues its 3.2x annual economic growth, and lifts the value of all altcoins as the public adopts crytocurrencies. Those same altcoins are a long-term bet that Bitcoin keeps Proof-of-Work and thus gets banned in some countries as wasteful allowing those altcoins the opportunity to replace Bitcoin. My mission is with Bitcoin. Could you please elaborate on the nature to your objections. The public consensus cannot be moved towards Proof-of-Stake unless all objections are reasonably addressed. Yes, it is a hard-fork of the blockchain. Not a from-scratch genesis block as used by altcoins. The Proof-of-Stake version of bitcoind would be made to reject as invalid new blocks created by the then-existing Proof-of-Work version.This scenario is worst case. In the best case, public opinion sways the majority of Bitcoin Core developers to embrace Proof-of-Stake and the migration from Proof-of-Stake to Proof-of-Work is handled via long advance notice and simply a new version of Bitcoin Core for download by everyone. I agree with Peter_R regarding altcoins and sidechains, yet hope to allay his concerns about Proof-of-Stake. My notion of a Proof-of-Stake spin-off is to spin-off the Proof-of-Work miners from Bitcoin, which means that we need approximately 24,000 Proof-of-Stake full nodes participating in the Bitcoin Network as non-generating stealth nodes until everyone on our side is at the table - so to speak. I choose 24K because that is three times the number of bitcoind Proof-of-Stake full nodes in the network now. To make the spin-off work, we need the Bitcoin brand and for it to want us. As US President Abraham Lincoln said "In this age, in this country, public sentiment is everything. With it, nothing can fail; against it, nothing can succeed." The major problem is that the Energy Charter Treaty encourages our respective governments not to permit waste of energy. In perhaps four more years the cost of electric power to operate and cool ASIC mining equipment will exceed $100 billion annually. The precedent is the incandescent light bulb ban. Do we want a bitcoin ban when it can be avoided?The lesser problem is fairness. Why should Proof-of-Work ASIC-operators waste their bitcoin rewards on equipment and power, when those very same rewards can be given to us, the bitcoin holders as annual 10% bitcoin dividends using ordinary computers.I liken the current Proof-of-Work system to a bank protected from robbers by a moat filled with burning paper currency. Ha. I am presently researching whether anyone has a full node bitcoind running on a Linux smartphone. CPU capacity on a multi-core smartphone already exceeds what Proof-of-Stake requires. Likewise for RAM regarding the flagship Android phones now, and ordinary phones in a couple of years. The blockchain is about 20 GB today and could fit on flagship Android phones now. Furthermore, Bitcoin Core developers have plans to prune or otherwise compress the blockchain for the purposes of validation.From my own experience running a full node, network bandwidth is the most precious resource. Propagation of new blocks, and of the entire blockchain for new mobiles entering the network requires much symmetric bandwidth, depending upon the number of permitted peer connections. In a possible world, every smartphone is a Proof-of-Stake full node. There would be billions of them in the Bitcoin Network rather than the less than 10 thousand full nodes nowadays. It is fair that only block-validating, and blockchain-maintaining wallets receive their annual 10% bitcoin dividends. These dividends, given the higher prices for bitcoin that I expect with Proof-of-Stake, would be sufficient to pay for the cellular data bandwidth consumed. Or consider that the full node smartphone client could connect to the network only when WiFi is the connection - and receive a diminished bitcoin dividend in proportion to the time spent securing and maintaining the network, effectively receive annual 5% bitcoin dividends for coins held in the smartphone's full node wallet connected 12 hours each night to the owner's WiFi. Here is some competition - the 5GH/s bitcoin miner from Butterfly Labs.According to the mining profitability calculator at https://tradeblock.com/mining/ and assuming you get electric power at only $0.03 per KwH, then every month you mine with this ASIC you lose money. They are still for sale. ASICs are designed for obsolescence. And the established industry business model is pre-order which invites fraud. Ok. Less text and more pictures. Here is MegaBigPower, located in Washington State. He is a single miner in the Unknown pie slice chart whose ambition is to control 10% of total Bitcoin hashing power.Here is infamous mining equipment manufacturer kncminer. This is a single miner in the Unknown pie slice chart whose ambition is to compete with customers still waiting for paid-for equipment. Proof-of-Work manifestly encourages bad behavior. No, you are wrong and here is why. These "named slices" plus a few private datacenters are the miners, only they execute a few instances of bitcoind. The numerous ASIC owners execute cgminer or another program that adheres to the stratum protocol which is not a part of the Bitcoin Network and was never envisioned by Satoshi.An ideal you might be thinking about is P2Pool for Bitcoin. Only in this sort of pool does each participant actually execute an instance of bitcoind, and the pool exists to share the solved block rewards fairly among them. Note that P2Pool does not appear in the named entities on the market share pie chart. Why? Because the ASIC operators find it more convenient not to be miners and delegate that most important aspect to the few big pool operators.As core developer Greg Maxwell said in a thread suggesting a revival of Bitcoin P2Pool . . .Here are Bitcoin network statistics showing the number of bitcoind instances - and few of these actually have generation turned on because it wastes resources if they have only minuscule chance of finding a block. Note how few nodes there are compared with the number of bitcoin wallets. With Proof-of-Stake, each wallet owner would be highly motivated to join the Bitcoin network to receive their 10% annual dividend on the amount exposed to the network.credit: https://getaddr.bitnodes.io/ Here is the Number of transactions excluding popular addresses chart from blockchain.info, which has duration of 180 days on a Log10 chart with a 7-day moving average to smooth out the day-of-week variation. Note that the rightmost data points suggest a trend upwards and yet the price chart does trend upwards yet with that strength.Interesting . . .
I do not observe manipulation by the large mining pools. However, many people reading this thread in hopes of receiving 10% bitcoin dividends on the holdings are not aware that of the tens of thousands of Bitcoin mining rigs operating, almost none of them are actual miners. They are rather hashers who do not maintain the blockchain, nor validate blocks, nor propagate transactions. Rather they are delegated Proof-of-Work tasks by the pool operator, who is the actual miner.Look at the following pie chart from Blockchain.info . In the Unknown pie slice are private datacenters and ASIC manufacturers that are large enough to keep the 1% typical pool fee for themselves. Suppose there are four very large datacenters in there. Count the named pie slices and add say 4 for the private datacenters in Unknown and get 12. Those 12 miners control Proof-of-Work Bitcoin mining.I am not really alarmed at this situation. It is not one that Satoshi envisioned when considering how miners would operate, but pools flow naturally from the motivation of miners for steady income as opposed to luck. Hashers, those who actually operate ASIC rigs, are free to move from pool to pool as they see fit to balance this pie chart.My point is that concentration of mining power by large holders in a Proof-of-Stake scheme could not conceivably be worse than this . . .  It seems to be similar. For myself and siblings, we sleep first and the lucid part of the dream happens maybe after an ordinary dream. For me, its the flying part where I swim through the air. I say to myself "there is gravity, I should be falling" but I feel the viscous air as my hands pull through it like water, something tells me then that I am dreaming but I never use the concept dreaming - rather the concept is control. I do not want to wake up at that point because it is so much fun. My lucid dreams do not allow me the freedom of script afforded by a daydream. I am mostly an observer of scenes that associate from one to the other. I can somewhat control and especially enjoy what my character does but there is very little control over and often surprise at what scene comes next.Another aspect of my dreams is my second life. This was much more pronounced when I was younger, but I would have distinct memory from previous dreams - a continuing story so to speak. This helped control the lucid dream because I had explored a building before and knew that it had stairs for example.I have fair recall of dreams and I have never dreamed about technical analysis or charts. Ha. I have thought about ways to limit hashing power but they do not seem to work. Others certainly have argued this before so my comment may turn out to be naive. I tried to apply rules from the economics of cap-and-trade for pollution permits.How does the network measure hashing power contributed? I could supply twice the allowed hashing power and claim that I am simply lucky when my share of the block rewards is twice what averages predict. Among miners, there is a protocol named VAR DIFF for variable difficulty in which the pool server measures your hashrate by giving you work-shares to hash with progressively increasing difficulty until a shares are solved by the client at say 4 - 10 per minute. This allows the mining pool to estimate and report your hashing rate. But this can be faked by the client to fool the server if the client wanted to cheat beyond the allowed maximum hashrate. In fact, I am a landlord and collect rents. But of course you mean economic rent-seeking of the sort that patent trolls employ to bedevil innovation. I believe that capital seeks its wisest custodian - optimal for the overall economy if opportunities for rent-seeking are minimized or mitigated.How can rent-seeking behavior be prevented by Proof-Of-Stake? The critical aspect is the Bitcoin mining reward and its schedule for halving. When the mining reward is tiny compared to the transaction fees awarded for solving a block then I propose that rent-seeking behavior will be diminished as annual dividends drop to the point where the risk of exposing the stake to the network is not worth the gain. Because Proof-of-Stake is many orders of magnitude more efficient than Proof-of-Work, I expect that Proof-of-Stake holders would accept much lower transaction fees to process a block than would Proof-of-Work miners who must pay for equipment, power and their own time.In the meantime, I claim without proof, that Proof-of-Stake rent-seeking behavior is less harmful than the manifestly wasteful Proof-of-Work alternative. It appears that folks here should learn to control their night dreams . . .http://www.scientificamerican.com/article/how-to-control-dreams/My siblings and I are lucid dreamers from childhood. One of the tricks is to recognize that you are in a dream and what the constraints are. For example, in a lucid dream I launch myself into the air because I can swim in it. I know I can so I attempt it. Likewise, I can perform any physical exercise in a lucid dream without tiring.My mind cannot invent text as fast as I can read it, so I know to avoid trying to read a sign or book in a lucid dream. If something goes wrong, or is otherwise annoying, in a lucid dream I know that I have control and have touchstone places and events that I can return to - as a way of resetting.My brothers and I dream in color with surrealistic sounds, smells and so forth. In school I read a psychology of hypnotism textbook and learned that people like me are easily hypnotized. One of my younger brothers sleepwalked as a child and it was my responsibility to keep him away from the stairs and make sure he really knew  where the toilet was. I could control him, with his eyes wide open as he moved around, by gentle voice command.Such memories. But I far prefer daydreams. Existing Miners Should Love Proof-of-StakeProof-of-Stake pays miners a 10% average annual dividend on their bitcoin exposed to the network in a Bitcoin Core wallet. Anyone can be a miner because Proof-of-Stake processes transactions, secures the network, and maintains the blockchain using the modest resources of an ordinary computer.But why would existing Bitcoin miners love this new thing? Because it is common wisdom among miners that they would have been financially better off by simply buying and holding bitcoin, with the funds they spent buying designed-for-obsolescence ASIC mining devices and the power required to operate and cool them. Plus the time and effort of configuring, maintaining, monitoring, and ultimately disposing of them.When 10% annual Proof-of-Stake dividends are added to the profit equation, the balance should clearly tip in favor of abandoning the current wasteful Proof-of-Work system. Why? I foresee that Proof-of-Work power requirements will continue at the 10x trend we both model. How could Proof-of-Stake exceed that? I independently had a similar idea before I learned you were yet again ahead of me. Here is the sort of similar idea. Clone all the Bitcoin source code to create XCoin. Cleanly add PoS as an option to PoW but turn off PoS. After sufficient testing, e.g. on a testnet, release XCoin clients in lock step with Bitcoind and Bitcoin Core clients. Operate on the existing blockchain where XCoin peers are otherwise indistinguishable from Bitcoin peers. I propose that XCoin clients inform users as to how much dividend they could receive if there were enough of them.Spin-off the new PoS network by forking the blockchain given an overwhelming number of XCoin clients as compared to validating Bitcoin clients. The important part of your argument is the creation of money out of thin air - so to speak. Satoshi put rewards into the network to motivate miners. Proof-of-Stake is exactly like the current Bitcoin system except that you get your fair share of the block rewards as a 10% average annual dividend, instead of those same rewards getting wasted in someone else's datacenter. You are the miner. But the genius of Proof-of-Stake is that it can be performed on an ordinary computer as long as you help process transactions and maintain the blockchain.Proof-of-Work is bizarre. It is sort of like a bank burning their notes in a moat to keep robbers out. Yes, the main difference is that PoS doesn't waste a bunch of electricity in doing so. That is why government bureaucrats will force a change in a few years when more than $100 billion gets wasted.(2018) You are a Chinese bureaucrat looking out your window at noon. On your desk is a staff regulation to prohibit SHA-256 and Scrypt ASIC manufacture, sale, installation and operation in China. The staff says that 5% of the coal-burning power plants under construction could be postponed if you sign the regulation . . .credit: http://www.huffingtonpost.com/daniel-k-gardner/can-china-win-the-war-on-_b_5182132.html Proof-of-Stake should increase bitcoin prices as more gets held in anticipation of earning 10% dividends. The Bitcoin Economy would actually speed up after dropping the wasteful overhead of the current wasteful mining.No additional coins are generated by Proof-of-Stake. Satoshi's promise of fixed supply remains. You simply receive your fair share of the block reward rather than waste it in someone else's datacenter. An ideal Proof-of-Stake wallet is very much like the Bitcoin wallet you download for Bitcoin Core. There would be a generate option that you would enable with the amount of your bitcoin that you wish to risk exposing to the network in return for dividends. Over 12 months you would occasionally receive a bitcoin dividend that on average amounted to 10% of your risk-exposed bitcoin amount. When the block reward halves in 2017 your dividend rate drops to about 5%. Wallet owners such as yourself could opt to join a mining pool offering daily dividends if you permit them to risk your bitcoins in aggregate with other owners on the network. Mining pool fees are very reasonable - on the order of 1% per payment to you.If you take your coins off the network to be really safe, as in a paper wallet, then those coins do not get the dividend payments. I believe that the likelihood of 51% attacks is fading. The entities capable of such an attack would have relatively little to gain in the period before the attack is detected, and much more to lose if the integrity of bisection is compromised.Gain of suppose $100K double spent transaction vs loss of 20% bitcoin market cap of $1 billion.I am now investigating how to contribute Proof-of-Stake code, test suites, and documentation to Bitcoin Core - not for immediate approval of course, merely available as a working plug-in library for inspection and comment.I suppose that bureaucrats in about 4 years will declare our current Proof-of-Work scheme contrary the public good, e.g. Article 19 of the Energy Charter Treaty which urges energy efficiency. Could someone contrast Proof of Storage with Proof of Stake, in particular with regard to physical resource consumption? For Bitcoin, I am becoming interested in coding, testing, and documenting various alternatives to Proof of Work, which I believe is unsustainable, e.g. ultimately in conflict with the Energy Charter Treaty's Article 19. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Energy_Charter_Treaty#Energy_efficiency The Bitcoin Economy will pay miners over $500 million in 2014 to maintain the blockchain and to secure the network. Proof-Of-Work miners have large expenses that subtract from their profit.If Bitcoin had Proof-Of-Stake today and that was the only change, then network-attached, blockchain-maintaining holders would receive an average 10% annual dividend on their holdings. If only half of holdings were exposed to the network, then the annual dividend would be 20%. Ordinary computers suffice.[update April 27, 2014]The Bitcoin Proof-of-Stake project thread is https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=584719.msg6397403#msg6397403 . A descriptive post there is . . . https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=584719.msg6415632#msg6415632 . Ha. You are fast. I wanted to edit my post to include the Energy Charter Treaty signed by many countries in 1991 whose Article 19 requires that each Contracting Party "... shall strive to minimise in an economically efficient manner, harmful Environmental Impacts arising from energy use.". Governments already have a means to regulate bitcoin mining worldwide.I point out the likelihood of a forced bureaucratic solution, because I want our industry to provide a solution given plenty of time to consider and implement it. The hardest part for us I think, would be the riddance of commercial miners and the equipment providers that benefit most from the earned block rewards.Proof-of-Stake would reward network-attached, blockchain-maintaining bitcoin holders about 10% annual bitcoin dividends, halving according to schedule, on their respective held coins. If there was a 12 month or more advance notice of the blockchain fork, then datacenter owners could retain the bitcoin otherwise spent on new equipment - giving them a substantial stake in the new scheme.The PoS scheme enables numerous more miners to participate with ordinary computers, and upon a blockchain fork, those new miners would outvote the current pools, who actually have only one miner for the entire pool, as the pool members submit shares and do not maintain a copy of the blockchain. The number of transactions excluding popular addresses chart as provided by Blockchain.info has recently been fixed, and now clearly shows a trend reversal that appears to support the notion that April 10 was the bottom of the November 2013  bubble collapse. Bitcoin prices are presently in a dampened oscillation centered at about the present price $492. I am very excited about the sidechain technology soon to be revealed in open source code, that will enable altcoin features to be applied directly to the Bitcoin network by way of the two-way peg. In particular I would expect sidechains to address usefulness as a medium of exchange.I will provide any data you need to adjust your model in the public spreadsheet that supports this multi-year thread. Let me know what needs to be recorded daily and I have the time and motivation to do it. Imagine a 2018 US Senate Energy and Natural Resources hearing in which a panel of Bitcoin Core developers and Washington State mining datacenter owners answer difficult questions prepared in advance by zealous staff.Senator X: Is it true that all that electricity, whose infrastructure was paid for by the public as a whole, is simply wasted?Core Developer Y: No Senator, Beyond securing the network, bitcoin mining also helps efficiently distribute new coins.Senator X: But these vast datacenters perform meaningless calculations to win a sort of lottery - is that all it amounts to?Core Developer: Yes, but that method was designed by Satoshi Nakamoto and has stood the test of time.Senator X: Remember that you are under oath. Is there not some other way to secure the network that does not waste so much power that we could otherwise use for the public good?Core Developer: None that has gained the adoption of what we call Proof-Of-Work.Senator X: I am glad you mentioned that. I don't really understand - I'm not an expert like you . . . But my staff has learned of an alternate scheme that has been used in other digital virtual currencies named Proof-Of-Stake. Could you explain that to us and why it cannot be used?Core Developer: Well, we would have to fork the Blockchain!. . . The Bitcoin Network Will Probably Be Compelled To Abandon Electricity-Consuming Proof-Of-Work in 2018Here is a simplified projection of Peter_R's Metcalfe Law bitcoin valuation model. I project that bitcoin transactions grow at the rate 3.2x until 2022 at which point the daily number of transactions equals the daily number of incumbent credit card transactions. The model projects that bitcoin mining pools will receive an income of over $200 billion in 2017, the majority spent by them on mining equipment, but a very substantial portion - perhaps a third - will be spent on electricity. It is widely known that bitcoin mining is entirely wasteful unless the heat can be reused.Countries around the world have already implemented severe steps, affecting all consumers, that phase out incandescent light bulbs because more efficient alternatives exist. Bitcoin pool miners have relatively few members and thus little political influence that would prevent bureaucrats from asking for better alternatives. And at least one such altcoin-implemented alternative exists - Proof of Stake, which requires little in the way of equipment and electricity but does require miners to hold bitcoin in proportion to their chances of obtaining the scheduled block reward.In an earlier post, I puzzled how a single Satoshi could be valued at $100 - which is predicted by the up-to-now close fitting Metcalfe Law relationship between transaction quantity and price. Proof-of-Stake is an answer as to what would motivate holders of bitcoin to never sell. The bitcoin mining reward in table above, would be effectively distributed to network-attached holders in proportion to their holdings.In 2018, should Proof-of-Stake be substituted for the existing Proof-of-Work, then all network-attached holders would fairly share, in proportion to their holdings, over $2 trillion worth of bitcoin.
Provocative idea.Because Bitcoin is programmable money, the hotel in an ideal world, upon arrival has you issue a series of small denomination bitcoin transactions whose sum is slightly greater than what you will spend altogether. Each of these transactions requires the private key of the hotel to spend. FYI, These are called N of M transactions by the protocol. The hotel is the escrow agent in this 2 of 2 version.N of M transactions are defined by the protocol but not yet a wallet feature.In the ideal world, the smooth UI you mention simply notifies the hotel of the item particulars and enough of the previously issued transactions to cover the purchased item are spent by the hotel. Pay as you go. Hey.Maybe, we are getting advance notification of a web site change. I find Metcalfe's Law a convincing fit to the data. Peter_R can best defend it. Thanks for steering me to Kelly. I found the original paper easiest to understand as I know a little about information theory, and the examples given were clear.Mostly, I assume what you characterized as asymmetric information flow. You said it better than I. Chiefly those employed by the excellent site: bitcoin pulse.We are far from 50% adoption. In a couple more years I expect the economic Ivory Tower to be shaken to its very foundations, and for others to follow, and greatly improve upon, the ideas that have been surfacing here. Metcalfe's Law and Complete Triumph of Bitcoin Indicate $100 per Satoshi in 2022.Here is the outstanding chart provided by Peter R that best illustrates the application of Metcalfe's Law to bitcoin prices . . .And here are relevant daily transaction quantities as reported by coinometrics.com . . .Peter_R's formula for transactions is V = $1.50 * Tx2 , where V is the bitcoin market cap.Using today's quantity of transactions: V = $1.5 * 582442 = $5,088,545,304 as compared to the actual market cap $6,117,800,905 reported by bitcoin charts. Note that the figure I used for quantity of transactions varies by time of day and day of week, but 58K is a fair approximation.Here is the weird part, and by weird, I mean the cognitive difficulty of believing the future math given a simple assumption. The assumption is that Bitcoin completely replaces the current financial transactions performed by credit cards and consumer international payments. The arguments in favor of this assumption are that bitcoin is more efficient, is faster to settle, is not subject to fraud, has no danger of identity theft, and that bitcoin technology cannot be adopted by the incumbents without cannibalizing their legacy business model.Here then is the math. I figure a total of 356,034,000 daily transactions for the incumbents today. Suppose that bitcoin transactions merely replace the incumbents, and ignore the additional quantity of possible bitcoin transactions, e.g. micropayments and other bot-to-bot low-fee payment activity permitted by programmable money,  Plugging the incumbent transaction quantity into Peter_R's Metcalfe Law model, V = $1.5 * 356,034,0002 = $190,140,313,734,000,000. Although the total number of mined bitcoins is currently 12,679,275, assume 19 million bitcoins at the time when bitcoin transactions replace the incumbents. Accordingly, the price of a single bitcoin as predicted by Peter_R's Metcalfe Law model is $10,007,384,933, which equals $100 per Satoshi, supposing that Bitcoin transactions replace the incumbents.My logistic adoption model can predict the soonest when that price value can be reached, using the 10x average annual growth expected before the halfway point of adoption. By the logistic adoption model we reach $100K in 2016. To reach a value six orders of magnitude greater would require six more years beyond 2016, namely 2022. A consequence of this projection is that because the quantity of bitcoin transactions merely increases by 3.2x annually on average, In the year 2020, the Bitcoin Economy would be only one-tenth of so of the size of the incumbents yet would be very, very valuable, priced by Peter_R's model at $1 per Satoshi.I ask you, how could such a price per bitcoin be justified? What properties of the Bitcoin Economy and human nature would permit such a possible world to exist?The best idea I have come up with, is that Bitcoin is very precious and holders will be loathe to spend it. The idiom is that everyone has their price. Given the projections of the models, I conclude that for bitcoin that price will be very high. Capital flows to its wisest custodian. It may be then that as the years pass, bitcoin will increasingly be held by those who will not sell, or if they do then it is only the smallest portion of their holdings.It is helpful to consider the value of the incumbent daily transactions. Again Coinmetrics.com has the data . . .The sum of the incumbent dollar volume is $37,526,000,000. Given the replacement assumption, what fraction of the projected bitcoin market capitalization is used for daily transactions? I divide  $37,526,000,000 by $190,140,313,734,000,000 which yields 0.0000001973595145.The Metcalfe Law model, and the assumption of complete replacement of the incumbents, indicates that only the tiniest fraction of bitcoin will transact - less than one coin in a million will suffice. Here is yet another view of the resistance line on the Huobi 3-day resolution chart, in which I took care to anchor the line on the peak at 8000. In this rendition, it does appear that the breakout may be already happening, as was pointed out above by Todorius. Here is the Huobi 3-day resolution chart, upon which I have drawn a resistance trendline from the peak of the November bubble using the built-in line tool offered by BitcoinWisdom. I admit that manual trendline drawing is subject to bias. I do not believe that this resistance has been broken, and it is only my growing confidence that April 10 was the bottom that I am paying such attention to a breakout.On Reddit, an OKCoin representative mentioned that USD / BTC currency trading is coming to their exchange - someplace or somehow. Given what I hope is no-fee trading, then finally we may have a high volume, high liquidity, chart in USD prices. I hypothesize that USD volume would be higher than CNY volume if only there was no-fee trading and convenient USD recharge / withdrawal. Yes, that is exactly what I have done from the moment I connected with LeaseRig as a provider. I knew that I was in competition with other rig providers and was attempting to optimize renter satisfaction. I monitored my rigs over weeks and adjusted the claimed hashing rates so that I had the cushion you mention. My rigs are never below the claimed rate.I know that I receive less revenue as a result - but that is factored into my decision to use LeaseRig, another leasing outfit, or to point at some pool myself. Customer satisfaction is the key. Now there are only about 19 scrypt-mining rigs on LeaseRig that have more rented hours than my three GPU rigs.Typical readings from the provider page for my rigs . . . Here is a redraw of the upper resistance line using the built in line tool on BitcoinWisdom. For a chartist, the trend is rather scary unless one makes the presumption that I did . . . April 10 at $340 was the bottom of the bubble collapse. Price action is still near the upper resistance trendline - which goes back to the November 2013 peak. I drew a lower trendline, with much weaker confidence, to illustrate the what I believe is the convergence of trader sentiment regarding fair value. If the lower trendline were accurate and indeed holds, then prices escape from the trendline within nine days. Upwards, or sideways, I reason because the bottom of the November 2013 bubble collapse was at 340 on April 10 - so I think.Here is the 6-hour chart . . .    "sitting on your ass" economics. Well yes. That is sort of what I am promoting. I hope it gets tagged with a more inspiring phrase. But maybe that one will stick.For some, there will be a profound guilt that relatively great wealth was achieved by doing nothing - in particular not taking action to dissipate the acquired bitcoin estate. When asked about their vast stash of bitcoin, the Winkelvoss Twins respond that they still have every one of them. But retention of the estate does not necessarily entail inaction with regard to every other aspect of Bitcoin. The twins are a good example. They appear in public to educate others about Bitcoin; they are organizing Wall Street resources to engage others in the Bitcoin Economy. And they excite the public imagination as they partner with Richard Branson to pay for space tourism via Bitcoin. The new rich will not spend much bitcoin, thus avoiding capital gains taxes / sales taxes. The new rich will be predominately young, and will not soon die, thus avoiding estate taxes.The problem is that tax authorities and popular opinion may seize upon property taxes as the precedent for taxing the new bitcoin-holding rich. "(2020) A US citizen: Its not fair that I work two jobs, pay taxes and the Winklevoss twins bought bitcoin for $11 million back in 2013 that is now worth $1 trillion - and they don't pay any taxes on it!" Exactly, You spend fiat on necessities. When possible, substitute bitcoin as the payment mechanism even if inconvenient or slightly more costly. Then recharge the spent coin from the fiat that you would have otherwise spent. As the Bitcoin Economy grows, the likelihood increases that the recipient of our coins will hold them or spend them, rather than immediately exchange them back into fiat.  My own idea of balancing social ideals and long term economic growth for everyone, is to favor consumption taxes, not taxes on capital. Alas, despite the popular belief in the USA that the rich escape taxation, the burden of local, state and federal taxation progressively falls upon the wealthy. Almost half of US citizens pay no federal income tax, and the poor, disabled and elderly especially profit from government transfer payments.Although capital gains and estate taxes will gain revenue from the sudden new bitcoin $billionaires and $trillionaires, that tax revenue will be realized only when they sell or die. I have a belief, growing stronger, that holders will regard bitcoin as precious to the extent that many large holders will be loath to sell. An analogy would be medieval land estates - never sold, only inherited.That is why I believe taxes on bitcoin holdings will follow the precedent set by taxes on land property here in the USA.  Hooray.It is hard to believe, but Peter_R and I calculated that according to his Metcalfe Law model of bitcoin prices, if we increase the permanent number of daily bitcoin transactions by one, then the bitcoin market cap increases by over $100K.I try to participate in a bitcoin transaction every day. I am not a short term trader and would not offer any signals. Rather, I am like a farmer in drought stricken Central Texas. I do not make decisions based upon whether it is predicted to rain next week. Rather I track precipitation as it happens, and monitor the increasing probability of an El Nino event that may break our drought this summer.Log10 regression trendlines maintained by myself and others indicate that the current price is well below the long term trend. Accordingly, this is a good time to postpone spending bitcoin. For example, I plan to triple the capacity of my GPU mining rigs that I lease for bitcoin. The chart tells me to wait a few months and buy 10x more GPU cards for the same coin. The chart tells me to stuff every spare $20 bill into my neighborhood Robocoin ATM - which I will do again in a few hours.Its almost always a good time to buy Bitcoin. The time not to buy bitcoin begins shortly after the next all-time-high and extends until after prices have collapsed at least 50% from the peak. Simple rules.If you are building a trading bot for a no-fee exchange, then I recommend the typical volume-weighted return to mean algorithm such as described here . . .Competitive Algorithms for VWAP and Limit Order Trading.You need to be an unemotional software bot when you are snatching dimes from in front of a steamroller, as American traders sometimes say. I loaned bitcoin to short sellers at BitFinex from January to April last year at about 2% annual interest. I was treated professionally and had no problem whatsoever with the website nor the operators. FYI, I saw that the rate of return on dollars loaned for long-position margin traders was much, much higher.But what made me pull my coins out of BitFinex despite all their assurances, was that the return did not, by my thinking, balance the risk. I was making 1000% on average each year simply holding the coins securely myself. There was a minuscule risk that the exchange could be hacked, or somehow suffer a big market move that would force close the margin positions and leave the exchange at a loss. If I was making 1000% anyway, why try to improve on that by 2% and lose sleep over the chance all could be lost? Although I am a rig provider and do not compete with rig renters, I understand that coins such as those featured on ipominer.com might be what you are looking for. Occasionally, better known coins may catch your attention on coinwarz.com. You asked me to make some predictions using technical analysis - which you scoff at. You asked me to make some short term predictions which if true, would prove you wrong with regard to your notions on the efficacy of technical analysis.Here is exactly what you said immediately above . . .And here again is my response . . .I made the TA predictions weak enough to favor proving you wrong, yet strong enough to defy random price movement that you apparently expect.
By way of redistributing wealth, and funding the State, I would not be surprised, and increasingly suspect that bitcoin holdings will eventually be considered property subject to tax, in the same way that land is taxed in the USA. In democracies, new sorts of taxes have been in the past introduced at very modest rates and limited to apply to a minority of taxpayers so as to be politically acceptable to the majority.The most palatable form of a bitcoin holdings tax would be one in which the rate of taxation is substantially less than the rate of deflation. For example, if I would not leave the USA and hide my family if the tax rate was 0.1% of holdings annually, given my expectation of 1000% price growth on average annually for the next few years.The blockchain is public and I believe facilitates the collection of taxes in jurisdictions such as the USA in which tax compliance by citizens is voluntary.Note that I am for fair taxation, as tax jurisdictions serve the common good. I am not for the confiscation of bitcoin by governments - simply because early adopters may eventually be sudden new $ billionaires and perhaps in a few cases $ trillionaires. Please support the two-way peg that enables sidechains. There is a first mover advantage for you to do this - and I have also beseeched Vertcoin to do the same. +1And this is the simple reason for the continued skepticism voiced by traditional investors, such are seen in the forums associated with financial websites. They have never, ever, not in 4 thousand years, seen the investment potential that is unfolding in front of us.  Yes, that is it - to the extent that technical analysis is a theory. Not a certainty of course, but often observed when the price movement has great momentum. Furthermore, it could simply move sideways to break through, but for those of us biased to expect a new bubble this summer, then a pop upwards would reinforce our confidence. A phrase made popular by the US president John F. Kennedy applies . . .A rising tide lifts all boats. It is conventional wisdom in this forum that prudent bitcoin spending is for necessities. Things you must have. For example, I spend a lot at Amazon for books, nutritional supplements, household expendables and such. Until such time as Jeff Bezos "gets Bitcoin", I buy Amazon gift cards at Gyft. I am also on the lookout for discounted gift cards, purchased in bitcoin from various sellers.I attempt to conduct at least one bitcoin transaction daily. Here in Austin that is getting easier. There are over 60 bitcoin-accepting vendors within an easy drive, listed on Coinmap.org. Many serve food and everyone must eat. Using money to make more money?This is a left over notion from the credit based economy in which the presence of inflation biases every aspect of our economic decision making. With fiat, one must use money because it will certainly be worth less in the future. Notably, you can lend it out and gain both principal and interest back. One could buy an income producing asset and realize a stream of income that will likely sum to more than the original cost.In the Bitcoin Economy, these biases are the opposite of what one should do. Deflation is weird and we must wrap our minds around what it means. For starters, lending and credit do not work in the Bitcoin Economy. The rate of deflation for the near future is greater than the investment return that one could gain. This is obvious when examining the repeated failure of bitcoin-denominated securities.Forget about the idea of you making money. In the Bitcoin economy, only mining pools make money. Rather, you earn money. Your currency increases in value simply by holding on to it.Bitcoin is for saving and prudent spending upon necessities. This guideline applies to enterprises as well as individuals.  Let me recast a common economic activity in Bitcoin terms to illustrate the point.Bitcoin Household Mortgages - Not.There are no mortgages nor long term lending in the Bitcoin Economy. Not now, probably not ever. Buy now and pay later has never really been a good idea. In the economy we are working towards, a substantial asset, whether a necessity or income-producing, is purchased on installments. You get the title for your home in exchange for a good faith promise to make periodic payments for a contracted duration of time. The amount of the payments decreases with the deflation rate, or is otherwise linked with your ability to pay. If you miss your payments, the property or collateral reverts to the seller, less the adjusted equity you have paid in.No debt, no banks, no problems.  Edging ever closer to the November 2013 bubble collapse resistance trend line. The drama continues as illustrated on the 1-hour resolution Bitstamp chart. China leads the way, with no-fee trading on Huobi yielding 8x more volume upwards . . . The price history of bitcoin shows 10x growth per year on average, which is supported by 3.2x average growth in both bitcoin addresses and adjusted number of bitcoin transactions - according to Metcalfe's Law. My own logistic model of bitcoin prices says that this growth rate will continue on average, actually very slightly diminishing, until we reach the midpoint of adoption. We could already be past that point but the preponderance of evidence in my opinion, is that the Bitcoin Economy is far from reaching that point.After the mid point of adoption average price growth rates will rapidly diminish, reaching the levels you mention or lower. I had the same notion from a different viewpoint. There is an obvious disruptive market for bitcoin transactions whose purpose is international remittances. Here in Central Texas, there are many non-bank facilities for sending payments to Mexico. I am awaiting the development of local Mexican bitcoin economies that will form a virtuous circle of adoption. Supposing that bitcoin remittance payment recipients can simply spend bitcoin locally, there is no need for an exchange on either end. No banks, no exchanges, no problems. On this one-hour resolution Bitstamp chart, the upper resistance line originates at the November peak and has constrained all prior moves upwards during the bubble collapse. Assuming the bottom of the collapse is behind us, drama is building as the rally of the past 24 hours again approaches the resistance trendline. Will it bounce back down, or bust through upwards? I will be peeking at the price indicator on my bedside phone this evening in the USA. A price above $530 would be very significant from a technical point of view.The lower, short term resistance trendline I drew was pierced to get this part of the rally moving. I too, have given thought to the duration of bubble cycles. Rpietila explained the bitcoin adoption phenomena in a prior post, which I agree with . . .https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=400235.msg6219380#msg6219380I would add that traders and the not-yet-adopted public know about bubbles, and have come to expect them. We wait for the collapse to complete, for prices to begin rising again and then momentum builds the bubble mania. The duration between recent bubbles I think has to do with the flow of information and the resulting change of sentiment from bearish to bullish. Some number of months is required for new speculators to observe that Bitcoin has not yet failed, that transaction growth creates organic demand for coin, and the news stories reverse sentiment. I, for one, think that Bitcoin is the greatest financial thing to grace my life. I only rent 72 hour terms and usually at a price that assures immediate rental. All three of my rigs have more than  1000 hours rented. After an hour un-rented, I accept the highest offer for 72 hours.I believe GPU mining is a shared business between myself and my renters. They do all the work of finding coins to mine and taking the risk of holding or exchanging altcoins. My rigs are stable and work fine if I do not touch them. I operate headless Ubuntu Linux, with cgmon software to restart cgminer or the rig in the rare case of a sick GPU. I do not use LRP nor any other advanced feature of LeaseRig, because stability for my customer is the most important aspect of what I do.I never hear from my customers and have in those rare cases of an outage, cheefully doubled the lost time on the lease.I would not use a pool directly even if I could make more coins because I am paid in advance by LeaseRig in bitcoin. With a pool there is some uncertainty as to results and payment.I am your competition - and the customers' friend. Here is the same rally as viewed from Huobi, where zero-fee trading yields much more volume and liquidity. The smooth, monotonically ascending rally on this 3-minute chart, is evidence I think of a whale sized buy order being executed by a bot or manually in portions while waiting for asks to fill in. The large total order gets filled with less slippage given the timely arrival of new sellers.If a single large order did propel this impulse, then prices should begin a damped oscillation centered about 484 on Bitstamp. Alternatively, momentum traders could jump on board this short term rally. The upper resistance line goes all the way back to the November peak and that is the one with drama. The lower resistance line which has already been pierced, only goes back to April 16. The upper resistance line goes all the way back to the November peak and that is the one with drama. The lower resistance line which has already been pierced, only goes back to April 16. That is what I meant. My wife is so frugal that she hates to see those plastic cups thrown in the trash, which is an obvious waste because Austin does not make commercial recycling as easy as they do for households.I could go on and on ... There is long term drought in Central Texas, so I take a shower with a pail between my legs to catch water that she puts on our plants. She saves, washes and reuses those plastic forks and plates routinely thrown away where still works. And she does not really need to work anymore - but does not want to waste her time.Yep, on and on. I love her. That behavior will come in handy in a few years I think. I believe that GPU miners will migrate to Scrypt-N when other brands of scrypt-ASICs enter market this year making scrypt-mining forever unprofitable for GPU miners. Gridseed could lower their prices but their hashrates are not fast enough to dramatically raise difficulty.  Glad to share, even if you are merely an observer. Others reading this may consider what I say from a different viewpoint than yours. You must admit that algorithmic trading which utterly dominates large markets in almost every security is codified realtime technical analysis.The goal of my bitcoin TA is to manually and infrequently perform trades that enable me to gain more coin, not to increase my amount of fiat. A second goal is to understand the phase of the market and thus avoid making poor decisions based upon panic or mania.My most important bitcoin TA is calling the peak of a bubble. Using only historical price action I predict that a very good time to sell will be when the price appears to be doubling in approximately a week,i.e. the culmination of a super-exponential growth phase. There is academic research on the study of various bubbles to support this tactic. The peak is a good time to sell or spend bitcoin, either to take profit or to buy back later to increase the number of held coins.My second most important bitcoin TA determines a good place to buy, e.g. additional accumulation, or a buy-back from a previous sale, or otherwise a good time to postpone spending coin. Using data from the last two bubbles I predict a good time to buy is right now because the Log10 price deviation from the Logistic Model Log10 price trendline is -0.344, which is less than -0.3 limit that was a good point in the collapse of the June 2011 and April 2013 bubbles.The long term price trend, as measured by my model, is currently at $1057 and rising at more than $7 daily. This is a great comfort to me knowing that there should be a strong bias to return to the trend, and that affects my short term technical analysis described next.The most common technical pattern that I recognize in the historical price series is what I call a shock, conceptualized as a dampened oscillation. A positive or negative impulse exhausts the ask order book or bid order book respectively, to a certain depth depending upon the strength, i.e. volume of the move. The impulse is caused by what market microstructure theory dubs an informed trader, i.e. someone with a reason to trade. The other traders, dubbed uniformed traders, react to the impulse but lack the reason, and move price action back towards a central point. The oscillation is caused by market making activity in which mostly uninformed traders try to profit from each other based on differing notion of where the volume-weighed center is and whether it is likely that other informed traders will enter the market. According to the Wisdom of Crowds principle, the oscillations dampen in time. This sort of pattern is a fractal, meaning that it can occur over almost any time duration. Traditional chartists have named these patterns triangles, wedges and flags.I do not trade bitcoin on the short or medium term. Commissions at USD exchanges tilt the odds greatly in favor of the exchange. Market makers, employing algorithmic bots do much better when trading fees are zero - hence the tremendous volume on the many fiercely competitive Chinese exchanges having no trading fees.With only a mild degree of confidence, I predict the next bubble to peak this July-August at about $6000 and for prices to collapse in the fall to about $3000. When the next all time high occurs, I believe that I can improve this prediction with more confidence - using the date of the ATH alone as input.Here is my prediction for the next few weeks. We are at a dramatic situation from a technical point of view. The declining resistance line touches or nearly touches  the tops of a number of price waves in the dampened oscillation resulting from shock collapse from the bubble peak in November. I will use a long duration chart with one-week candles to illustrate the point . . .When I look at the above chart, I conceptualize the price as having bounced away from the drawn resistance line. There are of course assorted external or fundamental causes for each of the price moves, but TA abstracts all that away with the presumption that the price and volume indirectly incorporate that knowledge via the trading behavior of the participants who perceived that information and took action.The drama is occurring because most of the technical chartists, and I too, believe that the bubble collapse bottom occurred on April 10 at $339. And therefore the drawn line of resistance must be broken through on the trajectory to the next much higher bubble peak. The price could bust through in a strong impulse, or could continue sideways in what chartists call a channel. Here is a close up of the drama, using a 12-hour candlestick resolution . . .The upper drawn resistance line is the same as from the first chart. I have drawn a low-confidence support line to show how the price future path is constrained to bounce back and forth in a dampened oscillation centered at $424. I say low-confidence because the central tendency could very well be some other price points where trading occurred over a period long enough to convince traders that the particular price was fair considering what they knew of the situation.It is important in my analysis to presume that the bottom is behind us. Because it matters less which particular lilne of support is drawn - any of them that I would draw force a convergence in the month of May. Which comes to my short term price predictions . . .1. Presuming the bottom is behind us. the price will never again go below $339.792. By the end of May the price will be higher than the drawn resistance line, namely above $424.3. In the month before the new bubble begins, prices will rise on average $7 per day.
The Assumptions of the Logistic ModelThe sound math of the logistic model rests on a foundation of assumptions the validity of which we can only guess at.Here are the notable assumptions of the model to ponder . . .Whether Bitcoin succeeds or fails is a binary decision. It either completely takes over the existing fiat system and therefore becomes extremely valuable, or it utterly fails to do so and its value becomes zero. This opinion is widely held and makes sense - winner takes all, so to speak.The behavior of those who learned about Bitcoin already and adopted it, indicates the likely behavior of those who have not yet learned about Bitcoin and may adopt it. Works so far.Despite the presence of serial price bubbles, the average price trend can be modeled as a logistic adoption of technology. Never been tried before. Academic financial literature makes no connection between technology adoption and a price series.The maximum price at full adoption is one million USD. This is the weakest assumption of the model. We could possibly be past the halfway point of adoption now - but I think that is unlikely. Indeed, I can make a weird argument based on the quantity of transactions and Metcalfe's Law that the maximum price could be way, way higher - which the average price of bitcoin would reach by continuing to increase 10x per year until say 2020 should that be the halfway point of adoption. Very hard to believe but the math says so.The logistic model has two other parameters that I fit by hand to make the average trend line fit the price series. This is a weak assumption because there is no math to support it. It very well could be the case that the data series is not long enough to see the true trend. Had I constructed this model in 2011 that is the mistake that I would have made. Only time will tell - perhaps another year to gain more confidence in the hand-fit model parameters. Oh it gets better. The sound math of the logistic model rests on a foundation of assumptions the validity of which we can only guess at.Here are the notable assumptions of the model to ponder . . .Whether Bitcoin succeeds or fails is a binary decision. It either completely takes over the existing fiat system and therefore becomes extremely valuable, or it utterly fails to do so and its value becomes zero. This opinion is widely held and makes sense - winner takes all, so to speakThe behavior of those who learned about Bitcoin already and adopted it, indicates the likely behavior of those who have not yet learned about Bitcoin and may adopt it. Works so far.Despite the presence of serial price bubbles, the average price trend can be modeled as a logistic adoption of technology. Never been tried before. Academic financial literature makes no connection between technology adoption and a price series.The maximum price at full adoption is one million USD. This is the weakest assumption of the model. We could possibly be past the halfway point of adoption now - but I think that is unlikely. Indeed, I can make a weird argument based on the quantity of transactions and Metcalfe's Law that the maximum price could be way, way higher - which the average price of bitcoin would reach by continuing to increase 10x per year until say 2020 should that be the halfway point of adoption. Very hard to believe but the math says so.The logistic model has two other parameters that I fit by hand to make the average trend line fit the price series. This is a weak assumption because there is no math to support it. It very well could be the case that the data series is not long enough to see the true trend. Had I constructed this model in 2011 that is the mistake that I would have made. Only time will tell - perhaps another year to gain more confidence in the hand-fit model parameters. I am sure now that you would get along great with my wife. She likes the sort of place that lets you bring back the plastic cup from last time to use for ice tea. Ha. I am allowed some pocket petty cash by the fiscal guardian of our household. I could spend it secretly on a variety of legal petty vices, or fast food and such outside my meal plan.But I am putting every last buck into my local Robocoin ATM. Virtue feels good - no hangover, no bad buzz headache, no overstuffed greasy food feeling. Just saying. You know, one of the mind-bending aspects of the Bitcoin Economy is the notion that merely by postponing spending, you become wealthier. Most observers would say that your plans are not virtuous, in fact they are vices by the very definition of vice.I am curious to know to what extent you actually execute your plan - which I think will be an option in 2015. I have an hypothesis, without evidence so far, that the Bitcoin Economy encourages virtuous economic behavior, especially saving.I propose that you consider postponing your binge for 12 additional months, so that your coin will be valued at $100,000 each, and in that time you may have matured sufficiently to spend more wisely - for example helping your loved ones. I love the flood of endorphins during the weeks of bitcoin bubble mania.The crashes, paradoxically have never hurt, as I have always been mining, earning or buying coins during the bottoms. +1 Awesome. Totally Awesome. I shall look into helping out those developers. We are well below 1% in my opinion. Transaction quantity growth is 3.2x annually so it will take several more years to exceed the reported current quantity of worldwide credit card transactions - 6000x in total. In the below S-Curve chart from my million dollar model, you cannot even see the difference between the price and the horizontal axis. Thanks for bringing this chart to my attention. I shall add it to the top post of my logistics model thread. In this 12-hour Bitstamp chart, I moved the support trend line down to $470, which does not change my biased expectation of a sideways or upside breakout through the long term resistance trend line - within 30 days. Supposing that support holds at 480 through the lower volume weekend, the declining resistance trend line from the November 2013 peak becomes close enough to the support that there could be a breakout next week - resuming the rally I am biased to expect, because many share the belief that the bottom of the previous bubble collapse is behind us.Here is the 12 hour chart extended in to the next couple of weeks. In the USA, the Securities and Exchange Commission compels every securities marketing text to include this warning. Indeed there is relevant academic research to show that winners in a particular time period are less likely than average to be winners in the subsequent time period.Yet common sense reveals the defect in your reasoning. Supposing you were given a choice of buying one of two retail store chains. Company A has a history of closing stores and losing money, and company B has a history of opening stores and making money. Which company would you prudently buy? The one whose price chart is falling or the one whose price chart is rising? A weaker form of your argument I could agree with . . .Past performance is not indicative of future results, given that the conditions that led to the past performance have changedCharting in particular and technical analysis in general, seeks to quantify human emotion, and the algorithms of trading bots that create and reverse price trends. This notion is sufficient to rebut your point, but there is more.Long term Bitcoin charting works in the same way that I can predict the received luminosity of a certain candle at 10 meters by charting the luminosity at various lesser distances from the candle. There is an underlying mechanical principal involved and charting finds the parameters of the model.For long term bitcoin price charting, the principal is the incremental temporal spread of a disruptive technology, starting a zero adoption and culminating at full adoption by the population of those who are ever going to use bitcoin - and recognizing that there is a population of those who will never ever use bitcoin. The latter we do not care about.I, for one, am a proud chartist. That is a comfort. Thanks. Corsair 1200AX. Long modular cables, enough to hook up 3 300w cards each and powered PCI risers. Would you agree that Elliott Wave counts as you recognize them indicate a completion of the November 2013 bubble collapse? How about donating a 0.1 BTC each year instead? You might be surprised at the result and the good it would do. And here is the confirming chart of the adjusted number of bitcoin transactions. I say "confirming" because the price reversed from the recent bottom shortly before the transaction quantity did the same. Revisiting the trendline that I last posted, we see that the recent news about Chinese exchanges has conveniently stopped the rally short term at about the 550 resistance point. Because I believe that we are now between the bottom of the November 2013 bubble and the beginning of the next bubble, I am biased to expect that prices will move sideways through the resistance before resuming the rally.   Yeah, when alone I allow myself to think that it is my financial genius - not! But the reality is that frugality, compound interest, e.g. stocks, bonds, income-producing real estate, and the simple passage of time are sufficient. That is the message of the mentioned book. Bitcoin will disrupt my lifestyle to the extent that it disrupts the legacy financial infrastructure.
Yeah, that book fits me and my wife like a stereotype except that we are better educated than most no-competition small business owners that the book discusses. I laughed out loud when I read the part that those sorts of people have very frugal wives - coupon clippers, buys used cars, reads every receipt, argues every bad bill, questions the husband's every purchase, etc.  At a minimum, being anonymous is good, e.g. hiding in plain sight. I am years away from the problem anyway. Ah yes, but my wife and I share a frugal lifestyle that belies what we can already afford. A lifetime of virtuous, unrelenting frugality does not prepare one for the sort of upheaval I foresee coming for me.Supposing that we are three years away from the half way point of adoption, then there will be over ten thousand new bitcoin millionaires and tens of bitcoin billionaires - rpietila notably among them. Part of the mind-bending part of getting bitcoin, as in understanding it, is realizing how many folks around the world will have sudden wealth, and ten times more each year until . . . http://www.complex.com/pop-culture/2009/07/curse-of-the-lotto-how-the-millions-can-ruin-livesThe gravest danger from sudden wealth, e.g. 1000x your current net worth, is how unprepared one could be with regard to the safety of the household and loved ones. We take for granted the enormous amount of security provided by simple anonymity when living in a developed country with an average amount of cash.Here in Austin however, we have a world famous billionaire Michael Dell. From a distance I have seen a couple of his estates which are patrolled by private, armed guards. There is no way that Mr. Dell or his family could enjoy the sights and street life like I can. So much of what I enjoy about life would be interrupted if everyone stared at me in public, or my bodyguards, or my armored car. What of all the beggars and solicitors that would seek my attention?I need great wealth to fund greater goals and am old enough that the majority of my happy ordinary life is behind me. If I must move away from my less-than-secure but lovely and loving neighborhood to a compound, so be it, and live with guards, so be it. But I know that my dear wife will never be as happy and will blame me for the rest of my life when she fully realizes what I have done by simply holding on to bitcoin.  . . . To The GraveThis is why this classic thread is classic. Some folks eventually read all the posts from start to end. I did.I believe this particular meme is better posted during the mania phase of a bubble, in which prices typically double in a week. Ha. Our log trend models predict an average price of $100k per bitcoin in about 18 months. What difference does 12 months make when it comes to ruining people's lives? Agreed that sidechain-enabling merged mining is a key development. I anticipate that Vertcoin could have it before the slow moving and cautious Bitcoin Core developers get convinced to implement it.Sidechains add value to the main blockchain as coins must be purchased from the main chain in order to support the economic activities that justify the side chain. Vertcoin should encourage as many sidechains as possible, as they can individually fail without directly affecting the main chain. Furthermore Vertcoin pool operators must be somehow motivated to perform merged mining of each sidechain. This would most likely be done by sufficient Vertcoin transaction fees or direct payments to pools from sidechain owners. This new income would then flow down to miners from the participating Vertcoin pools.There is a big first mover advantage to enabling sidechains - I think. It depends on the degree of accuracy.In contrast to your point of view, I have intensely studied bitcoin bubbles, personally experienced watching all of them in real time, developed a trading heuristic, and located academic research to support my tactic. Only when a significant proportion of speculators adopt this tactic will bubbles cease to characterize bitcoin prices.Bubble peaks in general and bitcoin bubble peaks in particular have the property of super-exponential price acceleration up to the peak. On a linear price chart this feature is lost in the general parabolic appearance of the price line. But on a log chart, super-exponential growth is obvious because it curves upwards.When the bubble starts, I keep track of how long it takes for prices to double. It is astounding what a brief time that can be. In the great June 2011 bubble, prices doubled from 15 to 32 in five days. In April 2013, prices doubled from 130 to 260 in seven days. And in November 2013, prices doubled from 400 to 800 in six days.My peak timing heuristic is this . . . When the price looks to double within the following week, then that is a good time to place a spread of sell orders centered on twice the current price. The price doubling times get shorter as the peak approaches. From the preceding low there have been typically three or more price doublings to the peak. The academic research on bubbles notes that the super-exponential price growth is self-reinforcing yet unsustainable, and that is why my heuristic works.If enough speculators make this sort of trade, then the bubble peak will be lower and the subsequent bottom will likewise be higher than it otherwise would be as previously sold bitcoin is bought back. Peter_R has discovered evidence that Metcalfe's Law applies to Bitcoin - which I comment about here . . .Metcalfe's Law Explains 10x Price Growth Vs. 3.2x Transaction Quantity Growth In contrast to mass conventional wisdom, I believe that owning a single bitcoin will rapidly become impossible for the average person in a developed country. Prices have been increasing on average 10x per year, and according to a logistic model of bitcoin adoption that I maintain, that astounding rate of increase will continue year by year until the half way point of adoption, at which the rate of increase rapidly diminishes.Anyone here should have some idea how far, far away we are from the half way point of adoption. Assume some portion of transacting entities, i.e. persons, businesses and governments, will ever use bitcoin - and some portion never will. How many years will it take for the former portion to have half its members adopt bitcoin?I believe the average person in this world having a single bitcoin will be among the wealthy persons in their respective city. It is difficult to imagine such a situation given the current price of a bitcoin - yet the great temptation will be to spend it too soon, i.e. within four years of purchase. Actually in recent days, there has been much more emphasis on charts and such than was the case before. In my opinion,the main issue to be resolved was - is the bottom of the November 2013 bubble behind us, or is another leg downward ahead of us? The preponderance of technical evidence debated here - is that the bottom was at $339 on April 10 using prices reported by Bitstamp. Furthermore, there are corporate entities holding lots of working capital and otherwise spare cash that will get allocated into Bitcoin - which can readily be spent or sold for fiat. Apple, while not currently friendly to bitcoin, has $150 billion in cash and short term securities, that I believe would be better allocated into bitcoin as a deflating store of value. These are the sort of late-adopting entities that will push bitcoin values into what only can be dreamed about today. I believe that Peter R today pointed out the value of contributing to the community.  The Wisdom of Crowds. I keep count from 2010 - therefore 5 years. Satoshi mined a million coins on several computers in 2009 while alpha testing the Bitcoin network, but I do not count that year. +1You know, at one time this classic thread would be bumped by old hands as a way to sarcastically deflate the manic enthusiasm during a bubble run up. But now, when we are already past the once unsurpassable milestones of $100 and $1000, and can reasonably project $10000+ in 2015, the awe and wonder expressed by the OP are taken more seriously. And this is a good thing.  This whole thread and this graph in particular are inspired by our Finnish Friend. Thanks for elegantly stating what my intuition over several years has suggested that I do. The log10 trendline is rising at about $7 daily. In contrast to your view, I believe that bitcoin prices rise at that rate until resistance at $800 is reached. After bumping against that for awhile, the next bubble will get going in earnest.From the current situation, I project the next bubble to peak in July-August at about $6000 and collapse through the end of the year at $3000. The bubble beyond that would occur in 2015 - I think.  Log10 Differences From the Logistic Model TrendlineI added a column to the calculations sheet of the Bitcoin Logistic Model. This column subtracts the Log10 model price from the Log10 actual price. By using Log10, the result allows comparison of the relative price deviation from the trend regardless of the time frame. Buy, sell and hold technical indicators could be extracted from the data for the April 2013 and November 2013 bubbles that would be very useful assuming that the next bitcoin price bubble is similar in shape to the previous two. For example, suppose a value of +0.3 indicates an opportunity to sell near the bubble high, -0.3 indicates an opportunity to sell near the bubble low, and other values indicate hold. Buy October 26, 2012 at $10Sell April 5, 2013 at $140Buy October 3, 2013 at $110Sell November 22, 2013 at $743Buy April 1, 2014 at $478
Here is a chart illustrating the Log10 delta of actual bitcoin price from my manually-fitted logistic model trendline. Rpietila has been discussing Log10 deviation from the Log10 trend as an indicator for buy, sell or hold. It is clear from the chart how such limits could be derived from the April 2013 and November 2103 bubbles.  Suppose rpietila's formula was amended to yield zero in the case that the prediction is within the range. Then your offered counterexample fails. Did you have others that would prove the amended scoring formula invalid?Note, to anyone interested, that the reduction of the price to log10 form allows the predictions to be compared on widely differing timescales, in which price values might be 10x larger or smaller. rpietila has been talking about deviation from the log10 trendline in terms of these log10 deltas. Accordingly, I added a column to my own logistic model of bitcoin prices which produces this log10 delta for each day's data that I record.https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0ArD8rjI3DD1WdFIzNDFMeEhVSzhwcEVXZDVzdVpGU2c Assume that the Bitcoin blockchain protocol is slightly modified to support sidechains, i.e. merged mining of sidechain blockchains. To the extent that interoperability and value exchange closely couple a sidechain peer network to the Bitcoin network, your results indicate that it would be better for developers to build new features as a sidechain rather than as an altcoin.http://letstalkbitcoin.com/blockchain-2-0-let-a-thousand-chains-blossom/#.U04XsR__5k8 ResignationYet another sentiment data point that we leaving the bottom of the November bubble collapse.  Ah. The beauty of zero-fee trading and plenty of market making algorithmic bots to add liquidity. Some day a US based bitcoin exchange may get a clue. At the moment, China is just waking up and volume is smoothly climbing on Huobi's 30 minute chart as displayed at Bitcoin Wisdom. On the daily Bitstamp chart, $550 appears to be the trend line of resistance. Here is the Blockchain adjusted transaction quantity chart, for 180 days using the 7-day moving average. The rightmost 4 days appear to confirm the reversal of the price trend. Thanks. I ordered it. It may be helpful in my work observing the bitcoin price data series. My own trading, if any, is limited to selling at the bubble peak and buying back later. I am very happy making small almost daily purchases from my nearby Robocoin ATM, when the price is below the trendline. Wisdom of Crowds theory says that the average of our guesses should be more accurate than any single guess. This should be a motivation for us to contribute our predictions regardless of our self-supposed expertise.What I would add to your thinking is to distinguish bubbles as the chief bitcoin price phenomenon.Furthermore, I suggest a survey in addition to particular predictions. Survey data to be gathered would include . . . whether the participant agrees that there are bubbleswhat is the current bubble phase, i.e. pre-peak, post-peak, pre-bottom, post-bottomwhat is the predicted time to the next bubble phasepeak price of the next peakmonth of the next peakprice of the next post-peak bottommonth of the next post-peak bottomyear during which 50% adoption occursIf there is no better place, I would conduct such a survey each month on my logistic price model thread. Bitcoin logistic model for 1 million USD maximum price . . .https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0ArD8rjI3DD1WdFIzNDFMeEhVSzhwcEVXZDVzdVpGU2c Sidechains from the Bitcoin blockchain are very interesting.http://letstalkbitcoin.com/blockchain-2-0-let-a-thousand-chains-blossom/#.U0w8Eh__5k8We have known for a while that Bitcoin is more than a deflating store of value, and more than an efficient peer to peer payment mechanism. We have known that Bitcoin is a disruptive technology platform. Sidechains, as I understand them, are merged mined with a slightly modified Bitcoin protocol that permits two-way pegging to Bitcoin. The only coins mined are the Bitcoins mined by Bitcoin miners, and any bitcoin can be purchased into a sidechain where they are stored until such time as they may be sold back into the Bitcoin blockchain to again become available for ordinary bitcoin transactions. Each of many potential sidechains motivates Bitcoin miners to merge mine a certain sidechain by way of sufficient transaction fees - the Bitcoin reward, and fixed 21 million limit, are left alone. Sidechains are isolated from the Bitcoin blockchain, and are likely to be less conservative than, and more innovative than Bitcoin.Sidechains seeking bitcoin will have to outbid other users, and therefore prices will rise should sidechains gain acceptance. Altcoins do not have the interoperability offered by sidechains, and most distinguishing features of altcoins could be implemented as a sidechain, e.g. very fast transaction confirmation, micro payments, etc.It is hard to see how Bitcoin could be superseded, but is it is obvious that Bitcoin is a flexible platform for building upon. It is pragmatic to set aside conventional wisdom, but not mathematics, when analyzing the adoption of an unprecedented disruptive financial technology.For example, nothing we ever experienced would help us understand the future value of a deflating currency. The price series suggests that given a fixed limit of 21 million bitcoins, the value will continue to trend higher as it has done in the past. Mathematics and statistical evidence of adoption rates may allow us to recognize the halfway point of adoption as it happens, at which point the exponential rate of price increase will rapidly diminish.Those who wait for bitcoin price increases to be guaranteed will be very late adopters. The next bubble could peak this July-August at $6000, collapsing to $3000 through year end. The 2015 trendline ends that year at $88000.My model . .  .https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0ArD8rjI3DD1WdFIzNDFMeEhVSzhwcEVXZDVzdVpGU2c I have been watching the adjusted transaction quantities reported by Blockchain.info for a reversal. I believe price is leading transaction quantity, to the extent that price and transaction quantity are weakly independent. There is a hint now of a reversal to confirm what we have seen in price action for a few days.https://blockchain.info/charts/n-transactions-excluding-popular?showDataPoints=true&timespan=30days&daysAverageString=1&scale=1&address=Chart display options include a 7 day average, and also a longer duration of data. I also hate the capcha. As computer AI gets better at correctly recognizing the obfuscated characters, the challenge becomes correspondingly more difficult. It is impossible for me to log in on my mobile for example.Please make it an option that I can turn off. According to trendlines published here and elsewhere, the recent bitcoin price was so far beneath the trend that simply the absence of bad news was probably enough for a short-covering rally. Bitcoin Rallies Over 10 Percent, OKCoin to Launch ATM The bitcoin price weekly candlestick chart is now showing a nice hammer, which often occurs at a bottom. Not a certainty of course, but comforting for those expecting a trend reversal from the bubble collapse. The bubble collapse low last July 2013 at $61 was characterized by a hammer.   At the moment you have $23 per bitcoin unrealized gains.Your insights and open discussion of your whale sized trading are of course commendable. No other whale is so transparent. I am glad that this forum permitted you to find sellers at $400 off exchange.I hope you gain as much from this forum as we others gain knowledge from you. This is a very interesting idea, modelling bitcoin market capitalization rather than price. I maintain a logistic model of price that I can adapt for market cap. Did you estimate the historical data series for the number of circulating bitcoins, or is this available for download somewhere?I am currently away from home and will not return until Monday, at which point I will continue buying fractional coin from my local bitcoin ATM.  
Is China leading this move? Huobi is at 411.39 and Bitstamp at 425. Very interesting.I suppose that when you say the historical distribution of log returns, you mean without regard to phase of the bubble cycle. Right?If that is what you did, then perhaps by analyzing each of the previous bubbles you could obtain 10 deciles by partitioning each bubble. Then you could run ten times your existing simulation on each of the 10 decile's distribution.My own projection of future bitcoin price possibilities heavily depends upon guessing where we are in the bubble cycle. Because I think we are near a bottom, I expect much higher prices this summer as a result.I can think of a complication or two fitting the deciles, so if that is something that you have no interest in doing, then I have the data to perform a stochastic monte carlo simulation myself.  I use client side certificates in my peer to peer research. I set up my own X.509 certificate server that creates certificates for one-time download to the client. I like SSL/TLS, but use it what I believe is a more secure fashion than just having a certificate on the server. Futhermore, SSL/TLS allows negotiation of the encryption protocol, which can be quite strong. This is concrete evidence that Scrypt-ASICs will soon force GPU miners over to Scrypt-N, X11, or some other ASIC-resistant algorithm. Imagine how low miaviator could price his ASIC rigs and still cover his power cost. Wobber, what happened in the four years that you have been a member of this forum that made you so bitter? According to your posting history, in 2010 you were in a position to buy 50 thousand bitcoin - and if in fact you did so and held on to them until today, the coins would be worth a total of 22 million USD ! This is so true.Gox killed the big bubble back in 2011. Gox had DDoS issues in the collapse of the April 2013 bubble, and then went insolvent in the collapse of the November 2013 bubble. Now that Gox is gone, there will be other factors to explain future bubble collapses.  djeZo, thanks for creating LeaseRig - where I am a provider approaching 1000 hours leased.Please convince me how it would be better for me to follow you over to NiceHash. In particular, my tactic on LeaseRig is to be continuously leased. I set a price at or just above the best offer and only allow 72 hour rentals. If no one rents my rig in 30 minutes or so, then I take the highest offer for 72 hours.This tactic works, because the best offer has always been better than what I could otherwise obtain at Wafflepool, TradeMyBit, or Clevermining, which have been my back up pools.Another issue is the mining algorithm. I have 3 GPU rigs, and for well known reasons best argued elsewhere, I will not buy ASIC rigs. Therefore I will be compelled to migrate to Script-N or some other ASIC-resistant mining algorithm. There are no Scrypt-N offers posted at LeaseRig yet, but there is sufficient activity on Betarigs for Script-N that I believe the Scrypt-N coin universe is growing - led by Vertcoin.Comments? I believe that you are right about queues at the Bitcoin ATM. We have three in Austin and when I make my almost daily purchase of some fractional coin - there is no one else there.Initial enrollment the Robocoin ATM system took me 5 minutes, and that process will create the queues for new users who have no idea how to use one. Routine purchases I have timed and they take 70-90 seconds - which includes stuffing in a few bills. By time I arrive back home, the coin has been confirmed into my hot wallet. Well, we providers are not a cartel taking turns with renters. My tactic is to keep three rigs continuously rented and build a long term relationship with my renter, who does all the work of finding coins to mine.I know that I will have to migrate my GPU rigs over to Scrypt-N because of Scrypt-ASICs now and coming. I await the presence of offers, i.e. bids, on the Scrypt-N side. Your point about pump and dump is correct - yet there is not much that we can do about it. If the Bitcoin Economy follows the classical S-Curve model of technology adoption, the sort of exponential grow we have seen in the past four years will continue at the same sort of exponential growth until the half-way point of adoption. After that point, exponential growth will rapidly decline.But how many more years will it take to reach the halfway point of adoption? I believe that we are three or four years away at least.There is plenty of time left for more bitcoin price bubbles. Well, one of the novel features of the Bitcoin Economy is that it is a deflating store of value. Everyone here knows that a maximum of 21 million bitcoins will ever be mined. That changes how one goes about spending bitcoin. Should I replace my old car now with a new car for 60 bitcoins, or should a postpone the purchase two years and buy the same sort of new car for 0.6 bitcoins? Easy decision - to postpone the purchase and become a bitcoin hoarder in the meantime. Deflation in the Bitcoin Economy is virtuous in that it encourages spending on what one really, really needs. No easy credit is available in the Bitcoin Economy. Why should someone loan me bitcoin for any long term, knowing that it is difficult to pay back the same amount of coin.As many have pointed out, and what I do myself as a bitcoin investor, is to spend coin daily on essentials and replenish those working funds from fiat - leaving my bitcoin hoard alone except for periodic sales at bubble peaks. A Metcalfe Law relationship has been discovered that links the quantity of bitcoin transactions with the bitcoin price. Therefore, it is advantageous for a bitcoin hoarder to create meaningful spending and receipt transactions that move the Bitcoin Economy forward.Bitcoin is both an efficient means of payment, and a deflating store of value. Thanks for an informative and entirely satisfying response.I will examine the fiat withdrawal limits at Bitstamp.  Risto, and others offering an opinion:I am confident that I can execute a spread of sell orders near the next bubble peak. My tactic is to judge the duration of the price doubling time, and if in my estimation the price is on track to double within the next week then that is a good time to sell. We may get a sort of double peak as in November 2013, and I would sell early accordingly. The buy back, again a spread, would take place some months later, or if there is a 50% retracement from my average sell order. Comments on this tactic would be welcome.Mainly I am interested in (1) what percentage of my holdings should be traded? (2) I do not trust Coinbase to execute the sale in a timely manner, so I am opening an account at Bitstamp - which I have plenty of time to completely verify. Would it be good practice to leave fiat at Bitstamp between the sell and buy-back? Otherwise I would open a new temporary US banking account to receive the large international wire transfer from Bitstamp. I am afraid that my bank would close my existing personal account upon receiving such a transfer.I am asking this forum for tactical advice because I do not trust myself in the mania phase of the bubble, and would risk too much. I can afford to lose everything, yet at $5000 or more per bitcoin expected at the next bubble peak - everything in my case would be a large sum.  Disenchantment.Yet another sentiment data point indicating that bitcoin is near the bottom. I believe that many folks will spend or exchange their holdings when they grow enough. I will, according Risto's savings plan. The logistic adoption trend line provided by my model of bitcoin adoption passes through $10000 on February 25, 2015.If the next bubble happens this summer as some observers project from simple assumptions, then I expect a peak at $6000, falling to $3000 in the bubble collapse during this fall. Therefore, I believe that the bitcoin price will exceed $10000 two bubbles from now, and that this year is the last one in which bitcoin may be easily purchased for less than $1000.https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0ArD8rjI3DD1WdFIzNDFMeEhVSzhwcEVXZDVzdVpGU2c  Additionally, a portion the GPU mining community is excited about ASIC-resistant algorithms such as Scrypt-N and X11. The point of such altcoins is to change the algorithm should an ASIC be developed that threatens GPU miners. Litecoin became the biggest altcoin because of the many GPU miners who wanted an ASIC-resistant algorithm, which Scrypt was at the time. With the expected domination of Litecoin mining by ASICs, the Litecoin devs are not going to change their algorithm, leaving a great opportunity for a more ASIC-resistant altcoin to supplant them. At least that is what I gather from the enthusiastic Vertcoin community on this forum.I have three GPU rigs that I lease in return for bitcoin payments. I will lease to what ever altcoin returns the best profit, and as long as my electric cost does not exceed earned bitcoin revenue. I believe that there is an indefinite future for GPU mining as long as the rig operator is flexible with regard to mining algorithm. As has been pointed out many times, ASICs eventually become junk, but GPUs keep going and can be resold to gamers instead of junked. I believe that the revised title would be less embarrassing should bitcoin indeed go to the moon on the next bubble, that many expect to occur this summer. At least half of the title would be somewhat true if Second Market opens a Wall Street style exchange for bitcoin.. My favorite thread to bump during a bubble mania is the classic . . .I am pretty confident we are the new wealthy elite, gentlemen.There is simply no pleasure in reminding folks of their bad decisions. Great. I agree with your point that Litecoin trading volume is surprisingly high.Interesting that by far the largest bubble on the current chart shows the LTC/CNY pair from OKCoin, but there is no data reported for the BTC/CNY pair. In contrast, BTC China shows over twice as much volume for the BTC/CNY pair than for the LTC/CNY pair.
Although I accept the arguments made against the altcoin industry, I am a participant in it by way of leasing 3 GPU mining rigs that are currently configured for the Litecoin-compatible Scrypt algorithm. The term of each lease is 72 hours and I get paid in bitcoin. I set the lease prices low enough to keep the rigs continually leased, and they remain slightly more profitable than using a multipool that automatically mines the most profitable altcoin and automatically sells the proceeds on an altcoin exchange for payment to me in bitcoin.  I would like an annual pass to Bitcoin ETPLand. In the collapse of the April 2013 bubble I felt strongly that the retracement would be deeper than it turned out to be, based upon the notion that the April 2013 bubble would be similar in shape to the great 2011 bubble. I felt very bad having fiat in my trading account when prices went up and I had to buy back higher. I resolved to never make that mistake again. Which made me pull all coin out of MtGox well in advance of their subsequent troubles.Better to be in bitcoin and watch prices go down, than to be in cash and watch prices go up - my experience. I have a logistic model of bitcoin adoption that suggests an expected price of $840,503 on July 1, 2017, if we stay on that trend line. Close enough?https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0ArD8rjI3DD1WdFIzNDFMeEhVSzhwcEVXZDVzdVpGU2c Well yes. The stuff I sold I do not need. I strongly believe that 2014 is the last year in which one may easily buy bitcoin for under $1000. Additionally, because I think bitcoin goes to 1 million USD in 2018, I simply add three zeros onto the coins' purchase price and imagine what that would buy only four years from now, e.g. a car in 2018 for a $40 today. Ha. I understand that when you said "I sold almost everything I have to defend that wall" you mean that you sold ordinary belongings for fiat and used that cash to buy bitcoin. Right?If so, then I have done something similar by selling an old gold bracelet for cash, then putting that cash into my local Robocoin ATM to buy bitcoin. I have been looking around the house for stuff I do not need anymore, but given my household's frugal lifestyle, there is not much left to sell. By agreement with my still skeptical wife, my bitcoin cold wallet and hot wallet are separate from our substantial retirement savings and real estate portfolio - so can't touch the latter. Interesting. My initial projection of the next bitcoin bubble peaks July-August and collapses by the fall. If indeed there is a summer bubble then no Wall Street ETF will fuel it. Does anyone have an idea when the BIT EFT will launch for the public? Is it true that Luke-jr killed at least one altcoin with a 51% attack? His SHA256 Eligius pool is ranked #4 in SHA256 hashpower. And he knows how to wreck a blockchain. Or is Luke Jr on board with you?  That's exactly right. Zero fee trading is a good thing. Slippage on an exchange occurs when a big order cannot be filled at the market price because of a lack of liquidity. Zero fee trading permits human market makers, and computer algorithm software, to supply bids and asks very near to the current market price. Zero fee trading means less slippage and a better experience for the informed traders, according to the theory of market microstructure. Many others share the belief that the Bitcoin Economy has a binary distribution with regard to probability of success. Either Bitcoin entirely replaces the existing legacy, pre-internet financial infrastructure, or it entirely fails to do so. Fortunately, if bitcoin prices go to zero, it would not be a life changing event for me. Rather I would simply commit all my freed up time to my research.For me Bitcoin is not the end, but the best means to an end. That is exactly how I feel - not worried at all and feeling more excited than anything! This next bubble will not be life-changing for me, as a lifetime of frugality, a good marriage, and compound interest have given me freedom for some years. But the bubble in 2015 will allow me to self-angel-fund my startup, and the bubble in 2016 will self-cover what would otherwise be VC round A. Exciting indeed. This particular store also has a Robocoin Bitcoin ATM in the lobby. There is always plenty of free parking outside. It is my favorite bitcoin ATM in Austin - where we have two others downtown where parking is not often convenient.I am not a gun enthusiast, but I love this store. I will be going there in the morning to buy more coin. Cultures have reified, i.e. named certain sized groups when that made sense to make conversation more concise. For example when I say a herd of cattle or a flock of birds, or a school of fish, you have a commonsense shared notion of how many individuals are in the group. Likewise, when I say a stack of dollars or a ton of gold, these group noun phrases suggest a certain quantity.Given that the value of bitcoin is not yet stable, I think that it is premature to look for the sort of collective crypto noun phrases you mention. However, I would like to have a phrase that encompasses what is vulgarly called Fuck You Money - which is the quantity of money that allows one the freedom to live without working for a boss. "shitload of coin""lot of coin""enough coin""frozen cold wallet of coin""Satoshi's lost stash of coin"... etc.If and when my power costs exceed my GPU rig leasing profits, then I will power off and buy coins with the the new found fiat that I would have otherwise spent on power. Bitcoin is stuff-like, like gold, in that any piece of bitcoin may be subdivided and the portions are still bitcoin. This argues for the collective noun of Bitcoin to be Bitcoin. However, Bitcoin is also a currency unit, such as the Euro or Dollar or Peso, and unlike gold. In the context of currency units, the collective noun of bitcoin is bitcoins.I go either way depending upon context. When I say I am going to buy some coin, I mean some under-specified amount of bitcoin that likely is a fraction of a BTC.Satoshi Nakamoto reasoned that miners would self-regulate in that when rewards were likely miners would add capacity, and when rewards were unlikely compared to costs, then miners would subtract capacity. I shut my GPU rigs off in 2011 in the face of ASICs and climbing difficulty and turned them back with additional capacity in December 2013. I may have to turn off my rigs again if profits continue to diminish - while waiting for the next bitcoin bubble. Here is my first projection of the next bubble . . . https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=366214.msg6027236#msg6027236The crucial, falsifiable, assumption is that the next bubble will be similar in shape to the previous two bubbles. My initial hand-projection of the previous two bubbles aligns the pre-peak bottoms. I assume that we are currently at the bottom of the November 2013 bubble collapse.If indeed the next bubble peaks in November, then I project the peak price to be $12000 or so. My favorite from 2011 . . . BCX, because I strongly believe that the next bitcoin bubble will occur this summer, I have postponed adding capacity to my GPU mining rigs - even though used equipment that meets my needs is now available for half the my cost two months ago. Rather, I have been buying coins at my local Robocoin ATM when I have the fiat cash, and also retaining the bitcoin profit that I get from leasing out my rigs. My plan is to spend coin when prices are some multiple of where they are now. Even if all the great deals vanish on Ebay, Craigslist, Amazon, etc., I still come out way ahead buying hardware during the bubble than at other times.Your thoughts? Anger. Negative sentiment prevails.Bottoms are characterized by a lack of buyers. I cannot imagine a situation that would induce you to buy more bitcoins. Yet that, I believe, is the wisest course of action. In the morning, when the store hosting my neighborhood Robocoin ATM opens, I will buy some more coin. Despair.Yet another sentiment data point indicating that we are near the bottom of this bubble collapse.
On the 6-hour chart there are more green candles at HuoBi. Interesting. Everyone is wondering if the bottom is behind us. Perhaps an example can illustrate the widely held truth about unprofitable mining. Suppose bitcoin cost $500 each and your power bill is $2000 per month. Suppose that mining at a certain difficultly yields 1 bitcoin earned per month.Then yes the 1 bitcoin earned per month will be very valuable at the peak of the next bubble - say $6000 per coin. By running the mining farm in this manner, you pay $1000 in electric cost, and earn 1 bitcoin currently worth $500. If you cash in at the peak of the bubble you net $6000 revenue minus cost of $1000 equals net profit of $5000 .But suppose you instead shut down the unprofitable rig and spend the $1000 of newly available funds on purchasing two bitcoin for $1000. If you cash these in at the peak of the bubble you net $12000 revenue minus the cost of coin of $1000 equals a net profit of $11000.This is why I always understand anyone who turns off their rigs.The best case for running an unprofitable mining rig is if circumstances prevent you from otherwise buying bitcoin on an exchange. This is exactly the situation in China where the government, seeking to control the value of Yuan, limits the transfer of funds outside of China by its citizens to only $50000 per year. This law may be circumvented by someone purchasing say $200000 worth of mining gear - which may not as easily be monitored by authorities, and running it even though unprofitable, in order to create bitcoin valued in excess of the legal limit that can be sent out of China via the Bitcoin network. Here is my first projection of what I think will be the next bubble this summer. Peaking at $6000 July-August, and collapsing to $3000 through the fall. The crucial assumption in my simple model is that the next bubble will be similar to the previous two. Summer 2014 Bitcoin Bubble - First Projection.I do not see an ounce of gold being worth $3000 anytime this year. Therefore no chance to gold to catch up according to their respective historical price trends. This.After a few months of stability and slightly rising prices - the first sign of a rally will cause the return of funds from those who cashed out the last rally, plus the inflow of funds from those who held off last time because they were too late. By the time we reach a new all time high the mass media will be more than ready to headline the rally - at which point 10x new investors enter the market.This phenomenon happened back in January-April 2013 and again in September-November 2013. I believe that the circumstances will be similar enough this summer to produce the same dramatic result.  See Summer 2014 Bitcoin Bubble - First Projection. I have trouble reading the prediction lines of this chart and wonder also how you timed the future bubbles. Based upon a simple projection of the past, and assuming that the next bubble is similar to the previous two, I expect a july-August bubble peaking at $6000 and collapsing through the fall to consolidate at about $3000. Summer 2014 Bitcoin Bubble - First Projection. I am continuing to buy fractional bitcoin daily, in accordance with this analysis. More precisely . . .According to the new Texas regulations, a bitcoin exchange like Bitstamp would be subject to money transmitter regulations because they handle fiat.A bitcoin exchange like Cryptsy would not be subject to money transmitter regulations because they do not handle fiat.A Robocoin ATM that merely fronts an exchange such as Bitstamp would be subject to money transmitter regulations.A Robocoin ATM that operates out of the owner's hot wallet would not be subject to money transmitter regulations even if the hot wallet is automatically recharged from Bitstamp.Texas State is a thought leader with respect to financial regulations - Yay Texas!"What Starts Here Changes The World" Looking for the exits.Yet another negative sentiment indicating that bitcoin is nearing the bottom of the November 2013 bubble.I have been steadily buying fractional coin from my local Robocoin ATM. Should bitcoin crash down to say $380 as some envision, then I would be happily be buying more.My GPU mining rigs are currently leased to scrypt-miners. New scrypt ASICs will make me migrate to scrypt-N by this fall I think. Supposing that the next bitcoin bubble begins this summer and that it is similar to the previous two bubbles, then I expect altcoin prices to follow bitcoin upwards after the rally is obvious. In the months between now the rally, high-cost GPU miners will power down and await the rally. Miners are very likely to be postponing hardware purchase with coin as perhaps 5x more mining hardware can be purchased with the same held coin when coin values again dramatically rise.When the next rally does occur, and maybe at the tail end of the rally in fall 2014, new scrypt ASICs will forever push scrypt coin difficulty out of reach for GPU miners. I continue to rent my GPU rigs to scrypt miners at low profit, and I am awaiting a more developed scrypt-N rig leasing demand before I switch over. Perhaps the captcha images have become more difficult in the face of improved AI character recognition bots. What I did was to refresh the captcha image ten or so times until I found an obvious one. I also tried the audio version which was sometimes easier - but slower. Physical stores enjoy the same cost savings that online stores gain via bitcoin. However, online stores must overcome privacy and identity theft issues that customers are more likely to associate with them. Consequently, as trust in the bitcoin payment method attaches itself to online stores, then indeed a barrier to online sales growth diminishes.I believe global GDP growth will accelerate as bitcoin adoption removes the immense friction caused by the current financial infrastructure and reallocates the 10% of the developed nations' workforce who maintain that legacy. Fixed as you suggested - my fault for using the wrong password. Thanks!! My user id is SlipperySlope. The login page would not accept the password you emailed me. Furthermore I could not open a support ticket because  that form said that my email address was invalid - yet it was the same one that your system used to notify me.Whats up? Perhaps the probability distribution is unknowable without a complete model of human economic behavior.But its clear that the distribution has been moving away from the zero probability as evidence of adoption accumulates. I suppose that there is a correlation between speculators' perception of the distribution and the current price. Periodic surveys of the general population in accordance with the wisdom of crowds might also give some insight into changes in the shape of the distribution over time.Another aspect of the distribution is that informed analysts suggest that the distribution is bimodal, in that its supposed to be very likely that either (1) bitcoin price goes to zero, or (2) bitcoin price goes very high. Maybe as we get closer to the halfway point of adoption, expectations of the general population will tip towards (2). There are three Robocoin ATMs installed in Austin Texas. The closest to me is about a kilometer away. Just today I made another Bitcoin purchase from it. It took 90 seconds from start to finish.I enter my mobile number, enter my PIN, put my hand on the palm reader, scan my QR code for the receiving Bitcoin address, take a paper ticket, then insert fiat bills, then receive a receipt. 10 minutes later the transaction is confirmed and present in my Blockchain.info hot wallet.Robocoin ATMs recognize me, complying with US AML/KYC laws, so there is no need for an attendant.The fees are higher than Coinbase, but I prefer supporting my local Bitcoin economy. Check OKCoin in China. http://www.crunchbase.com/company/okcoin Just suppose . . .If all the world's currencies and bank accounts were replaced with bitcoin, then an implied price of bitcoin is determined by dividing M2 by the number of bitcoin available for transactions. It is assumed here that 80% of bitcoin will used as a relatively permanent store of value.Coinbase has found that about 80 percent of its bitcoin wallet customers are viewing bitcoin as an investment.         Code:$61,000,000,000,000 world monetary base M2   20,500,000         estimated maximum bitcoins - 21M less those lost   20%                 estimated fraction of bitcoin available for transactions   $14,878,049         implied price per bitcoin       The Bitcoin Wiki has a good article and discussion on scalabiity that addresses the issue to my satisfaction.https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Talk:Scalabilityhttps://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Scalability Fear.Yet another sign we are near the bottom of this bubble collapse cycle. As for me, I am going to stuff some more fiat bills into my local Robocoin ATM today. Despair.Yet another sign we are close to the bottom of this bubble collapse cycle. A sad fact of the Bitcoin Economy's trajectory to completely replace the existing financial infrastructure is the repeated bubble phenomenon. 10x more new investors enter during the mania phase of the bubble. How many can withstand a drop of 75% from peak to trough?Back in the summer of 2011, it was the worst. We saw prices go from 32 to 3 in successive painful capitulations. I expect that future bubble collapses will not be as painful as the past, when US retirement funds, pension funds, and other long-term wealth get allocated to future Bitcoin exchange traded funds.As for me, I will be making another visit to my local Robocoin ATM, happily stuffing some fiat bills into it for what I think is bargain priced coin.  Not really, this sort of marketplace mechanism has also been used to control pollution. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Emissions_trading
I suppose that a financial treaty between a sufficient number of developed countries could establish a mining pool cartel. The cartel would consist of a majority of the current mining pool incumbents. Cryptographic virtual medallions would be one-time generated and sold to the cartel. Each such virtual medallion would give the bearer the legal right to consume a certain amount of electric power for the purpose of mining bitcoin. The virtual medallions would be treated as property and could be sold. Furthermore, they could be somehow combined and divided by some mathematical mechanism.The treaty would specify the total amount of power that could be spent worldwide for Bitcoin mining. The free market would allow the exchange of virtual medallions from one mining pool to another. I think that this could be done without forking the blockchain, provided that another shared database contains the cryptographic proof that a coinbase block was signed by a certain virtual medallion.There are likely loose ends and various faults with this scheme, but the main idea is similar to how New York City controls the number and profitability of its taxi cabs. Because a small number of mining pools effectively control bitcoin, I believe they could reject as invalid any new blocks created outside of this medallion process. Those big farms are likely running at a loss right now, considering the need to continually upgrade their hashing power. Cheap power cost does not solve this major problem of Bitcoin ASIC mining.But even if miners are better off in the long run simply buying and holding bitcoin, they are still better off mining compared to conventional business investment because the next bubble will vastly increase the value of any coins they have not yet exchanged, thus ensuring that if they can hold on, they will prosper. I understand for example that the operator of the US Washington State bitcoin ASIC farm has a personal holding of over 1000 BTC. Sure technical analysis could be performed on a linear chart, but then all the trend lines added the chart by the analyst would have to be exponential and no tool I know can do that. I suggest that linear charts are best used for brief time frames, e.g. days, in which the exponential curves are flatter, and might effectively be ignored. Now I am seeing what the rest of you are . . . I am watching both Huobi and Bitstamp on Bitcoin Wisdom. The Chinese are driving prices lower and Bitstamp is following. It has been reported that certain exchanges have indeed been notified by their respective banks that accounts used to receive customer deposits must be closed.On Bitstamp, the price is currently $431.76 which is a lower low than a few days ago. Big red candle on the 6 hour chart. I am on my way to the local Robocoin ATM to put a few more fiat bills into it. Thanks to you all, I have a better understanding of the theoretical relationship between bitcoin transaction quantity and price. Consequently, I have started watching even more closely the Blockchain.info chart that best illustrates the recent data.Note that reported transaction quantity has been declining starting in March. I wonder which data series will reverse trend upwards first - transaction quantity or price? I have thought about the proportion of transacting bitcoins vs the held-in-storage bitcoins. Coinbase reported that approximately 80% of their customers were buy-and-hold. The proportion I think is important when trying to figure out a maximum value of bitcoin. But your graph neatly sidesteps the issue because the shape of the function is independent of any consistent adjustment of the bitcoin quantity available for transactions. Right? I currently lease my GPU rigs to scrypt miners, but have been considering Scrypt-N because of the competing ASIC rigs expected this year.Its interesting that in recent days, scrypt-N coins have been dominating the Coinwarz profitability chart, when I enter Scrypt-N hashing rate that corresponds to what has been reported for my type of GPU cards. I recall the term time sharing being widely used especially in the 1960's and early 1970's. One of the ways I spend bitcoin is to buy gift cards from Gyft or Giftcard Zen. Unfortunately the coins get converted into fiat right away and my subsequent use of the gift card at, for example, Amazon does not add to the Bitcoin economy. I expect that as the Bitcoin economy grows, business to business bitcoin transactions will also grow enough to keep the flow going once a merchant receives my coin. I have not used them much because my trading is very coarse grained. Back in April 2013, which was my best trade, I set a spread of sell orders as the prices appeared to double in the week leading up the peak. This was at Mt. Gox. Most of the sell orders got filled, I did not know where the first pullback would exactly be - who could - but I spread my buy-back orders around $120 which was a 50% retracement from $240 which was the last time I could reliably place an order on Gox that near the peak.Bitcoin Wisdom has a lovely Fibonacci line drawing feature that I may further explore. And I have come to depend on BitDreams' charts posted occasionally in this thread. Guilty as charged. The logistic model is hand fit according to my guess as to a maximum price value of one million USD, and my placement of the two previous bubbles into the future is biased by the supposition that the next bubble will be very similar to the previous two bubbles.I have an undergraduate degree in applied mathematics, which gives me a certain comfort with numbers. I last traded bitcoin back in the summer of 2013, mistiming the exact bottom and paying for it when I bought back in. My timing of the two previous bubble peaks has been satisfactory however, and I am considering a trade off the next bubble peak, or at a minimum a postponement of mining equipment purchases and other major bitcoin spending until the peak - which I will recognize by the simple method of counting the days for each doubling from the low. When the price looks to double in less than a week - I sell.Of course my posts are biased because I am a bitcoin holder and want others to participate in the economy and thus lift prices. Satoshi factored in the enthusiasm of early adopters as he designed the virtuous circle that has brought us this far. Your model continues to boggle my mind.I try to perform at least one Bitcoin transaction daily. Either by spending some, buying some, transferring some, or most often by receipt of mining earnings. Suppose that I am responsible for permanently increasing the daily quantity of transactions by one. Today's adjusted number of transactions reported by Blockchain.info is 58,006, and your model projects a market cap of $1.50 * 58,006 * 58,006 = $5,047,044,054.00. My contribution makes the adjusted number of transactions 58,007, and the corresponding market cap is 5,047,218,073.50. The difference between the two market caps is $174,019.50. As the total number of Bitcoins at the time of writing is 12,591,775, my one incremental daily transaction lifts the corresponding price per bitcoin by 0.013 USD. Right? Summer 2014 Bitcoin Bubble - First ProjectionI hand fit this simple projection by copying the April 2013 bubble and the November 2013 bubble into the future, aligning both along the logistic model trendline. The vertical line separates the current Bitstamp price series from the future hypothesis. This first iteration of the 2014 Bitcoin bubble projection supposes that the peak occurs in July - August and that the ensuing collapse is underway in September. I project the peak at 6000 USD and the subsequent consolidation price at approximately 3000 USD through year end 2014.As the collapse of the current bubble resolves, perhaps further iterations of this projection can be more accurately placed. The crucial assumption of this projection is that the next bubble will be very similar to the previous two. Thanks, I leave this great performance chart open on one of my monitors. https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1VOAhFX1XRizdaTp71qnYI5pRh9VIZEQ51LHuGUmxri0/pubhtmlInvalid column index 11. Should be an integer in the range [0-10].? What I would like from a site like Fiatleak is the net amount of fiat entering an exchange. But as this data is not available, the site uses trades - which is distorted by zero-fee trading common on Chinese exchanges.Zero fee trading is great, but not used everywhere. I watch Huobi, which is one of the Chinese exchanges that is a leader in no-fee trading. I find the volume numbers on Huobi plausible. I am not a trader now, but I believe no-fee trading greatly facilitates the high volume. I have thought about that also. But as soon as discounts are provided to business-to-business purchases made via Bitcoin, then merchants will recycle coins they received from their own customers into purchases in order to obtain the discounts. For example, I can buy Walmart gift cards from Gyft and receive a small discount using reward points. For a company that routinely buys gasoline or other supplies from Walmart, that discount is significant. This is indeed important.I worked for a very large regional Electric utility in Florida, USA, programming and managing a portion of the customer billing function. Customers wanted to pay by a variety of convenient methods, yet because the utility operated as a regulated monopoly, it could not pass on to ratepayers as a whole, the merchant fees charged by credit card companies - thus credit card payments were not an option unless the ratepayer paid all the fees, which were percentage-wise onerous.With a simple Bitcoin address, there is no fee to the receiver of the payment transaction - as the sender pays the fee, which is tiny percentage-wise. Integration with a Bitcoin payment service such as BitPay or CoinBase would cost more. But I suppose that if the utility kept the coin, it could be easily handed out to deserving and willing employees as bonus without exchanging for fiat.Moreover, public utilities accepting Bitcoin will encourage governments to accept Bitcoin for fees and taxes, for the same reasons regarding credit card merchant fees, and the absence of charge backs.Once governments routinely accept Bitcoin, banking as we know it slips further down the slope to obsolescence.
Coincidentally I am a Wikipedia editor, having authored and improved various articles in my computer science research field.I read the article and the associated Talk discussion.  I find the article factual, appropriately balanced and sourced considering the inherent conservatism of active editors. Given the continued adoption of Bitcoin, I expect the mood of editors to become more positive over time as more of them actually hold bitcoins.I edited the Bitcoin ATM English Wikipedia article in the adoption section to mention that Austin, Texas, USA now has three Robocoin ATMs. Also I added a reference to the Bitcoin Network article. Note that the editors are complaining that the Bitcoin Network article is mostly copied from Satoshi's whitepaper - which is improper according to Wikipedia policy. It should be rewritten in a more clear manner without relying on undefined terms.In some more spare time, I will rewrite parts of the Network article in a manner that makes it more understandable - if no else does it first. Anyone can edit Wikipedia - but your contributions must meet the reasonable editing policy: factual, balanced, and sourced. Not dangerous, I think. But rather short sighted. VC investment is already several times higher in the USA than in China, despite the fact that most trading, and more importantly - trading innovation, e.g. no-fee trading - is happening in China. Unlike other countries prominent in the Bitcoin economy, China has imposed foreign exchange controls in order to prevent capital flight, which is a real danger to the developing Chinese economy. And its not just the US embracing bitcoin, its the rest of world vs China in this regard.  Risto is a successful precious metals dealer - and this is a flamboyant depiction of someone who simply loves silver. Mr. Pietila became a Bitcoin millionaire in the months following the first time I saw this image. Given the strength of then bullish convictions and his obvious resultant success, the majority of his early detractors have moved on, or shut up.I, for one, welcomed his perspective as a precious metals dealer, his cheerful optimism, his ambitions, and his analysis skills. I cannot think of any other whale who is this transparent. He really does not need this forum, but I think we need him. In particular, his Bitcoin Savings Plan has been a model for my own holdings. Ha! I put my paper wallets in a downtown bank safe deposit box - specifically to keep me from trading them. I can of course add more coins to the public address without needing the private key printed on the wallet. I bought some fractional coin a couple of days ago, again this evening, and I plan to test out the two other Bitcoin ATMs in town in the next few days. I love bargains. This too. This. In the last week, bitcoin prices have dropped from $600 to under $500.An hour ago I purchased some fractional coin from the Robocoin ATM close to my house. Looks like I will make another purchase tomorrow given the bargain prices available. There are two more Bitcoin ATMs in town made by Lamassu, I believe - and I want to try them out. It is so much fun to operate the machines that I like to spread out the purchases.Here is a video about this particular ATM. Note that I am not a gun enthusiast, but welcome them to our community. I expect that eventually Bitcoin ATMs will become as numerus as bank ATMs. Hope you enjoy them as much as I do.http://www.usatoday.com/media/cinematic/video/6304515/looking-to-purchase-a-bitcoin-head-to-the-gun-store/Texas, USA observers may note that in this particular case the orange bitcoin logo color has been darkened a bit to exactly match the local University of Texas school color - burnt orange. Ha. I think the price busts out of the triangle pattern by the end of April. Many observers expect the next bubble to start in a few months, so I would be looking for signs of stability and a gentle rise beyond April given the similarity between the April 2013 bubble collapse and the current November 2013 bubble collapse. Yes, I agree with this observation. I have legacy coins that I CPU solo-mined back in 2010. I figure my tax basis is essentially zero dollars for these. I sold some unused gold jewelry yesterday and bought bitcoin at my local Robocoin ATM. I expect the next bitcoin price bubble to occur in the next few months - at which point the issue of 1 BTC vs 1 oz Gold will be history. You challenge one of the main features of Bitcoin. History shows that governments cannot resist printing money for themselves, or causing inflation to reduce the impact of government debt. The US Federal Reserve props up the banking system by creating money to loan at low rates to banks, and creates money to purchase toxic assets from them. Central control of Bitcoin, I believe, will be limited to prudent government regulations necessary to protect consumers, while encouraging innovation.Because business cycles are currently related to credit expansion and contraction, a Bitcoin dominated economy may not need central banks to create money to prop up collapsed equity markets. A bitcoin economy is one in which credit as we know it will be replaced by something else. Loans cannot be easily made when denominated in a deflationary currency because the loan interest rate must be greater than the rate of deflation, which is currently about 10x annually. I think that future homeowners will rent-to-own rather than obtain 30 year Bitcoin mortgages. The monthly payments would be indexed to the rate of deflation.According the economic principal popularized in Crossing the Chasm, it will be difficult for entrenched financial institutions to create new financial products that cannibalize their existing revenue streams. The US Federal Reserve has been pushing for immediate settlement of transactions but that is simply not good enough. Bitcoin's no-recourse feature makes settlement immediate. Bank card operators charge high fees to pay for the fraud that the current system allows and which Bitcoin prevents.Good tip. I have used coursera before.I am familiar with the stack model of software development, e.g. building RDF on XML, building HTTP over TCP/IP, etc. But Bitcoin startups are discarding the upper layers of the financial services stack and plugging in at the lowest possible level for a re-engineering of the system. For example, consider a Bitcoin ATM compared to a bank ATM. The Bitcoin ATM uses the internet to operate same as a bank ATM - but the Bitcoin ATM does not involve the vast overhead of the banking infrastructure. A bitcoin point of sale device likewise plugs into the cashier station in a manner similar to a bank card POS device. A Bitcoin wallet on a smartphone fits in a pocket in a manner similar to a conventional leather wallet holding bank cards.Billions of individual Bitcoin users will be their own bankers but will not themselves be providing banking services to others. Bitcoin is programmable money that permits new financial services to be operated by third parties that add value to the system.If indeed Bitcoin becomes the dominant financial instrument, then converting back to fiat would not be needed. For example, it is difficult for taxing authorities and public utilities to accept bank card payments from taxpayers and ratepayers because of the high merchant fees that cannot reasonably be passed on to the public. But Bitcoin is free for the receiver so when taxing authorities accept Bitcoin then the last reason to convert to fiat is gone.Bitcoin is supposed to solve all the problems caused by the legacy financial infrastructure - the most severe of which I believe is the horrific misallocation of scarce resources given inflation, and the boom and bust business cycles caused by fiat-created credit.  I agree with your viewpoint with regard to bubbles. Bitcoin prices get ahead of the fundamentals. I admit selling at the April 2013 peak and buying back during the ensuing collapse. There is an element of pump and dump going on - but I think that is not because Bitcoin is a scam but rather because when an asset goes from zero to potentially millions USD per unit, bubbles are going to be inevitable and is it not reasonable to expect that speculators will try to time them? I am not completely sure that Metcalfes law can used to price an asset class. However, the stunning results posted by gbianchi and Peter R are sufficiently convincing, e.g. the close alignment of the data series in Peter R's graph, make me very interested to see just how the law can indeed apply. Especially considering much headroom the Bitcoin economy has with regard to transaction quantity growth over the next seven years.You might get a stronger explanation by posting your issue in gbianchi's thread linked earlier. Well yes, all peers on the network can speak Bitcoin. My hypothesis is that when considering the likelihood of connections between peers, i.e. the likelihood of a transaction between two addresses, the entire future Bitcoin network will be partitioned somewhat into clusters of addresses more likely to participate in transactions. For example, walk-in local merchants will have transactions with local walk-in customers, but are much less likely to participate in transactions with far away customers.If someone can convince me that within 7 years Bitcoin entails the economic version of the Singularity, please do so. Otherwise I believe that Metcalfe's Law must eventually disconnect from explaining bitcoin prices given daily transaction quantity and addresses quantity. Thanks! I received permission from Peter R to post his graph. And I will abide by your wishes regarding on-topic relevant material from other threads. Sorry that I was not sufficiently clear. By way of example lets look at the worldwide email system. Every email client can reach any other email client by email address - just like Bitcoin. But if China was suddenly subtracted from the email system, it would not make my email service worth a lot less because I cannot communicate in Chinese. The worldwide email system has small world effects in that well connected nodes, i.e. nodes that might send messages to one another, are partitioned by natural languages that the users understand.By well connected, I mean that a node has a reasonable probability of reaching another node in the network - not that it merely possible to reach that node. Metcalfe's Law Explains 10x Price Growth Vs. 3.2x Transaction Quantity GrowthAt least two posters, gbianchi https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=441336.0and Peter R https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=400235.msg5877592#msg5877592have presented a theory on the relationship between Bitcoin transactions and bitcoin prices.The consensus result is that prices are growing in proportion to the square of the transaction quantity and also in proportion to the number of addresses. Peter R uses the Blockchain.info data series that excludes the 100 most popular bitcoin addresses from the recorded transaction quantities.Here is the outstanding chart provided by Peter R that best illustrates the application of Metcalfe's Law to bitcoin prices . . .And here is the example device network from the Wikipedia article on Metcalfe's Law. The insight of the law is that the utility of the network, e.g. bitcoin users, is directly related to the number of reachable nodes. The number of connections is the approximately the square of the number of nodes.Supposing that Bitcoin completely replaces the current payment infrastructure entails a transaction rate that surpasses the current quantity of bank card transactions. At a growth rate of 3.2x annually, Bitcoin daily transaction quantity will exceed 350 thousand in 8 more years. But applying Metcalfe's law predicts a bitcoin price of 58 billion USD per coin at that point - which is implausible. Therefore it is reasonable to suppose that small-world effects will disconnect the bitcoin price relationship from transaction volume, in that the future whole Bitcoin network will not be uniformly well connected but rather be clusters of well connected nodes. Here is the example graph from the Wikipedia article on small world networks . . . I am intrigued by your analysis, but cannot position the figures on my chart. Can you provide the dates for the figures so that I can see them on my Bitstamp daily price chart? For 2010 and 2011 I can use the Mt.Gox price series. Before understanding the logistic model, I too assumed that the rapid growth rate of bitcoin prices would decline. I accepted then, as I do now, plausible arguments that bitcoin prices could be 1 million USD or higher - provided that the Bitcoin economy eventually replaces the existing financial infrastructure.But after fitting the logistic model to the historical bitcoin price series, it is a clear result of the model that the average exponential growth we have witnessed in the past four years will continue until we approach the half way point of speculator adoption. So I believe we will continue to see an average bitcoin growth rate of 10x annually for a few more years - given the tiny fraction of possible bitcoin purchasers that have actually purchased bitcoin.Regarding consolidation, we can see from the price history that the consolidation periods follow bubbles, with the longest consolidation period of approximately 18 months following the greatest bubble in June 2011. The consolidation period following the April 2013 bubble in contrast was only about 5 months. Most observers here believe that the next bubble will begin in a few more months - assuming a consolidation period of say 5 to 8 months from the collapse of the November 2013 bubble.There is little we can do about prices getting ahead of fundamentals, e.g. the steady 3.2x annual Bitcoin transaction growth, because that is human speculative nature. Yes, I share the feeling that we are near the bottom. I believe the resolution of the November 2013 bubble is remarkably similar to the resolution of the April 2013 bubble. Others have observed that twice prices dipped down briefly to around $400.However I would not be surprised if prices fell briefly to an even lower level as $400 is about 34% of the peak at $1163. Back in the collapse of the April 2013 bubble, prices fell from a peak of $259 to $63 which was about 24% of the corresponding peak.Sorry I cannot be more precise. The logistic model offers little in the way of short term price prediction aside from the price direction bias towards the trendline.
Agreed, Satoshi himself had the same viewpoint - which I share. Bitcoin most probably either takes over the world or becomes worthless.Yes I am looking at Bitcoin adoption only. In particular I am modelling the adoption of Bitcoin purchases by the population of all those entities which are now or in the future are capable of purchasing. I ignore fiat in this analysis. Bitcoin is unlike fiat in that its value is determined by its users, not by a government. Demand for Bitcoin is related to its utility, and I believe that governments will eventually accept tax and fee payments in Bitcoin. I suppose that central banks may get the notion that Bitcoin is better than, or at least a useful alternative to gold when accumulating reserves.I have a different view of the history of money. Governments have a history of debasing their fiat currencies. Inflation is a horrible menace to savings and rational allocation of resources. Bitcoin fixes that problem.Agreed.Wikipedia has an excellent article on First-mover advantage that convinces me that the concept is not a myth. Furthermore, Bitcoin was not the first digital virtual currency - rather Satoshi solved all the problems with the prior iterations to produce Bitcoin.And I give you the last word on this day. All your points are valid issues but not relevant to my research. I want to understand the circumstances under which the exponential growth of bitcoin prices eventually slows down. So I assume a logistic adoption model. I assume that Bitcoin will replace fiat, and that the existing financial infrastructure will be disrupted.My assumptions are plausible according to arguments posted earlier in this thread.Let me address your issues . . .1. From what I have seen so far, fundamental analysis of the Bitcoin economy supports the notion of exponential growth. The number of Bitcoin transactions, and the number of bitcoin addresses on the blockchain are both growing exponentially. I use some of the techniques of technical analysis, e.g. drawing trendlines through a historical price series in order to illustrate and understand exponential growth.2. The assumption that Bitcoin will achieve mass adoption is plausible; namely Bitcoin is a deflationary digital virtual currency that avoids the need for a trusted intermediary thus it is much more efficient than existing banking infrastructure, and can plausibly reach vast numbers of unbanked consumers. Furthermore, Bitcoin is a platform upon which numerous value added services are being developed, e.g. Bitcoin is programmable money. 3. Government support of Bitcoin is best exemplified by the US Senate hearings this year in which powerful US politicians heard that existing laws were sufficient to deter virtual currency criminals. The chairperson stated that the US needs a balance between protecting the consumer and encouraging innovation. This point is very important. Bitcoin is innovation. I believe that the Chinese government feels the same way - but they are hamstrung by foreign exchange controls so they need to be sure that these cannot be circumvented by Bitcoin purchases transferred out of China. Bitcoin is currently not legal tender anywhere. Your issue actually could be stated as - under what circumstances would a government permit Bitcoin to become legal tender? Perhaps when a majority of that government's employees prefer to be paid in Bitcoin.4. Economic network effects prevent an alternate coin from replacing Bitcoin - given that Bitcoin was first, is by far the largest, and is good enough. Any particular altcoin innovation can be adopted by Bitcoin if necessary. Many believe that altcoins provide a gateway into Bitcoin and thus add to its value.5. I thought that Facebook would replace MySpace. The latter was simply not good enough. Yes, the new model for academic journals is open access. Online is much less expensive and generally more useful for consumers. I do not see a necessity to involve the Bitcoin Foundation. I believe that such a journal should encompass any cryptocurrency, which might be a conflict of interest with regard to the Bitcoin Foundation - or at least outside their focus.Suppose we start a new thread in the Economics sub forum as this discussion is off topic here and may be deleted anyway by the moderator. Not much money is needed to start an online open-access journal. I believe the main effort will be to find qualified and motivated academics to edit the journal. They could well be young post-docs. I happen to be the treasurer of an unrelated academic society that has an open-access peer-reviewed online journal. We grant immediate free access to the public and charge authors 100 USD per accepted submission. The publisher is http://www.degruyter.com/.I lack a PhD, but helped found an academic society. Perhaps we need an international Cryptocurrency Society for academics, that would hold an annual conference and publish the journal. For this to be accepted we need academics with doctorate degrees in charge. Metcalfe's Law is based upon the common sense notion that adding nodes to an economic network adds value in proportion to the quantity of other nodes that can be reached. So perhaps at some point the Bitcoin economy develops small world effects in which clusters of nodes are well connected, but otherwise nodes are not as well connected universally. By well connected, I mean economically visible and useful. For example, small world effects are present in the world's email network due to incompatible natural languages. See this thread from 2012 ... https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=115048.0 A simply stunning discovery and insight.It seems quite plausible that bitcoin transaction growth will continue at this rate for at least a few more years as current payment transaction infrastructure is disrupted. For example, in three years time 3.2x annual transaction growth would be only 2 million Bitcoin transactions per day correlating to a bitcoin price 1000x higher than today. Two million daily bitcoin transactions is not much compared to the current 212 million daily Visa transactions.There could well be a disconnect from Metcalfe's Law beyond four more years. In say 8 more years, when the quantity of Bitcoin transactions exceed the current quantity of bank card transactions, I find the predicted bitcoin price value of 57 billion USD per bitcoin implausible. There does appear to be a rally developing which can be clearly seen on the Huobi and Bitstamp one hour charts.  Support held at $550. Awesome chart that well illustrates your discovery. May I refer to it in my logistics model thread? Apparently there is some controversy whether Metcalfe is right with regard to N squared. N * log (N) has been proposed as an alternative. However I agree that your observation is compelling. Agreed. Using a two year version of the chart, I read 3.2x per year transaction growth. Which yields a 7-8 year time frame before the number of daily bitcoin transactions will exceed the current bank card, amex, paypal, etc. competition. I believe that the number of Bitcoin transactions is a good indicator of the underlying economy, and very useful for fundamental analysis.Most analysts and pundits who refer to the number of transactions prefer an alternate chart available from Blockchain.info . . .https://blockchain.info/charts/n-transactions-excluding-popular?timespan=2year&showDataPoints=false&daysAverageString=7&show_header=true&scale=1&address=Popular addresses are excluded from the preferred chart because of the issue with numerous dust transactions related to gambling sites, e.g. Satoshi Dice last year. It appears from that indicator that the number of Bitcoin transactions increases at about 5x per year and the trend continues. Given the bitcoin prices have increased at a rate of 10x per year, one may ask whether prices have gotten far ahead of transactions. I hypothesize that prices are ahead because speculators have the future in mind, not the present.Using data presented by http://www.coinometrics.com/bitcoin/tix, the sum of competing payment network transactions is 345,292,000 per day. Using the Blockchain.info figure of 58,620 for adjusted current daily Bitcoin transactions, then at 5x increase per year, the number of daily bitcoin transactions will exceed the current bank card, amex, paypal, etc. competition in five or six more years.  I wonder why you did not pick a ASIC-resistant POW scheme such as scrypt-N.Legions of GPU miners are often enthusiastic supporters of coins that they mine. Who is going to mine CatholicCoin? Only latest generation ASIC owners - right? Yay! Yay for Huobi!They forced the other Chinese exchanges to zero-fee trading. And I expect that trend to spread to other exchanges worldwide - especially if Huobi adds a USD pair.  It is reasonable for a rig owner to monitor the performance of the rigs being leased, but I believe that it is a conflict of interest to spy on what is being done with a leased rig.I shall make a post in my reputation thread that I never compete with my tenants. To a certain extent, the past bitcoin price series does suggest a prediction for the future. Namely that there were bubbles and there will be more bubbles. You misunderstand the mathematical nature of the logistic model when you state that it assumes that what occurred in the past must continue in the future. Eventually, the exponential growth of bitcoin prices must end. The logistic model is the simplest way to explain that phenomenon - that eventually future bitcoin prices will not have the exponential growth observed in the past, as we pass the 50% adoption rate by the population of possible bitcoin speculators. For a maximum bitcoin price of 1 million USD, the model predicts the halfway adoption point at year end 2016. I use a simple, widely applicable, mathematical model to explain historical bitcoin prices and to characterize the circumstances in which exponential bitcoin exponential price growth eventually slows down. Fitting the model requires me to guess at a maximum bitcoin price, and I selected 1 million USD per bitcoin as explained earlier.I figure that 2014 is the last year in which ordinary persons will be able to afford a whole bitcoin, because the logistic model suggests prices next year will range between 10000 and 100000 USD. Glad that you are along for the ride.  March 2014 Logistic Model StatusHere is the log chart for the logistic model covering 2013 and 2014 . . .Presently the bitcoin price of $575 is significantly below the model value of $856. I share the conventional wisdom on this forum that the next Bitcoin bubble will begin in a few months as illustrated below, assuming that the next bubble is similar to the last two bubbles  . . .The shared spreadsheet is https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0ArD8rjI3DD1WdFIzNDFMeEhVSzhwcEVXZDVzdVpGU2c  I have simplified the rig rentals at LeaseRig.net to only offer 72 hour rentals. I set prices for rehire and if need be accept offers such that my rigs are nearly always rented.Thanks!!
Why don't you hold on to your rigs for a few more months powered off? Even as difficulty rises, mining altcoins can be profitable despite high power costs if the coins are rising even more in value. Many observers believe that we are presently in the collapse of the November 2013 bitcoin price bubble and that the next bubble is due approximately mid summer. If this year's bubble is similar to the November 2013 bubble, then Litecoin and the other altcoin prices will follow bitcoin prices upwards - and probably make GPU mining again profitable for a while. The best site is http://www.bitcoinpulse.com/. Their core indicators are running about 10x annual growth, which relates to the 10x average annual bitcoin price growth,. One of my rigs has 6 x 5770 of various makes - none yours - running cgminer 3.7.2 with this configuration file. Average KHs is 173 per card, with 3-12% rejects. Code:{"pools" : [(omitted)],"intensity" : "18,18,18,18,18,18","vectors" : "1,1,1,1,1,1","worksize" : "256,256,256,256,256,256","kernel" : "scrypt","lookup-gap" : "0,0,0,0,0,0","thread-concurrency" : "4032","gpu-engine" : "741","gpu-fan" : "0-85,0-85,0-85,0-85,0-85,0-85","gpu-memclock" : "1250","temp-cutoff" : "95,95,95,95,95,95","temp-overheat" : "85,85,85,85,85,85","temp-target" : "75,75,75,75,75,75","api-mcast-port" : "7701","api-port" : "7701","expiry" : "120","gpu-dyninterval" : "7","gpu-platform" : "0","gpu-threads" : "1","hotplug" : "5","log" : "5","no-pool-disable" : true,"queue" : "1","scan-time" : "30","scrypt" : true,"temp-hysteresis" : "3","shares" : "0","kernel-path" : "/usr/local/bin",} Wisdom. And ironic that a problem with Mt.Gox was again significant in the collapse. The Logistic Model is now revised to use mainly Bitstamp pricesWith the shutdown of Mt.Gox, I revised the Logistic Model to use Bitstamp prices starting January 1, 2012. I also manually re-fit the logistic model parameters to the new price series. To the extent that this model is a valid representation of the adoption of bitcoin by the population of possible speculators, the predictions remain the same. Prices will fluctuate around a logarithmic growth curve averaging about 10x increase per year until growth inevitably begins to slow down. I performed sensitivity analysis of the model using a variety of hypothetical maximum bitcoin prices and observed that the 10x growth rate is common regardless of the maximum price.Considering the November 2013 bitcoin price bubble, it is remarkable that Mt.Gox again plays a major role in the recent collapse as it also did in the collapse of the greatest bitcoin bubble back in June 2011.  Inspecting the model log chart, I suppose that prices will remain below the log trend line for a few more months and then rally above it in a manner similar to the price rallies of April 2013 and November 2013.https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0ArD8rjI3DD1WdFIzNDFMeEhVSzhwcEVXZDVzdVpGU2c When cgminer starts, it takes a few seconds to open the API port provided that you have enabled it as the cgmon instructions specify. You will see a detail line in the cgminer terminal window that says that the API port is open. Until that happens cgmon is not able to see cgminer and says so in its own log.You can trace cgminer using the -T command line option, which logs all messages to the terminal window without overwriting any previous information. I executed ...Code:./leaserigproxy_linux 3333 PUT-YOUR-ID-HERE 0and got this error message, using my actual generated ID on LeaseRig ... I would like to thank the folks who leased and mostly re-leased my rigs on the first day of availability. Here is a photo of the rig you leased - SS1. Observe an open rig based upon standard wire shelving in which the 6 x 5770 graphic cards are suspended for maximum airflow via cable ties. I used powered PCIe risers in order to spread out the cards. A single power supply handles the 600W requirement. FYI. Leave the default log interval of 5 seconds alone when configuring cgminer. LeaseRigs cannot parse other than 1 or 5 second values according to a prompt PM conversation with djeZo. The administration POOLS panel reported accepted share values OK but each rig was getting set disabled. We fixed everything by resetting the cgminer log interval. Hi everyone. This is my reputation thread where you can review and post feedback about my mining rigs available at LeaseRig.net. These dedicated rigs are automatically monitored to ensure hashing rate, and are cared for by me full-time. What you do with a leased rig is private - I do not compete with you.Rig descriptions============SS1 - 6 x 5770 graphic cards yielding 0.98 MHs with less than 1% reject rate. This rig automatically reboots to your chosen pool should any graphic card fail to generate an accepted share in 30 minutes.SS2 - 3 x R9 280x graphic cards yielding 2.10 MHs with less than 1% reject rate. 10 minute accepted share timeout for auto reboot.SS5 - 1 x R9 280x graphic card yielding 0.70 MHs with less than 1% reject rate. 10 minute accepted share timeout for auto reboot. Try changing line 27 in your tcl script.Code:set pool(address1) "maxpool.1gh.com:17333"The scrypt assumes the stratum pool protocol. I am a computer hobbyist, so it is better to have an engaging hobby that pays even a little as compared to a hobby that simply costs. Furthermore, the setup of a typical mining rig is quite scalable insofar as additional rigs are hardware and software copies of the reference working rig. But suppose that I replace the six obsolete 5770 cards with modern R9 280x cards. One could argue that with bitcoin increasing in price 10x per year, the funds spent on a mining farm scale-out could be better invested in simply buying coin. I expect that I will incrementally upgrade my rigs. Another concern is that ASIC rigs will be available sometime this year for scrypt-altcoin, e.g. Litecoin, mining. I am not too worried about the sudden obsolescence of my graphic card rigs because a new proof-of-work algorithm could be designed to appeal to the large number of graphic-card miners. It is the population of miners that provide the initial enthusiasm for a coin. Or worse, the DOGE block we solve as a relatively small pool is more likely to be subsequently orphaned by one of the huge pools building a longer blockchain - right?  Interesting points indeed. New altcoin promoters should give some assurances that sufficient long term mining rigs will be dedicated to at least one pool mining that coin,  The Joy of MiningThe emergence of scrypt-based coins, popularized by Litecoin, has made it profitable to again earn bitcoin on my dusted-off graphic card mining rigs. I am running three rigs with a total of six 5770 cards. The operating system is Ubuntu, I run cgminer 3.7.2 and achieve about 144 KHs per card. The conversion to bitcoin is handled automatically by the pool software which heuristically chooses among various exchange-traded crypto currency coins and mines a particular network until it becomes unprofitable to mine when compared to other candidate crypto currency coins. I use TradeMyBit as its operator posts frequently on the pool forum. It is an easy upgrade from the obsolete 5770 cards to expensive but currently in stock R9 280x cards. My first one is on its way - yay!The coinwarz web site gives a great profit calculation of daily dollar profit on each ranked crypto currency coin given hashing power and price of power. When I input the figures for a single R9 280x card, 700 MHs and 250 watts respectively, the projected Revenue / Profit (per day) for my local power usage is projected to be $15.24 / $14.54 for Tagcoin at rank number one, and  $8.70 / $8.00 for Neocoin ranked five. The actual profit is lower, chiefly due to fees and the effects of periodic coin network switching that result in stale shares and rejects.When bitcoin prices eventually explosively rally again as suggested by the logistic model trendline, it is very likely that the most-popular-at-the-time scrypt-based coins will exceed the price acceleration of bitcoin, i.e. have a higher beta. I look forward to manually selecting coins to mine from TMB at that time for postponed exchange into bitcoin. Bitcoin mining and electricity consumption at $1 million per bitcoinThis too is a very interesting point. Supposing that $1.8 billion is received by miners when and if bitcoin reaches $1 million in say 2017, then there will be a tremendous incentive for miners to compete with each other to receive their daily $1.8 billion. Assuming a reasonable 90 payback for mining equipment, then 90 x $1.8 billion equals an approximate $162 billion market for mining equipment for the 90 day period when bitcoin is priced at $1 million. Also assuming that competitive miners spend roughly one-third of their income on electric power, then miners will spend $1.8 / 3 equals $900 hundred thousand daily on power. At say $0.13 per KWh then approximately 7 million KWh will be consumed by miners in a 24 hour period at the rate of approximately 300 megawatts. A very high amount of power usage but doable. Right! The logistic model merely tracks bitcoin price not market capitalization. The latter comes into to play when figuring out a plausible probability distribution for the maximum high price when bitcoin speculation is fully adopted. I believe that mining pools obscure the transaction trail that originates with the new block reward. If payments to participating miners were sent from a well-known pool address, then an analysis of the blockchain should be able to figure out what proportion of the block rewards are rapidly spent.I suppose that lacking a sound analysis, a poll of miners might suggest the proportion that you requested. Agreed, and I believe that to forestall action by efficiency-minded governments, the bitcoin proof-of-work mining algorithm could be re-engineered to save electricity. One naive notion I have is that a finite number of digital medallions could be sold by consensus miners which entitle the bearer to mine bitcoins. Or jurisdictions could forbid or otherwise restrict mining, e.g. no mining anywhere electric power is government subsidized, or mine off-peak hours only.
I too wonder about the consequences of what the log trendline suggests. If and when bitcoin prices reach $1 million in 2017 and top out, there should be 50% adoption by the population of speculators. By way of clarification I mean not full adoption by the underlying economy, rather of the people and institutions that will ever purchase bitcoin as a speculation, half of them will have done so by 2017. In 2017 the block reward will be halved from the current 25 to 12.5. At the rate of 6 blocks solved per hour, the daily block reward totals 1800 bitcoin, thus requiring $1.8 billion to buy all mined coins at $1 million apiece.Total daily retirement savings in the US is about .5 to 1 $billion according to the Investment Company Institute. And given that only a fraction could reasonably allocated to Bitcoin, the majority of the daily required $1.8 billion will come from other sources including non-US retirement savings and especially I believe - merchant trade and the foreign exchange market. Bitcoin Merchant Adoption - Influence DiagramHere is a diagram of the situation resulting from more merchant adoption of Bitcoin, that I drew. Each of the situations could be measured, i.e. observed. The directed arrows indicate a postulated causal relationship in a Bayesian inference model.The diagram is shared here. I would organize the thoughtful situations you offer not as a path, but rather as a Bayesian Influence Diagram . . .The diagram is shared here. Wrap your mind around the notion that Bitcoin is a superior currency to existing fiat and will replace it economically. Here are still-relevant reasons authored by Rick Falkvinge that appealed to me back in 2011. . .The Target Value For Bitcoin Is Not Some $50 Or $100. It Is $100,000 To $1,000,000Bitcoin's Four Drivers: Part One - Unlawful TradeBitcoin's Four Drivers: Part Two - International TradeBitcoin's Four Drivers: Part Three - Merchant TradeBitcoin's Four Drivers: Part Four - Investment More great advice. Accordingly I prepared 36 paper wallets to spend monthly for the next three years, each computed to draw down the then-current bitcoin balance by 0.85%. About 73% of my original bitcoin stake will remain after three years when and if the log trend reaches the $1 million price. I would like to know more about Reggie's Zero Trust Digital Contracts. Google Drive is a cloud based facility for shared documents. I used their spreadsheet function - familiar charting operations and very easy to share via a URL. The one drawback for my purposes is that Google charts do not directly support log axis scaling, so I must compute log 10 values for charting.https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1VoVBIO0WDMRnB_GzjykZ5iAR4Bd7ODyPaPTDGh3LeMo Relative Growth of Bitcoin Market Capitalization vs Cumulative WalletsBelow is the relative growth of Bitcoin market capitalization vs wallet growth. The shared data spreadsheet and chart are here.The data suggests that over time, users are more willing to bid up the price of bitcoin. Its not simply the addition of more users that causes bitcoin's price to grow. I suppose that this is because as Bitcoin matures, the perceived risks recede and network effects drive value up for each wallet user.From the spreadsheet the requested metric is . . .Code:Date      Market Cap per Wallet1-Sep-2010 9.1992655121-Oct-2010 8.311565941-Nov-2010 24.448458051-Dec-2010 21.728257551-Jan-2011 27.205515291-Feb-2011 61.771973971-Mar-2011 50.698620481-Apr-2011 34.785861031-May-2011 80.519020121-Jun-2011 94.242338511-Jul-2011 147.74025161-Aug-2011 108.78387131-Sep-2011 65.337834061-Oct-2011 39.888000291-Nov-2011 24.718581621-Dec-2011 22.835344281-Jan-2012 36.874452051-Feb-2012 39.220186991-Mar-2012 33.805194421-Apr-2012 32.653239341-May-2012 32.329322811-Jun-2012 33.527150431-Jul-2012 41.784228291-Aug-2012 58.158635051-Sep-2012 62.121245621-Oct-2012 72.731242191-Nov-2012 64.105869211-Dec-2012 70.064031191-Jan-2013 71.181798771-Feb-2013 105.03376421-Mar-2013 147.21988821-Apr-2013 349.42142841-May-2013 425.75236251-Jun-2013 394.18135181-Jul-2013 282.14491211-Aug-2013 308.52018051-Sep-2013 412.13662221-Oct-2013 389.17711411-Nov-2013 511.45157851-Dec-2013 2420.9320061-Jan-2014 1631.277105 Great analysis!I suppose that the exponential growth of bitcoin prices must eventually stop, and I have modeled prices according to a logistic model. Now I wondering about what happens to address growth when inevitably price growth slows down.Any thoughts about this? Perhaps the reason mining is mostly unprofitable is that persons without access to an exchange have no other choice and will be motivated to purchase expensive mining equipment regardless of an operating loss. Good idea!I can get monthly download statistics for the bitcoin software from the SourceForge code repository, and derive a cumulative total by date of the number of bitcoin wallets that indicate a relative number of users. The statistics available from blockchain.info regarding number of online wallets starts only in 2012.The data series for total bitcoins in circulation is available from blockchain.info. Give me a little time and I will produce a graph of the suggested metric. Agreed that the Log(Log) graph fits recent data better, however there is no principle behind the equation as there is with a logistic model of population growth with resource constraints.  The Log(Log) model suggests that prices during 2014 will reach 100000 USD by summer 2014. To me, this is not a plausible growth rate for bitcoin prices.I believe that 2012 simply under performed and that 2013 over performed with regard to the log trend line. This is also my view. The dot-com stock bubble price of Amazon vs the later business driven price of the last few years is an apt expectation for bitcoin. We could monitor the growth rate of bitcoin transactions and other measures of the underlying bitcoin economy and see if they too are increasing at 10x annually. If not then perhaps the relative divergence in growth rates would suggest the degree to which speculation gets ahead of the underlying bitcoin economy.  I agree with many here who think that the bitcoin price bubbles are becoming less severe percentage-wise - so perhaps the final overshoot will be smaller than those that preceded it. Yes, I simply guessed at a plausible high maximum price for bitcoin. We are still in the exponential growth phase of the S-Curve, doubling on average three times per year. The growth slowdown will occur, according to theory, when 50% of the population of those who will ever buy bitcoin for speculation - have done so. Thank you.And may you swiftly become a $ billionaire. What events in 2014 can propel bitcoin higher?Here are a few plausible events happening next year to drive bitcoin prices higher . . .the opening of the Winklevii bitcoin EFT - currently being reviewed by the SECat least one American bitcoin exchange opening as at least one US bank figures out how to comply with clarified Know Your Customer and Anti-Money Laundering regulationsChinese bitcoin exchanges likewise figure out how to comply with KYC/AML regulations and also figure out how to directly connect with customer bank accounts, beyond the few currently supported, e.g. Merchants Bank of China by BTCChina.Transaction volume increases apace with recent history, enabled by newsworthy adoption events, e.g. 10x more transactions via merchants accepting bitcoin.In order for prices to ascend from here - $737 currently - to a 2014 year-end value of $6437 as predicted by the logistic price trendline, about 10x more speculative activity needs to occur. This increase in adoption could be realized by new exchanges opening, and especially by greater freedom of operation permitted to Chinese exchanges. I agree with many observers that 2014 will be the year in which institutional investors, and retirement account investors, begin moving large amounts of buy-and-hold funds to bitcoin. The huge success of the Bitcoin Investment Trust in the past couple of months is an indication of what is probably ahead for 2014.I suppose that the net sellers of bitcoin in 2014 will be those who bought before April of 2013 and have 100x or more profit unrealized. I also have read an argument for currency valuation based on hard-currency experience before paper that suggested equal value of wealth and the currency used to represent it. When I did the analysis, I used $500 trillion as a rough estimate of the total global wealth, including government as well as individual. With 20 million coins that gives each coin a value of about $25 million. Works for me! I too would like to see a delayed gains option on your inspiring SSS calculator. I hand fit the million dollar logistic model to place equal weight above and below the trendline. There will be a bias towards a return to mean, and most observers believe that we are well above that mean now.  In the $1M logistic model the masses come rushing in during 2016-2017, when the price climbs from $100K to $1M.Coinbase reports that 80% of wallets are buy and hold, the remaining 20% are used for transactions. That supports the idea that when fully adopted, the majority of bitcoin will be held as a deflating store of value, and the smaller portion held as working capital by transacting entities. I do not distinguish intrinsic value aside from the contextual market price. Please enlighten me with regard to the two main uses of bitcoin as partitioned above.
The Million Dollar Bitcoin S-CurveI added an S-Curve graph to the bitcoin logistic model for 1 million USD maximum price. The midpoint at $500K occurs in late 2016. A transient post on Reddit r/bitcoin consisted only of this prophesy.Envision a possible world in which the legacy archaic financial infrastructure has been swept aside. In such a world fiat would be worth only the paper it is printed on.This is a call for disruptive innovative action. Bitcoin price doubles about three times a year on average, and will keep going up at this rate until the final growth slowdownYou both are so fortunate to completely share this amazing adventure.When I performed parameter sensitivity analysis on the hand-fitted logistic model, I found that the rate of logarithmic growth is the about the same regardless of the value of the maximum-bitcoin-price parameter. So no matter where it ends up maxing out, the price will get there doubling about three times a year on average.  You are right insofar that speculators sell.To clarify, my model assumes that bitcoin prices climb higher over time to a guessed-at maximum price due to increasing numbers of speculators. The logistic model is justified because eventually the number of new speculators taper off, e.g. limited by the global adult population. The motivation and behavior of these speculators affects price action - but I am abstracting these properties by simply counting speculators as the modeled population. When I guess at a certain maximum bitcoin price for the model, that translates to a certain degree of speculator commitment and resources.  Some Plausible Estimates of Maximum Bitcoin ValueIndeed wishful thinking, but also an acceptance of the most plausible estimates, such as those of Rick Falkvinge circa. 2011, when bitcoin transaction volume was one tenth of today's. . . .     Bitcoins Four Drivers: Part One - Unlawful Trade - estimates $60 Billion of bitcoin capitalization     Bitcoins Four Drivers: Part Two - International Trade - estimates another $600 Billion of bitcoin capitalization assuming 10% market penetration      Bitcoins Four Drivers: Part Three - Merchant Trade - estimates another $600 Billion of bitcoin capitalization assuming 10% market penetration     Bitcoins Four Drivers: Part Four - Investment - estimates another $600 Billion of bitcoin capitalization assuming 0.1% market penetration     An estimated total $2 Trillion market capitalization, implies $95 thousand valuation per bitcoin.Falkvinge shows how bitcoin is superior with regard to current financial practice in four realms, and estimates bitcoin valuation at a 10% penetration rate. He sidesteps the role of bitcoin as a deflating store of value. I also accept another widely held point of view that bitcoin will either fall to a relatively very low value, or totally disrupt the current financial infrastructure. Thus I extend the probability distribution of maximum bitcoin price to well over one million, covering cases where bitcoin achieves 80 - 100% market penetration.  If bitcoin went to $100 million, according to the logistic model fitted to that maximum price, that would add only about two more years of exponential growth beyond the $1 million point - to 2018-2019. Interestingly, the technology of smartphone apps enables a much faster adoption than that of the hardware smartphone. An well funded app, launching on iOS and Android, can swiftly be adopted, e.g. Google Maps - months to full adoption, not 10 years, which is relevant provided point-of-sale devices are upgraded. I urge you to invest whatever more you think is prudent NOW. There is a plausible case to be made for bitcoin maxing out above $1M. A thousand fold increase from here is possible, but according to logistic models, next year the remaining increase will be only one hundred fold, .. and so forth. Furthermore, my own research on bitcoin holdings over time, suggests that when holders realize 100-1000x return on their mining/investment, they cash out. The rate of increase is about 10x annually. My model assumes that about 10x more speculators are buying bitcoin each year. In three years that is about 1000x more speculators buying bitcoin than now.  Perhaps in three years we will see participation by large companies, commercial banks, or central banks as speculators.  A logistic graph of European smartphone adoption, as an analogy for bitcoin adoptionWhen I began fitting a logistic model to bitcoin prices, I understood that adoption by speculators can occur much faster, i.e. steeper slope, than is the case for adoption of bitcoin as replacement of, and enhancement of, currency for transactions. The Logistic S-CurveThe logistic function F(x) = 1 / (1 + e-x) was developed to model the growth of a population that multiplies until constrained by exhausted resources. It has the property of exponential growth to the midpoint, followed by exponentially slowing growth.In my application of the model, the population consists of all speculators who will ever buy bitcoins. That population grows as bitcoin knowledge spreads to new speculators, and that population is eventually limited by the finite number of available speculators. The price series of bitcoin is subject to bubbles and crashes that are ignored by the model, rather the model addresses the price trend.The S Curve is plotted on my chart using a logarithmic price axis, and thus does not directly resemble the Sigmoid graph above.    A logistic model of bitcoin adoption by speculators predicts that exponential growth will eventually end. Here is the widely used general model . , ,In this multi-year thread I will update and monitor a particular model that assumes a million dollar maximum bitcoin price. I chose a high price because plausible arguments can be made that bitcoin will eventually replace fiat currency worldwide.I use the MtGox price series through 2011 and Bitstamp prices thereafter as the input data. The logistic trendline passes through the earliest recorded bitcoin price, and is subsequently hand-fit to the remainder of the price series in November, 2013.I simply guessed at the maximum bitcoin price. Periodic review will determine when the rapid exponential growth of bitcoin stops. Note that this model ignores the fact that when bitcoin is fully adopted by the underlying economy, it will continue to grow in price at least in proportion to economic growth.The below chart is plotted with a log price axis . . .Here is the same logistic model using a linear price axis . . .Log10 delta from the trend . . .The entire spreadsheet of data and analysis is published here and is updated daily.Whatever price one selects for the maximum, the slope of the exponential portion of the log-S-Curve is the same - as I discovered when I performed sensitivity analysis on the model. Accordingly, the rate of growth that we have so far witnessed will continue at the same breathtaking acceleration until it inevitably begins to rapidly taper off. Your modeler - Stephen ReedI dedicate this thread to long term bitcoin holders, and to the author of this classic forum post from June 2011, at a time when bitcoin was priced at $13 - having risen 260x from $0.05 only a year before. ...I am pretty confident we are the new wealthy elite, gentlemenHere are the thread music video themes . . .Zhou Tonged - Holding (Billy Joel - The Longest Time)"The sky's the limit, and I'm in it to win it".Laura Saggers - 10,000 Bitcoins"Its having someone to share the dream, I'm so glad you share yours with me"Here is the thread destination image . . .To The Moon !!!Stephen Reed's Relevant posts . . .The Logistic S-CurveA logistic graph of European smartphone adoption, as an analogy for bitcoin adoptionSome Plausible Estimates of Maximum Bitcoin ValueBitcoin price doubles about three times a year on average, and will keep going up at this rate until the final growth slowdownThe Million Dollar Bitcoin S-CurveWhat events in 2014 can propel bitcoin higher?Relative Growth of Bitcoin Market Capitalization vs Cumulative WalletsBitcoin Merchant Adoption - Influence DiagramBitcoin mining and electricity consumption at $1 million per bitcoinThe Joy of MiningThe Logistic Model is now revised to use mainly Bitstamp pricesMarch 2014 Logistic Model StatusMetcalfe's Law Explains 10x Price Growth Vs. 3.2x Transaction Quantity GrowthSummer 2014 Bitcoin Bubble - First ProjectionLog10 Differences From the Logistic Model TrendlineThe assumptions of the Logistic ModelMetcalfe's Law and Complete Triumph of Bitcoin Indicate $100 per Satoshi in 2022.The Bitcoin Network Will Probably Be Compelled To Abandon Electricity-Consuming Proof-Of-Work in 2018May 5, 2014 UpdateSummer 2014 Bitcoin Bubble - moral_agent's BubbleWatch from redditNotable conversations started by others . . .super exponential and other alternative modelsamount of daily fresh money required for million dollar bitcoinparametric price modelamount of daily fresh money required for million dollar bitcoinCoinbase 80% buy-and-holders an indicator of Bitcoin's store of value?applicability of technical analysisMarch 25, 2014 - are we near a bottom?banks and bitcoinMemorable quotes by others . . . I am hesitant to predict a bottom, rather I observe that the low of 576 on MtGox is not as severe a drop as the low from the April 10 peak. The price action so far is more typical of a correction than a bubble collapse. I have been tracking my bitcoin holding total on http://btc.ondn.net/search for a couple of weeks and I observe that my rank has been moving lower, meaning that there are likely fewer holders with more than BTC me than there were two weeks ago. I think that my rank has improved because I am holding beyond the 100-1000x price increase that tempted other early adopters to sell. Notably my rank improved the most during the crash/correction of December 4-6.I expect this trend to continue, and will look for it in your updates. I agree with your interpretation of the top.My timing of bubble peaks depends upon an unsustainable ever-increasing rate of price growth. After the November 18 peak and correction, it looked to most of us that another greater peak would form to fully collapse this bubble. However, the recent China bank/bitcoin regulation news removed the speculative fever from the market.I continue to assume that the collapse of this November bubble will be similar in technical shape to the April 2013 bubble, with the peak price followed within a few days with the low price, then a damped oscillation of prices centered about halfway between the high and low price. Following a buy-some-more and hold strategy, I bought at 753 earlier today.  Interesting approach.I distinguish bitcoin adoption by speculators apart from bitcoin adoption by the underlying economy. In 25 years I expect bitcoin to completely replace the legacy financial infrastructure and extend its utility through a disruptive combination of lower cost and software-defined features. I expect network effects to strongly favor keeping bitcoin, and to favor amending the consensus protocol to forestall otherwise competitive cryptocurrencies. Bitcoin is the TCP/IP of money in that regard.Furthermore, consider that bitcoin is not minted by central banks in response to credit demand, rather individuals and commercial entities requiring an amount of bitcoin for working capital, e.g. for ordinary bitcoin-denominated expenses, will have to purchase that bitcoin from some holder. I am beginning to believe, and will look for evidence, that speculative holders are selling bitcoins to transacting users very dearly. Thus using a metric such as world M2 monetary base to figure the extreme high end of bitcoin adoption may be too low a target. Ahh. Thanks for the background on Atlas. How ironic then that this post has become iconic. I think the OP is a prophet.How can one have an opinion on the other posts of the OP? It appears to be an unreachable guest account. I would allocate very little of the rake amount to buy-backs because otherwise a major benefit of SSS is forfeited - if bitcoin subsequently crashes to zero, buy-backs simply compound the loss.   I think 2018. You have ten whole bitcoins!
The chasm with regard to the population of early adopter bitcoin speculators and early majority bitcoin speculators, as I understand your terms, was the period in 2011 when the  trustworthiness and utility of bitcoin exchanges was very much in doubt. During the early adoption period exchanges were non existent or not somewhere that I felt really safe storing coins. According, I put June 2011 at the trough of the chasm for adopting bitcoin speculators. The chasm with regard to the underlying economy may be upon us. As informed speculators we can envision the replacement of legacy financial infrastructure with bitcoin. I see very impressive transaction volume reported by coinometrics. Hi and welcome to our forum!Regarding the depth of the retracement from the next peak, I look at the depth chart, Fibonacci ratios and historical price support levels. My current tactic is to await a pull back and buy some more fractional bitcoin at lower than peak prices. I am resolved not to sell or spend any investment bitcoins until at least 2017.Remember to figure volume on at least three exchanges nowadays: BTC China, MtGox and BitStamp. Media is important when getting the word out but at this point I think it is personal networking, e.g. word of mouth that motivates new speculators to buy bitcoin. That networking is what I model with logistic adoption S curves.  Onward to a new peak.Evidence mounts that the November 18 peak was not conclusively collapsed. I expect a larger following bubble. Price doubling rates may again prove to be a good indicator when it comes to predicting the next price peak and date. All of them. My strategy is to buy some more throughout 2014 and hold until at least 2017. MtGox pulling china along at the moment testing $850. I have been buying fractions during the dips given the growing possibility that the November peak was not collapsed with enough emphasis thus serving as a base for another even greater blowoff rally. It would be technically very significant if the price breaks the all time high on respective exchanges. This breakthrough could occur within days given the strength of the buyers.At the moment, every one of my small purchases shows a profit. Your log regression line looks similar to the one I plotted with a logistic function. In particular it is notable that 1000 is expected by Q1 2013 and 10000 is expected about a year later. Interesting that 2013 is probably the last year in which speculators will typically buy whole coins.As new funds become available to me, I try to buy fractions anytime there is not a bubble underway. Bubbles are easy to see and widely predicted here. I do not buy in the week leading up to the bubble peak, rather I wait until the bubble crashes to ensure that my purchases are made at a better valuation.For example, I bought fractions from 300 to 488 using Coinbase earlier this month, then waited for the bubble to peak, then bought more from 511 to 622. If prices fall below 675 I plan to buy more, otherwise I will wait a bit. Indeed. I agree that the market looks way overbought in regard to the consensus log trend price growth. However, I will be making additional fractional purchases as circumstances and opportunities permit through at least June 2014. This thread is like a room of wonders in the fantasy palace aspect of the bitcoin speculation phenomenon. The top post should be enshrined.    https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=12156.msg169751#msg169751Fittingly, it was written during the rational exuberance leading up to the greatest bitcoin bubble. Word was spreading, and the bold assumption that a digital virtual currency could replace the world's financial infrastructure, allowed calculations estimating the fantastic ultimate valuation of a bitcoin. At the time, miners and speculators active on this forum routinely held 50 or more bitcoins.The irony of the anonymous author's vision is how much longer it would take for growing number of speculators to get the message.But here we are today, at the threshold of the milestone $1,000. Think about safeguarding, accumulating, transacting your resources for the benefit of your loved ones, and perhaps too, some significant purpose. If the current technical stock pattern turns out to be a triangle, as was the case back in April, then maybe a midpoint price between the high of 900 and low of 453, equals 676.5. My tactic in this pattern is to buy some more fractions below 675 - if indeed it ever does. My buy some more and hold strategy worked so far. I dribbled out quite a few fractional buys: 511, 601, 598, 622, 606, 593, 600 and 607. Currently, MtGox is surging upwards, beyond $700 as I finish this. I am worried about Risto's big bet that prices are going lower. +1For the curious, I published a logistic model of bitcoin adoption by speculators https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0ArD8rjI3DD1WdGhDN3FBWFptTlZTREN0cFkxZ3JHTnc. The model does not predict the maximum bitcoin price, rather it says when exponential price growth ends for your guess of maximum price. I plotted four plausible maximum per bitcoin prices in USD: 40,000 , 100,000 , 1,000,000 and 5,000,000 . The curves show that exponential growth can continue for a few more years.  Ditto to all that. I just bought a fraction more. Recall that we waited 6 days for the bottom in the April bubble. I believe that this bubble has more in common with the April bubble than with the great bitcoin bubble of June 2011.As Coinbase intermittently permits, I am buying small amounts. Agree with your interpretation of overnight price action. Perhaps other commentators would too.Although BTC China has been trending down towards their post-peak low, this recent down leg was propelled by large sell orders on MtGox. Degrees of Craziness indeed. I believe that we are both measuring the same phenomenon.There is actually decades-long financial science behind this sort of bubble analysis: http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/9903321. The theory is that the crash hazard rate rapidly increases at the bubble peak, and that is what we are indirectly measuring via your angles, Bolinger outliers as described above, and my own doubling duration times. A new post bubble low of 475 was recently reached on MtGox, so the bubble is not yet fully collapsed.  I understand bitcoin speculation fundamentals as per your example. Clearly the price is driven upwards at this point by exponentially increasing numbers of speculators. See my logistic model of speculator adoption of bitcoin - https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=322058.msg3549092#msg3549092And I distinguish the fundamentals of the underlying bitcoin economy as very well presented by http://coinometrics.com/bitcoin/btix .Regression fitting and other sorts of technical analysis abstract out the underlying phenomena and simply model the behavior of informed and uninformed traders. Technical analysis is good at predicting bitcoin price bubbles and for giving us the best possible predictions about future bitcoin valuations.
Agreed. I too look for the remarks of old timers on this valuable forum. You nailed it.Regarding the exponential growth rate, it works out to about 0.59 % per day - awesome. If 502 is the bottom of the November 18 bubble, here is the sort of resolving technical triangle pattern that I expect ...I drew the horizontal length of the triangle to reflect my observation that this bubble so far is milder than the previous two great bitcoin bubbles, and may indeed turn out to be a big correction on the path to a greater bubble.  Looks like 901 was the peak on MtGox, Monday, November 18Half of 901 is 450 and that price was reached on November 14, yielding a doubling time of 4 days at the peak. This is consistent with the previous two bubbles and becomes a very important indicator when guessing the peak of future bitcoin bubbles.I expect the resolution of this bubble to be a damped oscillation from a high of 901 to a bottom of 502 as of now. If this bottom holds the midpoint of the resulting technical triangle pattern would be 701 and that is where I believe prices are headed.Because the low of 502 is higher than much of the sentiment on this forum, I suppose that this bubble collapse is milder than the one in April and perhaps will recover to a new bubble soon. The length of my expected triangle pattern will give some idea of when the next big rally will occur. Imagine a bell curve of expectations for the date of the peak price. Given what I am feeling now, my expectation is that Friday is the most likely date. The price always seems to go higher than what most traders expect. I am planning on simply buying more coins after the collapse.But if I wanted more risk - I think some sort of spread. What do you think?  [edited the typo -  ] Your very important point is worthy of time-is-short discussion.I think that the months-long resolution of this peak will be similar in shape to the April peak - that is a damped oscillation, technically a triangle pattern. The initial crash will be characterized by a flood of sell orders beyond the capacity of exhausted buyers to counter, with an extreme bid/ask spread. Support will be found at much lower levels with an immediate rebound off the bottom. Indeed, if the comparison with the April pattern holds, then the price should bounce around for weeks and settle at a price approximately halfway between the peak and crash price. Yet another sign of the imminent peak.Coinbase wires funds to Bitstamp to support its customer's bitcoin purchases. Because bank wire transfers can be potentially reversed, receiving bitcoin exchanges wait a prudent amount of time for the wire to certainly clear.So the speculative buying volume has increased beyond the expectations of Coinbase - they did not think to wire lots more cash to Bitstamp in preparation for what is now happening. Right? Countdown to the peak - China doubling fasterUsing BTC China data presented by BitcoinWisdom, I observe these price doubling times ...400 ¥ on  July 5800 ¥ on August 31 - 57 days to double1600 ¥ on November 5 - 66 days to double3200 ¥ on November 16 - 11 days to doubleMore convincing evidence that the peak is at most just days away.Here is the logarithmic chart, which clearly looks parabolic ... CSPAN3 streaming video is here at 3PM ET.http://www.c-span.org/Live-Video/C-SPAN3/ We love charts in the Speculation forum. I have not paid much attention to the Bolinger technical indicator, and I really appreciate your insight regarding outliers as a signal. Done! And thank you very much. Countdown to the peak - MondayUsing MtGox USD daily prices, the Sunday open at 458 and close at 528 yields a daily increase of 15%. Likewise today's 618 high so far yields a potential daily increase of 17% with trading volume increasing.The 1000 price milestone is only 61% higher from 618.Using the two previous bubbles for guidance, these are signs that we are only days away from the peak.  Comparing disruption is not precisely clear - in my opinion the Internet conceptually subsumes Bitcoin.I entirely agree with your appraisal of the phenomenon, and recall the similar enthusiasm that drove bitcoin prices from $1 to $32 in a few months back in the spring of 2011 - when there was hardly any concrete evidence of what would subsequently happen in today's underlying bitcoin economy. Yes, the greatest error in my previous analysis of the April 2013 bubble was comparing it too closely to the one other bubble in June 2011. I agree that drawing comparisons too closely to April will bias predictions for this bubble. None the less, it took only 16 hours to go from $475 to $575 on MtGox. This is very similar in nature to what happened in the week leading up to both prior bubbles. I saw the original analysis, and I generally agree except to substitute the figure for investment gold bullion for the valuation of the world's total gold, the latter having jewelry and industrial uses which bitcoin cannot match. Yes! The current price action feels very much like the week before the bubble peaks in 2011 and April of this year. BTC China is pouring gasoline on the speculative fire with its temporary suspension of trading fees. I am sympathetic to your viewpoint, but my analysis back in April 2013 used MtGox prices. I suggest that MtGox has a proportional relationship with USD prices posted on BitStamp. Furthermore, the greater potential error in my analysis is not using BTC China data as that exchange is obviously responsible for the current price action. My logistic (S-Curve) adoption analysis over on rpietila's economics thread is about a multi-year price prediction neglecting, or rather smoothing out the bubbles. I hope, but do not yet expect, that future bubbles will become smaller and more frequent. In the April 2013 bubble collapse, it was possible to buy at under 30% of the peak price - either with great timing or as I did with a spread of pre-positioned limit buy orders. If the peak indeed is above $1000 I believe that prices after the collapse could likely be below where we are now, i.e. below $568. I am not trading this bubble, rather I may buy a few more coins after the collapse. Here are my thoughts regarding the November 2013 bitcoin bubble.To the extent that comparing the two previous bubbles with this one is useful, here is a comparison with regard to price doubling times, using MtGox USD data.**** Bitcoin Bubble 1 peak occurred June 8, 2011 ****The way up ... 0.498 January 31, 2011 0.997 April 15 2011 - doubling time 74 days 1.99 April 28, 2011 - doubling time 13 days 3.98 May 10, 2011 - doubling time 12 days 7.97 May 13, 2011 - doubling time 3 days15.95 June 4, 2011 - doubling time 22 days31.90 The high on Wednesday, June 8, 2011 - doubling time 4 days**** Bitcoin Bubble 2 peak occurred April 10, 2013  ****The way up ...   4.16 December 19, 2011   8.31 July 16, 2012 - doubling time 210 days  16.62 January 21, 2013 - doubling time 189 days  33.25 March 1, 2013 - doubling time 59 days  66.50 March 25, 2013 - doubling time 24 days 133.00 April 3, 2013 - doubling time 9 days 266.00 Wednesday, April 10, 2013 - doubling time 7 days**** Current Bitcoin Bubble 3 ****The way up ...  65.42 July 4, 2013 130.84 August 29, 2013 - doubling time 56 days 261.68 November 5, 2013 - doubling time 68 days 523.36 November 16, 2013 - doubling time 11 daysIf the pattern of the two previous bubbles holds, we might expect one more doubling with the peak very roughly around $1000. Likewise we might expect to see the peak next week, doubling from 523.36 in perhaps only 7 days.Major posts in this thread ...Countdown to the peak - Monday.Countdown to the peak - China doubling faster.Looks like 901 was the peak on MtGox, Monday, November 18.Recall that we waited 6 days for the bottom in the April bubble.Onward to a new peak.Your thoughts?
Back in 2011, there was great discussion in this forum about maximum bitcoin value. Once you wrap your mind around the notion that bitcoin could disrupt precious metals as a store of value, and disrupt fiat currency, i.e. M2 monetary base as a payment mechanism, then you begin to accept that $1,000,000 per bitcoin is a candidate ultimate value for the virtual crypocurrency. But given a wildly high maximum price - such as $1,000,000 per bitcoin, then how do we get there? ... well by exponential growth. It was one thing to watch bitcoin go from $1 to $30 back in 2011 but quite another to watch it go from $65 to over $400 in the last few months. The larger absolute numbers, as well as the impact on our unrealized profit - are staggering. First, thanks for the welcome. I am drawn to this forum, like a moth to a lighted window, whenever there is a bitcoin bubble. I am through with trading and just buying. Plus I have an affection for Risto viewpoints.Regarding the trendline connecting the bottoms of the previous two bubbles, I think now that 2012 was a period of consolidation, where the uncertainty of bitcoin held back speculation - that was released in January-April 2013. It now appears that 2012 was not the trend, rather it was below the trend. In accordance with the conventional wisdom that bitcoin prices will be marked by a series of bubbles before settling down as a mature financial instrument, I believe that this bubble and future bubbles will have the form of damped oscillations rather than the classically symmetrical financial bubble pattern exhibited by the June 2011 peak.Can you restate your issue about the S-curve? I plotted it log 10 so the exponential part is linear on the chart. As a matter of fact, I met Eric Raymond in Austin where I worked at an AI research company. His comments on democratic politics are interesting. But I am satisfied that economic injustice is solvable by the political process. Not absolutely solvable - just good-enough solvable. In particular, I believe that household purchasing power, when unfairly allocated, can be recognized and fixed by the political process, stemming from the will of the voting majority in democratic jurisdictions, or by well-meaning technocrats elsewhere. Suppose in some possible world, that the three Trinity College crypto guys are revealed to be Satoshi Nakamoto, and suppose that in 2018 they are bitcoin trillionaires. Would not the UK do something about redistributing their windfall? Or more likely, they would voluntarily distribute the majority of it.Regarding a defense of the Technological Singularity, it is off-topic here. Suffice it to say that I believe all relevant intelligent human behavior, and likewise the behavior of human organizations, can be modeled as learnable skills. My own research, following the advice of Alan Turing, is to create a computer system capable of being taught skills, and then proceed to teach it.Your blog post mentions human creativity as a counterexample. An important AI skill that I am developing is the ability for the computer to write and modify computer programs. This is the sort of creativity that interests me.Potential bitcoin profit provides yet another way to bootstrap this effort. And I have in mind using bitcoin as an internal currency for the system of human-mentored software agents that comprise my AI architecture. To be precise, in a logistic function, i.e. sigmoid, the acceleration slows from the starting point to the mid point. In the historical price series, the slowing is not yet noticeable.My chart employs a hand-fit logistic curve that passes though the beginning and ending points of the historical price series that was convenient for me to use. My analysis neglects, or rather smooths out, technically relevant highs and lows that characterize the tradingview chart. Also my price history is more recent. The logistic analysis was mainly to figure out the circumstances that will end the exponential growth of bitcoin prices. I do not believe those results are any better than conventional technical analysis of where prices might be next year.What is very interesting about the tradingview chart, and its "Mother of all triangles", is the technical prediction it makes about the current bubble. It looks like we are approaching the upper resistance line of the triangle at about $550, using MtGox prices. Was running Lubuntu, but now running vanilla Ubuntu on development box and server. When I occasionally need Windows 7, I launch it in VirtualBox. Two years ago I ran three barebone miners on Mint. I also have an Mac mini at my vacation home that I needed last year for iOS development. While there I usually launch Ubuntu, again from VirtualBox. The market shook off yesterday's 10% correction, and while watching it I seemed to me that neither are the buyers exhausted yet, nor are the large sellers successful in signalling each other that this is the big one, i.e. the collapse.I think we go much higher and faster before a collapse. But I am buying more today regardless because I have faith that prices in 2014 will average well over $1,000. You should be able to find all the talent and collaborators you need on the Alternate cryptocurrencies section of the forum. Metaphorically, you are pushing a boulder uphill here whereas over there your boulder rolls itself downhill. Best wishes. Here is an article ... http://www.coindesk.com/bitcoin-exchange-btc-china-eliminates-trading-fees/I recall somewhere that BTC China still makes money with a fiat withdrawal fee. I agree that this does not yet have the feel of a big correction, where bears sort of signal each other with consecutive sales, following an exhaustion of the buyers  at the peak. Gox charges about half of one percent per trade, so a round trip costs about 1 percent of the timiing-motivated trade. Furthermore, the bid/ask spread also subtracts from round-trip profit. Even a good mechanical trading system such as trend-following moving averages is more about protecting capital from downdrafts than beating buy-and-hold. Lucky those folks trading on BTC China with a temporary suspension of trading fees.After surrendering a substantial amount of my coins to gox fees, I am through with timing and resigned to buy more immediately and hold in an offline paper wallet for at least 48 months.  China is leading the way down from 2700 back to test resistance at 2500. I see a steady drift downwards over the last four hours towards the resistance level near $390. Volume is higher at BTC China, so perhaps the sell off will continue for awhile. There are some great threads on this forum that others may guide you to. But here is a video tutorial ... http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JsyPfiENwQUAgain, best wishes. I accept and understand your well-founded critique of my use of the logistic function to model bitcoin price behavior.Regarding the ability to short bitcoin, I participated last spring in the lending program provided by Hong Kong-based Bitfinex, who provide margin and short selling for bitcoin speculators. I withdrew from the modest bitcoin returns that I gained due to my perceived risk, remote but nonetheless catostrophic, that the exchange could be hacked or bankrupted. In addition to the well established Bitfinex, a just-announced startup Coinsetter in New York says that they will be fully compliant with applicable US financial institution regulations and offer short selling too. You can purchase short options on MPEx http://mpex.co/ .   This is a good implementation of the classic buy-and-hold strategy. Yes you will be rich    - most of the appreciation will occur in the next 48 months according to my logistic analysis of bitcoin prices. Put 40 BTC into dukong's ranking calculator to see where you would stand with regard to other holders. http://btc.ondn.net/searchPlease take security seriously. I created a paper wallet from bitaddress.org and put it in my safe deposit box. Then you can forget about it. Thanks for your thoughtful comments.I would say that at the midpoint, half of the population of convincible speculators have been convinced to buy. Rpietila has questioned just how much capital, i.e. fiat-to-bitcoin purchases are required to move the price at any given point. We need to think more about this aspect. But my intuition is that because the price is still higher past the mid-point, that the total capital input is still greater past the mid-point even as fewer speculators contribute it. My logistic model rationale is that the constraint on bitcoin price growth is that committed capital is exhausted beyond some maximum price.Yes, indeed these are the assumptions of the model and you illustrate its deficiencies. However, the curves I fitted demonstrate that the exponential growth, even in the most wildly bullish scenario of a $5,000,000 maximum bitcoin price, stops exponentially growing within 48 months. Because bitcoin price appreciation front-runs the underlying bitcoin economy, there will be some set of expectation-changing circumstances that end the exponential growth and mark the mid-point of speculation adoption. The factors such as those you mention might just be those expectation-changing events.Rpietila believes that there will be a final blow-off crash at the peak bitcoin price. You may believe that bitcoin may crash way back down, but I think that the final blow-off peak will be resolved by a damped oscillation similar in shape to April-August 2013 - settling down to a bumpy plateau which will benefit the underlying bitcoin payment economy as it disrupts the current payment infrastructure.Shaped like this ... I think that I understand your concern now. Obviously you agree now that an ideal logistic model does not exponentially increase without end, rather after the mid point of adoption, there is an exponential decrease in the adoption rate ...My model attempts to fit a logistic curve to the price history of bitcoin. Stretch your mind a bit. We agree that exponential growth cannot go on forever, but how does it end for bitcoin prices?Rather than  model the population of bitcoin technology innovation adopters, I am modelling the population of bitcoin financial speculators who transfer fiat to bitcoin. My rationale is that motivation to buy and hold bitcoins spreads through the finite population of speculators in a manner which positively depends on the size of the already-convinced speculator population, and is limited by the amount of funds that speculators are willing to transfer from fiat to bitcoin at a given bitcoin price. The logistic model has only two parameters, the adoption period (X axis above) and the maximum population size (Y axis above). I guess at the latter, i.e. what is the maximum price that speculators will pay when every convincible speculator has been convinced to buy. And I determine the adoption period by fitting the curve to the historical bitcoin price data.Because the bitcoin price series is subject to periodic bubbles and crashes, e.g. most recently in the form of dampened oscillations, my model only suggests a likely trend for any supposed maximum bitcoin price.Here is the shared spreadsheet that contains the model, which can be viewed - or copied and edited ... https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0ArD8rjI3DD1WdGhDN3FBWFptTlZTREN0cFkxZ3JHTnc Great! My university degree is in applied mathematics. Please explain with what math you learned why a logistic function is inherently unstable, as no exponential growth goes on forever. First, I do not appreciate your hijack of this important thread.Second, my post is about using a logistic function to model bitcoin prices. Perhaps your reasoning is shallow, e.g. drawing wrong conclusions at a glance. There is an excellent Wikipedia article that explains what a logistic function is - and explains its many uses.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Logistic_functionSeriously, if you do not understand the math I would be glad to teach it to you. My logistic analysis is akin to your own log regression analysis. It does not say much about the bubble fluctuations that we have seen in the past and expect in the future. Rather it suggests some average trends. And could not agree more with your timing advice.
I revised my bitcoin logistic adoption price analysis charts to combine four possible scenarios on one chart ..red - assume a $5,000,000 maximum bitcoin price when fully adopted by financial speculatorsorange - $1,000,000green - $100,000blue - $40,000I also re-fit each case to more accurately pass through the final price history data point. It is clear now that the exponential portion of the logistic curve, i.e. the straight line on the log chart, does not predict the maximum price. Here are the corresponding price targets summarized ...The key result of this analysis is that we should not expect the current exponential growth of bitcoin prices to last more than 36-48 months - even under the most bullish imaginable scenario. Buy sooner rather than later is my obvious conclusion.The shared spreadsheet containing commentary, calculations and charts can be viewed, or copy/edited, at ...https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0ArD8rjI3DD1WdGhDN3FBWFptTlZTREN0cFkxZ3JHTnc Have you seen dukong's bitcoin ranking search? http://btc.ondn.net/searchThe current blockchain holdings by address yield this distribution ....Code:Balance        Rank1 BTC       195,62910 BTC       91,885100 BTC      10,1281,000 BTC     1,12710,000 BTC       95100,000 BTC       3Total     2,062,380At full adoption, one could reasonably expect the same ratios of large to small holdings, with large growth below 1 BTC. Addressing your point, let's think about when the 98% of humanity acquires bitcoins. I believe it will not be in the next few years when bitcoin reaches full adoption by financial speculators, rather the masses will adopt bitcoin when it is the universal payment mechanism, e.g. everyone has a mobile debit account denominated in bitcoins for everyday point of sale purchases. There is a lesser percentage of humanity that invests in securities and precious metals. Here in the USA, that is about 50%. It is the investor class that will propel bitcoin to the bubble you mention. My logistic bitcoin price analysis suggests that the exponential increase of bitcoin prices will continue for a few more years, therefore in the final exponential year perhaps 10x more new investors will participate - and those are the ones who may be buying near the top.The current fiat-printing stimulation by coordinating central banks could soon be tapered off as the world economy recovers from the Great Recession. Accordingly, I expect world stock markets to return to more typical valuations during the same period that bitcoin reaches full adoption by speculators. Thus at the same time stock markets are slumping, bitcoin will be a contrasting boom. That might be the narrative that lures the last large cohort of bitcoin investors. I am not worried about income and wealth inequality being aggravated by bitcoin adoption. Economic injustice is solvable by the political process in respective jurisdictions. As an aside, achieving the Technological Singularity is my life's mission - I am an active artificial intelligence researcher, and believe that when computers and robots put nearly everyone out of work, the political process will find a fair way to allocate purchasing power to human consumers - in a future economy growing exponentially without the constraints of human labor. Bitcoin is a deflationary store of value. Given that bitcoin has a history of 10x annual growth, there is simply no way a bitcoin-denominated security can provide anywhere the sort of return that pure bitcoin provides. I learned this from experience, having tried ASIC miner stock, Satoshi Dice stock, MPOE bonds and Bitfinex lending to short sellers. The last one provided a small positive return but I withdrew from that site due my perceived hacking risk.If you buy a mining rig with bitcoin, or buy a bitcoin-denominated security, you have given up any price appreciation on those coins that are no longer yours. My advice, is to simply buy as much bitcoin as you can in the next six months. I added a table to the results page of my shared spreadsheet. Given your own guess as to the maximum bitcoin price - by which I mean the price when bitcoin is fully adopted by financial speculators, the corresponding logistic adoption curve predicts these prices ...You can view, and copy for your own editing, the bitcoin logistic spreadsheet here: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0ArD8rjI3DD1WdGhDN3FBWFptTlZTREN0cFkxZ3JHTncFour sheets are included: commentary, calculations, chart, and results. The calculations are performed using the $1000000 maximum price, but the parameters for the other three cases are in the results sheet.  I believe that bitcoin speculation is way ahead of the underlying bitcoin economy. What will radically change in 2-4 years accordingly, is mainstream perceptions and expectations.The family of logistic curves I made, and the log growth chart presented by rpietila, probably do not change much if we leave off the last six months of data. The addition of China, and later other countries yield a higher maximum bitcoin price, extending the exponential phase of the logistic curve, not necessarily changing its slope. This. Mine is in a safety deposit box, and security-worry free. $1400. And the top will be characterized by doubling from $700 in less than two weeks. Based on comparison with June 2011 and April 2013. I believe that the current China-driven rally will surpass $500 before a dampened oscillation correction similar in shape to April 2013. This.  The reason is merely the convenience of the data series that I downloaded from bitcoincharts.com. I would guess that changing the starting point would not change the conclusion much - that if indeed bitcoin prices can be modeled according to an innovation adoption logistic function, then the log growth of the past three years may continue for two to four more years before rapidly slowing down. My analysis, if correct, does not say much about what the maximum price might be, but it does say to hurry up and invest now if one's tactic is buy and hold. Google Docs. I created a shared spreadsheet that you should be able to copy and modify. The calculations are adapted from the Wikipedia article on the Logistic Function. The math formulas are my own and any errors therein are mine too.https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0ArD8rjI3DD1WdGhDN3FBWFptTlZTREN0cFkxZ3JHTncThanks for your interest.  I have a vacation home high in the Colorado Rocky Mountains. Weed is state-legal there. Over 100 public retailers open January 2014. Here is my hand-fit logistic function chart assuming a maximum bitcoin price of $40000. The Y axis is the Log10 of the price. Observe that according to this model the price continues to increase exponentially through 2015.  https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0ArD8rjI3DD1WdGhDN3FBWFptTlZTREN0cFkxZ3JHTncThis spreadsheet is my attempt to fit a logistic function tothe bitcoin price history and thus predict its future.See Wikipedia http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Logistic_functionBecause the initial phase of the logistic curve is exponential, Ifound that a wide variety of maximum bitcoin prices could reasonably match the price history. What is interesting is that the resulting family of curves revealed that the very rapid growth of bitcoin prices will not last beyond a few more years.I configured the calculations to accept a guess as to what themaximum bitcoin price in $US will be. I tried four values from$40000 to $5000000. For each maximum bitcoin price, I manually adjusted the starting X value and adoption period so that the logistic curve passed through the July 7 2010 price and also passed through the November 11, 2013 price.The resulting adoption periods range from 10.3 years forthe $40000 max price to 13.6 years for the $5000000 max price. The logistic function becomes linear at the adoptionhalfway point and then becomes exponentially decreasing.In the case of a $1000000 bitcoin price, the exponentialgrowth stops in 2017.Note that the logistic function is fit to the price curve andmodels the behavior of speculators, not the underlying bitcoineconomy - which I suppose may take 20-30 years to becomefully adopted, e.g. replace precious metals and fiat currencies.Likewise, even after full adoption, bitcoin prices will continueto grow as the underlying bitcoin economy grows.Here is the logistic price curve supposing that bitcoin reaches a maximum price of $1000000.The Y axis is the Log 10 of the price. The chart says $1K next year, and $10K in two years. Right? I believe that the adoption of bitcoin as a technological innovation will follow a logistic function. From http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Logistic_function ...Accordingly logistic functions have this relevant property ...The X-axis is relative time and the Y-axis is percent adoption. We should observe linear bitcoin growth when it reaches 50% of adoption. A further complexity is that bitcoin, once fully adopted, will continue to grow, or shrink as the case may be, with the change in the underlying economy. 91 days after the April 10 peakClearly this bubble collapse is becoming more similar to the 2011 collapse than was the case a month ago. Speculative financial bubble theory says that a collapse takes about the same time as the speculative inflation. Initially, I believed that this bubble started in January, but another interpretation of the price chart allows for the bubble to start last October - a six month inflation. A six month collapse would end in the September - October timeframe. I drew the long term support trendline in green, and added the support line of the June 2011 peak, and drew a black trendline extrapolating the current decline.Evidence and experience drawn from the comparison of this bubble with 2011, and bubble theory makes me believe that the bottom will occur in September or October. The price then should be above $32 and below $50. The lines intersect at approximately $40.Assumptions include the continuation of the two year long term support rate of growth. If the bitcoin economy rate of exponential growth has decreased, the the collapse could well undershoot the target. The previous peak of $32 should provide support according to Elliot Wave Theory. Bubble theory, on the other hand, allows for prices to collapse back to pre-bubble levels, e.g. $10. Good call so far. The price has fallen through $75 to rebound off $73. Very insightful illustration of this plunge.Accordingly, its unlikely the bottom of this plunge will not be gentle and rounded, rather it will be a single day spike down with seller exhaustion followed by a sharp rally. Each rally has been stopped or beaten back by very large sell orders. You can see the eagerness of the buyers, but large bids near the current price get eaten too. One could expect a stronger rally following a further very sharp spike down, e.g. seller exhaustion.I agree with your sucker's rally characterization. We may be too far along in the bubble collapse for a strong bounce off this plunge.
I wonder if the rally over the past nine hours will surpass $71. If not, bearish. If this rally exceeds $130 it makes the case for a completed bubble collapse stronger. Conversely, if this rally reverses to a low below $88, it makes the case for a continued collapse of the bubble.My own trading allocation is betting on the uptrend continuing per moving averages. Is anyone else noticing the relatively low lag at Mt. Gox? Smooth handling of the high volume so far. Yes, here in the USA hardly anyone knows about it. The latter. I bought back in at $131 after $125 was finally surpassed on the upside. I sold some back at $112 and then the rest at $99 in the past hour. My volume was large enough for slippage so I sliced it and waited for bids. Well, with the high commissions Gox charges, its hard to see how they go out of business. At worst they sell the firm. I am 100% back in fiat awaiting further collapse of the bubble. Thanks for annotating and commenting on your charts. With so many indicators present I like when you highlight how you interpret them. The 10 day trend is downwards from $136, with sideways movement so far this weekend. Yeah, I bought back in 80% at $131. Holding 20% (or less as conditions indicate) as trend trading funds using Goomboo's moving average algorithm. The hourly chart trend is clearly downwards at the present.https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=60501.0 Works for me. I generally believe the bitcoin economy will unfold as Rick Falkvinge outlined back in 2011 ...1. Unlawful trade - e.g. Silk road, criminal currency transfers.2. International trade - wire transfers are too expensive, and credit cards are not accepted uniformly worldwide.3. Merchant trade, e.g. credit card fees and fraud are too expensive.4. Investment, e.g. like precious metals but no storage costs and supply is strictly limited.It is shortsighted in my opinion, to focus on just one of these. Risto Pietilä, who as a precious metals dealer frequented this forum a month ago, could make a great case for the last category. By the way, Risto I miss your commentary and wish you well. Using smoothed log data for the blockchain.info chart on USD transaction volume, it is harder to draw a support trendline. My rough effort gives a an increase of 100x every 20 months. By including all transactions we include speculation on the exchanges as well as commercial transactions. I prefer another of the excellent blockchain.info charts. Excluding distortions such as Satoshi Dice, this one clearly illustrates the long term growth of the underlying bitcoin economy. The drawn support line indicates a growth rate of 10x every 14 months which approximately agrees with the corresponding long term support line for bitcoin prices.The chart settings are log, smoothed and all data. Volume is tapering off as we have come to expect leading into the weekend. I've drawn support and resistance lines but the volatility today has cleared out the large bid and ask walls that would otherwise channel the price. You are welcome. I try hard to separate evidence from my opinion of it. Interesting notion ...During this transition to ASIC mining technology, one entity - ASICMiner - has a very large share of mined coins. Perhaps they have more motivation to sell than the multitude of individual GPU miners that have been effectively replaced.Lots of slippage when the dump occurs. There are well known techniques to slice orders and time them for more efficient executions, e.g. wait for bids to fill back in.  Why don't dumpers use them? Here is the short term downtrend after the recent peak at $136. The next bid walls are at $104-105. Indeed. Although I bought back in at $131, I have 20% still in fiat in case the bubble collapses further. An important test will be at $104. The bear case becomes stronger should that be broken through on the downside.
Sure, we could go below $100 as the long term support is much lower than the current price. My original analysis was that the price would decline to meet the long term support at $40-50 six months after the April 10 peak. 57 days after the April 10 peakNearly two months after the peak at $266, it is increasingly evident that this bubble may have completed its collapse. Price action for May was bullish/neutral - not bearish - even in the face of bad news events. The May low of $80 has not been surpassed on the downside, and the early May high at $125 was surpassed later in the month. The post-peak highs of $166 on April 23 and $149 on April 28 still stand.The bubble collapse pattern now looks less like the June 2011 collapse and more like a damped oscillation consolidation centering on $120.In the illustrated chart, I circled the mild August 2012 bubble-correction. Note that prices did not crash back to levels of June-July, but rather proceeded sideways and upwards.I now believe that bitcoin prices could progress sideways for much of the rest of the year until the long term support line approaches. Observe that the long term trendline I drew suggests that bitcoin prices are generally increasing 10x every 14 months. Accordingly, I expect sharp pullbacks towards the support and slower recoveries upwards as is typical of a long term rally. Supposing that the big sale was a shock and not a trend reversal, I expect that a triangle consolidation pattern will unfold on the 15-minute chart, perhaps with the apex at  $125.  A May support trendline has been tested and held.  This triangle I think illustrates the market's digestion of the money laundering news. As the May trend has been upwards, I suggest that this triangle will more likely be broken out to the upside, e.g. the support trend line will prove stronger. The rally broke through resistance at $123 and has paused near $127. Volume continues to be modest. Support bid wall at $120 has been removed in the face of this possible trend reversal. Bid wall at $122 is being consumed. Volume modest. If the low weekend volume that we have come to expect is not affected by the bitcoin conference, then the support wall at $122 and the resistance at $125 may hold until volume picks up late Sunday. If it were not for the bitcoin conference this weekend, I would expect some sort of consolidation after the breakouts at $116 and the big one at $120.  Still hedging ... Even if there is a trend reversal, the last drop to $80 took several days. The rally is now spiking upwards, and pausing at $125. The rally is about to make a new high for May after the low of $80. After the wall at $120 was consumed, the rally has paused at $122. Interesting how big bids quickly follow the rallying price point - thus preventing a large spread.  Note the steep bid and ask walls near the trading point. I wonder if volume will drop off this afternoon as we approach the weekend? Thanks so much. My posts on this thread are mostly observations of current trends, highlighting the drama between support and resistance.  Clark Moody does a great job, however the Mt.Gox data feed has numerous problems that you describe. Chiefly the Mt.Gox data feed is not always consistent with regard to depth and trades. The sustained rally, having broken through the resistance at $116, is now facing resistance at $120 and beyond that $125. The sideways trend of the past two days has been steadily resisted at $116, while the trading range has narrowed.
Here is my take on a supernode ...Imagine a network of precious metal dealers operating in every major city who now offer their hard-money customers a deflationary store of value - bitcoin.A supernode is such a dealer who also operates a bitcoin network node that can independently mine bitcoins, with or without a pool.The supernode network collectively fixes prices periodically with a long settlement period, routing orders among themselves and to other exchanges, e.g. Mt. Gox, Bitstamp.The supernode network collectively takes other various measures to robustly operate in the face of DDoS, government constraints, etc. The rally from $103 continues to bump along resistance, e.g. plentiful supply at $116.  Here is a mostly sideways trend bumping along mild resistance at $116. If surpassed, stronger resistance is at $120, and beyond that $125. I drew this chart with log prices and show a breakthough. But as the decline appears entirely news-event driven, I am thinking now that this could be a false breakout on my chart. Given my hypothesis of a bubble collapse from April 10, this support trendline must be broken through to the downside by the end of June. Simply going sideways for that length of time would constitute a breakthough on the downside given the steepness of the support line. As this recent drop to $103 was entirely news-driven, I wonder if that after a brief consolidation, and lacking any other follow-on U.S. DHS seizure news, the gentle uptrend of 7 prior days will continue towards resistance near $120. There was a major post-peak support trendline breakout to the downside on news of Dwolla/Mt.Gox account seisure by DHS. Note the relatively high, bid-wall-busting volume in the last 12 hours.To some extent the support trendline represents the trading belief that the bubble can be re-inflated. With the breakthough to the downside, that trading belief will be weakened, and belief that the bubble may have more collapsing yet ahead will, in contrast, be strengthened. Will this downdraft be stopped by the support at $100? Remember that back in November, the price was $10. The impulse downwards paused when it reached the illustrated support trendline, thus adding evidence for the support trendline's existence.The interesting question is whether the strength of this downdraft will be renewed soon and bust down through the support. Trading sentiment will become more bearish if it does. 33 days after the April 10 peakHere is a closer look at the recently completed bearish wedge. The bitcoin rally significantly reversed direction at the indicated resistance trendline. This is the sort of pattern that could initiate the next leg down. Note the very high relative volume. Mine too if it is any comfort. Bitcoinity still OK. Wall busting volume. There is power to this downdraft.Hourly volume is already 7000 BTC 10 minutes after the hour.  Remember that in November one could buy a bitcoin for $10. This downdraft will very likely not go that far. What is notable about this drop is how fast the ask walls are following the price downwards. I have Clark Moody's app set to 1 bitcoin audio trade sensitivity - its like a jackhammer!  donk-donk-donk-donk-donk-dink-donk. This chart clearly illustrates to me the trader sentiment that the April 10 bubble can be re-inflated. This sentiment should become weaker as peaks at $266, $166, $147 and now $125 remain unsurpassed. Increased volume allowed the rally to more closely approach the ask walls at $120 and $125.  Bitcoin price rose from $114 to $118 with the arrival of modestly higher volume on Sunday evening. The rally is approaching resistance at $118-119 which has withstood several attempts in the past 12 hours. Short term bear. We are 32 days past the bubble peak and prices have fallen by half - yet remain 8x times greater than back in January when a bitcoin could be purchased for $13.50.Long term bull - bitcoin will be worth over 100K USD each I believe. 32 days after the April 10 peakDiminishing volume over the last three days is narrowing the trading range, and sideways price action is more common than earlier in the bubble collapse. There has been a slight downward trend from the recent peak at $125. By the end of this week, the illustrated support line intersects the resistance line at $120. If the price fell through the indicated support line, e.g. below $110 by the end of this week, then that outcome would strengthen the case for continued bubble collapse. Conversely, if prices rally and comply with the indicated support, then that weakens the bear case, especially if recent peaks at $147 and $160 are surpassed.
Low volume over the weekend has consolidated into a narrowing trading rage. Perhaps wall-busting volume will occur on Monday. If you find the 3-D depth chart unhelpful, then simply ignore the Chartbuddy user - its a bot. I was there. The reason that prices went so low was that bargain hunters bought back in too high. For example, I bought back in at $14. Postings the week of the 2011 bottom were looking for bitcoin to drop below $1 - which did not happen. Low volume may pick up as we have come to expect late Sunday. Low volume, trending downwards from $122 with support through thin bids at $113. The further the price drops from the blue trendline, the more that trader sentiment is drawn to the trendline of 2012 as the underlying trend. I will be looking for signs of that divergence widening in future versions of this well designed infographic chart. Indeed, a bubble collapses because new buyers diminish. Most of the trades from here to the bottom of the bubble will be the iterative transfer from weak hands to stronger hands. Hands become weak as fewer successive buyers prop up prices. The bid sum is interesting. According to the chart, the sum rapidly declined from a similar high point during the drop from $145 down to $80. It will take volume to consume the walls constituted by those bids. We are witnessing very low volume. Note the expected low weekend volume. The upward movement from $97 has broken through the up-to-now primary bubble collapse trendline. This weakens the case for the bubble collapse to continue, but there is another distinguished line of resistance nearby. 30 days after the April 10 peakAt this important 30-day milestone, note that although at the current price of $118.78, bitcoin has fallen 55% from its peak at $266, it remains 8.8x higher than back in January, when a bitcoin was priced at $13.50. By way of comparison, at 30 days after the June 8, 2011 peak, prices had fallen to $14.2, also a drop of 55%. Although obviously not aligned with respect to the timing of their capitulations, they remain consistent with regard to overall pace of collapse.Bubble 1 at 30 days ...This bubble at 30 days ... If trading volume drops off for the remainder of the day, and volume over the weekend is relatively slow as we have come to expect, then the bid depth chart could fill in to form a narrow trading range, e.g. between $117 and $120 over the next 48 hours. This change of sentiment by one trader is entirely consistent with the steady drop in volume after the April 10 peak. I saw the 0.1337 bot in action with repeated buys. What is the motive? What do we make of this hour's sales - a pump and dump? Are the sellers now the same as the buyers six hours ago? Really? Or are you trolling. 14K BTC sold would greatly move the market. I deleted that post soon after I made it, realizing that if the rally stopped at $122, then the most likely successor pattern is what you said. Thanks for the insight. Here is the next triangle. The breakthrough launched as it approached the rising support, with relatively moderate-high wall-busting volume. I believe that the bear case still holds. I am curious however to see how a bearish pattern unfolds from this breakout.
Three months to inflate the bubble, should collapse in three also. Time frame is months to confirm the bubble collapse, but refutation can happen immediately, e.g. a spike to a new all time high. Does anyone else see even more weird bot behavior?Alternating purchases and sales under 1 BTC.  An arb? Resistance expected near the previous peaks at $125 and $147.The case for a continued bubble collapse strengthens if these previous peaks are not surpassed. Conversely it weakens if they are. Here is the breakout to the upside.  To me, the enthusiastic crowds of new bitcoin buyers are missing. Bargain-hunting buyers are more cautious about buying above these levels. Caution facilitates patience.But should prices slowly slump, or perhaps simply not rise, then I believe there will be another leg down testing $80. In a collapsing bubble, price trend bias is downwards. Indeed his absence here is telling in itself. Respectfully, it is surprising to me that with your attention to semantics you missed the distinguishing point that I made. Of course I take for granted that doubling of bitcoin price every 30 days is not something that can go on forever, The market has already demonstrated that the January to March trendline was not sustainable - the crash from $266 fell right through it. One must have numerical blinders on not to recognize bitcoin prices cannot double every thirty days indefinitely. Exponential bitcoin growth is happening now at perhaps 4-5x annually when measured according to the prominent lows of bitcoin prices at Mt.Gox 2011 to present.What I actually said was that the notion is unsustainable. If bitcoin stops going up, then obviously the notion, i.e. belief that it will keep doublling upwards every 30 days,  becomes less prevalent - right? But maybe it is just as simple as that if you want just one or two very profitable trades from this bubble. Are you by chance all in? Yes, it is expected but it something to actually feel it. I now believe that the highest volume weeks of 2013 are behind us. Does anyone get the feeling that the market is slowing down as we near the apex of the biggest triangle ever seen? 29 days after the April 10 peakA bubble collapse should be characterized by successively lower volume until the collapse is complete.Here is the June 8, 2011 bubble volume chart ...And for comparison, here is the correspond April 10, 2013 bubble chart ...Although the recent bubble's volume is 10x higher, it diminishes from its peak in a manner very similar to that of bubble 1. And thank you! I believe that the ascending bullish lows represent the notion that the underlying long term trend is consistent with the January-March trend, e.g. doubling every 30 days. This notion is unsustainable.I believe that the descending bearish highs represent the bubble collapse. Bubble theory says that typical bubbles give back all their speculative gains.Perhaps one month from the April 10 peak at $266 is long enough for the predominant trader sentiment to shift to the fact that the waves of new buyers are diminishing, causing demand to likewise diminish, causing prices to likewise diminish.   Bubble 1 peaked June 8, 2011. Bubble 2 peaked April 10, 2013. 1 year, 10 months, 2 days separate these first two bitcoin bubbles.Therefore I extrapolate from that evidence to predict that bitcoin bubble 3 will arrive in 672 days ... Wednesday, February 11, 2015. Great point to remember. The April 2011 low was used to establish the support trendline before we reached the actual bottom - leading to great debate here at bitcointalk, but it turned out that April 2011 was part of that bubble. Was looking like a definite change in trend at the time we lost data. Thank you Mr. Smoothie.Folks reading this should know that I index my part of the thread from the first page. Recently I added a properly scaled comparison between the 2011 bubble and this one. Looks like a definite change of trend. Give a few more hours to confirm direction. More volume on the downside would also be expected if this is a major move.
+1 28 days after the April 10 peakA bubble collapse should be characterized by successfully lower peaks. This is a weaker bearish claim than the current bubble collapse trendline - that might still hold if the trendline is broken to the upside for a while.Here are the current candidates of yet unsurpassed peaks ...April 9 - $266April 23 - $166April 28 - $149May 5 - $125The longer time passes without these peaks being surpassed, I think, the more sentiment turns away from the notion that the bubble can indeed be reinflated. This pattern sets up a potential trend change. I sense a diminishing amount of buyers. Although, it is a slightly upward trend with continued attacks on the resistance at $115. The now known to be fake ask wall at $115 vanished just as trades approached it. Interesting watching the numerous 0.1337 sales nibble away at the available bids. I assume that it is a bot. I cannot figure a motive. Its not frequent enough to cause lag. It is not even handled - so I rule out an arb bot. Why not just buy from the large bid at the top of the depth in one lot.Is it a signal among a team of traders? Does anyone do such a thing? I figure 194 bitcoins mined per hour at this rate. Interesting to compare that number with hourly trading volume - which was 1095 in the last complete hour at Mt. Gox. Trading range narrowing with the diminished volume. An update on the battle to determine the rate of bubble collapse. I believe that the green climbing support line represents bargain-hunting buyers. When these two trendlines collide, perhaps that is the point at which bargain hunting buyers decide the bubble is real and that prices will go lower if they wait. Does resistance trump support at $105?Here is a larger look at the two colliding trends: red is the declining resistance trendline and green is the climbing support trendline. I believe that the resistance trend will dominate as the bubble collapses. This uptrend meets historical resistance near $112. So sorry, the support line is a hypothesis dependent upon the strength of the identified declining resistance line. I draw it to give me more data from which to place the spread of buy limit orders that get triggered if and when the bubble collapses further. 27 days after the April 11 peakPrices have been generally falling the last two weeks.Here is the primary bubble collapse trendline, suggested by the peak of the retracement from $80. The trend would be significantly strengthened if a low below $80 occurs, in particular if the new low touched a roughly parallel support line that passes through $80. On your thread, or on a consumer-facing thread, I would be glad to adopt cheaper-sounding units of measure. But on the legacy threads of bitcoin speculation tradition here at bitcointalk, I for one, want the good old fashioned bitcoin, if for no other reason than to celebrate it. I think that the large traders propelling these trends think of us here as sort of scalpers. We know the game, and they let us play. +1 In case this latest down movement from $125 is indeed a part of a larger move towards $80, it is useful to consider what pattern might be revealed. The previous strike down is illustrated, and its pattern applied to the current trend. Mt. Gox volume at 9000 BTC only 16 minutes into this hour. Goxlag now 57sec. Wall busting power downwards should it continue.May pause at the $100 wall, if not before. If indeed this is a lengthy downward movement headed towards a retest of $80, then it will, in my judgement, be a multi-leg movement. Volume picking up on this downtrend.If anybody cares, I cancelled my highest outstanding bid at $95 and moved it to join another lower existing bid as part of a spread of bids should this downtrend indeed make a strike for $80. I now believe that a retracement from a retest of $80 might not get as high as the last one did.
Interesting downtrend that could be a part of new multi-leg strike towards $80.  The top trend line touches more times and thus has more significance when understanding the trend. Would you care to share your trading rules for automated market making? Evidence disputing the direct comparison of this bubble to the one in 2011.To which I responded ... Given this stop at $106, could be a triangle developing centered on $108 ? Perhaps the comparisons with bubble 1 will become stronger as this collapse continues. There are plenty of falsifiable predictions I could make, and the most interesting is whether $145 or $160 will be surpassed during the remainder of the collapse. Based on bubble 1, I think not.    To the degree that this bubble collapse behaves like the June 2011 collapse, it is normal for the big sell off to happen first. That's why I dubbed the August , 2011 capitulation The Great Capitulation of 2011. I believe the drop from $145 to $80 is the corresponding Great Capitulation of 2013. If my ideas are correct, then its likely we have seen the worst one this year.Here is what happened with regard to volume back during the collapse of the bubble in 2011 ... Even in multi-player zero-sum games there may be significant advantages to players, i.e. win-win situations, resulting from the sharing of noisy or misleading information.I am here because I believe that what I learn helps me to multiply my bitcoins. I do not believe that what I say meaningfully affects the bitcoin exchange market, and the criticism my ideas receive is easier to accept than lessons taught solely by the market.  Significant volume on this hourly red candle amplifies the importance of this movement. Will volume increase next hour? Risto = rpietila Coincidentally, the same websocket library I got working a year ago for Android, was the one that I grafted socket.io capability onto in my recent Java desktop app. Your idea should work fine. Getting the realtime depth list synched up with trades is not easy due to the fact that Mt. Gox appears to have separate server processes providing this information, without Consistency as defined by database folks. I use the Chrome web browser. Its tools permit the monitoring of the TCP traffic between client and server - and so I watch Clark Moody's app to confirm the socket.io API that Mt. Gox uses. I likewise found Mt.Gox performance to be annoying. That just about sums up trend-following TA. I would feel even more confident about my bitcoin bubble assumptions if the price did not exceed $145 again before the final bottom. A few months ago I wrote a Java websocket/socket.io client for Mt. Gox that processes the depth chart to explore my notions about depth and tick data. The ChartBuddy 3-D depth chart periodically posted here shows the time dimension like I wanted - so no point in going further. But I did learn enough about the Mt. Gox API to very deeply appreciate the cleverness employed by Clark Moody who ties together Mt. Gox trades and depth changes.The Mt. Gox HTTP API allows the client to poll the server in order to obtain partial or the full depth list of bids and asks. Then its websocket/socket.io API allows the client to subscribe to trades, depth changes, and lag. Subsequently the client receives notification of depth changes, which is the change and new amount of the limit bid or ask orders at a certain price at a certain time, i.e. the time the limit order was issued/cancelled. What is crazy is that Mt. Gox drops the connection, or otherwise loses synchronization between the trades and the depth chart. Clark Moody's realtime charting app dynamically fixes all this up. Its not precise - but it is very satisfactory, by polling the server to replace the client depth info when it gets out of sync.I can answer detailed protocol questions about the Mt. Gox API as regard to charting data, but not much at all regarding the trading functions. When traders say that bitcoin has passed from weak hands to strong ones, they are describing a mechanism that prolongs a bubble collapse. Certain traders holding losing positions (the weak hands) stop-loss sell to new buyers who can withstand a bit of a drop (the strong hands), until the latter in turn sell as they become the weak hands - right?I believe that the bubble collapse will take the approximately the same duration as the bubble expansion phase - approximately three months. Plenty of time for more capitulations before the final bottom of this bubble - I think. As everyone here probably knows, I am a long term bull attempting to multiply my bitcoins by trading this bubble, which compels me to adopt bearish tactics as the opportunity presents. It appears to me that the capitulation pattern from $145 to $80 has ended. Three days to fall to $80, and three days to recover back to $124. Question whether the price will surpass $145 or $160 this month - I believe not, based upon the notion that we are in a collapsing bubble. Recent price action is within the lower part of the wall-indicated channel. Evidently, bitcoin is easy to sell. The wonder of it all - is that what Risto says above is absolutely true, depending solely upon the degree to which bitcoin replaces the legacy fiat/PM financial structure. The three year exponential growth of bitcoin suggests that it will take a substantial portion of online payment transactions. And Risto could share rosy statistics about the growth of bitcoin as as store of value - achieving what I imagine to be a growing share of the market formerly served only by precious metals.  
24 days after the April 11 peakHas the Great Capitulation of 2013 ended? Did we reach bottom at $80 two days ago?The retracement to $115 is an impressive recovery, albeit low volume which suggests less significance within containing patterns.My entire analysis of the price action after April 10 as recorded in this thread, depends on whether, and to what extent, bitcoin bubble 1 provides insight when viewed from the framework of speculative financial bubble theory. And by the latter, I mean mostly the common predictable behaviors that bubbles have.  And in particular, the part of the theory that pertains to my analysis is a very simple rule: From the peak of the bubble, prices decline all the way back to the underlying trend in approximately the same duration as it took for the bubble to rise to its peak.Therefore my primary bitcoin analysis constraint - the outermost technical pattern - is that prices will very likely collapse from the peak at $266 to somewhere between $13.50, which was a price in January, and the current post-peak low of $50. The price bias is thus strongly downwards.In the accompanying chart, the smaller blue line indicates the current retracement. The larger downtrend appears to collide with it soon, and one trend will prevail.I believe that conditions will soon enable the initiation of another down leg to this capitulation. To me, it has not gone deep enough when compared to the corresponding capitulation from August 2011.I humorously described on the wall thread a scenario from among those I think likely.My lowest bid got filled at $82 and my highest ask got filled at $104. My highest ask at $104.5 got filled an hour ago, and the one day rally is still going. I commend your goals and I applaud your efforts. A dealer network should not only secure more bitcoin investments, it will as you say permit large-order trades in the network even if blinded by lag at Mt.Gox plus you could have robust order routing among all the exchanges. These things will help mediate the factors in the bitcoin economy that lead to price bubbles.Most traders here have little knowledge about the size and global scope of the client-facing precious metals market, which I assume that you are actually addressing. I think that your pitch to them should be irresistible - simply a very attractive hot new financial product to add to their hard money business.----------------------I fear that the very infrastructure you are creating will be the foundation for the next, and order-of-magnitude larger bitcoin bubble 3. In two years, the next flood of new bitcoin adopters, merchants, users, traders and investors will be, say 10-20x more than what we have now. By bubble, I mean the commonly accepted notion of speculative financial bubble as used by the press, traders, financiers and economists. I am not so much interested in your definition of bubble, but rather how you would characterize the price action from January 1 to present, and how to profit from it.Namely, could you recognize the next bubble when it comes? And if you did, what actions would you take? If you do not accept that prices will be lower after a bitcoin bubble collapse then how can you execute a sell-high, buy-back-low trade - you would not have the preconditions to make the trade!You believe that the underlying bitcoin economy is growing very very rapidly. I believe that it is growing very rapidly. My belief allows for bubbles. I sold a bit at $100 and $103 and am currently positioned to sell more at $105. Back to bed.  My open limit orders are not walls - they are way smaller than that. I simply place them in front of walls so that they get filled by the matching engine before the wall below my order in the case of a bid, or the wall above my order in the case of a bid. Breaking out of a triangle on the 15-min chart - in relatively thin volume. Technical analysts consider a low volume move to be less significant.This move however is squarely blocked by my ask in front of the wall at $105. Will it get eaten?  OK, not actionable advice - just one of many likely instantiated scenarios. Suppose it unfolds sort of like back in August 2011 ...Stopped by the ask wall at $70 early Monday morning in the USA. Two hour goxlag-blinded drop below $85 to reach the wall and bounce back. Mt. Gox wall-busting volume over 25000 each of those two hours.  Clark Moody ding-ding-O-Meter chatters like a jackhammer with red orders flying past and huge spreads between bid and asked. Your analysis makes me feel comfortable with a prudent-sized profit-taking limit order for the weekend positioned in front of the ask wall at $105, using some of the lots bought at $87 and $80.Based solely upon a comparison with the corresponding August 1, 2011 capitulation, I believe that this bottom of this capitulation could still be two or three days away, i.e. Monday, and could also feature a 15% culminating selling blow-off as did the comparison. And most importantly, I believe that this bottom is not the post-bubble bottom.For reference, I have dubbed this one the Great Capitulation of 2013 - none bigger. I accuse you, yes you, of selection bias. Hey, when the first team is off the field, they send in the likes of me. I saw the channel containing the embedded pattern. Regarding nested patterns, to what degree are containing patterns influential with regard to immediately contained technical patterns? I am considering a limit sell order in case some big, 9000+ BTC buyer says damn all to slippage over the weekend. Biased to the downside for three days, sell at say $105 this weekend, anticipating a buy back on Monday morning below $90? Yes, but those very whales have been taking recent weekends off. On the other hand, if this is really the biggest and baddest capitulation of 2012, 2013 and probably all of 2014, then yes we could crash big this evening or this weekend.Because I plan only one set of relatively low risk and highly profitable (should events unfold as planned) round-trip trades per capitulation, I really don't have to pay attention to the embedded day trading opportunities. It is getting quiet in my home office - no Clark Moody ding-ding-O-meter chattering away ! Despite the calm, I don't envy big money and their advisors that are holding maybe 25% losses in just three days, with a potential goxlag-blinded Black Monday sell off. That unfortunate group knows that the first one to sell gets the tastiest bids and the last one to sell books the biggest client loss. They cannot sell during the weekend without huge slippage. A band-break at the bagholder's ball.  Does anyone else think that volume has dropped off? If so then no wall-busting power until likely Monday. And yet another triangle. Duh ... make that one hour - not four hours as it says in the immutable image below. +1 My bid orders at Mt.Gox got filled at $95, $87 and $80. I have more outstanding at even lower prices. Yes I would buy here and have done so. I expect that when this capitulation is over, prices will retrace to maybe $120 - and then time to sell. Risto has changed his mind. He said that if prices drop he will buy more. As matter of fact, I applaud his efforts as an experienced, professional  bitcoin broker/dealer to create infrastructure that will gain him even more clients. There is a crude cliche that applies, at least partially to his behavior - Fake it until you make it. I expect Risto to make it. Good point. It is useful to give proper names to instance concepts that are frequently referred to, e.g everyone knows what the Great Depression, and Great Recession are. The bubble collapse of 2011 featured six selling capitulations. I named the first and most significant one the Great Capitulation of 2011.I believe, and will not know for sure until this bubble collapse is complete, that the current capitulation will be the most significant one this time around - we have already dropped a crushing 45% in three days, and many traders now realize that the bubble is over.Is this the Great Capitulation of 2013? I think so, and I think too that it is not over, and will not be the bottom of the bubble collapse.
Supposing that this pause at $96 turns downward within a couple of hours, there could be enough high-volume hours remaining today so that a wall-busting panic-selling spike down to $70 might just happen, e.g. in the blind due to goxlag. Otherwise, I think your assessment is likely. In trader talk, you meant resistance at 97, right? The previous pause was six hours long and the one before that was 12 hours long. I recommend patience - or maybe limit buy orders. I have a most likely price target in mind beforehand. For example, a couple of days ago I obtained a price target for this capitulation by way of comparison with the first and greatest capitulation of bubble 1. That one had a 55% drop from the top. This one started at $145 and my price target was therefore $65. I created pre-positioned buy limit orders at Mt. Gox for $95, $87, $80, $76, and $65. Based upon the relentless selling pressure today, I split the lowest bid and created a new bid at $60. Regarding order size, I use a rough gaussian distribution, i.e. bell curve, that heavily weights the orders in the center of the spread. In a sort of monte carlo analysis, I expect the majority of my orders to get filled, but not necessarily the lowest one(s).My buy points illustrated above are in whole numbers, the actual orders are positioned according to the nearby bid walls, i.e. my orders are relatively small and I want them filled before the 1000+ BTC orders commonly placed at whole numbers as walls.These execution tactics are new to me. I vowed during the last bitcoin bubble to learn - and to profit accordingly. Are not especially powerful price movements often characterized by extensions in EW analysis? What we have here is a great capitulation in the wake of the biggest bitcoin bubble collapse to date. Above $110, sellers may be motivated by profit-taking, but below $110 nearly everyone who bought BTC between April 1 and May 2 is not taking profits when they sell, they are staunching a loss, and potentially very big losses. And on the other hand, smart money that sold above current levels is strongly motivated by bargain hunting. These two forces, distressed sellers and bargain-hunting buyers, oscillate in initiative thus causing the wave patterns - right? The next several hours will reveal whether the price movement stays in the channel.  If there indeed is another leg down, and it has similar dimensions, then we could see an approach down to $70 in about 24 hours.However volume typically drops off on Friday afternoon and over the weekend. The bottom of the capitulation may not therefore occur until Monday. Back in August 2011, the bottom of the first and greatest capitulation was a massive, high volume sell off, dropping the last 15% in two hours - which is the sort of volume one could expect on Monday. Indeed this is fun - so, so much better than back in bubble 1. Not necessarily, see what the official explanation is. Domain hacking affects domain name servers, not the web server hosting the forum - right? Yes, I think lack of information motivates selling - or otherwise a retreat to safety, whereas sufficient information bolsters confidence, e.g. to bargain hunt in this situation. Yep. Then lower I believe. I could not sleep without pre-positioned limit orders. Two of mine filled while I was asleep a couple of hours ago and I am very satisfied. We could get goxlag again today and you might not be able to reach the exchange to place a realtime order. Yay! Should be a lot of attention paid to the bid wall at $70 by hungry fiat-laden traders today. 23 days after the April 10 peakI believe that we are in the third day of the Great Capitulation of 2013. Recall that the corresponding capitulation back in 2011 dropped 55% from $13 to $6 during a six-day fall to the bottom of that capitulation.The region between $110 and $60, I have dubbed the Bagholder's Ball, as nearly all the bitcoin purchases on Mt. Gox from April 1 to May 2 are nominal losers below $110 - and will be strongly motivated to sell. I have a spread but not nearly as low as you. Hopefully I will be completely back in bitcoin in a couple of days. The first, and greatest capitulation, of bubble 1 took six days to reach bottom. In this corresponding capitulation we have been dropping for only three days from $145 ... Hmmm. I have not adjusted my remaining sleep-at-night bids, as I expected this capitulation to unfold almost exactly as did the first capitulation from the 2011 bubble. That one dropped 55% from the start, and this one has only gone down 45% from $145. I may split my lowest bid and issue an additional buy limit order even lower. I will not feel really comfortable with my handling of this capitulation unless I miss a bit on the downside of it. I followed advice on Reddit to add this domain to my /etc/hosts file. It worked. Yes, and best wishes on your attempts, and those who you influence, to overcome the barriers that prevent big money investors, traders and merchants from smoothly accessing and using bitcoins. There are many win-win situations to be found and exploited. I believe that this is huge but not immediate. From the article ...It is huge because Mt. Gox will react to the suit instead of spending all their time fighting DDoS attacks.
Understand that my time context is the entire bubble collapse, which I expect to be roughly three months after the peak on April 10. Yes, $50 is not the bottom - that is the nature of a speculative financial bubble collapse. Evidence shows that the bottom is deeper than most expect and takes about as long to occur as the bubble took to form in the first place. I believe the bubble started January 7, 2013 at $13.50. The underlying trend I think allows for a bottom well under $50. Sorry, short of time - preparing for a good night's sleep with buy orders in place. It make take a few more days to complete this capitulation, to the degree that this capitulation is indeed similar to the corresponding one back in 2011.Accordingly, this capitulation may be the greatest of this bubble collapse, but it will not be the last one and will not be the bottom.  Still easy to get bitcoins to Mt. Gox for sale. I would say that the bank holidays make it harder to get dollars to Mt. Gox for purchases. Therefore, on balance, the price is negatively affected. $100 wall held. But maybe the remaining part of the wall is held by the seller who wants to corral sizable bids above $100 for later consumption. Ahh yes, but the business reasons for providing liquidity to buyers are greater for big money traders than the good business reasons you describe - which amount to paying more than is fair to sellers. Breaking back down below $105 could be an important confirmation of the resumption of the capitulation from $145. EM had the idea posted here that the 3 D chart should denote age of the limit order by color [or intensity].  The comparable capitulation from the first bubble was six days start-to-bottom. We are only two days into this one. The corresponding capitulation from the June 2011 bubble took six days to reach a bottom 55% below the start of the pattern. To the degree that the comparison is a guide, $65.25 four days from now is a target. I believe that charting explains and predicts how the price gets there from here. Exactly the same for me. Right! Its easy, and only six confirmations away, to move bitcoin from some big-money wallet into Mt. Gox for sale. Harder and slower to get fiat in for purchase. 22 days after the April 10 peakI believe that this is the second day of the first and greatest capitulation of Bitcoin Bubble 2.$110 marks the upper limit of what I have dubbed 'The Bagholder's Ball'. Below this point, a very substantial portion of all April - May bitcoin purchases show a nominal loss. Consequently, trading bitcoin holders sell out according to their respective degrees of temporal risk acceptance - and the last ones to sell, well - they lose the most.  Commendable - and a great example for your clients.After this bubble collapse is fully played out, I too, would like to consider writing options, but on MPOE via CoinBr. There is more liquidity on an exchange as contrasted to OTC, of course. Sorry for not being clear. $104 is a convenient place for the bid wall that is a substantial part of the support. I chose the same targets on the downside. My ask at $129 went unfilled. Support at $107 holding back a further drop at the moment. The corresponding capitulation in bitcoin bubble 1 had two equally sized downward legs over a three day period. If this one goes into three days then I expect it also will have a second leg down - which is indicated as a likely completion of the illustrated triangle pattern. I will stop cross posting now that you have mentioned it. And I am sorry that it wasted your time. Tickets Purchased for the Bagholder's Ball.There is now a mighty mass of bitcoins purchased since April 1 above current levels and yet unsold. Back in August 2011, the first and greatest capitulation of that bubble had two legs, dropping over three days. I believe the situation permits a breather at ~115 for a day, then another deep plunge - to the extent that a single carefully selected instance from 2011 serves to model all such bitcoin bubbles.
There is now a mighty mass of bitcoins purchased since April 1 above current levels and yet unsold. Back in August 2011, the first and greatest capitulation of that bubble had two legs, dropping over three days. I believe the situation permits a breather at ~115 for a day, then another deep plunge - to the extent that a single carefully selected instance from 2011 serves to model all such bitcoin bubbles. Rpietila revealed in another post that because he manages bitcoin investments on behalf of clients, one should not take what he says publicly for what he takes to heart. @MagedThis recollection is so awesome! I am quoting here for comparison vis-a-vis the current trader sentiment. @MagedThis recollection is so awesome! Is that a real ask wall at 121? Could put a cap on the move upwards if bid volume drops down. And for comparison with the recent drop from $145 is this analogous chart from August 2011. Note that the price dropped over 50% from the failed attempt at a resistance point, and then proceeded to recover nearly all the losses. +1 Agreed, but patience I believe will be rewarded. You should put that in your signature. [The technical support at $120 is relatively strong, both as a numerical point for building bid walls and as a historically stable price point. Consequently, I believe the first and greatest capitulation of this bubble will occur as the price drops below this support. To the degree that this bubble follows the pattern set by the June 2011 bubble, expect this capitulation to be the largest, and to go deeper than most expect.This expected capitulation is not the bottom. Alert - Perhaps the first, and largest, capitulation is at handThe technical support at $120 is relatively strong, both as a numerical point for building bid walls and as a historically stable price point. Consequently, I believe the first and greatest capitulation of this bubble will occur as the price drops below this support. To the degree that this bubble follows the pattern set by the June 2011 bubble, expect this capitulation to be the largest, and to go deeper than most expect.This expected capitulation is not the bottom. Yet another triangle. Momentum building to break through below $127. 21 days after the April 10 peakThe last 24 hours have witnessed relentless selling pressure. After the failure to buy through resistance at $146, the bitcoin price has dropped to $128 while making two attempts to sell through support at $127.  A third attempt is underway as of this writing.Based upon the decline back to underlying trend predicted by speculative financial bubble theory, and comparison with the June, 2011 bubble, I continue to expect the trading emphasis to shift to defending the support at $120, rather than pushing above $160 to new highs.  I do not understand what you mean. Here is a common definition of a bear trap from Investopedia ... Relentless selling pressure. Anyone see a buy order get a piece of one of these ephemeral walls? Commonly, stop loss orders are used by traders to limit losses without regard to duration after purchase. Therefore, as prices drop below $135 - that I have labelled as the start of this bubble's Sucker's Rally - those dropping prices are increasingly likely to trigger stop-loss sell orders. Threatening ask wall. Walls after the move down to 132. $133 is half the all time high of $266 and thus could be an expected point of resistance for the price to retrace back upwards.
The selling pressure just keeps coming. Funny ask wall gone now. The most recent wave of big money buyers now has a strong motivation to sell. My asks back at 140 were taken. If that is indeed the case then there should be a battle to break through below $120. Not exactly what caused today's slump, but the change of sentiment that accompanied the collapse of the bubble at $266 is now sort of a depressing weight pulling prices down. Maybe stable around 135 for a while. Lots of support there in the past. Please consider carefully the next summit venue. I suggest Silicon Valley, e.g. in Mountain View close to the Google Campus. Invite local VC and Singularity Summit  style keynoters, and pitch it at legacy regional investment firms competing for wealthy young risk taking clients, e.g. the Winklevoss twins.Incorporate a demo day with bitcoin awards for best bitcoin start up pitch & demo. That's exactly what happened back in the summer of 2011. After the first bubble peak, much of the commentary around here was 'was that the bottom?'. The bubble decline takes so long to play out because the most reluctant buyer gets the best price - and there will be a lot of buyers as you say. Or maybe the 4-5x annual bitcoin price increase 2010 to Dec 2012 is enough to persuade your customers to buy and hold. No need to include the Jan-Feb rate which I argue is part, maybe the most important part, of the bubble. Wonderful chart that would support your point except that well known gold bubbles have different time frames than yours. But is your belief weakened by the likelihood that a great many of those bids below $120 are simply waiting to spend the cash raised when they sold earlier? My sleep-at-night bids are already there. Who here with $ at gox does not have some bids in place?Maybe new money is waning and their lack of bids is obscured by the new bids from recent sellers. And note those new bids are relatively larger in amount due to profit taken. Ah yes. But back in January, the price was warranted too - at $13.50. We all can see what has changed in those months, but the flood of new money that was the biggest change - appears to be waning. The usual notion of Sucker's Rally is to distinguish buyers who are misinformed about valuation, as subsequent price action reveals. Let's see what happens.You joined in time for the first bubble collapse back in June 2011. Do you recall the steady, gut-wrenching decline from the $20's down to $2? I do. It's little comfort  withstanding a 90% drop in value knowing that bitcoins will eventually be worth $$$ each. 20 days after the April 10 peakThe most significant resistance to increasing bitcoin prices is currently above $145. The recent peak at $160 has not yet been surpassed.Now that 20 days have elapsed after the all-time-high of $266, the amount of buying enthusiasm that used to arrive each Monday morning is waning. Based upon the decline back to underlying trend predicted by speculative financial bubble theory, and comparison with the June, 2011 bubble, I expect the trading emphasis to shift to defending the support at $120, rather than pushing above $160 to new highs. I believe, that until $120 is breached to the downside, the way down will be primarily motivated by profit taking, and below $120 by loss-staunching and periodic capitulations.What would negate the case for a the short term bear market? New high prices, in particular a new all time high.  What would confirm the case? A long battle at $120 with a breakthrough to lower prices, in particular a low below $60.Sentiment continues to cool 20 days post bubble peak, e.g. Google Trends, Reddit.I sold some more bitcoins at $135 and have outstanding sell orders below $150, attempting to raise more $ selling into what I think is a Sucker's Rally. Agreed, I asked that question some days ago. There appears to be a significant amount of large-order trading that is sub-optimal, in that certain alternative tactics may be better: a limit order lets the other side come to you with no slippage, or a big order should be sliced up and targeted at select counter offers over a period of time - and program trading can automate that too. Either profit-taking - which is the case for buyers after April 12, or stop loss - which is the case for buyers above current prices. In the first case, the motive is to realize a gain in dollars. In the second case the motive is to prevent further losses. I do not impute a manipulation motive where greed and fear are sufficient. Watching trades today, I see most large ones are sales. You could make the same statement about every Sucker's Rally. Do you see any evidence that one just peaked? I have only my feeling from watching Moody that selling is the theme now. Thanks so very much!"this is bubble all over again" Technical patterns in price, e.g. a bubble, are typically fractal with respect to the time domain - right? So it's turtles all the way down. +1
Yes it will. Speculative financial theory, and the experience from the June 8, 2011 bubble, suggests that the collapse from the crash April 10 to the bottom will be deeper than most people expect. So if most bears around here expect $50, then it will likely be deeper than that in several months. Let me understand. Do you define analytic techniques as TA? Moreover, are you supporting my point or refuting it? I believe that the underlying grow rate of the bitcoin economy is 4-5x per year. The next bubble will be larger and peak higher than most people expect - as that is the nature of bubbles. The longer we wait for it, the higher the peak. OK, to make my point more clearly - drop the human behavior modelling. If TA does not work then why do TA-driven computers outperform human traders? Does your argument withstand the fact that computer algorithms that perform the majority of trades on major financial exchanges, and the majority of them operate on technical indicators, i.e. the state history of the market.The explanation of why technical indicators, and chart patterns using them, work is that they attempt to model human behavior and the market dynamics. If one simply watches the two best known bitcoin realtime charting apps, the chart patterns unfold before your eyes. One of my favorites to follow is the triangle - a big trade in one direction followed by a oscillating return to a new stable value. By watching the bids and asks fill in after the first shock trade, I could easily arrive at a physical damped spring model having similar characteristics. 13 days after the April 10 peakI now believe that the current situation, with due regard to speculative financial bubble theory, is within the zone of resistance named the Sucker's Rally. We did not have one in Bitcoin Bubble 1 so previously I did not even think to consider it...Revisiting various famous bubble charts, we see strong corrections back upwards the previous peak, e.g. US Stock Market Bubble of 1929. Because this happens so frequently, the pattern has been given a name by experienced traders - the Suckers Rally. Note that the technical indicator shown is the Accumulation / Distribution ratio, which shows more relatively more buying volume than selling volume, almost two weeks after the crash. From this, I draw the conclusion that trader sentiment is still high - again fitting bubble theory.I offer no guidance on timing the top of this rally beyond the historical support/resistance points on the way up and down. This is a scary time for a bear who fears being left behind as prices soar. But bubble traders must be patient and wait months for the bottom, or be skilled enough to swing trade. Ah yes! Indeed back in 2011 lots of cash I believe remained at Mt.Gox even after it was hacked. It took all the way from June 8, 2011 to November 14 that year, to wring the last fiat out of the most reluctant buyer. That is a bubble collapse and that is the sort of thing that I expect to happen this time - based upon speculative financial bubble theory and what we learned from Bitcoin Bubble 1.Regarding corrections, I am preparing a post addressing that timely point.   Hey I am a bear for the next few months, and I have been looking over charts from other speculative financial bubbles for guidance - and comfort in the face of this very dramatic rally from $50 to over $134 as of this writing.I believe this is a classic bear market rally. I expect to sell more into it later this week on the hopes it reaches $180. Right! Financial markets are zero-sum games. If a trader makes a profit, there is a corresponding loss somewhere else. Pareto's Principal, I think applies to the proportion of traders that profit the most, i.e. 20% of traders make 80% of profit. Accordingly, most traders suffer - they may profit but not as much as the 'average'. The intermediate-range model I am sharing perhaps addresses your question ...Its basis: that the rapid 4-5x annual underlying growth rate of the bitcoin economy will cause bubbles as speculators get ahead of the trend Speculative financial bubble theory predicts a certain price pattern, e.g. double exponential price growth that enables recognition of the start of the bubble, and a subsequent decline to the underlying trend post-bubble, where the decline has approximately the same duration as the run-upThis pattern is stable because of the relatively large proportion of new, not-fully informed speculators who join the rallyIt is advantageous to proclaim the start of a bubble because not-fully informed speculators may be greedily motivated to jump on board assuming that they can exit before the top with big gainsIt is advantageous to proclaim the decline of a bubble, because that notion, when widely disseminated, facilitates the declineIn a bubble, the majority of the participants are not knowledgeable traders, and thus ignore the published model I assume that $13.50 back in January was a fair price at the time, and that the underlying price growth trend is on the order of 4-5x per year yields an expected 2013 year end value of $50-60 - without the bubble. On the wall thread you said ...What you say about demand is still consistent with speculative financial bubble theory to the extent that it takes a decline of approximately the same duration as the run-up to completely unwind the bullish enthusiasm that created the bubble. In terms of logical argumentation, my falsifiable hypothesis, derived from theory, is that a price retracement to the underlying trend will occur before a new all time high. Can someone explain why dump 4500K BTC on the market with such slippage. Are there not trading programs that will slice the order up into smaller, random appearing pieces and consume tasty bids from time to time until the whole order is filled? One could do that manually too. Resistance. But is there follow-on? Just to show how ignorant I am sometimes, I bought MPOe pass-through bonds at the Bitfunder exchange for March. I took an 8% loss instead of the gain I expected. I likewise have a position in the April MPOe bonds that I will liquidate this week at settlement. I did not realize that MPOe bonds are not conventional bonds, but rather a way to share in the profits and losses from MPOe's option writing bot - whose pricing algorithm is not disclosed. I can only hope the the March volatility got fully priced into the April option premiums. From what I recall from IRC or a post here by MPOE-PR, that MPOe will reconfigure their financing arrangements, probably to make it less likely for the owner to suffer another big loss.Thanks for the put option information. You might present your terms in the Securities forum, or additionally in your own thread. What beyond this definition are you asking for? Now you have me curious, not really interested yet - just curious. What are the terms of these puts? Are you writing them or connected with MPOe?  I know that option writers expect to make money and that option pricing factors in the strike price and the volatility of the underlying security and the duration of the option. I imagine the premium on a six month put @ $60 would be considerable. This sentiment is a great example of why bubbles take so long to completely collapse. Losing positions refuse to sell because of fear! Its only when that last willing seller gives up that the bottom is reached. So would you risk 90% of your gains - because that was the situation in bitcoin bubble 1. Traders bought at $17 on the way down to $2. Here is my most recent chart ...No, I do not think bitcoin goes to zero - not now, and if you get those super nodes running, not ever. I am very content to patiently wait for the bubble to collapse back to the underlying trend line. No need for puts, thank you! I am foolish enough already.  12 days after the April 10 peakYes the long term trend is up and its awesome. Short term, I believe is the collapse of bubble 2. Below is a chart that illustrates the resistance around 125. Yes the long term trend is up and its awesome. Short term, I believe is the collapse of bubble 2. The chart shows that optimal purchases are not made on the way up in a bubble. Buy and hold investors should be patient if there is a bubble and buy months after the peak, IMO.
My screen name is a cliche that was appropriate for the Oil Drum forum that I frequented 8 years ago and I kept it. That certainly happened on April 10.  Just before the pattern I outlined, approximately 120K BTC were purchased between $100 and $136, if prices drop those traders - if still holding, will be at a loss and be highly motivated to capitulate. If only 60K BTC sold at once, bids would be consumed down to $83, from where I would expect a nearly full recovery back to say $110 - 120. Back in the summer and fall of 2011, bitcoin prices dropped steadily for three months as well commented upon by this forum at the time. The issue became 'where is the bottom'. What happened was that folks who had fiat at the exchange bought back bitcoins when they thought the price was low enough. Consequently, near the bottom, e.g. below $6, the majority of investors had already committed available funds and had little fiat left to spend, and little motivation to do so.According to the theory of speculative financial bubbles, one should expect a full retracement of the bubble-related price increase. Looking at the chart, I think the bubble started in January at $13.50. Looks to me that tops are trending lower and support holding at 110. Could this develop into a channel or will the depth squeeze be resolved with a break upwards or downwards? Precisely my motivation during this bubble. There is no faster way and maybe no safer way to multiply bitcoin holdings other than selling near the top of a bitcoin bubble and waiting a few months to buy back - in my opinion. I recall June 8, 2011. A limit order could have sold above $20. Three months later, even waiting for prices to trend upwards from the bottom, bitcoins could be purchased for $4. That is a 5x increase in bitcoins in 3 months with no additional fiat invested.I vowed last time not to miss the next bubble. I successfully gauged the day of the April 10 peak according to my bubble-experienced appraisal of the market mood. One of my preset limit orders filled at $255 and I am completely satisfied with the sell part of the plan. The buy back part is the issue - especially will prices drop like last time? There is not an easy way to gauge the bottom as there was for the top. So I will buy some back at 2x, 3x, 4x and so forth and wait for a sustained recovery, e.g. a week of increases before buying back with the remainder of my fiat at the exchange.What I am concerned about is being left behind should prices soar for some reason. Back in the summer of 2011 that concern was a manifest fear, and kept me in bitcoins during the majority of the collapse; I sold everything at 15 and bought back at 14. I increased my holdings slightly if at all - because of fear. This time around I am controlling my fear by persuading myself that prices must go down and that I will not be left behind when it comes time to buy back. I applaud the super node concept. I posted some questions about the concept on your thread.The price can fall in accordance with the theory and experience of speculative financial bubbles, if the establishment of supernodes is delayed, or otherwise limited such that total investor demand continues to drop as predicted by theory. Or it might be that potential buyers will be strongly motivated to wait out the bubble collapse no matter how reassurred they are about the infrastructure. I believe, without sources, that one or more market-making bots are using a similar strategy on Mt.Gox. If this works for you, then make bot on one of the trading software applications. I agree that the post-peak price action of bitcoin bubble 2 has deviated from the pattern set by bubble 1. Technical evidence that would cause me to reconsider my  hypothesis would be a sustained uptrend that broke to new highs, in particular a new all time high, or an absence of the periodic capitulations that characterized the bubble 1 collapse, or maybe simply sustained volatility when stable decline is predicted. Fundamental evidence that would cause reconsideration would be a significant increase in bitcoin demand, such as a flood of new investors with reignited enthusiasm.Technical evidence that would strengthen my hypothesis would be a multiple-months-long exponential, channel-bound decline to a bottom lower than most expect. If that indeed occurs, then there should also be periodic capitulations. Suppose that prices sink on average 1% a day - 20 days from now the price is at 100. Subsequently, e.g. 10 days later, the roughly 300K bitcoin purchased on April 19 at 100 will be loss positions prompting a capitulation.Fundamental evidence that would strengthen my case would be majority investor sentiment that the bubble is indeed collapsing, e.g. back in 2011 in this forum there were frequent posts on when the bottom would be reached and what that low price might be. Or evidence that some indicator of the underlying bitcoin economy is retracing back towards a pre-bubble level, e.g. disgruntled speculators reducing their previously enthusiastic bitcoin transactions due to lack of interest. Despite its failings, Google Trends and the other bitcoin web site indicators, might be the still the best way to gauge new investor interest in bitcoin. I simply look for sentiment confirmation that this bubble has peaked. +1Of course telling folks that this bubble is collapsing like any other speculative financial bubble, even with detailed technical analysis, will very likely not prevent the collapse from completely playing out.By the way, watching both Bitcoinity and Clark Moody's realtime bitcoin charts over the course of this bubble has given me a deeper appreciation for the various patterns. They make more sense now that I see the outstanding limit orders, how resistance forms, how candle patterns form tick by tick, and so forth. These are great! They are consistent with other measures of bitcoin interest, e.g. Google Trends. I believe that Mt. Gox uses Prolexic for DDoS mitigation. The Prolexic site appears to target large enterprise customers, e.g. banks. Agreed that the blockchain Trade Volume vs Transaction Volume Ratio displays the ratio transaction volume / trade volume. I transposed the factors described in this post. To check your constructive criticism, I ran the python script myself, and also inspected the most recent respective values from the two source charts: USD Exchange Trade Volume, and Estimated USD Transaction Volume. And I agree that as the bubble formed, the ratio decreased because of the relative increase of trade volume verses transaction volume. Agreed. Lacking anything better I use the long term bitcoin price support trend as an indicator of the bitcoin economy growth rate. I estimate this rate to be approximately 5x annually - which is incredibly awesome. But speculators outpace this 5x annual rate during bubbles. From a possible start of the bubble, which I think could be January at 13.50, the price reached 266 on April 10, with a double exponential growth rate. The final doubling from 133 on April 3 to 266 on April 10 took in just 7 days! +1If this bubble is indeed similar to the June 8, 2011 bubble, then fierce resistance is to be expected all the way down to the full collapse of the bubble. Over the three months of decline back in the summer and fall of 2011 there were a number of memorable price points that I commented about at the time, e.g. one post was "15 is the new 17" and so forth. By fundamental analysis, I suppose you mean a determination of fair value without recourse to price history,  In financial markets, and in commodity markets, there are no company reports to analyze - one must look at other factors to gauge current and future demand for bitcoins.I have been looking for fundamental confirmation that this bubble peaked April 10. Here is what I have so far ...Google Trends for 'bitcoin' now shows decline from a peak, when viewed over a 12 month or shorter time frame. This important, because an on-boarding step for new bitcoin investors is to search for information about bitcoins.Blockchain.info chart for 'My Wallet Number of Transactions per day' appears to have peaked, when viewed on a log scale with 7 day smoothing. This data relates to the underlying bitcoin economy, including gaming.Blockchain.info chart for 'Trade Volume vs Transaction Volume Ratio' smoothed values peaked at 12 in early January, and bottomed out April 15 at 1.4.  I was puzzled by this particular chart at first, but a post today explains that the ratio is actually trade volume / transaction volume, i.e. more exchange trades yields a higher ratio. There has been strong resistance at 128 and 135 before, which I would bet holds again.  When do you think 135 will be surpassed? Monday? Before the DDoS, there was resistance at 128. I expect it to still be there. Good luck to MtGox in their planned DDoS-handling upgrade. Thanks for the great comparison chart. I regard Google search trends as a following, and confirming indicator for bitcoin price movements.
Looking at USD/BTC prices on Mt Gox, from 2011 to present, on a log chart and fitting along the lowest support levels, that prices have risen about 5x annually. That is awesome growth! Five times in one year, 25x  in two years, 125x in three years.But speculators get ahead of this underlying awesome growth and create bubbles in which prices have double exponential growth doubling in weeks and days! Suppose that 13.50 in January was a fairly valued pre-bubble price. When will $500 be reached given ideal steady 5x annual growth from there? 13.5 - January 201367.5 - January 2014337.5 - January 20151687.5 - January 2016I believe, based upon the underlying price growth trend that fairly valued $500 bitcoin will be reached in 2015. Probably $500 will be easily exceeded in the next and much bigger bitcoin bubble. 11 days after the April 10 peak1. Does the recent dramatic recovery from 50 to 136 USD/BTC negate the case for a short term bear market?Note that 136 is very close to halving the 266 peak. I suggest, based on price action, that the mid 130's is a significant resistance point. Perhaps, if the comparisons with bubble 1 are still valid, price peaks will be generally lower in the weeks and months to come. In the aftermath of bubble 1, prices declined on average 1% daily.I have been looking for confirming signs that this second bitcoin bubble has peaked and is declining. Google Trends for 'bitcoin' now shows decline from a peak, when viewed over a 12 month or shorter time frame. This important, because an on-boarding step for new bitcoin investors is to search for information about bitcoins.Alexa web site traffic statistics for bitcoin.org show a decline from the April peak Wikipedia article traffic statistics for Bitcoin show a decline from the April peak hereBlockchain.info chart for 'My Wallet Number of Transactions per day' appears to have peaked, when viewed on a log scale with 7 day smoothing. This data relates to the underlying bitcoin economy, including gaming.Blockchain.info chart for 'Trade Volume vs Transaction Volume Ratio' smoothed values peaked at 12 in early January, and bottomed out April 15 at 1.4.  I was puzzled by this particular chart at first, but a post today explains that the ratio is actually transaction volume / trade volume, i.e. as the bubble formed, the relative increase in trade volume caused the ration to diminish, and as the bubble collapses the ratio will likely return to pre-bubble levels.Is anyone tracking the the number of Bitcoinity chart number of connected users? As of this writing it is 9021. One might reasonably expect this number to decline as less committed investors drop out.2. What effect do Mt. Gox problems have on the bubble decline?Back in June 2011, Mt. Gox was very seriously hacked and closed for several tense days. When the exchange reopened for business, prices sunk that day only to recover, and to gently continue the subsequent three-month long decline to the bottom. Compared to the first bubble, current Mt. Gox problems are much less serious. But as of this writing, Mt. Gox has been offline for hours with yet another DDoS attack. Yes. Perhaps the rate of decline is faster this time because traders have the first bubble as a reference. Bubble bursting follows a double exponential rate of decay, which is the opposite of what happened in the run up. Post peak, one would expect the price halving time to increase - thus the first halving from 266 down to 133, then the second very quickly down to 66.5. In contrast to your view, I think that the having time to 33.25 will be some weeks away - if the rate of decline slows down as in a typical bubble collapse.What is your basis for the growth rate of the bitcoin economy? A linear regression of the log closing price on Mt. Gox starting in 2010 to present suggests a bitcoin economy growth rate of 4.8x annually = 580%. That is a fantastic growth rate, but the market gets ahead of that when doubling several times in a few months. You are saying that, by way of analogy and symmetry, that because the decline is faster this time, then the recovery will be too.  That is plausible, but I think that the bottom will not be reached until people have forgotten about the bubble peak - months away. 7 days after the April 10 peakHow many more seller capitulations before the bottom?The previous bitcoin bubble that peaked back in June 8, 2011 at 31.90, did not finally reach bottom at 2.20 until 159 days later. It dropped on average about 1% daily and featured six capitulations, the last two reaching the bottom vicinity. The six capitulations on average occurred 31 days apart. In the previous bubble, every one of the six capitulations failed to make new highs. In this bubble, I count April 12 as the first capitulation, and yesterday April 16 as the second capitulation. These are only 4 days apart and thus for these two, the capitulations in Bitcoin Bubble 2 are occurring 8x faster than in Bitcoin Bubble 1. If this bubble has the same number of post-peak seller capitulations as the last one, then 3 or 4 remain until the bottom is reached. I watched the trades in the hours before the peak. It appeared there were a relative lack of bids - so sellers had to take what was there and prices dropped fast on little volume. Then gox lag prevented any new market orders for crucial hours during April 10. That too, restricted volume. After the high on Wednesday, June 8, 2011, at 31.90, the previous bitcoin bubble dropped to just 2.20. That drop took 159 days and most of the time the rate of decline was about 1% a day.  There were several high volume capitulations along the way.To the extent that this bubble is typical, this crash is not over - the losses for buyers above 70 are only going to increase. 5 days after the April 10 peakIssue 1 - Evidence for the Bear Case.The post-peak negative sentiment shut off the flood of new money that caused the bubble. I define this negative sentiment rather weakly - merely the lack of news about 10x price increases and lack of new significant all-time highs, e.g. 33, 50, 100, 150, 200. Clearly the wave of euphoria on Reddit /r/bitcoin has abated. Sunday/Monday price action was almost exactly reversed from before the peak. Previously, new deposits at Mt. Gox would propel the price strongly upwards. In contrast, the decline since Sunday has been continuous and brutal.The most compelling evidence for the bear case is that a new post peak low was recorded this morning. This issue is closed.Issue 2 - Comparison with Bitcoin Bubble 1.The second halving of price from the 266 peak is 66.60. This price was reached today, April 16, which is six days after the peak. In the previous bubble, the corresponding point of decline occurred 58 days later. Accordingly, the rate of decline for this bubble is more rapid than the first bubble by a factor of 10. I suppose that in this bubble, the smart money exited sooner - given what they learned from the first one.  I would not buy now, and in fact have sold bitcoin as high as 255, anticipating this crash in order to buy back cheaper coins in several months. Bubbles are not common enough that people learn from them.  You left out the choice of selling at market now, then buying back more coins cheaper in three months. According to observed financial bubbles in the past, and especially with 2011, the lowest point is lower than most people would have guessed beforehand.  The selling pressure today was relentless. I think 120 is gone. Maybe 105 is gone too. Next big bid wall is at 85. I am getting a whiff of capitulation in that big drop from 94 down to 88. Lots more of that with the six months to come I think. No sign yet of the tens of thousands of new Mt. Gox depositors lined up to buy ... Is it just me, or does it seem like the powerful bids from 7 and 14 days ago are absent? Maybe later in the day they will show up. Smoothing out the boom and bust of the bitcoin price series suggests an annual growth of approximately 5x, or about 400% APR. I take this as a strong indicator of the relative value of the underlying bitcoin economy. Bubbles are happening in bitcoin because 400% APR is enormous and speculators naturally get way, way ahead of the underlying fundamentals as new people learn about bitcoins and big returns.Back in January, bitcoin was fairly valued at 13.50 even though it advanced during 2012. I think this is sustainable as a base.  And look there is another relatively large ask wall 1673.7778@ 99.5.   At what price would you buy back in, and is there a minimum time that you would wait for things to settle down? Professor,Please take a close look at the price patterns leading up to Bitcoin Bubble 1 back in 2011. They are similar. Here is my analysis.Bitcoin Bubble 1 December 2011The way up ... 0.498 January 31, 2011 -  0.997 April 15 2011 - doubling time 74 days 1.99 April 28, 2011 - doubling time 13 days 3.98 May 10, 2011 - doubling time 12 days 7.97 May 13, 2011 - doubling time 3 days15.95 June 4, 2011 - doubling time 22 days31.90 The high on Wednesday, June 8, 2011 - doubling time 4 daysThe way down ...31.90 The high on Wednesday, June 8, 201115.95 June 11, 2011 halving time 3 days 7.97 August 5, 2011 halving time 55 days 3.98 October 7, 2011 halving time 63 days 2.20 November 14, 2011 halving time 38 days--------------------Bitcoin Bubble 2The way up ...   4.16 December 19, 2011: 8.31 July 16, 2012   8.31 July 16, 2012 - doubling time 210 days  16.62 January 21, 2013 - doubling time 189 days  33.25 March 1, 2013 - doubling time 59 days  66.50 March 25, 2013 - doubling time 24 days 133.00 April 3, 2013 - doubling time 9 days 266.00 Wednesday, April 10, 2013 - doubling time 7 days
2153 ask wall at 98 holding back new deposits at the moment - the battle for $100 rages on. New deposits are now skeptical? Approximately 13.50 next September, based upon analogy with the previous bitcoin bubble. I saw this image linked in another post. It perfectly illustrates the similarities between Bubble 1 and Bubble 2.  Here is my analysis.The way up ...   4.16 December 19, 2011: 8.31 July 16, 2012  16.62 January 21, 2013 - doubling time 189 days  33.25 March 1, 2013 - doubling time 59 days  66.50 March 25, 2013 - doubling time 24 days 133.00 April 3, 2013 - doubling time 9 days 266.00 Wednesday, April 10, 2013 - doubling time 7 daysNote that the doubling time gets shorter near the peak - this is the double exponential growth that is a marker for bitcoin bubbles so far.In the previous bitcoin bubble, prices doubled to the peak in 4 days. Apparently, once we sustain at several rapid doubles, the peak is near when doubling time is 4-7 days. What has fundamentally changed since January when bitcoins were fairly valued by the market and media at 13.50?More people know about bitcoinMost people who bought bitcoin between April 1 and now have nominal losses unless they soldThere will be no more All Time High media announcements, and sentiment has reversed from euphoria to skepticism I think the market will decline a bit by the end of next week. After the new deposits buy bitcoins at Mt Gox, who then will buy?Classical bubbles tend to give back *all* of the bubble gains. At what price did Bitcoin Bubble 2 start - know that and you might know where it will approximately end up. 4 days after the April 9 peakIssue 1 - Evidence for or against the Bear Case.I believe that the post-peak negative sentiment will shut off the flood of new money that caused the bubble. I define this negative sentiment rather weakly - merely the lack of news about 10x price increases and lack of new significant all-time highs, e.g. 33, 50, 100, 150, 200. Clearly the wave of euphoria on Reddit /r/bitcoin has abated. This is the first Monday after the peak. The flood of new users registering to trade and subsequently verified at Mt. Gox has not really felt the effect of the crash. We know that today more new users will be able to trade dollars for bitcoins. The question is whether enough of them will buy to inspire further new users to register at Mt. Gox. The record from bubble 1 suggests that it will take at least a week for volume to settle down.Issue 2 - Compare two bitcoin bubbles.To the extent that comparing the April 10 bubble top with the June 8, 2011 bubble peak is useful, here is the data presented in terms of doubles and halving of USD/BTC prices.**** Bitcoin Bubble 1 peak occurred June 8, 2011 ****The way up ... 0.498 January 31, 2011 -  0.997 April 15 2011 - doubling time 74 days 1.99 April 28, 2011 - doubling time 13 days 3.98 May 10, 2011 - doubling time 12 days 7.97 May 13, 2011 - doubling time 3 days15.95 June 4, 2011 - doubling time 22 days31.90 The high on Wednesday, June 8, 2011 - doubling time 4 daysThe way down ...31.90 The high on Wednesday, June 8, 201115.95 June 11, 2011 halving time 3 days 7.97 August 5, 2011 halving time 55 days 3.98 October 7, 2011 halving time 63 days 2.20 November 14, 2011 halving time 38 daysCommentary on Bitcoin Bubble 1the bubble price increase is double exponential, i.e. the rate of acceleration is itself increasingthe up move from 1.99 to 31.90 took 41 daysthe down move from 31.90 to 2.20 took 159 daysin contrast to the increase to the peak, after the peak the rate of decrease is rather constant, halving every 52 days**** Bitcoin Bubble 2 peak occurred April 10, 2013  ****The way up ...   4.16 December 19, 2011: 8.31 July 16, 2012   8.31 July 16, 2012 - doubling time 210 days  16.62 January 21, 2013 - doubling time 189 days  33.25 March 1, 2013 - doubling time 59 days  66.50 March 25, 2013 - doubling time 24 days 133.00 April 3, 2013 - doubling time 9 days 266.00 Wednesday, April 10, 2013 - doubling time 7 daysThe way down ... 266.00 Wednesday, April 10, 2013 133.00 April 11 [I am ignoring April 10 low of 60]  66.50 [I am ignoring April 10 low of 60]  33.25   16.62 Commentary on Bitcoin Bubble 2the bubble price increase is double exponentialthe sharp move up seems to begin January 7, 2013 at 13.50 - this will be a downside target I think as classic speculative bubbles tend to give back *all* of their bubble gainsthe up move from 13.50 to 266.00 took 93 daysthe down move from 266.00 to approximately 13.50 may like bubble 1 take approximately 160 days, e.g September 17, 2013, and halve in value approximately every 53 days Sure, you can short bitcoins at bitfinex, and you can buy puts from MPOe or CoinBr which is a convenient broker for MPOe. The bid wall at 75 proved successful this afternoon and prices reached about 125 before turning back down. Like 2011, the Mt.Gox bitcoin exchange is the center of the discussion. DDoS attacks and a poor performing trading engine are to blame, and the uncertainty about trading bitcoins discourage new investors, and frustrate active traders.I continue to believe that lessons learned from the 2011 crash are useful here when deciding tactics. Because the recent bubble took three months to form, I believe that the downside resolution will take more than a month, maybe two or three months to reach bottom. Impatience is the enemy now. I think that a trader having sold some coin to raise cash must simply hold on to that cash and wait for prices to fall deeply, even in the face of bull traps in the meantime.As was well said by someone else, the lack of new buyers is like a great weight on the market. Despite the efforts of bargain hunters to prop up prices with bid walls and such, this weight is always present and affects every trade to the downside. Its really just the reverse of how the bubble was formed, when the flood of new buyers doubled prices three times in three months. [edited to add new posts and to reflect current events] My principal comments regarding the collapse of April 10, 2013 bubble.Day 4 post peak - Compare two bitcoin bubbles.Day 5 post peak - Price dropping 10 times faster than back in 2011 bubble.Day 7 post peak - How many more seller capitulations before the bottom? ....[this bubble has at least one now]Day 11 post peak - Does the recent dramatic recovery from 50 to 136 USD/BTC negate the case for a short term bear market? ....[turned out that it did not]Day 12 post peak - Long term chart is awesomeDay 13 post peak - Sucker's Rally ....[turned out to be a classic one]Day 20 post peak - Resistance at $160 ....[and yet unsurpassed]Tickets Purchased for the Bagholder's BallDay 21 post peak - 24 hours of selling ....[indeed just the beginning, starting at $145]Alert - Perhaps the first, and largest, capitulation is at hand     ....[it was the first capitulation]Day 22 post peak - Second day of the Great Capitulation ...[reached a low of $80]Day 23 post peak - Third day of the Great Capitulation of 2013Day 24 post peak - 24 hours of buying - are we past the bottom? ... [yes, on our way up past $120Day 27 post peak - Reversal at $120 confirms primary collapseDoes resistance trump support at $105? ...[no, prices climbed to $116 the following day]Day 28 post peak - Yet-unsurpassed peaks at $266, $166, $149, and $125 conform to classical bubble collapseDay 29 post peak - Diminishing volume post-peak conforms to classical bubble collapseMilestone Day 30 post peak - bubble 1 collapsed 55% from peak at 30 days, likewise this bubbleSupport trumps resistance at $112 - and breaks upwards ...[and stopped at $123]Day 32 post peak - Low volume, sideways price days are becoming more common.Day 33 post peak - Volume increased to complete a bearish wedge at $120Major post-peak support trendline breakout to the downside on news of Dwolla/Mt.Gox account seizure by U.S. Department of Homeland Security ... [The bad news abated and the breakout reversed at $103]Day 57 post peak - Sideways action suggests the collapse is over ... [However on May 26, the Great Slump of 2013 began]Day 91 post peak - Recent low of $65 says collapse is not over and could have 3 more months to bottom ... [Wrong! $65 was the bottom]Here [was] the [intermediate] term bear case in a nutshell ...There will be no more enticing and greed-inducing news stories from the media. Now the benchmark is the crash and how speculators lost so much.Investor sentiment, especially new investor sentiment has reversed. Impatience to buy has been replaced by cautionWhat is the correct valuation of fiat/bitcoin given what we know now? Certainly while the price doubled four times from January, the bitcoin economy did not do as well in percentage growth. Correct valuation depends then mostly on just how much of the run up since January is emotion, e.g. greed.If the downtrend continues, then coin holders are tempted to sell coin expecting to buy back for less fiat.It happened, so now let's discuss ...Question 1: what is the expected duration of the down trend? My rough guess as argued here is until September 2013.Question 2: how far down does the trend go? As of May 8, I believe that this bubble will collapse down to a price greater than the high of the previous bubble, e.g. above $32, and lower than the lowest low after the peak so far, i.e. $50. Because bubbles collapse to a price lower than most expect, the bottom could be below $32.Bitcoin Bubble 1 Peaked June 8, 2011Bitcoin Bubble 2 Peaked April 10, 2013Rather than behaving like the 2011 bubble collapse, the April 2013 bubble collapse appears to be a damped oscillation resolved to a price 9x higher than when the bubble began. Continued sideways price movement for the remainder of 2013 would allow the long term price trend to catch up.When the next big bitcoin bubble arrives, probably in 2014-15, I plan to trade on the expectation that the bubble collapse will be a damped oscillation, featuring several very large price swings.  Considering the substantial parallels with the June 2011 bubble, I would say that any support at these levels, i.e. 76, is not going to hold. The primary reason is identical with the last time - the onetime flood of new bitcoin buyers is going to dry up. There is only bad media about bitcoin, e.g. no new all time highs to report - now just the crash and how Mt.Gox messed up, same as last time. I recall watching the decline back in the summer of 2011. With the similar complete reversal of sentiment, the drop will be deeper and longer than many new traders expect. People will be afraid to buy even as the price drops past a a fair value to very attractive levels.My guess: 19 USD/BTC. Thanks for this analysis.One possible root cause of Mt.Gox trading engine bad performance is the very liberal policy of allowing traders to issue limit orders without the corresponding dollars or bitcoins. Thus the matching engine must verify that the account has the actual dollars on hand to make a purchase, and must likewise verify the actual bitcoins on hand to make a sale. The entire trading engine is subject to locks to prevent corruption of data by simultaneous processes. The matching engine must lock each account as it verifies account balances of candidate matched orders. High performance trading engines are designed around the notion of reducing lock contention. See http://lmax-exchange.github.io/disruptor/ .Bitcoin needs a robust, high performance exchange - as well as security against hackers. There has been a complete reversal of sentiment compared to the first of the year 2013. Recall the enthusiasm as bitcoin climbed towards its all time high of 32. Without that enthusiasm, how can a price above 32 be justified now.I expect a long and slow decline with great buying opportunities. I joined in June 2011, having solved two blocks myself with a CPU miner back in 2010. Last time around, I commented mainly on small scale GPU mining rigs, mining pools, and then some swing trading down the backside of the 2012 June bubble peak. This time around I was able to better time the peak, and half of my spread out, pre-positioned sell/buy-back limit orders on Mt.Gox executed, netting me a double on the small number of coins risked.Timing a bitcoin peak is perhaps more knowable given that the 2011 Survivors Club members have seen two of them. There are common attributes that stand out ...Several months of monotonically increasing price growth, including multiple doublingsIncrease in the doubling rate. In Bubble 1 - June 2011, the price doubled in a single day at the peak. In Bubble 2 - this one, the price doubled in seven days at the peak.The very large number of new investors, and the explosion of buy orders.Problems at Mt.Gox occurred during the crash phase.May I have the wisdom to survive the next bubble. Would you publish your reserve amount or ratio that Bitfinex will maintain, or that its backers commit to? Otherwise, insuring lenders is only based upon your *excellent* record. @MPOE-PR,Your linked document included this intriguing statement ...Correct me if I am wrong, but the MPOE bond holders cover the risk of the MOPE option pricing bot. As the theory of option pricing is well understood, I would like to know how the bot's volatility component is determined? I assume that the algorithm learns from the variation of the recent time series. So what is the likelihood that the MPOE option pricing bot is still under pricing with respect the chances for another 3x run this month. As of seven days into this month of April, the USD/BTC price has close to doubled already. Does anyone else think that the MPOR should be substantially higher, given the big March loss? Or rather, why is a repeat of that loss unlikely if that's the case? I see some old information in the comments at http://polimedia.us/trilema/2012/sa-ne-jucam-de-a-investitiile-n-bitcoini/#comment-78745 , and I get "... Paid Content This article is available for a fee. ...". As I am currently blocked from accessing the free financial results for the bonds that I invested in, can you describe the situation that caused the MPOE bonds for March 2013 to suffer a 23% loss? I suppose my anxiety with regard to future investment in MPOE bonds has to do with my lack of understanding as to exactly how MPOE uses the bond money to offset the trading risk of MPOE options, and what is the nature of the gamble that distinguishes MPOE bonds from conventional financial instruments of the same category.My understanding was that the August 2012 loss was due to insider trading. What was the cause of the March 2013 loss? If it was simply the rapid growth of bitcoins, then is it true that MPOE bond is a bet against bitcoin volatility? That would not seem to be a good bet in the current situation obviously. 
Is it true that we have to pay to see the financial results for the bonds we invested in? The new style BTC Lending page looks much less informative than what I recall being there before. For example, 15 offers are now grouped into the 10% category, which is the majority of lending offers. What is Blockchain's reason for having only one game form? I suppose that it might be simply a legacy from when Satoshi Dice was created - something fun for someone new to bitcoins - only one click away on their wallet. @SukrimThose BTC offers were mine - I have been performing price discovery in order to find the ranges that will keep me fully invested. Congratulations on exceeding 100K USD margin loans. I just began participating as a lender on the BTC side, so you have my strongest support. Could you remark on the safeguards on bitcoin lenders in particular with regard to short positions closed to insufficient margin. In a strongly rising market, short positions suffer losses beyond their margin - right? I understand that Bitfinex absorbs these sorts of losses so that the BTC lender does not risk a loss. Great! But Bitfinex obviously needs a reserve, a certain amount of bitcoin, set aside to cover these losses. What might that reserve be? I still have every coined I mined, the 5 free coins from the Bitcoin Faucet, and maybe a few coins gained in trading in 2011. On the other hand, many view bitcoin as having two roles, each supporting the other, to wit: (1) transactions, and (2) deflationary store of value. There are good fundamentals on transaction volume, as seen in the blockchain.info log charts. I think the divergence from these fundamentals is under way. As a legacy CPU bitcoin miner, I watched the whole bubble #1 back in June 2011. The recent breakthrough new high is accompanied by increased volume and volatility. A few more media stories are coming out -and the bitcoin economy indicators are continuing exponential growth, albeit from a minuscule base. I think that we are in the first 20% range of the next bubble - sort of the hills from which we can see the foothills, and from where can see the mountains. Like that, right? Well not too many sell orders - so lets see what happens.I, for one, am celebrating with a glass of red wine - and am happily listening to the Clark Moody real time chart beep at me. Hey, I had the old price looked up at bitcoin history wiki, and I was watching the Clark Moody web app on one of my other monitors - and still someone else beat me to the post! Anyway this is history, and glad to watch it happen. 31.93 That big ask order is getting chipped down .... now its consumed! Just watching and listening to the wonderful Clark Moody realtime chart as BTC at MtGox approaches the all-time high of 31.91. The web-app has a default beep when a trade at or over 10 BTC occurs. Such a lovely melody.Anyone care to comment who is watching? There is a big ask order of $117,606 at 31.89. Likewise very large buy orders have appeared. This is very dramatic - like watching financial battle bots! I have been watching http://bitcoin.clarkmoody.com/order-book/# today and it appears that the typical spread between bid and ask orders is greater than $0.04. Is it possible that Mt Gox commissions are now 0.3 percent for all traders? What I meant was two periods in which prices moved sharply upwards on much higher volume, suggesting perhaps two large orders to buy at market.  This behavior is contrary to what happened earlier in the month - from the 11th to the 18th - in which prices moved lower during some periods of atypical high volume, suggesting large orders to sell at market. It may be that the proposed indicators are not predictive, but rather coincident or lagging.  If the rally of the past couple of days persists, it will be interesting to align the turning points of the proposed alternative indicator data series with the bitcoin price series to see whether the rally was indeed predicted, or perhaps merely confirmed.I put more stake in the indicators that track active bitcoin wallet nodes and transaction bitcoin-days, as proposed elsewhere. From the Rick Falkvinge blog post http://falkvinge.net/2011/06/16/bitcoins-four-drivers-part-one-unlawful-trade/  ...Rick argues that unlawful trade will be an important early adopter of bitcoins.  He goes on to write about three other much larger bitcoin adoption drivers. I sold my 12 month hoard of bitcoins at 15.5 on the way down as the bitcoin bubble deflated.  In the past week, the price trend has stopped declining, and a couple of large purchases have not been countered by like sales.This morning I bought back in via small lots at about 14.1.  And I've stopped selling my daily mined bitcoins.Is the bubble deflated and the rally train leaving the station, or do you guys see more bubble deflation ahead? It is very likely that the downdraft from 14 to 12.5 and below will rebound - but probably not back up to 14, as the bitcoin valuation bubble deflates.  Recall that back in April, one could buy a bitcoin for a dollar. I sold my 12-month bitcoin mining hoard at 15.5.  If this is a deflating bitcoin bubble then prices might well return to April 2011 levels, namely around one dollar.
Another good example of the sort of negative sentiment predictions that may eventually indicate the full deflation of the bitcoin valuation bubble. I put my three case-less rigs in the crawl space under my house in Austin, Texas, USA - where the outdoor temperature reaches 100+ F.  But the crawl space is a steady 86 F. Here is a typical temperature reading from one of the rigs:Code:$ DISPLAY=:0.0 aticonfig --odgt --adapter=allAdapter 0 - ATI Radeon HD 5700 Series            Sensor 0: Temperature - 74.00 CAdapter 1 - ATI Radeon HD 5700 Series            Sensor 0: Temperature - 66.00 C I shutdown my recording of Mt Gox trades yesterday because I am turning my attention back to unrelated research.   I had planned to create a bot for market making but found that Mt Gox trading is already too efficient for my simple algorithms to profit.But for about 10 days I have been polling Mt Gox every 30 seconds for ticker, trades and depth with my Java based API client.  There are occasional periods of up to five minutes or so when Mt Gox times out, and there are also occasional SQL errors returned.  Otherwise I have been satisfied with the API performance.I recorded about 90,000 trades just fine. Agreed.  And bitcoins are a boon to anyone wanting to hide financial transactions - and for those reasons cannot use conventional payments online. I have three rigs in a similar setup - 2 GPUs per motherboard.  I was concerned a bit about a fire hazard so I put the power supplies on pieces of ceramic floor tile, and I elevated the motherboards 1 inch above the plywood, with small spacers at the corners.  But I use 5770s so altogether the rigs draw at most 860 watts through a UPS from the socket.Noise and airflow are not problems with 2x5770 per motherboard - for me, as I put them in the crawl space under my house. I would like it to work with the Mt Gox Trading API. Exactly, the expected returns may be better for solo mining but the variance of results makes it into a lottery.  The great majority of miners prefer the rather steady returns yielded by the lowest-variance, largest mining pools - despite the slightly lower expected return.I generated two blocks as a solo CPU miner a year ago, but would never consider solo mining today. Distributed denial of service attacks - DDoS can be defeated and prevented - but the victim may need to change their internet service provider.Briefly, a DDoS stems from a multitude of controlled client computers - the botnet - in which the botnet operator causes them to flood a particular victim web service with connection requests or other useless messages that may consume all the input bandwidth allowed the victim, leaving none for legitimate customers.DDoS attack traffic can be detected and removed by a cooperative internet service provider.  The ISP generally has very high capacity bandwidth with the internet backbone network, and at the point of connection to the backbone DDoS filtering can be performed on behalf of the victim's servers hosted by the ISP.  This DDoS mitigation and prevention service is promoted by certain ISPs - for example those now hosting Mt Gox and BTC Guild.  Other ISPs may not be as cooperative or may not have the network devices to effectively prevent DDoS attacks.Most small websites using low-cost ISPs are thus unable to withstand DDoS attacks with their present ISP and must migrate their servers to a more secure ISP when attacked. I believe that bitcoin mining difficulty lags price, because dramatically higher prices strongly motivate miners to increase capacity, which leads to higher difficulty.  Likewise, I predict that if prices decline for a while, then mining difficulty will level off or perhaps decline as some miners lose interest, or conclude that new capacity will not have a prompt pay-back. I launched Dark Exchange beta 2 again and immediately searched.  The above reported exception did not occur again.I Have Bitcoin To Send By Bitcoin TransferI Want United States of America, Dollars Sent By Dwollaand it found two offers OK.I selected the first one and clicked the View button and reasonable details were displayed.  I canceled the transaction because I am not actually prepared for a real transaction.So far so good! Hi,I just downloaded and launched beta 2.  I needed to launch it twice before it found 7 peers.However, before I tried searching, I received the following exceptions ...Code:ERROR [darkexchange.uncaught-exception-handler]: Uncaught Exception:java.lang.RuntimeException: java.lang.RuntimeException: org.h2.jdbc.JdbcSQLException: IO Exception: "java.io.IOException: org.h2.jdbc.JdbcSQLException: IO Exception: ""Missing lob: 4"" [90028-157]"; "lob: null table: -1 id: 4" [90031-157] at clojure.lang.AFn.run(AFn.java:28) at java.lang.Thread.run(Thread.java:662)Caused by: java.lang.RuntimeException: org.h2.jdbc.JdbcSQLException: IO Exception: "java.io.IOException: org.h2.jdbc.JdbcSQLException: IO Exception: ""Missing lob: 4"" [90028-157]"; "lob: null table: -1 id: 4" [90031-157] at clojure.lang.LazySeq.sval(LazySeq.java:47) at clojure.lang.LazySeq.seq(LazySeq.java:56) at clojure.lang.RT.seq(RT.java:450) at clojure.core$seq.invoke(core.clj:122) at clojure.core$dorun.invoke(core.clj:2450) at clojure.core$doall.invoke(core.clj:2465) at clj_record.core$find_by_sql$func__4289__auto____4305$fn__4306.invoke(core.clj:73) at clojure.contrib.sql.internal$with_query_results_STAR_.invoke(internal.clj:194) at clj_record.core$find_by_sql$func__4289__auto____4305.invoke(core.clj:72) at clj_record.core$find_by_sql$fn__4309.invoke(core.clj:71) at clojure.contrib.sql.internal$with_connection_STAR_.invoke(internal.clj:105) at clj_record.core$find_by_sql.invoke(core.clj:71) at clj_record.core$find_records.invoke(core.clj:85) at clj_record.core$find_record.invoke(core.clj:91) at darkexchange.model.peer$find_record.invoke(peer.clj:41) at darkexchange.model.peer$find_peer.invoke(peer.clj:67) at darkexchange.model.identity$update_identity_peer.invoke(identity.clj:53) at darkexchange.model.identity$update_identity.invoke(identity.clj:59) at darkexchange.model.identity$add_or_update_identity.invoke(identity.clj:64) at darkexchange.model.interceptors.identity_interceptor$identity_updater.invoke(identity_interceptor.clj:9) at darkexchange.model.interceptors.identity_interceptor$client_interceptor$fn__6773.invoke(identity_interceptor.clj:18) at clojure.lang.AFn.run(AFn.java:24) ... 1 moreCaused by: org.h2.jdbc.JdbcSQLException: IO Exception: "java.io.IOException: org.h2.jdbc.JdbcSQLException: IO Exception: ""Missing lob: 4"" [90028-157]"; "lob: null table: -1 id: 4" [90031-157] at org.h2.message.DbException.getJdbcSQLException(DbException.java:327) at org.h2.message.DbException.get(DbException.java:156) at org.h2.message.DbException.convertIOException(DbException.java:313) at org.h2.value.ValueLobDb.getInputStream(ValueLobDb.java:283) at org.h2.value.ValueLobDb.getReader(ValueLobDb.java:267) at org.h2.jdbc.JdbcClob.getCharacterStream(JdbcClob.java:112) at sun.reflect.GeneratedMethodAccessor43.invoke(Unknown Source) at sun.reflect.DelegatingMethodAccessorImpl.invoke(DelegatingMethodAccessorImpl.java:25) at java.lang.reflect.Method.invoke(Method.java:597) at clojure.lang.Reflector.invokeMatchingMethod(Reflector.java:90) at clojure.lang.Reflector.invokeNoArgInstanceMember(Reflector.java:265) at darkexchange.model.base$clob_string.invoke(base.clj:9) at darkexchange.model.base$load_clob.invoke(base.clj:13) at darkexchange.model.base$clean_clob_key.invoke(base.clj:22) at darkexchange.model.peer$peer_clean_up.invoke(peer.clj:39) at clj_record.callbacks$run_callbacks$fn__4255.invoke(callbacks.clj:17) at clojure.core$r.invoke(core.clj:799) at clj_record.callbacks$run_callbacks.doInvoke(callbacks.clj:17) at clojure.lang.RestFn.invoke(RestFn.java:442) at clj_record.callbacks$after_load$fn__4262.invoke(callbacks.clj:32) at clojure.core$map$fn__3699.invoke(core.clj:2096) at clojure.lang.LazySeq.sval(LazySeq.java:42) ... 22 moreCaused by: java.io.IOException: org.h2.jdbc.JdbcSQLException: IO Exception: "Missing lob: 4" [90028-157] at org.h2.message.DbException.convertToIOException(DbException.java:346) at org.h2.store.LobStorage.getInputStream(LobStorage.java:449) at org.h2.value.ValueLobDb.getInputStream(ValueLobDb.java:281) ... 40 moreCaused by: org.h2.jdbc.JdbcSQLException: IO Exception: "Missing lob: 4" [90028-157] at org.h2.message.DbException.getJdbcSQLException(DbException.java:327) at org.h2.message.DbException.get(DbException.java:167) at org.h2.message.DbException.get(DbException.java:144) at org.h2.store.LobStorage.getInputStream(LobStorage.java:444) ... 41 moreERROR [darkexchange.uncaught-exception-handler]: Uncaught Exception:java.lang.RuntimeException: java.lang.RuntimeException: org.h2.jdbc.JdbcSQLException: IO Exception: "java.io.IOException: org.h2.jdbc.JdbcSQLException: IO Exception: ""Missing lob: 5"" [90028-157]"; "lob: null table: -1 id: 5" [90031-157] at clojure.lang.AFn.run(AFn.java:28) at java.lang.Thread.run(Thread.java:662)Caused by: java.lang.RuntimeException: org.h2.jdbc.JdbcSQLException: IO Exception: "java.io.IOException: org.h2.jdbc.JdbcSQLException: IO Exception: ""Missing lob: 5"" [90028-157]"; "lob: null table: -1 id: 5" [90031-157] at clojure.lang.LazySeq.sval(LazySeq.java:47) at clojure.lang.LazySeq.seq(LazySeq.java:56) at clojure.lang.RT.seq(RT.java:450) at clojure.core$seq.invoke(core.clj:122) at clojure.core$dorun.invoke(core.clj:2450) at clojure.core$doall.invoke(core.clj:2465) at clj_record.core$find_by_sql$func__4289__auto____4305$fn__4306.invoke(core.clj:73) at clojure.contrib.sql.internal$with_query_results_STAR_.invoke(internal.clj:194) at clj_record.core$find_by_sql$func__4289__auto____4305.invoke(core.clj:72) at clj_record.core$find_by_sql$fn__4309.invoke(core.clj:71) at clojure.contrib.sql.internal$with_connection_STAR_.invoke(internal.clj:105) at clj_record.core$find_by_sql.invoke(core.clj:71) at clj_record.core$find_records.invoke(core.clj:85) at clj_record.core$find_record.invoke(core.clj:91) at darkexchange.model.peer$find_record.invoke(peer.clj:41) at darkexchange.model.peer$find_peer.invoke(peer.clj:67) at darkexchange.model.identity$add_identity.invoke(identity.clj:45) at darkexchange.model.identity$add_or_update_identity.invoke(identity.clj:65) at darkexchange.model.interceptors.identity_interceptor$identity_updater.invoke(identity_interceptor.clj:9) at darkexchange.model.interceptors.identity_interceptor$client_interceptor$fn__6773.invoke(identity_interceptor.clj:18) at clojure.lang.AFn.run(AFn.java:24) ... 1 moreCaused by: org.h2.jdbc.JdbcSQLException: IO Exception: "java.io.IOException: org.h2.jdbc.JdbcSQLException: IO Exception: ""Missing lob: 5"" [90028-157]"; "lob: null table: -1 id: 5" [90031-157] at org.h2.message.DbException.getJdbcSQLException(DbException.java:327) at org.h2.message.DbException.get(DbException.java:156) at org.h2.message.DbException.convertIOException(DbException.java:313) at org.h2.value.ValueLobDb.getInputStream(ValueLobDb.java:283) at org.h2.value.ValueLobDb.getReader(ValueLobDb.java:267) at org.h2.jdbc.JdbcClob.getCharacterStream(JdbcClob.java:112) at sun.reflect.GeneratedMethodAccessor43.invoke(Unknown Source) at sun.reflect.DelegatingMethodAccessorImpl.invoke(DelegatingMethodAccessorImpl.java:25) at java.lang.reflect.Method.invoke(Method.java:597) at clojure.lang.Reflector.invokeMatchingMethod(Reflector.java:90) at clojure.lang.Reflector.invokeNoArgInstanceMember(Reflector.java:265) at darkexchange.model.base$clob_string.invoke(base.clj:9) at darkexchange.model.base$load_clob.invoke(base.clj:13) at darkexchange.model.base$clean_clob_key.invoke(base.clj:22) at darkexchange.model.peer$peer_clean_up.invoke(peer.clj:39) at clj_record.callbacks$run_callbacks$fn__4255.invoke(callbacks.clj:17) at clojure.core$r.invoke(core.clj:799) at clj_record.callbacks$run_callbacks.doInvoke(callbacks.clj:17) at clojure.lang.RestFn.invoke(RestFn.java:442) at clj_record.callbacks$after_load$fn__4262.invoke(callbacks.clj:32) at clojure.core$map$fn__3699.invoke(core.clj:2096) at clojure.lang.LazySeq.sval(LazySeq.java:42) ... 21 moreCaused by: java.io.IOException: org.h2.jdbc.JdbcSQLException: IO Exception: "Missing lob: 5" [90028-157] at org.h2.message.DbException.convertToIOException(DbException.java:346) at org.h2.store.LobStorage.getInputStream(LobStorage.java:449) at org.h2.value.ValueLobDb.getInputStream(ValueLobDb.java:281) ... 39 moreCaused by: org.h2.jdbc.JdbcSQLException: IO Exception: "Missing lob: 5" [90028-157] at org.h2.message.DbException.getJdbcSQLException(DbException.java:327) at org.h2.message.DbException.get(DbException.java:167) at org.h2.message.DbException.get(DbException.java:144) at org.h2.store.LobStorage.getInputStream(LobStorage.java:444) ... 40 moreBy the way, how is the Dark Exchange client visible in the i2p dashboard - under local destinations? I just launched i2p and Dark Exchange that I downloaded yesterday, but I see only two peers. My rigs have been offline most of the day due to the DDoS attack on BTCGuild.  I have not cared to establish alternate pooling arrangements - yet. I too am curious about the current availability of long-sought-after 5830s on Newegg.  I would not buy them, (1) because I would have to buy another motherboard, CPU, power supply, and maybe add another dedicated 20 amp circuit, and (2) because its not so much the projected difficulty increase - but rather the likely full deflation of the bitcoin price bubble that influences me.  Mining difficulty, in my opinion, lags the bitcoin price, i.e. difficulty goes up because miners get excited about rising prices and add capacity to their rigs.  But in a situation in which prices are declining, miners may face a situation in which difficulty is not dropping, or perhaps not dropping as fast a bitcoin prices drop.Miners not adding to their capacity are making a judgement about the future prices of bitcoins.  Therefore miner sentiment/behavior is interesting to me as I consider what signs signal a bottom to the bitcoin bubble deflation. I am recording Mt Gox quotes using their trading API, and I noticed a couple of long pauses today.  It is very likely that the chart producing software is not at fault. Rather it is the Mt Gox exchange which sometimes suspends trading - or is behind in their order reporting. Your example is illustrative actually of my point.  pets.com was 30% backed by Amazon.com. The underlying Internet economy grew and Amazon continued to grow with it.  Pets.com was a niche product company that overspent on advertising; a consequence of being late to the party.Your point would be more relevant if there were competitors to bitcoin - some of whom might be expected to fail.  But there are no competitors to bitcoin. It is simply good enough to capture the market for an efficiently traded, secure, electronic currency that provides a disruptive alternative to the bloated-fee payment mechanisms such as credit cards, and provides an inflation-resistant means of measuring economic value.  When I built my rigs the 5770 was the best card available - as 5830s were gone. Looks like the channel I've been following all day finally has a sideways breakout following the spike down to $11.  It will be interesting to look again in a couple of hours to see where the current activity around $12.5 goes.[update] July 5 - the channel pattern is ended with a brief breakout to the upside.  Resistance was reached at $14 and presently prices are settling in around $13.  If the bitcoin bubble deflates further, one could expect support at $11 which was the recent low.  Good luck with your existing mining rigs.  I too, plan to continue running mine until such time as my electricity is not covered by the earned coins.  I suppose that I'll get stuck in the end with a highly depreciated set of Radeon 5770 graphics cards - but I can always use one or two in my programming work, and put the others on the Austin craigslist at a giveaway price sometime next year. No I think that mining difficultly lags the price increase, in that rapid price increases spur miners such as myself to add rig capacity.  The reason that I think a leveling off or a decline in mining difficulty marks a post-bubble  bitcoin price bottom is because miners got very excited during the bubble run-up and I expect them to be less excited - perhaps to the point of disenchantment - during the post-bubble decline.Bitcoins are not headed towards oblivion in my opinion. The bitcoin economy must be distinguished from the bitcoin bubble.  By way of analogy, consider Amazon. http://finance.yahoo.com/q/bc?s=AMZN+Basic+Chart&t=myDuring the Dot-Com bubble AMZN soared from a low value to around $100 per share, as traders generally projected the expected Internet economy and Amazon's central role in that Internet economy.  When the Dot-Com bubble deflated, Amazon's stock price sunk by two thirds or more, yet their participation in the Internet economy proceeded anyway.  Now in the fully post-dot-com-bubble Internet economy AMZN is trading at $213.  The point I am making is that the bitcoin price bubble is simply characterized as traders getting way ahead of themselves - eventually the bitcoin economy will get there too.I believe that ultimately, the price of bitcoins will closely correlate with the size of - and fluctuations of - the bitcoin economy, which one might define as routine commerce transactions among merchants, consumers, and miners.  The bitcoin economy will probably feel the bitcoin price bubble to some extent, but I expect it to keep growing as the advantages, e.g. efficiencies, of bitcoin transactions spread their way into the worldwide financial mainstream. Did you catch that one a few minutes ago off of $11?Good luck - and fast fingers.
Back in April, one could buy a bitcoin for $1. As the bitcoin bubble deflates, prices should return to pre-bubble levels.  It has been argued in a bubble thread that this one should be completed by the end of August.From the price chart, below $10 I see support at $8.  But the current downdraft - July 5 - has such momentum that it may simply blow past these supposed supports. Expect false rallies from the bottom.  You might be tempted to buy too soon.  Back in April before the bitcoin bubble, one could buy a bitcoin for $1 or less.The bitcoin market, as opposed to the bitcoin economy, must become unloved and neglected - the bottom can be expected to have relatively low volume, an absence of speculators, mostly merchants, customers and miners conducting routine transactions. Given that in April one could buy a bitcoin for $1 or less, I think that we will see those sorts of prices again when the bitcoin bubble fully deflates.  Its been argued on another thread, analyzing comparative bubbles, that this one should be over by the end of August, 2011.Note that I sold at $15.5 and have my cash at Mt Gox awaiting the bottom. Back in April, 2011, one could purchase a bitcoin for $1 or less.  Since then we have experienced a brief but sharp bubble that is in the process of deflating. It has been argued in another thread that the bubble should be deflated by the end of August and that prices should drop to the pre-bubble level.I am a bitcoin miner, and I expect difficulty to slowly rise and either level off or decline as unprofitable miners stop mining.  As the overall network hash rate declines, remaining individual miners will earn more bitcoins for a given amount of mining activity.  In the scenario I expect, these future revenues will be lower than what miners are earning now.The design of the bitcoin protocol is such that competitive miners should push the network hash rate to the level where the marginal miner pays their electric and air conditioning bills, depreciates their mining rigs, and make a small profit to justify the venture.  I think that the days of paying off a new mining rig in a month or two with earned bitcoins are gone. The original post was helpful to me. It drew my attention to the weak price behavior at Mt Gox.  I moved my hoarded bitcoins from 12 months of mining over to Mt Gox and sold them in various small lots at about $15.5.  When BTCGuild gets past today's DDoS attack, I'll sell off my recently earned coins too.It really is more relaxing to be sitting on the sidelines with cash at the exchange watching this downdraft.  As I write this post, Mt Gox has been dropping at the rate of $0.11 per hour for over a day within a channel on the price chart - just broke past $12 to $11.89. [update] the channel has just been broken on the downside with a quick move down to $11. There is a slight risk that some other party will take the other side of the trade because the exchange computers perform the order matching.  Thus, fooling around with dummy trades in a trending market could expose the dummy trader to the trend - its not entirely risk neutral.  So I expect that such dummy traders have been burned in the recent Mt Gox downdraft and either liquidated - if thats where they want to be, or holding current positions - if thats where they want to be.  To put it another way, by conducting dummy trades that have a chance of non-dummy fills, the dummy trader takes the unintended risk of real trading.Actual market markers are not trading with themselves and their market-making behavior is more efficient when there are zero commissions, as is the case with the conventional FOREX (foreign exchange) market.  I applaud the lower and zero commissions at Mt Gox. At what price point would you be a buyer of bitcoins? My interpretation of charts is mostly to explain what is happening - or better what has recently happened. Chart reading has limited predictive power for traders.  The channel I am now fascinated with held again at its upper trend line - $12.56 - and prices in the last few minutes have dipped to $12.03.  [update] $11.19Who knows when the channel will have a breakout - at least for a pause. I have little to offer regarding noise, volatility, low volumes and other factors.  Except that relatively low volumes and tranquil trading activity may be indications of a bottom - when those features occur. Agreed,I believe the channel will have a breakout, to at least a pause soon. Botnet wranglers I think are lazy people who would rather focus their talents on no-competition illegal activities, than on something economically profitable and legal.However, there is no technical reason that I know of to prevent the formation of a pool with unlawful miners. Worked great for me up until a few hours ago.  Now the WebSocket is closed immediately.  Google Chrome & Ubuntu. As I write this post, Mt Gox has dropped $3 from about $15.5 to $12.5 in a little over a day.  And it looks like this price action is confined to a channel.  If there is no breakout from the channel, we will be at the $1 price level in only 5 days.  Insightful analysis!Here we are in early July, 2011 and the end of August is just 8 or so weeks away.  At the time of this posting, Mt Gox shows a channel-bound decline of $0.11 per hour over the past 27 hours.  At this rate of decline, the $1 price would be reached in only 4.3 days.In contrast to your own opinion, I believe that there is in fact a bitcoin bubble in the process of deflating.  The rate of decline on Mt Gox is currently within your model's constraints to complete before the end of August. Good example of negative sentiment. My mining operation is currently affected by the botnet problem.  Here is my understanding of what is being discussed on the BTCGuild pool thread.A botnet consisting of thousands of nodes was configured by its operator to conduct CPU mining and used BTCGuild as the pool.  These CPU mining workers earned a very low amount of coins each, but in total overwhelmed the pool servers operated by BTCGuild.  As a result of analyzing the situation, the BTCGuild operator blacklisted the IP addresses of the CPU miners - no doubt affected a few legitimate miners who do not care about inefficient mining.The botnet operator, now denied his bitcoin earnings from BTCGuild, retaliated by performing a distributed denial-of-service attack against BTCGuild.  In such a DDoS attack, each botnet node pretends to be a real pool mining client, but floods the victim server with an overwhelming number of fake requests - thus precluding access by the legitimate clients.At the time of this post, BTCGuild is offline, and being enhanced to cope with this DDoS attack.  Details can be obtained from the BTCGuild forum thread in the pool section. An unknown, but substantial portion of miners are hoarding bitcoins.  It is a hassle for the small miner to establish an exchange and dwolla account in order to liquidate their mined coins.I respect your analysis but guess the figure might be closer to $50000 per day than to $100000.My own contribution to this analysis is that the new cash required to support bitcoin prices drops directly with the price of bitcoins.  So, suppose that as the bitcoin bubble deflates, prices return to April 2011 levels, i.e. around $1 per bitcoin.  Then to keep the price of bitcoins stable, the market would not require $50000 per day, but rather only $7200 per day.Once the bottom sets in, it will not take much buying power to turn it around.  That's why I think that there will be one or more premature rallies off the bottom, that will make the bottom hard to figure out. I expect that if the price of bitcoins falls back to April levels as the bubble deflates, you would be delighted to buy some more at, or under, one dollar each. I liquidated my 12 month mining hoard at $15.5.As I write this, the price on Mt Gox just dropped through $13 and is at $12.75.  Way back in April, 2011, one could buy a bitcoin for a dollar.  I speculate that we will return to at least the April price level as the bubble deflates. I liquidated my 12 month mining hoard at $15.5 and will get back in when the bubble fully deflates.  Sentiment has to be very negative for the bottom to set in, and expect premature false starts on the way back up.  Examples of negative sentiment would be mining difficulty - slower growth, leveling off, or declineminers selling their rigs long time hoarders cashing out at very low prices and giving up on bitcoins ASIC developers postponing their mining chip development due to unfavorable economicscontinued decline in the Google Insight popularity of "bitcoin" searchesforum posts arguing that price watching/obsessing is not importantI plan to investigate bitcoin economy indicators to see if there is a way to predict bitcoin value due to merchant/consumer/miner activity. Unfortunately, one cannot observe gap patterns if the market never closes.  The daily price charts from Mt Gox for example, arbitrarily choose a market open time point. Gap patterns reflect dramatic changes in trader sentiment during the period that the market is closed.  Other technical indicators that track momentum do not have this problem, e.g. moving averages. 
These are the identities that I see..I understand that the DarkExchange identity comes from the peers.txt file.  Should there be anything in the log to confirm connection via the I2P router.  Or is there someplace in the I2P router console to confirm the Dark Exchange client?  I'll poke around.1   SlipperySlope   MIGfMA0GC ...2   DarkExchange   MIGfMA0GC ... As I described in the PM sent to you, I explicitly set the classpath jar sequence, and removed the possibly redundant org.bouncycastle package from the i2p jar.  The application launches OK and finds the DarkExchange peer listed on the Identity tab.  The search does not present an exception but I do not see any search results when I enter ..I Have Bitcoin To Send BY Bitcoin TransferI Want United States of America, Dollars Sent by DwollaThere is no change in the log file as a result of the search attempt.-------------By the way, I have been running I2P ever since I downloaded it for Dark Exchange.  It has a wonderful web page dashboard automatically updated every 60 seconds. It says that I've connected with 831 known peers.  A few years ago, I wrote my own peer-to-peer cryptographic messaging system and name service to support a distributed knowledge base application, and I wish that I had then known about I2P! I speculate that the bitcoin bubble began this year, and that when fully deflated the bubble will bottom out at April 2011 prices, unless there is a dramatic increase in the bitcoin economy before the bottom.  Say $1. I sold my 12 month hoard of mined bitcoins at around $15.5.  I am also selling new mined coins at market.  This bubble has to completely deflate before I start hoarding again. I liquidated my 12 month hoard in various trades at around $15.5.  I'm also now selling my mined bitcoins at market. I paid about $1500 for three case-less mining rigs + UPS, 6 x 5770, 1200 MH/sec.  Draws 860 watts from the socket, in a non-airconditioned environment. I wonder how long they will last?  Has miner demand finally turned around? In a bull market price corrections can be dramatic drops, but conversely in a bear market - as perhaps the bitcoin bubble deflates - price drops can be slow with sharp upward corrections.  Do not expect an immediate fall back to April prices if in fact there is a bear market in bitcoins. June 12, support held at $10, when prices sharply dropped that day.If this fails, then earlier, May 12-17 and again on May 26-30, $8 was the upward resistance level, which may be the next support level.At what point would you be a buyer, or alternatively hold rather then sell freshly mined bitcoins? I installed I2P OK.Then I downloaded and installed Dark Exchange.  After I created an account OK, I attempted to trade US dollars for bitcoins and this error occurred...Code:ERROR [darkexchange.model.interceptors.signature-interceptor]: an error occured while signing or verifying a signature on the client side.java.security.NoSuchAlgorithmException: Error constructing implementation (algorithm: SHA1WithRSAEncryption, provider: BC, class: org.bouncycastle.jce.provider.JDKDigestSignature$SHA1WithRSAEncryption) at java.security.Provider$Service.newInstance(Provider.java:1245) at sun.security.jca.GetInstance.getInstance(GetInstance.java:220) at sun.security.jca.GetInstance.getInstance(GetInstance.java:190) at java.security.Signature.getInstance(Signature.java:324) at sun.reflect.NativeMethodAccessorImpl.invoke0(Native Method) at sun.reflect.NativeMethodAccessorImpl.invoke(NativeMethodAccessorImpl.java:39) at sun.reflect.DelegatingMethodAccessorImpl.invoke(DelegatingMethodAccessorImpl.java:25) at java.lang.reflect.Method.invoke(Method.java:597) at clojure.lang.Reflector.invokeMatchingMethod(Reflector.java:90) at clojure.lang.Reflector.invokeStaticMethod(Reflector.java:202) at darkexchange.model.security$sign.invoke(security.clj:139) at darkexchange.model.user$sign.invoke(user.clj:141) at darkexchange.model.interceptors.signature_interceptor$sign.invoke(signature_interceptor.clj:17) at darkexchange.model.interceptors.signature_interceptor$client_interceptor.invoke(signature_interceptor.clj:47) at darkexchange.model.interceptors.interceptor_util$compose_interceptors$fn__4707$fn__4708.invoke(interceptor_util.clj:4) at darkexchange.model.interceptors.identity_interceptor$client_interceptor.invoke(identity_interceptor.clj:17) at darkexchange.model.interceptors.interceptor_util$compose_interceptors$fn__4707.invoke(interceptor_util.clj:4) at darkexchange.model.interceptors.interceptor_util$run_interceptors.invoke(interceptor_util.clj:9) at darkexchange.model.interceptors.client_interceptors$run_interceptors.invoke(client_interceptors.clj:10) at darkexchange.model.client$send_message.invoke(client.clj:26) at darkexchange.model.peer$get_peers_from.invoke(peer.clj:98) at darkexchange.model.peer$all_network_destinations.invoke(peer.clj:152) at darkexchange.model.peer$download_peers_background.invoke(peer.clj:159) at darkexchange.model.peer$download_peers_background.invoke(peer.clj:164) at darkexchange.model.peer$download_peers_background.invoke(peer.clj:155) at clojure.lang.AFn.run(AFn.java:24) at java.lang.Thread.run(Thread.java:662)Caused by: java.lang.SecurityException: class "org.bouncycastle.crypto.Digest"'s signer information does not match signer information of other classes in the same package at java.lang.ClassLoader.checkCerts(ClassLoader.java:807) at java.lang.ClassLoader.preDefineClass(ClassLoader.java:488) at java.lang.ClassLoader.defineClassCond(ClassLoader.java:626) at java.lang.ClassLoader.defineClass(ClassLoader.java:616) at java.security.SecureClassLoader.defineClass(SecureClassLoader.java:141) at java.net.URLClassLoader.defineClass(URLClassLoader.java:283) at java.net.URLClassLoader.access$000(URLClassLoader.java:58) at java.net.URLClassLoader$1.run(URLClassLoader.java:197) at java.security.AccessController.doPrivileged(Native Method) at java.net.URLClassLoader.findClass(URLClassLoader.java:190) at java.lang.ClassLoader.loadClass(ClassLoader.java:307) at sun.misc.Launcher$AppClassLoader.loadClass(Launcher.java:301) at java.lang.ClassLoader.loadClass(ClassLoader.java:248) at java.lang.Class.getDeclaredConstructors0(Native Method) at java.lang.Class.privateGetDeclaredConstructors(Class.java:2389) at java.lang.Class.getConstructor0(Class.java:2699) at java.lang.Class.newInstance0(Class.java:326) at java.lang.Class.newInstance(Class.java:308) at java.security.Provider$Service.newInstance(Provider.java:1221) ... 26 moreERROR [darkexchange.model.interceptors.signature-interceptor]: an error occured while signing or verifying a signature on the client side.java.security.NoSuchAlgorithmException: Error constructing implementation (algorithm: SHA1WithRSAEncryption, provider: BC, class: org.bouncycastle.jce.provider.JDKDigestSignature$SHA1WithRSAEncryption) at java.security.Provider$Service.newInstance(Provider.java:1245) at sun.security.jca.GetInstance.getInstance(GetInstance.java:220) at sun.security.jca.GetInstance.getInstance(GetInstance.java:190) at java.security.Signature.getInstance(Signature.java:324) at sun.reflect.NativeMethodAccessorImpl.invoke0(Native Method) at sun.reflect.NativeMethodAccessorImpl.invoke(NativeMethodAccessorImpl.java:39) at sun.reflect.DelegatingMethodAccessorImpl.invoke(DelegatingMethodAccessorImpl.java:25) at java.lang.reflect.Method.invoke(Method.java:597) at clojure.lang.Reflector.invokeMatchingMethod(Reflector.java:90) at clojure.lang.Reflector.invokeStaticMethod(Reflector.java:202) at darkexchange.model.security$sign.invoke(security.clj:139) at darkexchange.model.user$sign.invoke(user.clj:141) at darkexchange.model.interceptors.signature_interceptor$sign.invoke(signature_interceptor.clj:17) at darkexchange.model.interceptors.signature_interceptor$client_interceptor.invoke(signature_interceptor.clj:47) at darkexchange.model.interceptors.interceptor_util$compose_interceptors$fn__4707$fn__4708.invoke(interceptor_util.clj:4) at darkexchange.model.interceptors.identity_interceptor$client_interceptor.invoke(identity_interceptor.clj:17) at darkexchange.model.interceptors.interceptor_util$compose_interceptors$fn__4707.invoke(interceptor_util.clj:4) at darkexchange.model.interceptors.interceptor_util$run_interceptors.invoke(interceptor_util.clj:9) at darkexchange.model.interceptors.client_interceptors$run_interceptors.invoke(client_interceptors.clj:10) at darkexchange.model.client$send_message.invoke(client.clj:26) at darkexchange.model.calls.notify$call.invoke(notify.clj:10) at darkexchange.model.peer$notify_destination.invoke(peer.clj:92) at darkexchange.model.peer$notify_all_peers.invoke(peer.clj:134) at darkexchange.model.peer$add_destinations.invoke(peer.clj:147) at darkexchange.model.peer$download_peers_background.invoke(peer.clj:161) at darkexchange.model.peer$download_peers_background.invoke(peer.clj:164) at darkexchange.model.peer$download_peers_background.invoke(peer.clj:155) at clojure.lang.AFn.run(AFn.java:24) at java.lang.Thread.run(Thread.java:662)Caused by: java.lang.SecurityException: class "org.bouncycastle.crypto.Digest"'s signer information does not match signer information of other classes in the same package at java.lang.ClassLoader.checkCerts(ClassLoader.java:807) at java.lang.ClassLoader.preDefineClass(ClassLoader.java:488) at java.lang.ClassLoader.defineClassCond(ClassLoader.java:626) at java.lang.ClassLoader.defineClass(ClassLoader.java:616) at java.security.SecureClassLoader.defineClass(SecureClassLoader.java:141) at java.net.URLClassLoader.defineClass(URLClassLoader.java:283) at java.net.URLClassLoader.access$000(URLClassLoader.java:58) at java.net.URLClassLoader$1.run(URLClassLoader.java:197) at java.security.AccessController.doPrivileged(Native Method) at java.net.URLClassLoader.findClass(URLClassLoader.java:190) at java.lang.ClassLoader.loadClass(ClassLoader.java:307) at sun.misc.Launcher$AppClassLoader.loadClass(Launcher.java:301) at java.lang.ClassLoader.loadClass(ClassLoader.java:248) at java.lang.Class.getDeclaredConstructors0(Native Method) at java.lang.Class.privateGetDeclaredConstructors(Class.java:2389) at java.lang.Class.getConstructor0(Class.java:2699) at java.lang.Class.newInstance0(Class.java:326) at java.lang.Class.newInstance(Class.java:308) at java.security.Provider$Service.newInstance(Provider.java:1221) ... 28 more Who would lend you bitcoins to short?  I think that the only way to make money speculating on bitcoin value while the bubble deflates is to buy when you think prices have bottomed.Good luck. Hi Ryan,For those who do not know about the famous Head and Shoulders technical analysis chart pattern, here is the Wikipedia description: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Head_and_shoulders_(chart_pattern)In contrast to your analysis, I believe that we are on the right shoulder and that is strongly negative, should that pattern be completed.  I wonder how many tears were shed by economists when they devised leading indicators.  I cannot imagine how such economic tools could have been proposed without searching for correlations of time series having predictive power.from http://www.investopedia.com/terms/l/leadingindicator.asp ... Here is a link to the rates page ...http://wm-center.com/rates.php?type=exch In Austin, Texas, many older homes have pier and beam construction which permits the easy access to water pipes in the crawl space under the house.That's where I put three mining rigs that together draw 860 watts from the socket.  The ambient temperture is a steady 30 C, 86 F, despite recent highs over 100 F.Here is a recent temperature reading from one of the rigs.  Its 3 hours after sunset.Code:user@linuxcoin02:~$ DISPLAY=:0.0 aticonfig --odgt --adapter=allAdapter 0 - ATI Radeon HD 5700 Series            Sensor 0: Temperature - 74.00 CAdapter 1 - ATI Radeon HD 5700 Series            Sensor 0: Temperature - 65.00 C It would be great if Newegg supported bitcoin.  Especially for international orders. Do you hold any bitcoins?If you have sold yours expecting a dip, at what price point would you buy them back? On the whole I think that if we are in fact in the declining phases of a bitcoin bubble, then that is a good thing for the industry.  The $US 30 bitcoin attracted a lot of attention which should be good for increasing use of bitcoins in commercial transactions. It might be that the parity of bitcoin with the US dollar was the news back in April, and public interest peaked with 30 USD bitcoins.  Perhaps its the lack of news that is leading to the lack of firmness in the July bitcoin market.I would like to hear more news about increased bitcoin transactions. For example, increased use in international trade.  I plan to start tracking bitcoin-days transaction volume as a possible predictive indicator, once the current speculative bubble is over with. Looks like a decline to test 10, then test 8.  Recall that in April one could buy a bitcoin for a US dollar.  What has changed in the meantime beyond a dramatic bump in public interest that is now subsiding?
Do you have any orders currently in the Mt Gox dark pool?  Or since trading resumed after the security problem? July 2.  15.5 is the new 17. My situation is not as bad as yours.  I have three nearly identical rigs and one of them, sometimes needs more than one power on/off sequence, and a reset, in order to properly recognize both GPU cards.  When I first set up these rigs I was mislead because the poclbm miners would start fine - no errors, but proceed to use all the CPU at a low hash rate.  I speculate that this is because the miners can recognize the CPU as a device and I speculate that somehow the CPU is emulating the GPU and running at a much lower MH/sec.Eventually I used aticonfig to display the recognized adapters, and rebooted until they were all there.  As I mentioned in the post above, I use a UPS to avoid reboots. The miner rigs run for days, and I reboot them only to upgrade mining software for example. I prefer the notion of conventional FOREX market to your use of real market.  As many here know "painting the tape" by placing misleading buy and sell transactions, is illegal in regulated markets.  However, to the best of my knowledge, placing misleading open orders is not illegal, so long as those bluff orders are not actually filled to "paint the tape".With today's HFT, i.e. high frequency trading techniques, and especially the ease with which algorithmic bots can be written for the Mt Gox trading API, its no surprise to see misleading open orders, that can be rapidly canceled - by say a bot, in advance of price movement in their direction.  For example, a market gamer style bot could issue enough bluff bid orders to make it appear that there is a preponderance of inventory for sale.  Conventional technical analysis would suggest to the naive trader that prices should move lower to correct that inventory imbalance.  But the gamer bot simply wants to purchase a small lot of bitcoins are a lower price, then cancel the bluff orders below that price, and sell on the rebound back to the non-bluff inventory balance.Would more active Mt Gox traders please respond as to whether Mt Gox currently has a dark pool available for open orders.  On another thread, someone said that all open orders currently on Mt Gox are visible. Good question.  I intend to record historical open order information to analyse such phenomena. I use linuxcoin.  Often the linux reboot command does not work for me, in that I get the same problem you report - a failure to detect the GPUs.  I have a UPS to prevent reboots due to power interruptions, and when I need to perform a reboot. I shut off the power at the power supply switch, restore the power, and if necessary, short the reset pins on my case-less motherboards.  This latter quirky step is required to ensure that the rig boots from the USB memory stick. Thanks, I saved your samples and was not aware of the curl_setopt feature. Understood. Sorry that I misunderstood your objection to my statement. Apparently what I described as market spreads, you meant market stability. With that clarification, your point stands.  I have nothing to offer regarding market volatility in the face of zero commissions.For others, the definition of market spread: http://www.investopedia.com/terms/m/marketmakerspread.aspthe definition of market volatility: http://www.investopedia.com/terms/v/volatility.asp Why are you selling? I don't have your experience, and please forgive that, but my research on FOREX shows that there is no central market that charges commissions. Rather FOREX, i.e. the foreign exchange market, is organized on a distributed basis between FOREX market makers.  Furthermore, FOREX operates as layers of peers, such that the innermost market has large banks as members that interchange large orders on very narrow spreads - and such that the outermost layer dealing with the public has more or less fixed percentage fees derived from the spreads charged by inner layer market makers.If you agree with my characterization, then perhaps the bitcoin FOREX market will evolve in this direction, in which direct interaction between big players will sidestep commission-charging markets, e.g. Mt Gox - leading to yet another sort of FOREX free of centrally-charged commissions. From the Mt Gox web site ...Regarding my conclusion, see http://www.forextraders.com/forex-broker-tips/dealing-spreads-provide-incentives.html for a description of how market maker spreads are determined.  Briefly, to conduct a profitable market making operation, the market maker places both a bid order and an ask order from their inventory. (1) The price spread between these two orders must cover the market commissions - if any.  The market maker profits as buyers entering the market purchase at the ask price, and conversely sellers sell at market maker's bid price.  Assuming a typical transaction distribution of such buyers and sellers, market making is profitable.  (2) Competition between market makers forces the spreads to the lowest profitable level. Thus, if a certain number of active Mt Gox traders have zero commissions, then their market making activity generally determines the spread.  Therefore it is shown that zero commissions cause historically narrow spreads. It has been suggested elsewhere that public interest in bitcoins are reported by Google Insight has recently declined.  If public interest is a leading indicator of price, then that is an explanation.  On the other hand, public interest may be a coincident or lagging indicator because rapid bitcoin price increases are news that makes some people want to learn more about bitcoins.When the Google Insight time series has enough ups and downs then we may be able to figure out the degree of predictability for bitcoin public interest as an indicator. This works for me.  I am developing a Java client for the Mt Gox API and use the linux curl utility for testing.Code:curl -v -k --referer https://mtgox.com https://mtgox.com/code/data/getDepth.phpThe -v option gives a verbose trace of the HTTP protocol, and is not otherwise needed. The -k option ignores the Mt Gox SSL certificate checking - and should not be used in a production script. For the next 25 days or so, certain traders affected directly by the Mt Gox rollback have zero commissions.  That accounts for the historically narrow spreads. Bluff bid/ask orders attempt to manipulate the market by providing a false indicator to traders' and algorithms' depth-of-market decisions.  These are legal, and risk of actual order filling is reduced if a high-frequency algorithmic bot cancels the order in time.  On the other hand, actually placing orders to "paint the tape" may constitute illegal activity in regulated financial markets.  See http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Market_manipulation.Your personal trading activity is stereotypical with regard to modern markets dominated by market-making algorithmic bots.  Such algorithms are not based upon emotions, i.e. greed and fear. Personal market making or day trading without the aid of a computer trading system is nowadays difficult. Of course there may be plenty of profit without a computer trading system - simply buy dips and hold, or even more simply - cost average bitcoin purchases and hold.  See: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dollar_cost_averaging What you call ROI is more correctly called operating income - which supports your point just fine.  Return on investment is all about return on capital invested.   Agreed.  I may look back into it.  During the day or two I spent tuning the GPUs, I had some stability problems dropping the memory frequency and did not pursue that option, rather I concentrated on pushing the core clocks to the max. Looking over my Mt Gox trade log, I do not see any single large transaction that caused the move.  Rather there are many small, almost random sized transactions on the way down and on the way partly back up.  Here is one of the larger ones that occurred shortly after the 16.65 level was breached ...[mtgoxUSD 1309472003463345 2011-06-30T17:13:23.000-05:00 269.10395017@16.64001]It would be a chance for certain market makers subject to the .3 % commission rate to make a profitable trade - given how relatively large the spike down was.  I suppose that once the swing began, existing bid limit orders were cancelled and moved lower thus drawing the price downward in the face of continuing market sales orders.  I do yet track Mt Gox open order issuance, matching and cancellation, but once that happens it will be easier to explain this sort of behavior - but only the point of ignoring open orders in the dark pool.Modern trade execution prefers to break up a single large order into seemingly unrelated smaller chunks.  Even if executed from the dark pool to hide the order, trades become  public knowledge once matched.  Breaking up a such a trade is a tactic to out-game front-running algorithms.   My rigs: 1.48 MH/s/watt + no AC costYour rigs: 1.60 MH/s/watt + maybe some AC costClearly your rigs are more efficient.  My GPUs are overclocked, perhaps yours is not.  In any case, I had limited choices when purchasing my rigs and chose the Sapphire HD 5770 because of their low purchase cost for the MH/sec produced - by then the 5830's were gone.
This is what I meant by an "ideal" market. With zero commissions for certain active traders, the spreads are very narrow because market making as you describe it can return a profit, e.g. 0.001 BTC on tiny spreads.  The spread should widen only when volatility increases, which according to market theory arises because of the sudden entrance of "informed" traders into the market, e.g. some merchant needing to unload 1000 BTC at market. Right now the humidity in Austin, Texas is 45%.  My house is pier and beam construction which elevates it 4 feet above the rocky soil under the house.  Because the house is on top a ridge, the crawl space has been bone dry for years. Dust might eventually be an issue but the CPU and GPU fans seem to keep their respective radiators clean enough.  As purpose-built mining rigs, I chose a conservative configuration with respect to heat dissipation.   There are only two GPUs per mother board, and there is sufficient space between the cards for unobstructed airflow.  I chose Radeon HD 5770 CPUs that draw somewhat over 100 watts when overclocked.  Likewise I chose the least power consuming CPUs for the motherboards. The three rigs have six 5770 cards and in total draw 860 watts from the socket.   Some may not be aware that recently Intel has been conducting research on whether datacenter air conditioning could be relaxed a bit.  This article: http://www.datacenterknowledge.com/archives/2008/09/18/intel-servers-do-fine-with-outside-air/ gives details.I'm not ignoring a possible fire danger with six overclocked GPUs.  I have the power supplies sitting on pieces of floor ceramic tile, and the case-less motherboards elevated a bit off the small sheet of plywood that supports them.Here are temperature and clock readings from one of the rigs, that I control from my home office via ssh.  Note that the outside air temperature is 38 C (100 F), the crawl space is a steady 30 C (86 F).  The rig produces 424 MH/sec using poclbm.user@linuxcoin02:~$ DISPLAY=:0.0 aticonfig --odgt --adapter=allAdapter 0 - ATI Radeon HD 5700 Series            Sensor 0: Temperature - 65.00 CAdapter 1 - ATI Radeon HD 5700 Series            Sensor 0: Temperature - 56.00 Cuser@linuxcoin02:~$ DISPLAY=:0.0 aticonfig --odgc --adapter=allAdapter 0 - ATI Radeon HD 5700 Series                            Core (MHz)    Memory (MHz)           Current Clocks :    960           1200             Current Peak :    960           1200  Configurable Peak Range : [500-960]     [1200-1445]                 GPU load :    99%Adapter 1 - ATI Radeon HD 5700 Series                            Core (MHz)    Memory (MHz)           Current Clocks :    960           1200             Current Peak :    960           1200  Configurable Peak Range : [500-960]     [1200-1445]                 GPU load :    99%  Here is tutorial on A/C costs for large office installations that scales well to bitcoin mining rigs. http://joule.bu.edu/~hazen/LinuxCluster/actut.pdfA quote from that article ... "Typical air conditioning systems would require 0.5 BTUs of energy to remove 1 BTU of heat."By the way, knowing the expense and discomfort of running an 850 watt bitcoin mining farm inside my house, I situated my three rigs outside my house.  They are in the crawl space under it where the ambient temperature is 30 C / 86 F, even when the outside air is 100 F here in Austin, Texas, USA. Hi.  Did you see my Java HTTPS snippet posted to your request on another thread?  If not, just respond here and I'll post my latest Java POST to get the Mt Gox funds balance - assuming that one is properly logged in. I just tried my test scripts for the Mt Gox Trading API and they also gave me the reported error.  However in my development work yesterday I discovered a sequence of commands that works.  Once logged in, only the last command needs to be input.  These are using the curl linux command line utility.  And I also have a Java version that I'm now updating to recover from the reported error using this protocol.  Note that the user and password must be HTML encoded.Code:curl -v -k --referer https://mtgox.com https://mtgox.com/users/logincurl -v -k --referer https://mtgox.com/users/login --data "name=XXX&pass=YYY" https://mtgox.com/users/logincurl -v -k --referer https://mtgox.com/users/login https://mtgox.com/curl -v -k --referer http://mtgox.com/ --data "name=XXX&pass=YYY" -H "Accept: application/json" https://mtgox.com/code/getFunds.php There is almost zero spread on Mt Gox because certain active traders were granted zero commissions for 30 days following the security problem.  Without commissions to compensate for, bid and ask prices sometimes agree to four significant digits! This situation represents an "ideal" market. Is your screen powered off, or is it possible that a CPU-hogging screensaver has started? It turns out that the Mt Gox trading API for obtaining balances is working fine with a single HTTPS POST.Here is the curl command that I use from linux ..Code:curl -v -k --referer https://mtgox.com --data "name=XXX&pass=YYY" -H "Accept: application/json" https://mtgox.com/code/getFunds.phpThe referer header content is not important.  The user name and password are HTML encoded.My Java code now matches the behavior of the working curl command. OK so I traced the HTTPS headers and contents from my web login to Mt Gox.  The Google Chrome browser has a Network diagnostics screen in its Developer Tools menu.  From there I could inspect the headers and contents sent to Mt Gox as I logged in using their web interface.  I found to my delight that I could copy the POST content from the web login screen and obtain a valid login using the linux curl utility.  Following the login, the Mt Gox trade API POST command getFunds worked OK.Here is the sequence of HTTPS commands that I used.  I expect that I can get them running also in Java now that I know what Mt Gox accepts.Code:curl -v -k --referer http://mtgox.com --cookie-jar cookies.txt https://mtgox.com/users/logincurl -v -k --referer https://mtgox.com/users/login --cookie-jar cookies.txt --data "login%5BUser%5D=XXX&login%5BPassword%5D=YYY" https://mtgox.com/users/login curl -v -k --referer https://mtgox.com/users/login --cookie-jar cookies.txt https://mtgox.com/curl -v -k --referer http://texai.org --cookie cookies.txt --cookie-jar cookies.txt  --data "name=XXX&pass=YYY" -H "Accept: application/json" https://mtgox.com/code/getFunds.php-->{"usds":2.9915,"btcs":1}Note that the user and password POST fields have been HTML encoded.  I used the same strings as I detected in the Google Network diagnostics, but it should be possible to use any online HTML escape tool to figure the escaped strings if your programming environment does not have a handy method. I am developing a Java API for Mt Gox.  I have the GET methods working fine, i.e. Ticker Data:   https://mtgox.com/code/data/ticker.phpBut I get {"error":"Must be logged in"} when testing from Java.  I can see all the details of the HTTPS communication using the curl utility on linux, which gets the same error message ...Code:curl -v -k --referer http://bitcoin.org --cookie-jar cookies.txt https://mtgox.com/code/data/ticker.phpcurl -v -k --referer http://bitcoin.org --cookie cookies.txt --cookie-jar cookies.txt  --data-urlencode "name=XXX&pass=YYY" -H "Accept: application/json" https://mtgox.com/code/getFunds.phpThe first curl command gets the Mt Gox ticker OK, Note that the SESSION_ID from the ticker GET is sent back to the Mt Gox server with the subsequent POST via curl's cookie options. The second curl command responds with the above mentioned error.I may have to resort to screen scraping the Mt Gox web pages, i.e. pretending to be a web browser if I cannot get the Mt Gox trading API to work for POSTs.Any help would be appreciated, - if you do not know how your script works, just knowing that someone has a working script to obtain Mt Gox balances would be useful.  When I experimented with phoenix, it drove up my CPU utilization, so I chose to stay with poclbm.I get about 3% CPU utilization per poclbm mining process.  Could anyone using phoenix report their CPU utilization figures?At the time of my experiment I feared that phoenix was performing CPU mining in addition to GPU mining in order to elevate the hash rate, but as everyone knows, CPU mining is not at all cost effective considering the additional watts consumed.  Is this fear justified? Be aware that Mt Gox spreads are currently very efficient - tiny,  due to the fact that many active traders there were granted a month's worth of transactions with no commissions when their in-place trades were rolled back.  Other traders at Mt Gox are paying .3 % for thirty days I think.Any new HFT (high frequency trading) bot will have to take this commission disparity into account immediately, or simply wait out the 30 days or so until presumably commissions for everyone revert to .65 %.  If your trading algorithm does not depend upon fair spreads, i.e. the current Mt Gox situation, then go for it. Here is a more detailed chart of difficulty increases from http://bitcoin.sipa.be/speed-lin-10k.pngYour profit projections must make some allowance for difficulty increases. I have not yet tried POST on Mt Gox.  Because their websocket API is non-responsive, I have been polling their published ticker API ...Code:    final String httpsURLString = "https://mtgox.com/code/data/ticker.php";    final StringBuilder stringBuilder = new StringBuilder();    try {      final URL url = new URL(httpsURLString);      final HttpsURLConnection httpURLConnection = (HttpsURLConnection) url.openConnection();      final InputStream inputStream = httpURLConnection.getInputStream();      final InputStreamReader inputStreamReader = new InputStreamReader(inputStream);      final BufferedReader bufferedReader = new BufferedReader(inputStreamReader);      String inputLine;      while ((inputLine = bufferedReader.readLine()) != null) {        stringBuilder.append(inputLine);        stringBuilder.append(' ');      }      bufferedReader.close();    } catch (IOException ex) {      // report exception    }    final JSONObject jsonObject1 = (JSONObject) JSONValue.parse(stringBuilder.toString());    final JSONObject jsonObject2 = (JSONObject) jsonObject1.get("ticker");    final BigDecimal bidPrice = new BigDecimal(jsonObject2.get("buy").toString());    final BigDecimal askPrice = new BigDecimal(jsonObject2.get("sell").toString());    final BigDecimal lastPrice = new BigDecimal(jsonObject2.get("last").toString());    final BigDecimal highPrice = new BigDecimal(jsonObject2.get("high").toString());    final BigDecimal lowPrice = new BigDecimal(jsonObject2.get("low").toString());    final BigDecimal volume = new BigDecimal(jsonObject2.get("vol").toString());The json-simple1.1.jar is a dependency.  I used keytool to import the Mt Gox SSL certificates from my web browser into cacerts, as I previously deleted all X509 certificates from that keystore as a security precaution. What motivation would bitcoin exchanges have to network their open orders?  For example, why would Mt Gox link with a lower volume competitor.  Arbitrageurs conduct transactions that are subject to exchange fees.  If arbitrage is no longer possible, then the exchanges lose that transaction volume.More likely, larger exchanges will purchase smaller exchanges. Agreed with cheapest MB, CPU, RAM to support two PCIe slots.  I have three such rigs that when overclocked together draw 850 watts from the socket.  I use a USB stick to hold the linuxcoin OS - you really do not need a hard disk drive.  I use a 600 W power supply for each rig.I also do not use any cases - better airflow - despite operating against consumer protection laws for electronic emissions. I think that you can design two styles of cases ...1. Gamer cases may not have sufficient airflow directed over three or four closely spaced GPUs mounted directly on the motherboard.  More airflow means lower temperatures and thus more overclocking headroom.  Your first design could have a high-volume fan with possibly a duct right over the row of GPU cards.2. Many miners are forced to go case-less when dealing with multiple GPU cards per motherboard using PCIe ribbon cable extenders.Look at the photos of case-less rigs on the mining rig photos thread here: http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=7216.0 to see what I mean.  Your second design could have a bar to which the front of the GPU cards are mounted with screws and a second bar to support the rear of the cards.  Because most high performing mining GPUs are double-wide, they are simply too close together on a motherboard allowing more than two double-wide PCIe GPUs.  This particular design allows spacing out the GPUs, provided that they are connected to the motherboard with PCIe ribbon cable extenders.Good luck. I found that Sapphire 5770 GPUs have better fans and heatpipes that keep the temperature about 10 C cooler than alternatives. You could try poclbm, as I do not know much about configuring phoenix.   After choosing your graphics cards, its important to now consider the number of rigs.  As with GPUs, there are several independent features to optimize ...1.  Fewer motherboards, i.e. five rigs, mean fewer disk drives or USB sticks to contain the operating system, fewer CPUs, fewer network cables, less shelf space, and easier hardware monitoring - in that you either have to hook up a monitor, mouse and keyboard to a motherboard in order to work on it, or using Linux, e.g. linuxcoin, one can ssh into the rig to see all the attached graphics cards.  Fewer motherboards may mean fewer power supplies, but gaming-style power supplies can be more expensive when capable of powering say four overclocked 5850s - maybe 1200 watts per single power supply or simply two less expensive power supplies per motherboard.  Motherboards having four PCIe slots are more expensive than those having say two PCIe slots.  See the forum thread for mining rig photographs for ideas on how to cool packed GPU cards, or to move them away from the motherboard using PCIe extension cables.2.  More motherboards, i.e, ten rigs with two 5850s each, on the other hand may be more expensive in total than the alternative (1) above, but they are far easier to cool - as the cards are twice as far apart and the GPU fans have a much better inflow.  Commodity motherboards permit the use of much less expensive power supplies - say 600 - 850 watts apiece.3.  Consider whether  to enclose the rigs in cases.  Operating without a case may violate certain consumer protection laws against electronic emissions but the practical reality is that many miners, and myself do so.  Cases very much restrict airflow, but compensate somewhat by adding fans.  If noise and component clutter are not an issues, consider operating without cases.  Again, one can get many ideas from the mining rig photos posted in the hardware forum.
On linuxcoin I experimented with phoenix+phatk but found that my CPU utilization went up sharply - from say 3% per miner to 20% or more.  I am heat-constrained, operating my caseless rigs in the crawl space under my Austin, Texas house without air-conditioning or extra fans, so poclbm appeared more watt-efficient, and also I had some stability issues, e.g. crashes when overclocking my Radeon HD 5770 GPUs to 960 MHz with phoenix.  In contrast, poclbm handles my overclocking OK. I use linuxcoin and the kernel I edited was named BitcoinMiner.cl, located in /opt/miners/poclbm.This simple change took each of my six 5770 GPUs, overclocked to 960 MHz, from 204 MH/sec to 212 MH/sec, a 4% increase! I also believe that a more accurate model would be to apply the difficulty increase over an average duration - not daily.  The log charts at http://bitcoin.sipa.be/speed-ever.png are especially helpful in visualizing the steady, yet step-wise, increases.Leaving aside speculation on when ASIC technology supersedes today's GPU technology, I assume that the difficulty will level off when a substantial number of miners quit due to high power and air conditioning charges due to their mining rigs.  Worldwide, there is a large disparity in what miners pay for power.  For example, in Austin, Texas, USA, I pay about .13 USD per KWh.  My rigs are located in the crawl space under my house and operate without air conditioning.  They draw a total of 850 watts from the power socket.  That costs me about 2.63 USD daily.  I suppose that sometime in the next few months I'll be mining coins paying about 4 USD per day, and that difficulty will level off until the technology changes or BTC prices dramatically increase. I stopped reading Slashdot about the time that I mined those two blocks of bitcoins back on July 12, 2010.  The main problem with Slashdot was that its primary moderator biased the chosen articles to what in retrospect seems to be a fairly narrow scope, e.g. anti-Microsoft, pro-open source, scruffy and so forth.Each day I now rapidly scan the 60 most popular headlines on Hacker News http://news.ycombinator.com/news, and then also rapidly scan the 500-600 headlines posted on the New section overnight.  Hacker News is operated by the famous Y Combinator, i.e. Paul Graham, startup incubator, and anyone can post a headline there that roughly fits the interests of people who might form or otherwise participate in a startup company - namely the same sorts of people who love bitcoins.Needless to say, there is some mention of bitcoins nearly every day, and my attention was drawn back to bitcoin mining after a 10 month hiatus by the continuing stream of Bitcoin articles on Hacker News.Give it a try.  Its a sort of firehose, and most articles will be in some narrow tech area not of interest - but you probably will not miss out on the next big thing.  By the way that next big thing might very well be a new wave of startups involving the growing bitcoin economy. I'm writing a set of Java clients for popular exchanges and for the last two days I've been debugging communications with the TradeHill API.  The error message has been ....    Forbidden 403    CSRF verification failed. Request aborted.TradeHill says that they will look into their django server configuration regarding a possible fix that I found on the internet.CSRF is an acronym for Cross Site Request Fraud, and what the original poster wants is for bitcoin financial web sites to enforce security so that someone else cannot hijack your session with the web site.  CSRF is a protocol in which the server sends to you a certain random token and which your client, e.g. web browser returns to prove that you are the same entity that originally started the session.For example, TradeHill sends to me the following HTTP header when I perform an HTTP against their API URL at https://api-test.tradehill.com/APIv1/USD/GetBalance ..Set-Cookie:  csrftoken=35d13f0f2708ee17b0834719b902ad65; Max-Age=31449600; Path=/  <== GENERATED BY TRADEHILL, UNIQUE FOR EACH SESSIONMy subsequent API request must specify that token when performing an HTTP POST, e.g. ...X-CSRFToken: 35d13f0f2708ee17b0834719b902ad65  <== PROVES THAT I ORIGINATED THE SESSION I have 6 Radeon HD 5770 on three motherboards that I got from Newegg a few weeks ago given the limited choices.  Four are Sapphire cards that run 10 degrees C cooler than the alternatives.   One of the Sapphire HD 5770's crashes when overclocked so I leave it alone.The three rigs yield say 1145 MH/sec and the shared UPS draws 850 watts.   I keep the rigs in the crawl space under my Austin home where the ambient temperature is 30 degrees C - with no air conditioning.I am very satisfied with these cards for mining. From Slashdot ...http://news.slashdot.org/story/10/07/11/1747245/Bitcoin-Releases-Version-03July 11, 2010.  The following day I generated 2 blocks on my just-configured quad-core CPU miner.  Then I ran the miner for the next several weeks before shutting it down.  There was a huge spike in difficulty and there were no pools back then to keep me going. BTCGuild ... Rewards Summary You generated 1.1559097 BTC in the last 24 hours.Back on July 12, 2010, I generated two blocks that day on my quad-core CPU rig - before the subsequent difficulty increase made me turn off the CPU miner. Take a look at this cool new bitcoin mining calculator that incorporates projected difficulty increases....http://striketeam.ath.cx/btccalc/btccalc.php The first of many bitcoin billionaires will not be wealthy because of the number of bitcoins in their wallets.Its clear to me that these billionaires will have created bitcoin businesses from scratch, or will have adapted existing businesses to bitcoins.Mt Gox might have annualized fee revenues at the June rate of 24 000 000 USD.  Those revenues may value Mt Gox at say 100 million USD.  One can easily imagine Mt Gox expanding to 10 times their current transaction volumes and making their owners in effect billionaires.Furthermore, suppose Amazon wholeheartedly adopts bitcoins to save on transaction fees, to the point where some time in the future, the majority of Amazon purchases are made with bitcoins.  Then Jeff Bezos would become a bitcoin billionaire, as he is already a dollar billionaire. Check out this great new mining calculator ...Using your figures ...Month   BTC     USD     Difficulty1       8.61    146.37  2674335.146672       2.82    47.94   8153044.986513       0.93    15.81   24855576.7724       0.3     5.1     75775332.73655       0.1     1.7     231010573.7646       0.03    0.51    704264610.4417       0.01    0.17    21470386988       0       0       6545515850.719       0       0       19954823260.410      0       0       60834773062.111      0       0       18546241002612      0       0       565405339767 Total   12.82   217.94 I don't believe that bitcoin values will ever stabilize like paper currencies.  Central banks can control the amount of currency in circulation, in part to achieve short-term stable values. In contrast the ultimate number of bitcoins will be fixed.  Each person and business entity requires a certain amount of currency to conduct transactions.  I believe that this demanded amount of bitcoins will vary according to overall business conditions - growing during economic expansion and pausing/shrinking during economic contraction.Informed speculators will be motivated to purchase and sell bitcoins in advance of expected economic expansion and contraction.  Thus I think that bitcoin prices will be similar to those experienced by commodities - and continue fluctuate as they do now.Because people and businesses seek stable currency values, I think that one or more to-be-created bitcoin futures markets will offer currency instruments derived from bitcoins that promise a certain, more stable value, e.g. US dollars, for a certain duration.  Prices could then be quoted in say December Bitcoins, with the buyer and seller knowing that this value will be say exactly 30 USD from now until December. And so it begins ...Recent miners hurrying to sell their rigs before mining becomes unprofitable given exponentially increasing difficulty and perhaps less exponentially increasing bitcoin value.What goes first?  The 6990 space heaters? Can you make linuxcoin a choice?  It deserves a separate mention.That's what I use! What are the ordinary transaction fees to buy or sell bitcoins?  [Will you beat Mt Gox and TradeHill?]  Will you consider a tiered fee structure for active traders.?Are there fees for withdrawing or adding funds to my account?I looked in the FAQ but could not see this info.Like others I desire a trading API - hopefully subsuming the Mt Gox precedent. The x86 and ARM CPU ALU are way too powerful, and way too few in number, to be efficient bitcoin miners.  Their architecture is designed to execute general purpose threads and thus are not sufficiently optimized when compared to the Stream Processing Units on the AMD Radeon graphics cards.For example the HD 5770 cards that I use each have *800* Stream Processing Units overclocked to 960 MHz.  Each Stream Processing Unit takes a tiny fraction of the chip die space occupied by an x86 CPU ALU.  So for each lithography generation, there will be many more Stream Processing Units per chip than x86 ALUs - like 100 times more!Its likely that in the future that chips will be manufactured expressly for bitcoin mining - see the ASIC discussions on this forum.  These are supposed to easily surpass existing AMD graphics card performance and power-efficiency. Although the poster expresses a preference for raw power, anyone else considering a new bitcoin mining rig should optimise three separate features...1. maximum MH/sec per GPU card - fewer GPU cards mean fewer motherboards, CPUs, and power supplies, software configuration, and monitoring effort.2. minimum purchase expense per card - with mining difficulty exponentially increasing due to exponential growth of total network hashrate, its possible that certain expensive mining rigs will not payback their purchase price after subtracting gains from selling off the used components later.3. minimum power consumption per card - this ongoing cost determines the point at which bitcoin mining ultimately becomes unprofitable on a cash flow basis.  Lower power consumption per card makes it easier to cool the card and also to overclock it.The Radeon HD 6990 is optimal only for criteria #1 above.  The owner of the famous 48 GH/sec mining rig featured on YouTube says that he is "upgrading" his vast number of 6990 cards with 5830s as he can obtain them.  Why?  Because of criteria #3 above.I chose to construct my 1200 MH/sec rig using three case-less motherboards with two overclocked HD 5770 GPU cards each.  The HD 5770 cards were the most optimal for me using these criteria considering the limited choices at Newegg in the USA at the time of purchase.  The power drawn by the shared UPS is 850 watts. The problem of lost passwords for default-encrypted wallet.dat files is already solved by existing online password storage services...For example: http://www.passpack.com/en/home/One can easily image an entrepreneur on this forum offering such a service tailored for, and marketed to, bitcoin clients. Even though the best video cards are not freely available in the US, they can be obtained in other parts of the world.  It's likely that the vast majority of previously sold Radeon 5XXX and 6XXX cards are *not* currently used for bitcoin mining. Therefore, I think a larger source of new miners are existing Radeon 5XXX and 6XXX gaming enthusiasts who can easily install mining software on their otherwise idle game computers.   As a landlord, its been my experience that the poor choose cash for transactions over more expensive alternatives, e.g. checks, money orders, and credit cards.  The poor are compelled to use the cheapest means of conducting transactions.  The alternatives have fees that the poor cannot afford.Bitcoins are cheaper to circulate than paper money.  One needs only some form of internet connection and they will become ubiquitous with smartphones.Bitcoin speculation favors the rich however, in that the rich have the speculative funds to begin hoarding bitcoins for potential appreciation.  One could expect the poor on the other hand to spend every bitcoin that they possess and not hoard at all.
One has to make an assumption about bitcoin exchange prices going forwards.  On one hand BTC could be 100 USD in the fall and miners will easily pay back investments made today.On the other hand its more likely that BTC could be about 20 USD and investments made today would not pay back, given sunk equipment cost, effort spent configuring, troubleshooting and monitoring the rigs, electricity cost of the rigs plus air conditioning cost.At various points in the history of bitcoin mining its been more profitable to forgo mining and simply purchase the coins at market with equivalent funds for hoarding. When you get low MH/sec the likely cause is the miner software defaulting to CPU mining when the GPU card is not found, not initialized or so forth.This happens to me on my dual HD 5770 rigs occasionally and I perform a power-off/on reboot.AMDOverdriveCtrl -hwill display the graphics cards.aticonfig --list-adapterswill do the same. The Sapphire HD 5770 GPUs are relatively quiet.  Ordinarily they run at 172 MH/sec but when overclocked to 960 MHz and with poclbm -w 128 they yield 202 MH/sec. I've had trouble using AMDOverdriveCtrl over ssh because of X forwarding.   I worked around the issue by configuring my GPUs from a startup.sh shell script that is named in /etc/rc.local in my linuxcoin OS.Relevant lines in the startup.sh script are tailored for my 5770 GPUs ...DISPLAY=:0.0 aticonfig --od-enableDISPLAY=:0.0 aticonfig --od-setclocks=960,0 --adapter=allDISPLAY=:0.0 aticonfig --odcc --adapter=all Try the Bitcoin Faucet at ...http://freebitcoins.appspot.com/getsome The Newegg HD 5830s are out of stock and will probably remain that way.   I went with six overclocked 5770s on three motherboards and am happy with 1200 MH/sec drawing 860 watts from a shared UPS. On linux I can overclock my HD 5770 cards to 202 MH/sec 960 MHz.  I use poclbm with -w 128.linuxcoin is my OS and I have a startup script ....DISPLAY=:0.0 aticonfig --od-enableDISPLAY=:0.0 aticonfig --od-setclocks=960,0 --adapter=allDISPLAY=:0.0 aticonfig --odcc --adapter=allcd /opt/miners/poclbm./poclbm.py -d0 --host=uscentral.btcguild.com --port=8332 --user=XXXX --pass=YYYY -v -w 128 &./poclbm.py -d1 --host=uscentral.btcguild.com --port=8332 --user=XXXX --pass=YYYY -v -w 128 & Back in July 2010, I generated two blocks all by myself before rising difficulty forced me out of CPU mining - as there were no pools back then.Now I hope to keep mining coins with my GPU rigs until the earnings are less than my daily 1.74 USD electric bill for the 850 watts I consume to yield 1200 MH/sec - September? I run three rigs without cases ...Each motherboard has two HD 5770 overclocked and each yields 202 MH/sec with poclbm -w 128.  The total MH/sec is about 1200 and the shared UPS draws 860 watts.  Because I use linuxcoin I have no hard drive - just a USB flash memory stick.  The rigs run rather cool considering their hash rate and I put them in the non-air conditioned crawl space under my Austin Texas house where the ambient temperature is a steady 30 C.My choices were limited when I bought the GPUs and the HD 5770 seemed optimal at the time. You might have to settle for the readily available, as of late June 2011, HD 5770 GPU cards.  Mine do 202 MH/sec when overclocked and work = 128.  They do not run too hot. Here in Austin Texas I subscribe to the local utility's Green Power Program, e.g. wind turbine, and pay $ .085 per KWh.  My mining rigs operate at a total 1200 MH/sec and the shared UPS draws 860 watts. I run chrome and found the site unreadable - sorry. It took a few days for traders, merchants and miners to move funds and bitcoins to TradeHill.  Volume picked up only today.When Mt Gox gets back online, prices may firm up, provided that the site exhibits solid security. Space heaters - ha ha. Right.  FAT32 is a proprietary Microsoft format and you need to perform that operation on a windows device.  When I got linuxcoin working, thats the only step that needed Windows. Try dropping your AGGRESSION to 8 or below.  Also I found that poclbm was more stable and ran cooler for own three rigs having six overclocked 5770s running at 60-70 C.  I have three case-less motherboards with two overclocked 5770 cards apiece.  The shared UPS draws 860 watts.  The cards are from two different vendors - the Sapphire cards run 10 C cooler, i.e. 60 C and the others 70 C.  I situated them in the crawl space under my Austin Texas house where the ambient temperature is a steady 30 C, despite outdoor temperatures climbing to 38 C (100 F).They run great with the exception of one Sapphire card which I cannot overclock. I chose a Radeon HD 5770 GPU from Newegg a few weeks ago, as it was the most cost-effective card that they then had available.  When overclocked it gets about 202 MH/sec and I have six of them in three rigs that total 860 watts power draw. Desktop computers are dropping in popularity compared with the iPad, netbooks, laptops and smartphones.  But one real advantage of the desktop, i.e. tower configuration is that multiple full size monitors are supported.The AMD GPU cards that are great for bitcoin mining also support up to six monitors - the eyefinity feature.http://www.amd.com/us/products/technologies/amd-eyefinity-technology/Pages/eyefinity.aspxI'll hang on to one or more of my Radeon HD 5770 cards to use for multiple monitors, after bitcoin mining becomes unprofitable at my electricity rates. Given that you accept that mining will not have a pay-back at current bitcoin exchange prices, I offer that you might enjoy learning about Linux with your mining rig.  The linuxcoin OS boots from a 2GB USB memory stick and you do not need a hard drive.  The linuxcoin forum thread is very active - perhaps you can configure a dual-boot after you get Windows running to your satisfaction.
