yes, but that means THEY have to do it!!Would the average Joe think about it??I don't think so. i wish i had the brains  really think the bitcoin setup program should address this problem.either ask the user for a backup location and backup after every personal transaction or some other solution.at the minute it's left to the user.which is not really fair if your system goes down.fatally!!edit:come to think of it, it's totally unfair.this needs to be more secure if you can lose your entire bc account due to just carelessness or bad luck!!wouldn't get many bankers using a system like that! wow!good questions!before i answer, i'll ask you, how many bitcoins do you have?then i'll answer nearly anything you like loli'm a detail fitter/hand adjuster for Bombardier/Shortsthat's what i do!! yes.but wasn't generating bitcoins! yes, after 4 weeks 100%cpu time, i hoped i'd have something?that's 4 weeks electricy that i wouldn't have used (maybe) normally!i don't mind that.but something to show might be nice  i don't want to leave.but, i just can;t afford to wait forever in the hope something might happen. ie, generate a block?no, 4 weeks worth, is not worth it  i've been running about (average) 1300 for the last 3 weeks.with enhancements. oli i don't really mind, but my cpu usage is 100%, and it is affecting my electricity bill.strangely lol  4 weeks of cpu time running at max. and it DID make a difference!!!!cpu was at 100% all the time!nothing to show for it.so,have to say, goodbye to this. luckthat counts me out then hehe  i admit.i'm totally out of my depth.will wait for orbit@home to get back on-line yes, i probably should  and AnandTechherehttp://forums.anandtech.com/forumdisplay.php?f=15made so many friends!! with or without DC!! like i've said.been running this nearly 24/7 for the last 3 weeksstill zip.there must be an incentive to use this.i don't expect to make anything, but with 18 connections and 100% cpu time, a bit of reparation would be nice.something for the project owner to think about perhaps?  sorry!  would an auto-update function built into bc be possible? bc's running full tilt for nearly 3 weeks,not a bitcoin in sight, but plenty of 'eeks'my processor says 'please give me a rest'i say 'just shut it you. and just do your best'cpu says 'no please, can't take much more of this'says me 'aye right, you're taking the piss!'cpu 'ok, promise, i'll make you a mint!'alas so far, like real life, i'm still fecking skint' are satoshi and Olipro working together?if not, any chance you could? i'm well pleased with the speed enhancements Olipro is making, but i would like bc to be secure! just click on the link he provided before.it's been updated  excellent work you're doing!when (if) i manage to generate some coins, i'll make sure to pass some your way  
thanks.that's a relief  if the unofficial bitcoin crashes, does it lose any progress it has made and have to restart from the beginning of whatever it was working on?yes, i'm a bit of a thickie, still not quite sure of the internal workings   had tried that.damn thing had turned back on again!see if it stays off this time edit:will try the solution/s in this thread:http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=580.0 the script works fine.only one problem, when bc crashes, windows puts up a box asking do i want to close the program and search for a solution online, or just close the program.is there any way of bypassing this? because the script comes to a halt while this box is waiting for input from me. i thought the anti-teen noise was most interesting.i've got one, so i can't think why hehe  edit:got that, thanks!!up to 5.02 bitcoins now. woohoo   mind if i ask?satoshi has released a couple of updates recently, mostly about security concerns as far as i can see.how are the 64bit versions keeping up with these developments?  scarey biccies!!  seriously, there must be some limit as to how large it will get? just curious,the blkindex.dat on my pc is currently 28256 kb.according to bc, the number of blocks=69456.i'm assuming the blkindex.dat file will continue to grow?how big is this likely to get. yep!i'm sure they are!!already said, i haven't a clue!what on earth are you talking about??? that blurred the old eyes 1464 confirmations, and nothing else  i'm sorry, but this is mostly ??i'm not a complete thickie, but most of this is way over my loaf!! so i might have more than 5 bitcoins! I will have more than 1446 confirmations and 5 (what's the currency symbol for a bitcoin?) of them!!68023 blocks on a windows machine here. sorry!any better pointers?i'm re-installing .3this update isn't quite working lol  possible.but, and i'm NOT being offensive here, this sort of performance lag has only appeared while i'm running bitcoin.and BOINC is active, but not running any projects at the moment.3gig memory,cached 1524,available 1573,free 108.not going to stop bitcoin, but it does seem a bit strange anything you would like me to send?ps...haven't noticed any extra disk thrashing while bitcoin is running  on this end,hasn't helped.still same symptoms, but can't set to belownormal. access is denied!!edit:strange,firefox and windows explorer open quickly enough, bit laggy, but the likes of gomez doesn't! okey dokey been crunching away for a couple of days now, don't want to start all over again!!!! hi satoshi,are there any back-ups need to be done before installing? yes.in a way.asks for your email address.never had any spam coming my way from them though.or any other sort of email come to think of it!personally, don't like AVG.don't think it's as good as it's cracked up to be.not my own personal experience.but from people who have had it installed, and it didn't work that well  you could try avast anti-virus?i've installed that on a couple of systems.seems ok!plus, it always helps to have malwarebytes anti-malware and ccleaner.
