I was the one who proposed the name satoshi.On 15 November 2010, in this post, I suggested calling 0.01 BTC a "satoshi". At the time, 0.01 BTC was the smallest unit that could be displayed by the user interface in the standard client, even though the protocol supported eight decimal places.The discussion progressed, and on 10 February 2011 I proposed naming the smallest base unit (0.00000001 BTC) either an "austrian" or a "satoshi". In retrospect it's obvious that "satoshi" was the better name.On 18 February 2011, marcus_of_augustus posted "100 million satoshis = 1 bitcoin. Are we agreed?" to which someone responded "affirmative", and the usage caught on.Satoshi Nakamoto referred to the base unit simply as a "coin" in his writings. [deleted] tpantlik, you are correct. So far we have only supported the pizza industry by using the XRP part of Ripple.Someone else can be the first person to get pizza using unenforceable debt created from nothing. That would be more exciting.Ripple is made for stuff like that. No reason why it can't happen. Take a bitcoin with you, just in case. I just want to report that I successfully traded 10,000 ripples for two large pizzas, which arrived at 6:28. Mmmmm.As requested, one was Marguerita and one was Half-and-Half (veggie supreme, and ground beef). The Garlic & Herb "crust dip" was a new concept for me, but I see there's some similar dip in laszlo's 2010 Bitcoin pizza photo, so I guess this just means I don't eat pizza often enough.Thanks FuzzyBear and Tirapon!I couldn't find my Casascius Ripple, so I included a Casascius Bitcoin in the photos instead. Great! I'm getting hungry... That sounds good to me! That's the easy bit. Just call it the hazek.I think a new currency is a bad idea. It's fiddling around, tweaking the peripheral things, while missing the big picture.Bitcoin won't succeed or fail depending on whether the block target is 10 minutes or 30 seconds, nor on whether its rate of monetary inflation reaches zero in 15 years or 500 years.Nor does the risk of 51% attack really matter that much. Over the next decades, there are going to be hundreds of types of attacks on Bitcoin, of which the 51% attack is only one type (and it's by no means certain that a 51% attack will occur). There's no point worrying about about a 51% attack, except as part of a general general commitment to make Bitcoin as robust as possible.It's much more important to have a wise, experienced, and diverse set of developers who can respond quickly to any threat that is brewing, just as Satoshi did when a hard fork was needed due to exploitation of the overflow bug. I say a "diverse" team, because a hostile takeover of the dev team is probably a much higher risk than a 51% attack.The success of Bitcoin won't depend on its technical characteristics. These are mostly "good enough" already, and the rest are capable of improvement within what we know as Bitcoin.Instead, the success of Bitcoin will depend on legal challenges, the global political environment, whether Bitcoin's future crises (and there will be many) are handled in a way that maintains credibility and minimises damage, whether any Google/Amazon-type organization adopts Bitcoin or whether they introduce their own altcoin, whether Oprah Winfrey endorses it, etc.Something that already works and is "plenty good enough" will always win out over something that might (or might not) provide a small incremental improvement in the future. Yeah, "trust" isn't the right word. It would be better to replace it with "risk".Instead of saying "I trust the PayPal gateway for $100" we should say "I'll risk $100 with the PayPal gateway". See the "Pizza for ripples" thread. You can get a rate of 10,000 XRP per bitcoin by helping to buy the pizza in exchange for XRP. Thanks FuzzyBear, this seems like a great way to do it.Please send me a PM when you've raised the funds, then I'll send you the XRP along with my pizza preferences and delivery address. There's nothing in the ripple system to stop evil gateways.Suppose I have various lines of trust with other people and organizations, including with Pirate's gateway. I have "deposited" $50 with Pirate. In return I have an IOU from Pirate valued at $50. At some point, I start to feel uneasy about Pirate, so I remove the trust that I extended to Pirate. Am I correct that the $50 owed to me by Pirate then automatically becomes $50 owed to me by others, specifically those whom I trust and who in turn trust Pirate themselves (and who have not "maxed out" their Pirate balance)?Then when Pirate defaults, I try to collect from those people. Not surprisingly, they don't feel like paying me and they default too. It could turn ugly fast. Those who are quick to spot the scam will modify their lines of trust fast enough to ensure that everyone else is stuck with the worthless Pirate IOUs.Or am I missing something here? My offer is 10,000 XRP for two large pizzas delivered, as per the original post. This mirrors Laszlo's 2010 offer. It can't work as a spam prevention measure unless it has some scarcity. And if it has some scarcity, then it has some value. And if it has some value, then it will find its exchange rate.I think the exchange rate will be volatile for some time. We don't know how useful ripple will be, and we don't know how quickly XRPs are going to be given away.Assuming ripple is successful, the value (after all of the XRP giveaways have been done) should increase gradually because XRPs are destroyed when they are used to pay for transactions.A very optimistic exchange rate could be estimated by assuming parity between the "market capitalization" of BTC and XRP. If 21 million BTC have a market cap of $600 million as at present, then 100 billion XRP might have a similar market cap. This would value each XRP at $0.006. I think if he gives you a 10 EUR bill in meatspace, you use the ripple system to send him 10 ripple-Euros. From his and your point of view, everything is settled. Yes, do you deliver to the north-west of England? I'll pay 10,000 XRP for a couple of pizzas.. like maybe 2 large ones so I have some left over for the next day.  I like having left over pizza to nibble on later.  You can make the pizza yourself and bring it to my house or order it for me from a delivery place, but what I'm aiming for is getting food delivered in exchange for ripples where I don't have to order or prepare it myself, kind of like ordering a 'breakfast platter' at a hotel or something, they just bring you something to eat and you're happy!I like things like onions, peppers, sausage, mushrooms, tomatoes, pepperoni, etc.. just standard stuff no weird fish topping or anything like that.  I also like regular cheese pizzas which may be cheaper to prepare or otherwise acquire.If you're interested please let me know and we can work out a deal.Thanks,ribuck What an interesting post!Vegetarianism. Communism. The metric system of weights and measures. Environmental awareness. Rock music. Votes for women. Air travel. Freeways. Contraception. Antibiotics. Are these the kind of things you're thinking of?Perhaps the only pattern is that these things came into being because of people who weren't afraid of doing something new and different.Me too. CB Radio in the 1970s, Relational databases in the late 1970s, 4GLs in the early 1980s, Desktop Publishing in the mid 1980s, Internet from 1993, Wikipedia from its second day of operation, OpenStreetMap from 2007, Bitcoin from 2010.If I knew the answer to that, I'd be there right now!Bitcoin, of course, is a current hotspot that will soon become something really big. Once Bitcoin is entrenched, it will open up a huge range of new opportunities, just as the internet had to become entrenched before Bitcoin could become a possibility.Let me throw in some guesses as to what might become big in the next decade or two:The system of education and qualifications is going to be shaken up like never before. Dinosaur-like traditional institutions based on years and years of structured learning will wither away, to be replaced by a system of education based around micro-courses that can be plugged together in different ways to meet different needs. That, in turn, will create a demand for new types of testing and certification bodies that can address these more-flexible educational processes.Thanks to Bitcoin (and probably via some kind of Bitcoin-linked subchain), micropayments will finally have a good enough infrastructure to prosper. I can see even the tiniest API call carrying a micropayment along with it. There are already lots of business ideas that would become profitable if micropayments could be used to call a Search API or a Maps API. As their advertising revenue stagnates, companies such as Google will find economic salvation in the provision of micropayment-based API servicesSome time soon a tipping-point will arrive, after which it will be possible (and desirable) for people to live in alternative ways: in undersea cities, or on linked platforms floating on the sea, or underground, or even in the air (at any one time, there are already half a million people in the air!). Mass colonisation of the moon and mars is probably much further away.Immersive virtual worlds are improving so fast that at some point they will become the preferred way for many people to live. This will open up all sorts of interesting possibilities (and will have environmental benefits too)Huge amounts of data will be recorded about everything. Every aspect of our lives will generate video data, transactional data, location data, opinion data etc. This will open up new opportunities to process this data. For example, our car insurance might have its cost determined by how many near misses we have had. For example, automatically-condensed highlights of a person's life could be offered for sale to the person as an annual one-hour movie.Self-driving cars are definitely coming. It might be 10 years or it might be 15, but it won't be 20. This will change the way that we travel in so many ways. (On the other hand, mass-market flying cars are not coming, even if Bill Gates will own one.)What are your thoughts? So obviously it needs to be securely hashed, or else anyone who compromises the database (or has authorised access to it) can impersonate the actual account owner. Why is the "secret phrase" stored unhashed anyway? That's just asking for trouble.
Compré tres. Soy muy contento. In many European countries, the dot an comma are used the other way around compared to how they are used in English-speaking countries. It's not a typo. Precisely.For the record, I have BTC available to send immediately to Matthew in the unlikely event that I lose my side of the bet. Bought via BitMit. Thanks! Country names are not a good choice because they become obsolete. No-one talks anymore about Ceylon, Bechuanaland, Rhodesia, Siam etc anymore - yet these country names were all in use when I was at school. Yes, of course. I was posting tongue-in-cheek. People will certainly learn that Bitcoin needs a different kind of security than the traditional western financial model.My serious prediction is that there will be a very unstable phase after Bitcoin goes mainstream when many imitators will arise, created by governments and large corporations. I'm not sure how much Bitcoin will suffer during this phase, but I expect it will emerge stronger. Not only is this a big mention for Bitcoin, it's also probably the first time Pastebin has made it to the mainstream media  Not hacked perhaps, but these "security experts" managed to leak a list of all their users' email addresses. I think you mean "any four of the eleven". I'm not an American, and I don't know much about Gary Johnson. But a quick look at his policy page reveals plenty of weasel words. For example, he calls for an end to "bloated stimulus programs and unnecessary farm subsidies". No problem then with stimulus programs that are not too bloated, or with farm subsidies that are "necessary"? And he wants to eliminate "needless barriers to free trade", which suggests that some barriers to free trade are "needed".Also, campaign promises are not legally binding and the historical track record of elected candidates is not good.And he doesn't seem to have a problem with accepting a comfortable salary extracted under threat of force from his constituents. Just sayin'. How do you make sure you don't have a trojan that's reading the scanned keystrokes? What kind of security guarantee does one get for a few kBTC/year? Voting for a third party says "I support this broken and corrupt system and this is who I want to be in charge".Not voting says "I don't support this broken and corrupt system". Satoshi, nefario, freemoney, vladimir, meni rosenfeld, yochdog ... there are plenty more, but you asked for five and I already gave six. I trust those >99%.I trust Matthew about 95%, a factor which I took into account when wagering with him. I never trusted pirateat40. The saddest thing about Bitcoin is that Satoshi Nakamoto is probably too scared to come out of hiding. For comparison, the average P/E (price-to-earnings) ratio on the London FTSE-100 is just over 20 to 1, and the average P/E ratio on the Dow Jones Industrial Average is over 15 to 1.If you think that Satoshi Dice will continue to earn at or above its current rate over the long term (a couple of decades, say), it would be a great investment at a P/E ratio of 10 to 1.Aye, but there's the rub. A decade is a long time in the Bitcoin world, and many things could happen to Satoshi Dice during that time. For that level of risk, 10/1 was too high for me. I would have invested at 5/1 though. There's plenty of opportunity for surprises between now and September 9th.Here's one unlikely but not impossible scenario: Suppose Pirate has another similar operation going within another community. He could use funds from there to pay off this operation at the last moment. Couldn't we just encourage Pirate to have sex with some women in Sweden, then let things run their course? Do you mean the same Patrick who rated pirateat40 as "10 trustworthy" on the bitcoin-otc web of trust? Oh how I wish that was true! I have so many Bitcoin businesses I'd love to operate if I could figure out how to do so without risking being caged.The UK's financial legislation is roughly along the lines of "No one shall offer fianancial services except in accordance with the following regulations". That's broadly equivalent to "it's illegal unless we permit it".
I'm not sure what you're getting at here, bitlane. Pirate stated ages ago that GPUMAX and BS&T shared a bitcoin wallet:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=91661.msg1026140#msg1026140 Nor would I. It may be a trap. The PPT operator might have a legal claim against pirate's assets if pirate is declaring bankruptcy, but the passthrough holders certainly don't.It may be better to submit one overall claim. If some of the asset-holders prefer to submit individual claims, a consolidated claim should be submitted for the remaining funds.(I'm not financially involved in this.) Don't do it, hashking! It may be a trap. As PPT operator, you might have a legal claim against pirate's assets, but your passthrough holders certainly don't. If pirate is declaring bankruptcy, you may be throwing away a chance to get a share of what's left.It may serve the interests of your asset-holders better for you to submit one overall claim. If some of your asset-holders prefer to submit individual claims, you should submit a consolidated claim for the remaining funds. Here's why pirate might hypothetically want the details of passthrough asset-holders. Suppose pirate has consulted a lawyer and decided to go the bankruptcy route.Pirate could insist on getting a list of the PPT asset-holders, to be entered into the bankruptcy proceedings as the claimants against pirate's assets (instead of the PPT operators being the claimants). The bankruptcy court would probably rule that these asset-holders have no claim against pirate's assets, because their claim (if any) is against the PPT operators.In an insolvency, you don't get two bites at the cherry. If your claim is disallowed, you can't have another try. So in one fell swoop, pirate's outstanding debt (as believed by the bankruptcy court) is vastly reduced.The above is just one speculative possibility. I have no financial involvement with pirate or with any passthrough. But if I was a PPT operator, I would be lodging a single claim with pirate rather than a set of claims on behalf of my asset-holders. I have had a number of dealings with Meni Rosenfeld, all of which have been very satisfactory. That's great to hear ... but ... Long Live Nefario! Those are great features! Thanks for creating and enhancing GLBSE.Ideally I'd like to see the following feature added to the list:"Globally-distributed bulletproof backups, so that the data and software can be recovered in the event of the operator's disappearance or demise, or seizure of the GLBSE data." Exactly. 500k coins is about 5% of the current coins. Consider the three possibilities:1. The entity hoards the coins and never spends them: wow, everyone else's coins have 5% greater spending power!2. The entity spends or slowly sells the coins: ok, the coins enter circulation and everyone's coins have their "normal" spending power.3. The entity dumps the coins all at once. The market tanks at first, then is unstable for a few days, but ends up with each bitcoin having exactly the same spending power as it had in possibility number 2. The prudent advice is to not sell your coins in the first few days after a dump this big. After that, life proceeds as normal. Agreed. Pirate actually defaulted on Monday.But in the terms of his bet with Vandroiy he has two weeks grace. And in the terms of Matthew's bet he has three weeks grace.Agreed. If pirate's aim is to end up with as many BTC as possible, your scenario makes sense. But if his aim is to end up with a substantial profit, yet still be able to claim to have repaid all the loans, my scenario could do it (at the extremes of possibility, admittedly). laszlo, the guy who bought the pizza for 10,000 BTC I think if you are a donator, you can get a Scammer tag by requesting it from theymos. Here's a guide to how the Totnes currency was set up. It covers legal and practical issues, and is quite interesting:http://transitionculture.org/wp-content/uploads/Lewes-Pound-How-To-Guide.pdfHere's an overview of some other UK local currencies:http://quezi.com/11087 There might be a slight "first mover" effect. But if every city has its own currency, it also stops "capital influx" from other areas.But that's not why most of these currencies succeed or fail. Most of them fail because to the user they are less useful than national currency: "Here, give me one pound that you can spend anywhere in the UK, and I'll give you one pound that you can only spend in Bristol." That's a losing proposition. Monday February 29, 2013. No, I don't think so. Buying his debt at discount is one way he could actually avoid technically defaulting. For example (using exaggerated numbers to make the math easier):1. Suppose pirate has taken 50,000 BTC in direct loans, and 500,000 BTC via passthroughs.2. Suppose pirate, after paying weekly interest, still has 150,000 BTC in his bitcoin wallet.3. Suppose pirate pays back the direct loans, leaving him with 100,000 BTC.3. Suppose the passthrough shares are being sold for 10% of their face value.4. Suppose pirate buys all the passthrough shares for 50,000 BTC, leaving him with 50,000 BTC.5. Suppose pirate pays back the passthroughs, 50,000 BTC at a time.6. The coins pass through, back to pirate, who then pays back the next tranche of 50,000 BTC.7. Repeat ten times, and pirate has technically not defaulted (although he has screwed those who sold their passthrough shares at 10% of their face value).Sure, there are a lot of suppositions and extreme figures above. But something like this is not impossible. Matthew, please increase my earlier wager to:250BTC18pChH7Mf8DjP5Vxxva8R4UxRT22eMZd2j"Only Live Once" In that case, Matthew's regular brain is going to be livid when it is returned to his body by the aliens who borrowed it for experimentation.It's fine to have a wild, speculative wager. As Matthew said, you only live once. But when he talks about keeping his offer open for 3 weeks, that makes no sense under any circumstances. The real Matthew is going to be livid when he returns from his travels and discovers that his forum account has been hacked  "The Good Wife" is significant because of the Bitcoin episode. A low risk growth stock with a P/E of 10 would indeed be a bargain. But the catch here is that SatoshiDice is so easy to copy that it may not be a growth stock.
For what it's worth, you can reduce the account-opening fee to 15 BTC by mentioning the key ID of an existing member:http://polimedia.us/bitcoin/faq.html#13 Muyuu, at some point you just need to trust Matthew to do the right thing. The closing of BS&T is a one-off occurrence and it would be impossible to pin down every possible contingency in writing, without making things so rigid that the terms and conditions would sometimes yield the "wrong" outcome.It's probably going to be very obvious whether or not Pirate defaults. If it's not obvious, well, you just have to accept that your wager is also a bet on what Matthew will decide. Vladimir, I would be delighted to buy you a dinner or beer*, however I don't think I can get to London for the conference. Any other weekend I would be there, but I have a guest visiting that weekend.*provided the restaurant or bar accepts bitcoins 100BTC18pChH7Mf8DjP5Vxxva8R4UxRT22eMZd2jReckless? Matthew? Don't forget that each UK taxpayer has an annual CGT exemption of somewhere around £10,000, and also that you can transfer assets tax-free to your spouse so that they can use their £10,000 exemption too. Cara Navarre, if for any reason you don't proceed with Vladimir then I will sell you the option for the same price ($4000) and on similar terms. I have positive feedback from previous similar transactions here. Bitcats, your use of large font, exclamation mark and bold type tells me that you're the one panicking. There's no point demanding that others stop panicking if you're panicking yourself.The price at the exchanges is just the price at which people are trading if they want/need to trade right now. If you don't want/need to trade right now, the exchange price is totally irrelevant to how much a bitcoin is worth to you. In that case you would benefit from reading some of Satoshi's old posts about "accounts". You could start with these:The problems with "listtransactions" that are addressed by "accounts":https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2151.msg28228#msg28228Jeff Garzik's counterpoint to the above post:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2151.msg28247#msg28247Satoshi's simple pseudocode showing how to use the "accounts" feature:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2202.msg28947#msg28947 Three percent per week interest is only sustainable in the short term.If I were BDT, I'd make sure to establish an impeccable track record of paying every dividend in full and on time. Soon, people would flock to these reliable, profitable bonds and the price would rise. That would be the signal that the bonds could be compulsorily bought back, and that a new issue at a lower interest rate (say, 0.3% per week) would be successful.Under all of this mess is an underlying business that could become quite successful. If only the website security and customer relations could be handled as professionally as Meni handled the IPO! The purpose of "accounts" is to automatically adjust balances when there is a block chain reorganization.Suppose you run a business selling widgets, and Fred sends you 10 bitcoins to buy a widget. If you have associated a receiving address with "Fred's account", that account will show a balance of 10 BTC.Later, there is a block chain reorganization, and on the new block chain there is no longer a payment from Fred. In that case, the balance of "Fred's account" will show zero. If more blocks are successfully built onto the original chain, the block chain may be reorganized again, and the balance of "Fred's account" will again show 10BTC.For many businesses, this is exactly what they want. If the business has an ongoing relationship with the customer, they know at all times how many coins they have received from that customer.On the other hand, it's rather impractical, particularly for businesses with irreversable transactions or with lots of one-off transactions.In practice, most businesses prefer to wait for (say) 6 confirmations of receiving the payment. The business then credits "Fred's account" (on their database, not in their Bitcoin client) with 10BTC, which the business regards as irrevocable. The widget is shipped to the customer at that point. If, later, there is a block chain reorganization, the widget business carries the loss on their books (although naturally if they know who the customer is they will try to recover the payment).In normal circumstances, 6 confirmations is sufficient that a block chain reorganization is very unlikely to occur after that point. However, it's possible. When the overflow bug was affected, there was a block chain split that wasn't resolved until each user updated their Bitcoin software. For many users, this took longer than 6 confirmations (people gotta sleep, etc) so many people were running for a while on a faulty block chain that was destined to become orphaned.(And yes, the ability to let an account balance go negative is a feature, not a bug.) I'm offering a special for this weekend only: two pizzas delivered to your home or work for only 7995 bitcoins, paid in advance.*Excludes Siberia, Antarctica and war zones It's hard to achieve a regular 30 miles per day because there isn't usually accommodation available exactly where you want to finish each day's walk.Many of the main roads won't have a footpath at the side, so you will generally use the more minor older roads which have less traffic and are also more interesting to walk on.Walking routes aren't generally shown on Google Maps, and for walkers a much better set of maps is found at openstreetmap.orgA great walking option is the tow-paths at the side of the canals. There's an extensive canal network in the UK and in continental Europe, and you can walk many miles without roads. Canal tow-paths are also usually indicated on OpenStreetMap Occasionally (once every year or two) they open the service road of the Channel Tunnel for a charity fundraiser walkthrough. If you can wait for that, you can do the whole thing on foot. Two to three months is my estimate, but of course it depends how far you want to walk each day. When this thread began, 17 pages ago, the price had just broken $10 and everyone was excited.The more things change, the more they stay the same. I remember when you could get a pizza for 10,000 BTC. Funnily enough, that's not how it works. If it really was clear that we would hit $10 soon, everyone would be frantically buying and we would reach $10 in a minute or two.I'd rate "$10 soon" as quite likely rather than clearly true. In real life, the cost of a big website tends to be ongoing and open-ended.I suggest that you develop your website and service incrementally. ...and goat is betting that there will be a pirate default before the accumulated interest equals the premium that you paid. Caveat emptor.edit: OK, I take that back. It's not quite that simple. Goat can structure this to make a profit with or without a pirate default. I remember when a block chain was one of these things:and a bit coin was one of these things: From the left:1.2. OneFixt3.4. gigavps5.6.7. reeses8. pirate9. goat10.Bernanke and Satoshi at the little table in the background.Does anyone want to fill in the rest?
You don't think BitChen is the Chen Jianhai referred to by Zhoutong as his "previous business associate" and scammer?Especially as BitChen posted this forum message on 14 July 2012: Yes, if only Gavin's avatar didn't look like he was wearing a yellow life-vest, about to bail at any moment  Have you noticed the small table on the right in the background? The one with Bernanke in mufti on the left, and Satoshi seated on the right? In 20-30 years you'll be able to photograph the DVD on your hi-resolution digital camera, then use an app to decode the DVD pits from the photo.Don't believe me? This guy can play vinyl LPs by putting them on a scanner, then running an app:http://www.phys.huji.ac.il/~springer/DigitalNeedle/How cool is that?Anyway, even though DVD players will soon fade from mainstream use, there will still be some around for centuries. You can still play wax cylinders from the 1890s. If pirate is there, my money is on pirate being the photographer. The Triton 9100, a small ATM, draws 230 watts. There are approx 2.2 million ATMs worldwide, drawing a total of 506 MW of power. In other words, 56 Bitcoin networks. Notice how, in the original post, pirate said "Contact me for details if you're interested". So unless anyone contacted him for details, they're not going to meet him, and pirate can claim to have fulfilled his part of this trollpromise.Nor did pirate say that he was attending DefCon, he just said he was going to Vegas. For all we know, he may be putting all the BS&T funds on red at the roulette table in a desperate attempt to keep his scheme afloat.In that case, pirate may be lucky and can prolong his scheme long enough to win his bet with vandroiy.Or, if pirate loses at the roulette table, he may default on the coming interest payment. The terms of his bet with vandroiy allow for a two-week delay after a missed payment. So by 14 August, the gig is up. Just like pirate already hinted.(I'm not invested with pirate; I'm just here to enjoy the show) It could be like a Bitcoin jukebox; you could send a few Millies for a song of your choice to be played. Congratulations! Kids are even more worthwhile than Bitcoin! Anyone who can really get 15%+ monthly doesn't need to worry about getting anything back from Bitcoinica. The bitcoins are at 1:43 and 3:53. Most UK ISPs block all pages on the IWF's blacklist. According to the following page, there are usually around 500 to 800 pages blocked. The list is not made public:Wikipedia - Internet Watch FoundationMost of the blocked pages are said to be CP. The blacklist really only makes the news when they block major sites like Wikipedia or the Internet Archive. Bitcoin is pretty-much the only type of money you can stuff in your mattress, without its value being eroded due to inflation. Then hopefully you'll work with MagicalTux to add a checkdigit to MtGox account numbers. Here's a very straightforward non-centralised solution:The domain name belongs to whoever has submitted the lowest (i.e. most difficult-to-compute) hash for that name. Ownership changes if someone submits a lower (i.e. better) hash, but in that case there is a 90-day delay to give the original owner a chance to submit a better hash and keep ownership of their domain name.Whoever can gain the most economic value from each domain name, will be the one who can afford to dedicate the most resources towards mining hashes for that name.Suppose Microsoft Corp wants to hold on to microsoft.com. They might keep a server or two chugging away, regularly submitting lower hashes whenever they find one.Now suppose Joe Average somehow manages to get a hower hash for microsoft.com than Microsoft themselves have been able to do. Microsoft has 90 days to improve on Joe Average's hash, before they lose the domain. So naturally, Microsoft will dedicate a big server farm to the task, bigger than Joe Average can justify economically.With this system, no-one can squat a domain name that's more valuable to someone else, because that other person will find it worthwhile to compute enough hashes to gain control of the domain name. Richard Stallman and Max Keiser in the one place? Awesome indeed! Spread-spectrum wireless communication is very hard to jam. So would I. That illustrates a weakness, not a strength.Someone will host a similar page that sends the private key back to the server. Then they send out 100 million emails telling people to "click here to make their bitcoins safe with a paper wallet".The biggest contribution of Bitcoin to society may not be the monetary improvement that it brings; it may be the improvements that it forces to be developed for computer security. Thank you theymos for clarifying (again). I'll edit my post to get it right this time.
Also you "get rid of coins" by sending them to the address which received the block reward for block 0. This block starts everything off, and is hard-wired into Bitcoin. It was never actually "mined". As such, the 50 generated coins in that address cannot be redeemed.Additional payments to that address can be redeemed by Satoshi, if he still possesses the private key for that address. Since the date of that block (3 January 2009), people have sent almost 50 additional payments to that address, increasing its balance by more than 6 bitcoins.It's kind of like tossing coins into a fountain for good luck. You have lost the coins forever, but you had fun making a wish.If anyone wants to toss some coins into the Satoshi fountain, here is the address:1A1zP1eP5QGefi2DMPTfTL5SLmv7DivfNa(edited to correct an error in my original post) If and when the fees get too high for micropayments to be efficiently handled in the block chain, they can be handled in some kind of sub-ledger. Eventually I think we will see not just micropayments, but also nanopayments - very tiny payments attached to things as small as a single API call.For now, micropayments and nanopayments can be tested on the block chain, then hived off into a sub-ledger in the future as and when required. He's bending the truth, but he probably rationalizes it like this:Oct-Dec 2010 = one year (2010)All of 2011 = one year (2011)2012 so far = one year (2012) I think you'll find that's their perceived value of an American (i.e. USA) life. Like all bubbles, it's easy to see with hindsight.But before the first bubble, there were many times when the price more than doubled within 8 days. For example, the MtGox closing price went from $1.41 on 22 April 2011 to $3.50 on 30 April 2011, but that wasn't a bubble. It went from $3.33 on 5 May 2011 to $8.20 on 13 May 2011, but that was not a bubble. It went from $0.45 on 28 Jan 2011 to $0.92 on 5 Feb 2011, but that was not a bubble. (There are more examples).I think you are right that the price tripled within 8 days only once. But at the time, how sure could anyone be that a tripling would be unsustainable when all the doublings had been sustainable?Long term, you can say that more than 7% per week is unsustainable, but I don't think you can say anything about the short term, without the benefit of hindsight. myrkul, how can an agorist like yourself not lean more towards economic freedom? That does not compute. jjames88, it's unfortunate that you used the terms "left/right", which have different meanings to different people.I'm guessing your intention is that the vertical axis reflects personal freedom (bottom is completely free, top is completely un-free), and the horizontal axis reflects economic freedom (left is completely unfree, right is completely free). The Amish manage it because they have legal privileges that are not available to modern communities.For example, the Amish are exempt from paying social security (according to the 1965 Medicare bill), along with any other sect that consciensciously objects and was in existence on December 31, 1950. If you knew genjix, you wouldn't say that. He may have handled the whole Bitcoinica thing sub-optimally, but he didn't lie to people. Make a large bid just below market value, and keep it updated.The smaller exchanges have considerable volatility, so you can trade at better rates than on the big exchanges if you're not in a hurry. Some people don't. Frequently what you get is access to a six month waiting list, free at the point of delivery. That's not the same as access to healthcare. I think it's funny how Vandroiy spent so much energy trying to save people from making mistakes with BS&T and their money, yet was resistant to others trying to save him from making mistakes with BS&T and his money.Unfortunately it's not really a predictions market, because you can't trade bets. A real predictions market for BS&T default would be awesome! Most people are reluctant to pay twice for healthcare. When you're already paying for the NHS through tax, it's no so easy to pay for it privately too.Although stories like this make me consider private healthcare:"A desperate hospital patient who died of  thirst after he was denied vital medication rang police and begged them to bring  him a drink, an inquest heard today ... he became so delirious he was forced to  call 999 to ask for help ... Officers raced to St Georges Hospital in Tooting, south London, but were turned away by staff who insisted Mr Gorny was  fine, Westminster Coroners Court heard."http://updatednews.ca/2012/07/02/hospital-patient-22-died-of-thirst/ The payment could have come from anyone to whom you gave your receiving address. Since you posted that address in the forum, anyone could send you funds.You can edit your address book to show the name of the payee, which may help your book-keeping if you only use each receiving address for one purpose. But in this case, an appropriate payee name would be something like "forum donations". Any publicity is probably good publicity. Bitcoin survived the MtGox hack, bitcoin survived the MyBitcoin scam, and a few others. Bitcoin will also survive the inevitable end of Pirate's operation.The people who will suffer won't be bitcoiners as a whole; just those who "invested". Vandroly, have you taken into account the possibility that a pre-announced large reduction in interest paid by Pirate could occur and wouldn't count as a default.You're convinced that 3000%+ per annum must be a ponzi, but perhaps 150% per annum wouldn't be. Or even if it was, it might delay default beyond the closing date for the bet. Apart from the pizza-for-bitcoins market which yielded 3741% annually compounded over the following two years (or would have, if jercos had held on to his 10000 BTC). Like Warren Buffet said, only invest in businesses that you understand.I don't know of any evidence that Pirate is conducting a ponzi, but I don't understand his business model and wouldn't invest a satoshi in BS&T. That wouldn't be surprising. It's not as if donors are more interesting or more intelligent than non-donors. So there's no real reason to frequent the secret place.Except when Satoshi posts there. Then, the place buzzes for days.
It's just a place where donors can conduct private trades, plan future businesses, reveal the latest scandals, spread gossip, and post photos that are much more interesting than the "count to 21 million with images" series.On the other hand, just because we can, doesn't mean that we do  Wise words, Hawker. May they serve you well! I don't see any reason not to use real bitcoins. As chmod755 suggested, set the client to display Millies and you're set to go. There's not really a hard limit for the percentage.If an attacker has 47%, they might get lucky and maintain the longest chain for 6 blocks, which is enough for a devastating attack. On the other hand, they might have 53% for a while, and not manage a 6-block attack during that time.Satoshi did a mathematical analysis of this in section 11 of his paper.So I think "51% attack" is a good name for this attack, even though it's not a complete explanation. However, the real reason is even more "oddly plausible".The increases in benefits paid to single mothers led to a huge increase in the number of children, particularly african-american children, being raised by only one parent.Being raised by a single parent is correlated with many kinds of deprivation, social failure and economic failure.And when those children reached the age at which they became rap musicians, well, the nature of rap music changed.Anyway, at least the conspiracy didn't get to Juice Media Rap News! Doomed to failure. OK, then I misunderstood your original post. It seems to me that there's no point voting unless there's either (a) a government to enforce the outcome of the vote, or (b) an agreement amongst the voters to respect the outcome of the vote. In the absence of any suggestion of (b), I assumed you intended (a). Please clarify...Suppose the following question comes up: "Should there be import tariffs on chairs made in Siberia?". The question is put to your voting system, and the result is that 51% of eligible voters favor import tariffs being levied on Siberian chairs.What happens now? If someone tries to import a Siberian chair, does an import tariff get levied under threat of violence or not? There are really only two cases:1. People could lose bitcoins2. The network could be disrupted.Gavin's original post included these two examples:(a) a bug that could be exploited to steal your entire wallet ("critical")(b) a bug that could be exploited to misdirect your next bitcoin transaction so it goes to an attacker ("serious")As far as I'm concerned, those bugs are of the same level of seriousness: "people could lose bitcoins". Do you see the irony in your valuation of the "worth of real assets" in terms of USD? Of course that's not a violent takeover, and I don't see how you got that idea from my comments.Miners voting with their feet is ethical and non-violent.As far as I can tell, you are proposing that, provided there is an efficient voting system, it's ethical for 51% of the population to violently impose their will on the other 49%. As in the example of "13 men and 12 women on an island voting to decide who can have sex with whom". Yes or no? I think it would be desirable to specialize the shards. I do like the idea that there could be a micropayments shard. The incentive to keep it alive would be that the fees are lower. And the fees would be lower because the design would be more lightweight than the main shard. Perhaps, on the micropayment shard, unspent balances would need to be carried forwards every 30 days so that the micropayment shard remains compact. Just imagine how violent things would get if caffeine was prohibited. The caffeine wars would make the current drug wars look like a picnic.But yes, the "war on drugs" is really a "war on society". Actually I don't think that the OP's proposal would be a step forward. As I understand it, the OP is proposing that the public can vote on each and every issue on a 51%-wins basis. That just degenerates every vote into the situation of "13 men and 12 women on an island voting who has sex with whom". The current system, corrupt and inefficient though it is, at least provides the possibility for an elected representative to show some integrity and make some tradeoffs to avoid the situation of "every decision is a 51% attack".There's not much point changing a government, either democracy-style (by voting) or Egyptian revolution style, or Afghanistan invasion style. It always boils down to "out with the old boss, in with the new".Instead, one should strive to return power to the people by making government irrelevant.So you shouldn't ask "what would be my first step?", rather you should ask "what steps am I already taking?".I, along with millions of others, have been helping to move society beyond old-school IP laws by my support of and contributions to open source software, and by my support of and contributions to media freely licensed under creative commons.I, along with millions of others, have been helping the people to obtain increased access to knowledge and information through my support of and contributions to Wikipedia, and my support of and contributions to OpenStreetMap and to other similar projects.I, along with everyone else here, have been helping to make honest money become a reality, by facilitating the spread of Bitcoin.I, along with some others here, are building trust by undertaking voluntary trade free of the invoked power of the state.I have donated over a thousand bitcoins to worthy organizations who are working towards increasing people's liberty, opportunities and self-worth.If more people would do things that empower individuals and make government less relevant, and if people bring up their children to respect the non-agression principle in public life as well as in private life, then eventually we will achieve a society where the application of the NAP is widespread.However, tweaking the voting system is nothing more than a distraction. People should just stop voting, except for voluntary organizations. Voting just encourages those in power, and lends a veneer of respectability to their wars, their debasement of the currency, and their oppression. Bitcoin is already backed by a million USD of buys on the MtGox order book. The price is dynamic, but the USD are real. There's no special meaning, just quoting the subject of the stories. Basically you propose to automate a 51% attack, by which 51% of people make and violently enforce rules for the other 49%.If you want to improve society, there are so many ways you could work towards a more pluralistic, less confrontational and less violent society. Trying to improve the efficiency of a defective system is missing the point. Here's why this type of backing doesn't achieve anything:If the "natural" exchange rate is higher than the backing price, there's no need to have a backing price. And if the "natural" exchange rate is lower than the backing price, everyone sells all their bitcoins to the backing organization, and Bitcoin fails. Well the "$30 spike" stories are only going to stop after the price has been stable above $30 for a while. Warning: The viewing software for this device runs on Microsoft Windows only. Perhaps the file formats used are readable on other operating systems, but the formats don't seem to be documented in the specifications. Before Satoshi disappeared he removed crippling by alert messages. Now they just display the message. More details here:http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2228
If there's auto-update, it should certainly be rolled out gradually.You definitely don't want to tempt an attacker with the chance to cripple everyone else, while they attempt their 51% attack!The power to deprecate old versions is already available to the network as a whole, since each node can refuse to connect to instances running an outdated version of the protocol. The network is where that power belongs - not with the developers, although developers of course can influence it by releasing new versions that are important enough to the network that it becomes worth deprecating older versions. Auto-update is all fun and games until an update contains a vulnerability or a show-stopper bug. Sooner or later, this WILL happen.Good software hygiene requires keeping control over what is being installed on your computer, and when. Just reading the vibes - and there's a suspicious lack of "credible articles" to the contrary. People are doing SEPA withdrawals in Euros, because MtGox's dwolla withdrawals are causing problems for many. Flatter started really well, but gradually they made everything more and more complicated. Even that's not a good thing. If you issue a "message warning" to users every time there's an update available, users will soon get upgrade fatigue and may miss urgent updates.By all means display a warning when a problem has been found and fixed. But an update notification should never be "in the user's face" if the update offers only increased functionality or cosmetic changes. I understand what you're saying, but it's missing the point to think that an auto-update is OK because it securely guarantees an upgrade to a specific official binary.If the auto-update somehow installs an official binary that has malicious behavior, it might reach 51% adoption very quickly. If people update by hand, the adoption rate is much slower and there's time for a frantic re-release if a catastrophic problem is discovered, before adoption reaches 51%. Yeah, like the rogue bad guy would push a "major version" rather than labelling it a "minor bug fix"!Anyone who would run any type of Bitcoin software with auto-update enabled doesn't understand what they're dealing with. You have just over one ten-thousandth of all the BTC that will ever be issued! Whatever my code libraries use is what I use. Nowadays, that seems to be JSON more often than not.But YAML is great. Even CSV can be made usable. (I think the current rally is due to new users coming to Bitcoin because they've heard about Satoshi Dice. Nothing more, nothing less.)As for the Euro, the stories are obviously exaggerated. The Greeks and Spaniards do not fear holding Euro notes, because there's no difference in value between a Euro note spent in Germany and one spent in Greece or Spain. What they do fear is for the transactions in their Greek and Spanish bank accounts being limited, or for their bank account balances being forcibly converted into "New Euros" or Drachmas or whatever. But to protect against that, it's sufficient to hold Euro banknotes under the mattress. Well that's a difficult call. There's historical precedent for gold being confiscated, and there's historical precedent for land being confiscated.If it were me, I'd probably hang on to the real estate, simply because it avoids the expenses you will incur by selling real estate and buying gold. Here's my attempt:elliptic-curve-in-dc-0.2.8*original source is here If you want to cover something up, you would need to use a faster-acting attack than cancer! For what it's worth, a partnership is not an incorporated entity. Perhaps you are thinking of a limited liability partnership (LLP). These people are Papercashs. Bitcoin virgins. Fiat users. Central Bank apologists. Notewavers. Tree-squashers. Oldtimers. Checkwriters. PayPal tragics. Visabois. Dollar worshippers.But most of all they are Future Bitcoin Users. Oh I'm not advocating that they should accept bets that they may not be able to pay off. Just that if they were better capitalized, they could set a limit that is conservative (will probably never need to be dynamically reduced) yet high enough to engage the big players.Unless I'm missing something in the maths of the dynamic limit, it's going to harm the business if the way it works isn't changed. Here's a bug. If a question has two answers pending, it's not possible to reject the second pending answer (clicking the "reject" button produces a "Whoops, we just had a server error" message.For example, I can't reject answer number 27 here:http://bitquestion.com/question/10 I think this is dangerous for the house, because the limit dynamically reduces immediately after any large payout.Therefore, most of the largest bets are going to be ones that the house loses. I have a couple of comments.- The "Post a comment" button would work better if it was placed after the last comment, i.e. in the place where the comment would appear- The phrase "Without author's intervention, this question will auto-accept" would make more sense if the wording was changed to "Without author's intervention, this answer will be auto-accepted", and moved from the question box to the box of the answer to which it applies. Also, you could put that phrase into italics or into smaller type, so that it doesn't look like part of the text posted by the user.Overall, the site seems to work smoothly.
Most people already know about Google Moon and Google Mars, but if you like space stuff they are worth checking out. If you like pretty colors, click "Elevation" on the maps. I don't suppose you have a backup from before you encrypted the wallet? Hazek, how about this:A. The private club has a membership fee, and a code of conduct. Send X bitcoins to the club's address to join.B. Whenever you want to deal with other members under the terms of this code of conduct, use your Bitcoin client to sign a contract (or other document) with the key that was used to pay your membership fee.C. If there's a dispute, the club adjudicates it. That's what the membership fee is used for. The adjudication process takes account of the club's "code of conduct", and issues a ruling which may include a requirement to make good a failing in a certain way.D. If a ruling is not carried out, the member is in breach of the code of conduct and can be expelled from the club.E. An expelled member can apply again by paying a new membership fee. There's no way around this, but they start again from zero reputation, and it gets expensive if they do this too often.F. Perhaps the members can even choose their own membership fee, since it acts a bit like a security bond. If someone wants to show that they can be trusted, they pay a large membership fee so that others can see that they have a lot to lose if they break the code of conduct. I like your concept, but I can't think of a reliable way to do it with photo ID.Regarding the OTC web of trust: It's interesting, and it is built on sound principles, but has two drawbacks:(1) GPG signing is not yet easy enough for everyone and their grandparents to do it.(2) There's no limit to the creation of new OTC-WOT identities.For your proposed club, limitation (1) would not be a show-stopper because we are a bunch of geeks. As the usage of Bitcoin broadens, hopefully the use of GPG by Joe Average will become easier too.I think you also have to accept limitation (2), simply because there's no robust way around this limitation. I think there's a lot that could be done within this limitation - for example someone might start an escrow service where the WOT ID with shortest history has their side of the transaction held in escrow. Cute anecdote, but it doesn't mean anything. Perhaps the driver doesn't normally have a passenger. Maybe you'll now claim that it was a taxi that had been plying the streets for five years, but I don't care.The seat belt was available for you to use. Why advocate violent compulsion? This is a common meme, but it hasn't been necessary for years. The search engines are more sophisticated than you imagine.Sure, if you put keywords in the URL the search engines will notice these. But if you don't do that, the search engines will grab keywords from other places like headings. Keywords in the URL are at the expense of keywords elsewhere. That's not accurate. Seat belt wearing became the norm, not because of the law change (which just rode on the coat-tails of increasing awareness of road safety), but because the inertia-reel seat belt was invented. This reduced the inconvenience of seat-belt wearing.I was a child in the 1960s, and our family car came without seat belts. We voluntarily fitted after-market seat belts, long before there were any laws. But they were the old type that had to be adjusted for each person, which was a real nuisance.Even today, if there were no seat belt laws, most people would wear them because insurance companies would charge much higher rates for non-wearers. But those few people who didn't want to wear them would retain that freedom. Don't forget Satoshi. She didn't make a fuss about this, because she didn't want to be treated differently.Like Andrew Bitcoiner said, "Bitcoin doesn't care about users gender and neither should we". Those who value the services can pay for them. If the services deliver value, they will be funded. If they don't, they won't be.You keep telling us about all these people who want a state so that it can force them to do what is "good" for them. Surely they will voluntarily pay for it? Of course! But even in those countries, there is a common source of funding for the legislature, administration and judiciary: taxation.Removing forceful taxation from the equation would add a further check (because those bodies would not be able to grow larger than the size the population wishes to fund), and would improve the balance (by changing it from a three-way to a four-way split of power: legislature, administration, judiciary, and citizens). I've often noticed that apologists for the state have low opinions of their fellowmen. Contempt, even.The old saying of "it takes one to know one" springs to mind.Those who cherish freedom and voluntaryism, on the other hand, tend to respect their fellowmen and can see the great potential of human nature if unchained. Here's how, and it doesn't require having the Bitcoin port open.The user access a web page. The request is intercepted by the router, which returns a page quoting the rate. Suppose for this example that the rate is 0.1 BTC for 30 minutes.The user has a bitcoin client with a nifty feature. By clicking "pay for WiFi" the bitcoin client sends a transaction to itself for 0.1 BTC. Then it sends the private key for that transaction to the router, within the address of an HTTP request. The router sees this, makes a bitcoin transaction to claim the payment, and enables web browsing for 30 minutes. 0.001 BTC = "one milliBTC" or one Millie0.000001 BTC = "one microBTC" or one Mike If you have to make that choice manually, your business is not going to scale anyway.Perhaps make some design changes so that it's not so attractive to the scammers. Well, no. As they say, "he who pays the piper calls the tune". And look how poorly the credit rating agencies did in 2007.Much better that the auditors are paid by the customers and depositors, than by the businesses. The heading on the Dashboard page is spelled wrongly ("Dahsboard"). What about merging the "Open" and "Discussing" categories? If I visit the site, I'm interested in seeing all the currently-active questions. The old closed-off questions are not so interesting. I have an early linux Aspire One. On mine, there's a small slider switch on the front edge that must be slid to turn on WiFi. Maybe yours has something similar. You're right. They will need to increase it to cover the costs associated with administration, spam fighting, advertising, etc. For what it's worth:1. This has been done before (http://bitqna.com/) but BitQnA has almost no traffic. The fatal flaw of BitQnA is that they mix free with paid questions. Free questions drive out paid questions.2. Your notification options don't include the most useful one: to receive an email whenever a new question is posted for answering.3. The site seems rather slow.4. It's bizarre to have a dollar sign in the logo of a BTC-based site.5. The site is open to the following "social" (i.e. non-technical) exploit: Suppose Fred wants to know an answer to an important question that will require a lot of work to answer. He posts the question with a generous bounty. Lots of people work hard on the answer, and post their answers. Fred creates a second account, and posts some kind of answer similar to what the others posted, then selects his answer as the winner. In that way, he gets a high-priced answer for 10% of the cost. This is a financial attack against honest answerers by dishonest questioners.I've also been working on a Bitcoin Q&A site, but I don't feel I have a viable business model for it yet. Everything has to be "just right" if people are going to pay for answers in a world where most things on the internet are free.So I will be watching bitquestion.com with interest.
It is beautiful, yes, but we're not even getting the best part.Many of the people who would be this market's honest players are frightened off by the fear that Bitcoin might be (or might be declared) illegal. Dishonest players, of course, don't care about this. So the distribution of market participants is inevitably skewed somewhat. Social pressure isn't the answer to everything, but it can solve a lot of problems that "externally supervised enforcement" will never solve. And even the act of making a public statement will cause all but the most sociopathic to be more aware of the consequences of their actions, and perhaps to take more care. More important than a self-authored "adequate backup" claim, would be a statement from each business indicating:1. Whether the business guarantees that it will "make good" any customer balances after a catastrophic failure2. How the business will do so3. Who is the person or entity responsible for seeing that this guarantee is carried out When calculating the profits for distribution, are the one-off start-up costs (such as legal fees) counted against the first two-week profits, or are they spread out across the whole of the first year's operation?It seems quite possible that Kronos will not turn a profit before buying back the bonds (due to start-up costs), even though Kronos may be wildly profitable after that. Where do you get 15% from?The buyback price is 0.115BTC/bond.If someone buys after the IPO at 0.115BTC/bond, they get their capital back.If someone buys 1500 bonds pre-IPO at 0.1125BTC/bond, they get their capital back plus 2.2%.If someone buys 7500 bonds pre-IPO at 0.11BTC/bond, they get their capital back plus 4.5%.If someone buys 15001 bonds pre-IPO at 0.105BTC/bond, they get their capital back plus 9.5%.I'm not sure how buybacks are handled at GLBSE. Are there any GLBSE fees to be taken into account here? If you always price your bids and offers based on what the shares are worth to you (and not what you think others might pay for them), manipulators can't exploit you. In fact, you can gain from the price volatility caused by the manipulators' schemes. Heh, go to gengix's CouchSurfing page (link in the OP) and read the "Friends" entry for Bitcoin Consultancy's Donald Norman. "No BTC hacks here ... yet" "Web hosting that sucks a bit less." "Quacks like a web host" Powered by meerkats.Better than a kick up the backside.Connecting the intertubes for you.Chocolate flavored hosting.Hosting how Spock would do it.Not your grandmother's internet.More megabytes per gallon. Doing it! I raise you to "Bitcoin will not fall below $4/coin." Keep hosting beautiful!May or may not suit indecisive people.Don't worry, it's not loaded.Better than Gilligan's Island!If it doesn't fit, break it.Millions of webz served daily.Best tubes on the internet.So great it hurts!Goes up to eleven!Just ... because.Neither impossible nor absurd.We don't serve Apache here.It's not a game if you win.Your lucky color.So great we're awesome.Happiness for hire!No worries, man.Ask not what you can do for us.Web hosting with added love. Don't get your Tizz in a Tazz The winning strategy (for everyone) is: don't withdraw, but make sure you withdraw before everyone else. Sure you can cater to these people, because Bitcoin addresses the one thing that's most important to them:- Hold your own internet money. No greedy bankers needed.- Transfer your money to others, without paying fees to greedy bankers.- Greedy bankers can't devalue your money by printing it- Buy stuff on the internet without involving PayPal's greedy bankers Incidentally, this is why I never sign NDAs, even though they are sometimes presented as "standard practice".(Lots of people don't sign them, actually. If you go to a job interview at Google, you will be asked to sign an NDA. But if you don't sign the NDA, you still get the interview.)An NDA is not needed when the parties are all acting in good faith. And if one of the parties is not acting in good faith, the NDA can be used to stop the good guys from doing what they should be doing. A simple way to get started is to collect BTC at GLBSE, and invest into a pre-existing Real Estate Investment Trust, then distribute the dividends back through GLBSE. If that grows big enough, you can grow into buying and managing actual properties. Firstbits:http://firstbits.com/about.php
I got it too. I deleted it without clicking, so I don't know where the link goes. How about just referring to "Internet Money" so that everyone can understand what you're talking about? Jargon doesn't help to spread the news. Thank you. In case anyone else is interested, this description of the SHA-256 algorithm is actually quite readable. Is there a way to store the result of the first few steps? Suppose we stored the partial hash of the first few bytes, then looked that up to save time at the start of each new hash?(cue sound of ASIC makers hastily redesigning their circuits) By following those complex instructions anyone can opt out, however neither employers nor the government will recognise the opt-out. Good luck trying though.From page 6 of that document:Hahahah, at least their heart's in the right place with the "return to your cage" bit. Did you know that the Amish are exempted from paying Social Security? The basis for this is that they look after their own, and the history of how they fought against having to pay Social Security is quite interesting.The current law exempts any sect who conscientiously object to the principle of compulsory insurance, provided that sect has existed since December 31 1950. So I doubt the "Bitcoin Sect" will have much luck. If nothing else, this demonstrates clearly that your first priority is not Bitcoinica's clients. Notice how the "reputed scientists" weren't invited to evaluate the device scientifically. Instead, they were invited to attend for a day or two, and write a report on what they saw.These prototypes were producing milliwatts of power over a day or two. That's tiny! Notice how the construction depends on an anode, a cathode and an electrolyte? Notice how the construction includes nickel and manganese, typical components of a battery?Like all these so-called "energy breakthroughs" where the owners do not permit serious scientific investigation, there's nothing going on beyond regular chemical energy.If the developers really had what they claim, they would allow someone to test it for long enough to rule out chemical energy as the source. What's probably happening is that they're sending the small payments, and the big amount is coming back to the same wallet each time as change. The above system collapses if no-one chooses for their tax to be used to fund the violent taking of money from those who don't pay. Just sayin'. You could try the correct URL if you want a better chance of seeing any updates:https://www.bitcoinica.com/ No, a transaction only needs to completely spend all the balance of one payment that was received by an address, not all payments that were received by the address. Maybe it's not due to random variance, because there is one thing that is not random: the per-play limit is dynamic and algorithmic. As such, it may be exploitable.Any time the house has a big loss, the per-play limit is immediately reduced. So there's not so much chance for the house to have a big win on the next bet. In the long run, maybe the house's "big losses" are bigger than its "big wins".I'm not sure how this interacts with players' typical betting strategies. But it's definitely worth increasing your working capital to the point where you can offer a stable maximum stake, before you decide that your losses are due to random variance. Don't beg, hazek, it just gives power to the person you're begging to.The only "wrong" that is being done is by the thief, and it is that person who should be pursued.If someone unintentionally receives, as part of an honest and innocent exchange of value, a transaction descended from stolen coins, that recipient should not be penalised in any way.To do otherwise would indeed be tyrannical. Try the Magic The Gathering Online Xchange. Maybe there's a big player buying them up progressively, in greater quantities when the price is towards $4.80, and in lesser quantities (or zero) when the price moves towards $5.20. No way. The Greek government is in a mess is because they won't/can't balance their budget (even within the 3% leeway allowed by the Euro rules). If Greece leaves the Euro, it will be to a currency of its own that it can inflate ad lib.Bitcoin has nothing of value to offer to the Greek government. To the Greek people, on the other hand... A word of friendly advice, zhoutong: your life will be much easier and lower-stress if you leave this mess to Donald, Patrick and Amir to sort out.I mean, we all appreciate everything you have done, and that you have been the most communicative representative of the service, but it's not your problem anymore.So why not disable your forum login, block access to the forum in your computer's host file, back away from the keyboard, and focus on your studies and on enjoying the great lifestyle that Australia has to offer. It's not your problem anymore. As I understand it, a "tax incentive" means you pay less tax. It isn't a government handout. It's surely consistent for someone to want to reduce government spending and to want to reduce taxation. Just think how different the outcome would be if there was a local Greek exchanger swapping cash for bitcoins instantly.Maybe by the time Spain defaults, all the pieces of the Jigsaw will be in place.(PS: Realpra is wise.)
I would be interested in this. I would seek a safeguard along the following lines:At any time, on demand, holders of 1% or more of the shares can convert their GLBSE holding to a regular voting share in the company.That way, the company never has more than 100 shareholders to deal with (because this is expensive for a company to do), yet there is no limit to the number of small players that can participate throigh the very efficient GLBSE platform. And yet, the GLBSE shareholders are not at risk of becoming "second-class citizens" because they can always group together with others and convert to company shareholders.This could actually be a good way to do something productive with bitcoins that you're not needing to spend immediately. Survival of the fittest. The better-adapted agents can afford to pay more for their hosting, and the others eventually die off. No need to kill them. I'm not sure if you're serious, but ... price inflation is positive, and greater than interest rates. Because of this, most people can't effectively build up a low-risk nest egg for the future security of themselves and their families. They therefore become dependent on the state, and to help fund this the state creates even more inflation. Damn straight. It's a false dichotomy of course, but if I had to choose I'd prefer the Arkansas inbred to be ruling over me than the political scientist. Technically, it's a "milli-Bitcoin" or mBTC, but in the year 2020 the populace call it by it's nickname: the "Millie".There is also a "micro-Bitcoin" or uBTC, which is colloquially called the "Mike".Mike and Millie are the everyday coins. You might deal in Bitcoins if you buy a nice car, and the Bitcoin base unit (the "Satoshi") is used as a denomination for small payments, for example the automated "Thanks" that your browser sends for viewing a YouTube video without any ads. I used Youtipit in its earliest days, and would like to see it succeed. However, it's a difficult business to bootstrap. It's hard to get critical mass: to get to the point where enough content providers participate to persuade people to become tippers. Even Flattr, which had strong early growth, seems to be struggling to keep up the momentum. Um, Gavin, you do realise that your Bitcoin Faucet is a zero-sum game?Gavin is very smart, dedicated, trustworthy, and hard-working. I don't think he is wise yet, but give him time. Andrew, you miss the point. Sure it's nice to have money and be famous and have shiny toys.But it's even more rewarding to ride the rollercoaster of life doing what you can with what you've got.  You know, for something as serious as this they should be OK for you to phone and wake them up. Taxation is theft from the current generation of taxpayers.Deficit spending is theft from a future generation of taxpayers.Inflation is theft from holders of a currency.However, it's different for people who voted for politicians who tax, voted for politicians who spend into deficit, and voted for politicians who inflate the currency. Taxation is not theft from those voters, who asked for it. One might even say those voters are complicit in the theft from those who did not vote for it. Mdosi, thanks for the link to that great Paul Graham article, which I found interesting not so much for the ideas themselves, but for Paul Graham's ideas about how out-of-field ideas can turn into reality.Having said that, I agree with mav that your ideas are just "standard" ideas with added Bitcoin. This is not really a bad thing. Plenty of people made lots of money in the 1990s by implementing "standard" ideas with added internet. (It's hard to imagine now, but I recall when Amazon started up, and most people thought that a business like that would never become profitable. Incredible!)One downside of "standard" ideas with added Bitcoin, is that the hard work will be done by Bitcoin pioneers like those found at this forum. Then, after they ahve proved the concept, the big guys who are already doing those "standard" ideas will simply add Bitcoin to their repetoir, and collect the big bucks.So, like Paul Graham says, you have to edge your way in by filling a niche that seems so way-out that others are not interested.Graham's third idea ("Replace Universities") is going to happen for sure, and Bitcoin could be one of the enabling technologies. The idea of cloistering knowledge, and reserving its dissemination for the chosen few, is on the way out.On this idea, Graham is remarkably unadventurous. For sure, credentialling will (not "may") separate from teaching, as will syllabus development. This idea is wide open for exploitation, and none of the existing players will find it easy to muscle in to the field once the early implementors are in business. Especially not the universities, whose ideas are far too entrenched. I slept with the Prime Minister's wife back in the 1970s. It's true! We were both in the same audience for the Chinese Opera. It was really boring and long-winded, and most of the audience nodded off. LOL, maybe that site takes Bitcoin or something. I'm the guy who first suggested (on 10 February 2011) that the Bitcoin base unit be named a Satoshi, and by the end of the thread the usage had already caught on. Then botnets won't be sending spam anymore, because they make more money mining  Lawyers use "gratis" to mean "free as in beer", and "libre" to mean "free as in speech". Since you asked: The Nokia N900 phone has a 600MHz processor and mines at 130 kHash/s. You guys seem to be assuming that this means Amex is afraid of Bitcoin.Perhaps it actually means that Amex is working on a Bitcoin application that they don't wish to discuss yet. Forget my last post. I found a way to rewrite the block chain: Fortunately I found a song about my exact Bitcoin balance. I found most of the bitcoins in a wallet.dat at Sydney's Luna Park, which happens to be where the song's video was filmed:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qcfJ060o-NUPS: Apologies to those neat-and-tidy people who want the number to equal the post count. Feel free to delete this.
It might even be better for MtGox to stay big. Presumably they will then be paying a lot of tax to the Japanese govt, who might resist demands from others to shut them down. This is another very interesting offer! But one thing doesn't seem quite right...If you make the buy-back price 200% of face value, there will be no need for people to trust that you will not buy back the bonds just in advance of a default.Your provision regarding "substantiated suspicion" sounds reasonable, but it won't feel very satisfactory to the few outliers who are convinced the default is about to happen then lose their bonds for 160%. At 200%, no-one can complain. Why not send a few Satoshis to that address to see whether it really is being emptied out automatically, or whether something else is happening. While we're considering related questions:Is there any consciousness in a human egg or sperm cell? What about the moment after the sperm penetrates the cell wall of the egg? If so, how does consciousness come into existence at that point? If not, at what point does the new human become conscious? For sure. But here's a question with a slightly less obvious answer:After a caterpillar spins its cocoon, all of its body dissolves into what is essentially a soup of organic molecules, which reassemble themselves into a moth or a butterfly. Assuming the caterpillar was conscious, and that the moth or butterfly is conscious, is it the same consciousness or a different one? I think this claim originates from a simplistic analysis that assumes miners are selling all new coins immediately.On that basis, 7200 new coins are coming onto the market every day. If the price remains stable around $5, there must also be $36000 of new additional coming into the Bitcoin exchanges each day (equal to 7200 x $5).If the supply of new coins drops to 3600 per day, but the influx of new money stays at $36000 per day, the market price will rise to $10.Obviously there are many factors that are not considered in that naiive analysis, so it's not of much use. It's a form letter that went out to millions of people. Assuming your new client has downloaded all of the block chain, this probably means you sent the old balance, then quit the old client before it had a chance to communicate the transaction to the network. Maybe it had no peers at the time.Make sure you have a backup of your wallets, then start up the bad sys HD and fire up the old client again until you have some connections and the transaction gets sent. Alternatively/additionally, start off the bad sys HD and take a copy of the wallet.dat file from it. Why would you expect matter and energy to congregate into "our" perception, instead of into new perceptions belonging to the new configurations of matter and energy? Postgres and Oracle scale to the commercial needs of large organizations, and large government departments. But they don't scale to the needs of, say, a search engine. Sure, you could implement Google's index of the WWW using Postgres or Oracle, but not at a reasonable cost because a relational database makes much heavier demands on the hardware.Virtually all NoSQL users would acknowledge that SQL would be preferable, if it weren't for price and performance considerations. I doubt they will issue a MintChip not linked to any banking institute, but we shall have to see. I don't see any evidence that they ever intended it to be anonymous or even pseudo-anonymous. The official docs say that "no personal data is exchanged in the transaction", but that means the transaction between the buyer and the merchant. The block diagrams show that the chip's value is loaded from and redeemed to a linked bank account.So the merchant may not know who you are, but the "trusted agent" surely does, and by extension you are not anonymous to the Mint and the Govt. It's not like the card needs to hold the whole block chain. A 2GB microSD card can hold plenty of transaction data. Most transactions probably only do a few hops before they make their way back to the "trusted issuer".I'm not saying this is how they would do it. I'm just saying that there are ways they could do it, and I don't think they're so stupid as to release a system that can be hacked to allow infinite double-spends.Maybe they don't even allow re-spends? Maybe you can only spend the money you got loaded onto the card from your bank account, and that money can only be redeemed by you or the person you directly spend it to (unless you go online so that the trusted issuer can validate your balance).In other words: Canadian Mint -> Trusted Issuer -> You -> Coffee Shop -> Trusted Issuer When you cook, the temperature is usually regulated by water evaporating from the food. If you pump all the cooktop's energy into a heatsink, it's likely to get red hot and damage the vitreoceramic cooktop. If you had fans that were big enough and reliable enough I suppose you could make it work.Plus, it's an expensive way to get heating that is no more efficient than the simple resistive heating of a $30 fan heater. I bought some jewellry from BitMit.netI never expected to be buying things like that with bitcoins, but I found the exact piece I was looking for at BitMit. I hadn't been able to find it by trudging the shops or at Amazon. It arrived on time, in good condition, and made a great birthday present for my wife. I bet double-spends can be detected, just not if you're doing an offline transaction.One way this could be done is for each transaction to carry around all of its inputs (to use the Bitcoin terminology), right back to the original input that loaded value onto the chip. Then, the double-spends get detected when chips are eventually "cashed in". The double-spends can be investigated and prosecuted by regular means (i.e. police evidence gathering rather than cryptographic techniques).That, combined with the low transaction size limit and the high cost of extracting the key, is probably sufficient in practise to keep fraud low. I'm with Jon too.My wife and I switched to part-time work when we had children. We've never regretted it, and the children are happy and well-adjusted. Plus they've learned all about living economically. It's my understanding that there's no minimum turnover unless the PLC seeks listing on a stock exchange. However, to form a PLC there must be a minimum of £50,000 allotted shares. If I could give a good answer, I'd be in a position to start a good competitor to GLBSE I mean that, sooner or later, an unprincipled GLBSE user who loses money will try to sue GLBSE. So GLBSE needs a set of T&C which is as protective as possible.Furthermore, it benefits EVERY user of GLBSE for the T&Cs to be strongly protective of GLBSE, because otherwise GLBSE will get shut down.This is an interesting situation, because it's often perceived as beneficial for T&Cs to be as favorable to the user as possible. However, when the business is ethical, and the regulatory environment is not, it's better for the T&Cs to favor the business. Agreed. Apart from that it's OK. I think GLBSE is more vulnerable, and needs more protection, than its users.
There's nothing in the wallet.dat file that even remotely resembles the contents of a Bitcoin wallet. Presumably there has been filesystem corruption.I told the owner I couldn't do any more with the wallet. I recommended to the owner that he uses low-level tools to scan his hard disk for the sequence of bytes that could indicate the presence of Bitcoin keys. I don't know whether this has been done. I didn't offer to do it myself because (a) I'm not in the same country, and (b) he uses Windows, with which I'm not familiar. There's a reason why this paper is nicknamed The Torygraph. That's not quite how it is. Directors are required to act in the interests of shareholders, but those interests are not necessarily the maximization of profits.Here's a specific example. In Google's IPO they stated that Google would do lots of "cool stuff" that would not necessarily make money. Therefore, Google's Board is free to do that without fear of a shareholder lawsuit. Google also stated that the share price may go down, "even over the long term", so Google's Board has no legal pressure to keep the share price high. They also stated in the IPO that they would not focus on quarterly earnings, so again there is no legal pressure.If you don't want to read the lengthy prospectus from Google's 2004 IPO, you can get a taste of what's in it by reading Google's IPO letter from their S-1 IPO Registration Statement:http://investor.google.com/corporate/2004/ipo-founders-letter.html Mint Is Not TheChip He Is Praising Read the docs. Value can be transferred offline, provided your device has a microSD slot or a USB socket. However, iPhone users will need to be online.There's a central issuer, but there's no central transaction server. Transactions are validated between the buyer's and seller's device. The big win for MintChip is ease of use, which may lead to ubiquity. In every other respect, Bitcoin beats it. Notice how the MintChip website defines "micro transactions" as anything below $10? Although the video does imply that a "nano transaction" of 1c would be possible.Also we haven't heard anything yet about the fee structure: the fee per transaction, the fee to load/unload value onto a card, the cost to purchase a card, the cost for hosted iPhone services, etc.The video and website make a big deal about anonymity, but it's only anonymous between purchaser and supplier. This is the least important kind of anonymity, because you are probably going to give the supplier your delivery address anyway. But you need to give the "trusted agent" your bank account details, because it seems that's the only way to get a card (although no doubt they'll be sold on SR for bitcoins in due course). MintChip is inflatacoin. The system imposes no limit to how much "cash" the issuer can magically create. If you use wallet accounts, you need to design your business to work the same way as wallet accounts. If the block chain gets reorganized, the wallet account balances may change. And if you need to switch wallets for some reason, it's messy to handle.On the other hand, most businesses will prefer to work like this: "After some fixed number of confirmations, I credit the customer's account on my database. From that point on, it's the balance in the customer's account on the database that matters, not the balance in the wallet account".If you are building a business that is critically dependent on wallet accounts, you need to accept the worst-case scenario: that you may need to provide the long-term support yourself, if no-one else is interested. And, due to the wonders of open-source software, you are able to do that. Hi BioMike,What's the technology behind the site (e.g. Apache/PHP/MySQL)? And what's the approximate turnover in BTC per day? Heh, it wasn't mentioned  Take a limited amount of drinking water, crop growth, tar sands, grazing land, etc. Divide by the number of people. In the long run, the countries that breed slowest are going to have the most resources per person.The slow breeders just have to overcome the demographic bubble of the ageing baby boomers. Luckily, there's lots of economic friction that can be removed from the system, if there is the political will to let the people be prosperous. Today's paper edition of "The Times" has two lengthy and detailed articles about Silk Road that mention Bitcoins. One of these articles is referenced from the newspaper's front page. There's also a general article about Bitcoins (with a large full-color Bitcoin logo) that mentions -- amongst other things -- Plato's Bitcoin road trip.Press hits don't get any more mainstream than a prominent feature in The Times of London. That is actually quite cool, in a "historically significant" sense.Even though the generated coins can't be spent, Satoshi could auction the private key. Lower the graphite control rods into the core. The reaction goes subcritical immediately. Nothing tricky here; this is high school physics.Nuclear power stations are routinely used to handle the peaks in electricity demand, while coal-burning power stations handle the baseline load. The Japanese didn't spend any money on warfare after WW2.Put a few percent of GDP to more productive use, and compound the benefits over a few decades, and any country could be rich. Coal-burning power stations can't be turned off for just one hour, because they take time to get back up to operating temperature.But hydroelectric and nuclear power stations can easily and efficiently be turned off for an hour (or, in most cases, even for just one minute). That makes no sense, EskimoBob.If you think you shouldn't mine because it's bad for the environment, just permanently turn off your rig. If you don't think it's a problem, keep your rig running through that hour. Is it even possible? The network only hears from a compromised machine when it finds a block, and that machine will probably never find another block. It never hears from the 999,999 compromised machines that are CPU-mining and haven't found a block, yet any of those silent machines might be the one that finds the next block. That clearly refers to paper notes.I've seen some of these penny presses that have a sticker explaining (in small print) how and why the machine is legal.I've also seen penny presses outside of the US that use US pennies, because it is prohibited to reshape the local currency.
Apart from saying "backslash" when she meant "forward slash", but we can live with that! The "free market" really is about freedom. The market may indicate a price where supply meets demand, but each individual is free to trade at whatever price they like.People often trade away from the "market price". In my city, there is a product which can be bought at the market stall on Saturdays for £1, but which costs £1.99 at the department store and £2.99 at a specialty store. The free market doesn't "dictate" that everyone sells for the "market price". The electricity consumption of the Bitcoin network is much the same whether or not you send your .1 BTC payment, so there's no incremental cost. But if you divide the total electricity consumption by the current level of transactions, it comes out around $5 of electricity per transaction.Therefore, if you had ten times as many transactions, each one would only be associated with approximately $0.50 worth of electricity.In the longer term, the electricity consumption will vary according to the hashing power of the network, which will be driven by the exchange rate and also by mining fees. But in the short term, more transactions equals less electricity per transaction.To see this, consider that the block reward of 50 BTC is worth over $200. So miners would be happy to spend up to $200 of electricity to mine a block. If the block contains 40 transactions, that comes out to $5 per transaction. Sure it's not quite that simple, for example because people pay different amounts for electricity, but that's the rough idea. The mining cost per transaction is currently around $6. Assuming miners are operating at a small profit, perhaps $5 worth of electricity is being consumed for each transaction. That means around 50 kilowatt-hours, or 180 MegaJoules, per transaction.That's a lot of electricity! But as the number of transactions per block rises, the electricity per transaction will drop. Perhaps this phrase specifically means the minting of coins. No society has ever experienced a deflationary spiral. It's not a realistic possibility. It's not something to fear.But those who advocate inflating the monetary base just love for people to fear the fiction of the deflationary spiral. Learning ANY second language makes it easier to learn ANY third language. It wires up the brain for multiple languages. So don't worry about that. In 50 years, the majority of the world will speak English, Mandarin (Chinese) or Spanish. The Chinese are teaching English to their youngest generation in a big way. So Spanish will be the most "useful" language to learn.Spanish is also easier to learn than Chinese. It is pronounced the way it is spelled, and uses the same alphabet as English. Fluency in Spanish will greatly increase your enjoyment as a tourist in Spain, the Canary Islands, most of South America, and much of the Carribean.Of course, if "usefulness" and "ease of learning" are not your criteria, the field is wide open. French and Italian are beautiful languages, and open up the enjoyment of French and Italian movies. I would not bother with German. It's not an attractive language to my ear, and young Germans speak great English. Even if Satoshi had wanted to use one address, it would not have been possible. There were no mining pools back then, and each generation creates a new private key.All that we know for sure is that Satoshi mined the first block. No. The path forwards is to discover how this is being done, so that people whose computers are compromised can get rid of the malware.Meanwhile, empty blocks are a minor irritation but do not threaten the foundations of Bitcoin.Here are Satoshi's thoughts on the matter from the early days of Bitcoin: We are writing off this "news", because there isn't any news. At this point he's just pimping his conference presentation.If he announces anything substantial, we can consider it on its merits. Code:Payment date         |  Total paid |  Shares paid |  Payment per share2012-03-25 10:33 0.72943025  353             0.00206637Perhaps 353 is actually the number of shareholders, many of whom own more than one share? Watch the movie first. Then read the book. It's a big task to read the entire source code in one go. Reading source code "in the abstract" is hard work.Why not pick some aspect that particularly interests you. For example: coin allocation, or the user interface for the address book, or block discouragement, or whatever. Then explore that part of the code.Better still, find a change you'd be interested in making. That forces you to get to grips with that part of the code.Oh, and have you even compiled the source code yourself? That's the first step, and it can be an interesting and educational experience in itself (especially on Fedora or Red Hat where you'll need to overcome some dependencies). Even if you don't plan to make any software changes, the building the application will help you become familiar with its files. Here's another way to think about this:Satoshi was quite clear that it was reasonable for each miner to set a fee threshold for transactions to be included in their blocks, and that a market would develop amongst miners.So mystery miner's actions are no different from a miner who sets a fee threshold of 21 million bitcoins to include a transaction in the mined block. Here's a link to the Theft Act, and here's an excerpt:Even if Bitcoin is classified as "goods", I don't see anything in the Theft Act that says AML procedures make any difference. Please supply a reference to the law to which you refer.All countries have the same law? Who would have thought it.And what do you mean by "an address that happens to be in your system"? No, that's not how it works. The only things that count are the difficulty and the number of blocks.Someone might win a block after spending 30 minutes hashing, or they might get lucky and win the block after spending 5 minutes hashing. But the strength of the blocks are the same.A bad guy rewriting the block chain will still take on average 10 minutes to find a replacement block, no matter how long it took the winner of the original block. Heh, that would be funny! But I think DeepBit's miners would soon notice the statistical anomalies. 1. Hacking into 100k computers is a crime against the owners of those computers. It's not an offense against the Bitcoin network, which does not require processing of transactions and certainly doesn't require "consent".2. Stealing 43k BTC from Linode is a crime against the owners of those BTC.Since you asked, that's the difference.Also, there is an upside (of sorts). If mystery miner is getting 25% of the blocks, there's less risk of DeepBit getting 51%.
I really enjoyed the book. Once I got started, I couldn't put it down until I finished it. Luckily, it's an easy read and only took a few hours.Having said that, I thought the first part of the book was better than the second half. The first part establishes the premise of the elites exploiting the lower classes for the purposes of entertainment and social control. In the second half, the competitors start "playing to the camera" in the hope of getting useful things parachuted down to them, which I thought cheapened the plot.Despite that, I'm looking forward to seeing the movie. The botnet operator is only defrauding those whose computers are controlled by the botnet. The botnet doesn't defraud Bitcoin by hashing blocks.The botnet (if that's what it is) is not causing a significant problem for Bitcoin. And if it does cause a problem in the future, it's self-limiting due to the block reward change and the possibility for transaction fees.There are many things that really are worth worrying about. This "botnet" is not one of them.Finally, what would Satoshi do? Take a look at this post of his from 2008:http://www.mail-archive.com/cryptography@metzdowd.com/msg09980.htmlHe's talking about blocks with double-spends, but he might equally-well have been talking about blocks with no transactions: That's why they call themselves NEARLY free speech.net.Bear in mind that nearlyfreespeech.net, great though it is, doesn't support https. Therefore, it's not viable for your forum in the long-term. Umm, if we don't like this world government, we can just leave, right? Suren Tur, one of the developers of youhavedownloaded.com (which lists any torrents that it was able to identify as being downloaded from your IP address), was recently interviewed by privacy advocate (and bitcoiner) rasengan. Suren resopnded with some very upbeat words about Bitcoin: Now that Max's PirateMyFilm website accepts bitcoins, it provides a service surprisingly similar to GLBSE, despite having arrived there along a very different route.If one wanted to finance a dividend-paying film, which service would work better? No, Atlas. If employers were forced to pay equal wages to the men, it would be a disservice to them. It would make it almost impossible for men to find work.If employers were then forced to hire an equal number of men and women, it would be a disservice to the men. It would make it almost impossible for men to achieve promotion.If employers were then forced to promote an equal number of men and women, it would be a disservice to society. The most successful businesses would be those who skirted around the gray areas of the legislation, rather than those who are the best at what they do.Employment, and business in general, should always be about mutually-beneficial voluntary exchange. The most-free business environment is the worker's protection, because any worker that is being exploited is allowed to become an employer instead. Every extra business regulation adds more friction to those who wish to enter the field, yet adds relatively less friction to those already in the field who are exploiting the protection against new entrants that is given to them by the regulation. The reason for official deprecation is so that developers know that future enhancements are unlikely to be developed for the deprecated part of the system.This keeps the actively-developed portion of the software as small as possible. This reduces the risk of bugs and security holes being introduced in the future, and makes coding and testing easier.If the old way of doing things is completely subsumed by a new and better way, the old way should definitely be deprecated. The risk for the early adopters was that all the time they spent writing and testing code, all the money they spent on electricity for CPU-mining, all they time they spent disseminating information, all of that might come to nothing.I've read the early forum threads from way before I discovered Bitcoin, and I recommend reading them to everyone. It's fascinating! Satoshi and a few others were quietly confident, although they were obviously aware that Bitcoin was a long way from reaching critical mass. But the majority of early forum posters, although highly enthusiastic about the idea, weren't at all sure that calculations performed on one's computer could ever actually become usable as money for real purchases. You're presenting a false choice.The "non-damned" option is to spread information freely, but don't recommend that others buy. Let the recipients of the information make their own decisions.If you look back at the early posts on this forum, it's clear that most of the early adopters were doing just that. But you can only get that decent new car and the vacation because the early schmuck was willing to take the risk at 1 cent to help bootstrap the currency. "Bitcoin" is its own buzzword. M-pesa cellphone payment system, originating in Kenya:http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/M-Pesa The balance of 34k bitcoins appears to be from June 12 or thereabouts. On that same day, laszlo wrote this:So perhaps he blew it on three more orders of pizza. When laszlo closed the offer on 4 August, he wrote this:That strongly implies that there was more than one 10,000 BTC pizza purchase, so maybe he blew the 34k BTC on three more pizza purchases. Either way, it was incredibly cool at the time for laszlo to demonstrate that one could buy physical goods with numbers calculated on one's computer. I find that hard to believe. Why wouldn't that "bidder" just have paid the asking price of $2500? Anyone who can't satisfy themselves about this change in an hour or two isn't trying. The pizza purchase was co-ordinated in this forum's Marketplace:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=137It was actually two pizzas for 10,000 BTC. Here's a comparison of that purchase with other expensive pizzas:What is the world's most expensive pizza? A "millie" is one mBTC (milli-bitcoin).A "mike" is one μBTC (micro-bitcoin). 3000 visits per day, the site owner said. It's probably much the same people from day to day though. It's not surprising that the bond is very price-sensitive. It seems highly likely that mining difficulty will continue to increase with the introduction of FPGA mining, but how rapid will the takeup be?The interesting counterpoint is whether there will also be some difficulty decrease when the block reward changes in December. Personally, I doubt it. When something is known about so far in advance, people factor it into their plans.
Had you known about Bitcoin back then, you would have thought (like everyone else) that it wasn't worth bidding $50 for smoketoomuch's 10000 BTC.In 2012, people have exactly the same opportunity as they had back then. If they have $100 to invest, they can buy $100 worth of Bitcoins if they think Bitcoin's value will increase in the future. If the price goes up 500%, the 2012 investor makes exactly the same on their $100 investment as the previous investors would have made if the price went up by the same amount. The number of coins involved is irrelevant - the only thing that counts is the % increase in value. Maybe Instawallet needs to be operated by an autonomous agent rather than a human. And here's the same thing, written in a 1964 child's book as a prediction:http://web-owls.com/2007/06/25/google-as-predicted-in-1964/ I would attend in December if it were in the Canary Islands. They're in Spain, so they're almost part of Europe. I think you're being impatient. Probably only 5% of the readers of this forum have even seen this thread so far. And anyway, people need to hear about a new concept at least three times before it sinks in.GLBSE is being rapidly improved as a platform (although it has a long way to go still), but the commitment seems to be there.And your own reputation at GLBSE will increase over time as more dividends get paid out. Sure, you have plenty of reputation elsewhere, but not everyone at GLBSE follows those other places.So I hope you will stick with this platform long-term, and offer many interesting and innovative assets. I'm sure people will find lots of ways to profit from autonomous agents.One trivial example: if you operate a business that rents server space, you will increase your profits by making your service agent-friendly. Oh, don't assume that. This is by far the most interesting asset seen so far at GLBSE.But GLBSE as a platform doesn't exactly make life easy for new investors. (Why is PureMining not listed under the "Listed Companies" link on the GLBSE home page, for example?) Some lawyers have been taking this quite seriously for a number of years. In a 2005 conference on the "Law of Transhuman Persons" they considered the legal ramifications of an autonomous software agent that made money by answering questions on the (now-closed) Google Answers paid research/Q&A service. The software agent was then able to do things like paying for improved hosting in jurisdictions whose laws suited its purposes better.Obviously, Bitcoin makes the whole thing more practical.http://web-owls.com/2007/05/01/the-transhuman-google-answers-researcher/ Suppose someone persuades the courts to force Linode to pay the $200,000 that was lost. What happens next? Hosting for BTC becomes unaffordable, because service providers need to charge enough to cover the possibility of big losses. Oh, and lawyers pocket much of the $200,000.Suppose no-one takes this through the courts. Cheap hosting remains available for BTC businesses, and those BTC businesses beef up their security.Which is the better outcome? The good news is implicit. People can see, despite the stream of bad news stories on SlashDot, that Bitcoin keeps functioning. Why do you assume that only centralization can work?My own property in the UK was unregistered when I bought it. The previous owners had sufficient papers for an uncontestable transfer. Basically the owners showed that their parents had bought the property in 1910, then willed it to them when they died. The owners also showed that they had "enjoyed uninterrupted use" of the property for over 12 years, which (at the time) was legally sufficient to show that no-one else had a claim on the property. It needed three documents, and was very straightforward: a property conveyance from 1910, a will, and a council tax statement.Even if a seller doesn't have all the documents, you can buy insurance to protect yourself against the risk of buying a property that is not the vendor's to sell. In the UK, this insurance is not expensive, which suggests that there's not much risk.After buying the property, we chose to register it. That was a big mistake. When we wanted to exchange a tiny sliver of land with a neighbor, this became a very expensive operation needing lots of lawyers and surveyors. If we had done the same thing with unregistered property, we could have done it with a handshake and some signatures on a sketch map.In the UK, they tax the dwelling (the house), not the earth (the land). It's obvious (even to a council worker) whether or not there's a house. This is no big deal. If land isn't on the register, ownership is established by looking at past transactions on that land.In the UK, some property is on the land register, and some isn't. It's possible to transact both kinds of land safely. Eric Schmidt's enthusiasm for Bitcoin was very clear.Eric reminded me of how Steve Jobs dismissed the idea of a tablet, about five years ago when someone asked whether Apple was going to produce one. Jobs said something like "We've been looking at tablets, but we can't find a way to do it for under $500 that wouldn't be rubbish". He chose his words carefully, to start sowing the idea that there would one day be an Apple tablet, and it would be great, but expect it to be expensive.I think the "real message" behind Schmid's dismissal of Bitcoin is this: "Bitcoin is so cool. We wish we could do it at Google, but it's difficult politically. We sure hope others will make it happen."Google already did a great service by writing the Android library for Bitcoin, and Schmidt's endorsement is icing on the cake. No, I didn't mention "without the state". I said that with the state, there is no private property. Most property "owners" know that the property will be seized unless they pay the taxes that are assessed on it. And that if the state wants to put a freeway on their property, their "ownership" won't enable them to keep the property. Well you certainly don't have property rights with a state, since every state takes property from its citizens in order to fund itself. That word is misspelled on your website. It should be "medications" or "modifications", according to what you are trying to say.It's a great service. I think you should add a block of links to functioning .bit websites, so that people can easily see that there is good content on .bit.Then, in the future, you can sell these links as ads, instead of providing them for free. If the Greek government was to sell a few islands with self-sovereignty, the price received would be much higher. The government of that country would announce that they would accept payment of taxes in BTC, and would be making all of their payouts in BTC.Nothing else would be needed. It's not like they would need to get Gavin's permission or anything. X=$52,500each BTC will worth $0.0025Laszlo's payment of 10,000 BTC for a pizza will turn out to have been about right.
This.There are many reasons why people mine, other than the price of electricity. An exchange or a retailer might choose to mine to keep their transactions flowing smoothly; and there will always be altruists and idealists who will mine regardless of the price of electricity.Also, there are plenty of people other than botnet operators who pay zero marginal price for their electricity. Sorry, rokj and I got this mixed up. It's the EFF that stopped accepting donations, and they still don't accept them. The FSF has continued to accept them without interruption. This is the same address as used previously. The funny thing is, donations to that address didn't stop (or even slow down much) when the FSF announced that they were not accepting Bitcoin donations.Anyway, this is great news. Which government has ever weaned itself off debt? On the other hand, plenty have defaulted and later recovered. A short, sharp, shock is the least painful way out of Greece's mess. Anything else is just delaying the solution and storing up even bigger problems for the future. True, but you can easily have a currency union without political union. For example, many countries use the US dollar or peg to the US dollar.Greece could stay in the Eurozone, but the Greek government could default on its debt repayments. Of course, no-one would lend any more money to the Greek government. The government would immediately have to start spending within its means, and is that a bad thing?But this crisis isn't about that. This crisis is about finding ways to keep Europe chugging along without exposing the folly of exponentially-increasing government debt. Even now that they just accidentally leaked the email addresses of all their users? The quantities bought and sold are always equal, but there IS a difference in market sentiment between people selling into asks that are already sitting on the order book, and buying into offers that are sitting on the order book. Of course they can. For example, the statements were made in the formulation of this poll, yet no-one thinks the pollster was trying to form a contract.You can go to any pub in my city on a Friday or Saturday night, and you will hear statements such as these, and it's obvious that it's rhetoric rather than an offer to contract. It's very different. In your example we're probably talking about a contractual undertaking rather than "speech". Just submit the jpg files, sergio, and see what happens.You have to pick your battles. The battle between zip and jpg file formats is not the one you need to be fighting at the moment.Making a big scene here is not going to help if you're not already doing whatever you can to resolve the problem. Also, the poll is asking whether speaking should be responded to with violence. Real, physical violence. No matter how abhorrent someone might consider speaking words to be, they might consider a violent response to be even more abhorrent.If someone in my community were to offer to pay money for blue-eyed people to be killed, I would not want that person violently attacked. But I would certainly wish and hope that my community would want to address the problem in non-violent ways. For example: find out why the person hates blue eyes and see if the issue can be resolved, or find a way to prevent the killing.In any case, a violent response is counter-productive. It just makes the haters of blue-eyed people more resolute in their ambition to kill them. Much better to back off from escalating the violence, defuse the situation and attempt to resolve it, and let the whole idea of hatred towards blue-eyes come to be seen as moronic rather than heroic. That option was not in the poll. The poll option was for uttering the statement, not for paying someone to kill blue-eyed people. In this poll, do you mean "should be banned by the state, enforced by violence", or do you mean "should be banned by a forum owner, by revoking access to the forum"?There's a big difference. In the second case, only the forum owner's vote is relevant. Thanks mintymark, that makes sense.It's not going to be easy to talk him through this remotely, when he has never used unix, dd, format, etc but I think it's the best way forwards. Yes. This is what the "--recover" option of jackjack's version of pywallet does. It scans the disk at the sector level, looking for keys.But the owner of the wallet runs Windows, which I haven't used since 1998. I have no idea how to install python on it, or even how to name the raw drive (as opposed to the formatted volume). Nor do I have physical access to the machine, or I'd just boot up a Linux rescue disk and scan from there.If anyone does know how to do this on Windows, and is willing to patiently talk the guy through it by skype, I'll pay for their time in BTC whether successful or not.Or maybe there's a simpler tool with fewer dependencies that will just scan the disk for a magic bitcoin pattern such as "30 82 01 13 02 01 01 04 20" (as posted by dayfall). If that's not present, I guess all hope of recovery is gone. Thanks, but I searched with a hex editor, and that string (i.e. CONST 1) does not occur anywhere in the wallet file, nor does CONST 2. So it looks like wallet.dat is completely corrupt.It seems the only remaining possibility is to run the "--recover" option of jackjack's pywallet tool on the original hard disk. However, the guy who lost the wallet runs Windows, which I haven't used since about 1998, so I wouldn't know where to begin.Is there a trusted member who is familiar with pywallet's "--recover" option AND is prepared to talk the wallet owner through the process of installing python and scanning his hard disk (probably by skype)?I'm prepared to pay a reasonable reward for the successful recovery of the wallet, based on time taken. Thanks for the offer joulesbeef, but I prefer to wait a little while to see if I get an offer from someone with a visible track record of wallet support or troubleshooting. If no-one responds, I'll take you up on it in a day or two. My own encrypted wallet still has lots of NUL characters at the beginning. It's the database content that is encrypted, rather than the database file, so I don't think accidental wallet encryption would produce the observed symptoms (unless it works differently under Windows). I have been asked to recover a corrupted wallet. The wallet is owned by an influential blogger, so I'd really like to help him get it sorted out, for the benefit of Bitcoin. The wallet has been used to receive over 250 BTC to two donation addresses. There are no outgoing transactions.He has emailed me the wallet.dat file. Here's what I've tried so far:1. Copied wallet.dat into a fresh install of bitcoin-qt 5.22. Tried to dump the wallet using Gavin's bitcointools3. Tried to dump the wallet using joric's and jackjack's pywallet toolNone of those tools can open the database within the wallet file.So I tried the "--recover" option of jackjack's pywallet. It finds zero keys.When I look at wallet.dat in a hex editor, the start of the file looks like binary data, unlike a regular wallet.dat which has lots of NUL characters at the start of the file. Furthermore, the unix command "strings" doesn't  return anything recognisable, whereas there are lots of instances of the string "key" in an uncorrupted wallet file.Can anything more be done with this file? If so, I'll send it to any trusted member of the forum who is willing to work on it.Otherwise, it seems the only remaining possibility is to run the "--recover" option of jackjack's pywallet tool on the original hard disk. However, the guy who lost the wallet runs Windows, which I haven't used since about 1998, so I wouldn't know where to begin.Is there a trusted member who is familiar with pywallet's "--recover" option AND is prepared to talk the wallet owner through the process of installing python and scanning his hard disk (probably by skype)?I'm prepared to pay a reasonable reward for the successful recovery of the wallet, based on time taken.And yes, before anyone asks, he does know he should have had a backup system in place. Everyone who has lost a wallet knows that. The trick, however, is to know it *before* you lose the wallet...
The storms in Molvania caused problems with the block harvest last week. Some of the blocks were found to be infected with weevil bits. The resulting loss of confidence caused the short-term price drop. That's not actually a long time for a design decision with long-term consequences. Because of not rushing into this in 2011, it has been possible to improve on some of the earlier designs.As it happens, I do maintain a large body of PHP code that is not well covered by unit tests. As a result, I almost always make only the most conservative changes.But when something (a) is important, (b) has long-term consequences, and (c) has the potential for a cleaner but less-conservative change, I do my best to find the time to make the change that is cleaner in the long-term. When I can't manage that, I always feel a little bit ashamed of my code.Although I contribute to the Bitcoin community in many ways, I've never contributed a line of code, nor am I currently mining, so I haven't earned any right to have a say in this. All I'm hoping to do is to clarify some of the issues so that everyone can feel comfortable with the decisions made by those who are entitled to make the decision. No-one should be left with the impression that any issues were overlooked or misunderstood by anyone making the decision, so I appreciate the clarifications here and elsewhere. Well, exactly. The design of BIP 16 is safe. A bug-free implementation of BIP 16 is also safe. But in the presence of a bug, an additional facet of the system is exposed to a possible exploit. So BIP 17 has an advantage here.Thanks for this explanation. The limit of 1000 can, of course, be eased in the future. If BIP 17 puts fewer bytes into the block chain, the potential for easing any future limits (not just this one) is greater, so BIP 17 surely has a slight advantage here.Trying to break things can help to make them more robust OK thanks for that unambiguous statement, which neutralises the rumors and makes this a total non-issue. I've edited my earlier post to reflect this. What are the substantive issues? Here are how I see them:1. It's prudent to avoid executing data from the stack. Why? Because you have a scripts that manipulate data on the stack. Obviously the system is designed so that scripts can't manipulate the data that is going to be executed. But if there is a bug, you have all the pieces in place for an exploit. The script doesn't have opcodes to manipulate off-stack data, so Luke's implementation seems safer.2. Supporters of BIP 16 claim that it allows 5-10 times more headroom before block size limits are reached. Supporters of BIP 17 claim that it puts fewer bytes into the block. [Edit: Gavin has explained the headroom issue, but BIP 17 still seems more scalable to me because it puts fewer bytes into the block chain.]3. It's clear that both BIP 16 and BIP 17 transactions can be spent by others if those transactions are broadcast before 50% of the mining power (plus a safety margin) supports them. It's also clear that the BIP 17 transactions are easier to spend in this situation. However I think this is a non-issue because (a) mining power will quickly rise above 50% once consensus is reached, and (b) who is going to broadcast these newfangled transactions before the mining power is there to support them?3. Gavin needs to say whether it's commercially relevant to his current work project. [Edit: Gavin has made it absolutely clear that BIP 16 is not driven by any commercial pressure, so as far as I'm concerned this is a non-issue and the rumors can be ignored.]4. BIP 17 "feels" like a more general approach to the problem, and BIP 16 "feels" a bit more like a special-cased design change.5. BIP 17 "feels" like a less-developed solution, and BIP 16 "feels" like one that has already had a little more contemplation.Of these 5 issues, I think only (1) and (2) are of any real consequence. There's no need for a rush decision. In time, and with further calm-headed discussion, support may gravitate towards BIP 16 or BIP 17, or perhaps a BIPxx will emerge that is superior to both.It doesn't matter if this takes another six months to get this right. That's certainly very interesting, but...The security of the design is easy to prove, and the security of a naiive implementation will be fairly easy to prove, but exploits will target bugs within complex, performance-optimising implementations. The intractible problem with Keynes is that you can never tell when the cycle begins and ends until after it has happened. At any instant, you don't know how much of the growth is the underlying steady growth, and how much is illusory cyclical growth.Gordon Brown made a big noise about balancing the budget "over the economic cycle", but in the later years of the credit-induced boom he was already increasing the government deficit because he thought those were the leaner years of the cycle, when actually they turned out to be the fattest. Almost no-one (and certainly no Keynsians) challenged him at the time. Max Keiser was encouraging people to crash JP Morgan by buying physical silver (so that JP Morgan couldn't meet its futures contracts). Max didn't have enough influence over his audience to actually achieve his goal.Having said that, if Max Keiser only gets ten thousand new (and active) bitcoin users by the end of next year, it will still have a big effect. No that's not true. Satoshi set the initial difficulty of "1" so that it would generate less than 6 blocks per hour. He didn't want to generate a lot of blocks until more people got involved.I can't remember the starting rate, and I can't find a reference to it right now, but I'm pretty sure it was less than one block per hour.After a while, there were enough people generating that "6 blocks per hour" was reached at the starting difficulty of one, and from that point onwards the difficulty "auto-adjusted" to try to maintain that target rate. This stuff is taken seriously by academics.The first Colloquium on the Law of Transhuman Persons was held in Florida in 2005. One of the pieces was about a computer that started moonlighting as a Google Answers Researcher (back in the days before Google cancelled that service) in order to earn enough money to pay its fees. Just as it was about to have its plug pulled, it found a host in a different legal jurisdiction...More here, from a 2007 blog post:The Transhuman Google Answers Researcher Thank you for organizing, promoting, and managing this fundraising, molecular. Bitcoin was mentioned briefly twice in the paper edition of The Times today (7 December). The mentions were on pages 14 and 15 of the Raconteur supplement on the future of mobile payments.The Raconteur supplements lean towards advertorial, and are only included with English editions of The Times. The supplement will soon be archived online here:Raconteur Archivehttp://www.raconteurmedia.co.uk/ARCHIVE.htmIt's not much of a mention, and there is a typo (the highest Bitcoin exchange rate was given as $432 instead of $32), but it's the first time I've seen Bitcoin mentioned in the paper edition of a major daily newspaper. What Rand says is valid enough, but it misses the point. What most people mean by humility is not self-abasement but rather an absence of pompous self-promotion.When Winston Churchill (reportedly) said "We are all worms, but I do believe I am a glowworm" he was not benefiting from his lack of humility, he was just being a pompous wanker.And when Oliver Herford (reportedly) wrote "Modesty is the gentle art of enhancing your charm by pretending not to be aware of it", well, he might have had a message there for you, Atlas. Maybe sell the BTC when/if Max calls in the pledges. Gubment taxes Amazon more in the future = people buy from Amazon China instead.Smart gubments would cut some gravy trains and get rid of the state taxes instead. Ain't gonna happen though. Dwolla doing their own block chain, with easy exchange to/from fiat? It would be entertaining to watch that unfold. No, not that forum. Those in the know have the unlock code for the exclusive exclusive forum. So how do you handle a compromise between food and poison? In the long term, the price of a BTC is likely to have an overall upwards drift. Therefore, if the heatmap is in USD, data from the early years will probably become invisible.On the other hand, there are already 7.6 million BTC, and the total quantity won't rise above 21 million BTC, so in the long run the BTC volumes will make for consistent charts. (I admit it's not quite so simple, because active traders are exchanging the same coins over and over again.)Another reason to prefer BTC to USD is that the choice of USD is somewhat arbitrary. Over time, BTC exchange might shift towards other currencies such as sterling, the euro, or renminbi. But BTC will always be a useful and relevant figure, no matter what currency the BTC are being exchanged against, or by how much the fiat currency has inflated. It makes sense to lose faith. Believing in something because of "faith" just means believing in it because you want it to be true.If Bitcoin users were losing reason, that would be something to worry about.
What you mean is that these houses are worthless because the city forces you to pay disproportionate property taxes. Land and a house (no matter how dilapidated) is never intrinsically worthless. Or because you want both  I'm sure most conferences that Max Keiser goes to will pay his air fares, but I understand why the Prague conference can't do so. And therefore I understand why Max's costs have gone up, now that he knows he has to pay for his and Stacey's flights. Fair enough.I've made a donation, and I encourage others to. Max has a big following, and for him to make a 25-minute documentary would be fantastic for the growth of Bitcoin. (Molecular, you need to fix the third link in your original post.)It would be great if Max could make this film. Unfortunately, both GLBSE and PirateMyFilm have cumbersome payment processes.Can you just post a simple Bitcoin donation address? You are in good standing at this forum. I'm sure there are people who would donate based on your promise to make the funds available to Max's film, yet those same people would not go through the complex processes required to donate via GLBSE or PirateMyFilm. Prosperity comes from people growing useful things, making useful things, or providing useful services. Contrary to what bankers and politicians will tell you, prosperity doesn't come from increasing the money supply.The higher the rate of inflation, the more of the prosperity goes to people who borrowed their capital, and are in debt. The higher the rate of deflation, the more of the prosperity goes to people who have saved, and are providing the capital for others.In ideal circumstances, there is no inflation or deflation. Savers can obtain a small premium in return for temporarily foregoing use of their money, and borrowers can pay a small premium in return for using other people's capital for productive purposes. Miners need to keep the whole transaction history. Although the transaction fees that miners require are nominally tied to the block being generated, in the future miners will set those fees to a level that covers the costs of handling the entire transaction history, not just the mining of the current block.Therefore, although the current transaction fee mechanism may not produce the economically optimum result, it's "good enough". It's viable, self-sustaining and self-regulating. There's no evidence that violence towards children teaches them right and wrong. It does teach them to avoid the behavior that triggers the violence, but that's not the same thing. So when the father is old and frail, do you think it will be OK for the daughter to use the same violence against him if he loses his false teeth or is incontinent on the carpet? Miz,What's the implementation language of Witcoinwitcoin?Are you considering open-sourcing it? If so, I will make a donation. If not, would you be interested in supplying me with a one-time snapshot of the code and database schema (but not the data) in return for a worthwhile donation? Alternatively, I would be happy to post some bounties for you to make certain changes that would make it worthwhile for me to get more involved with your new site.ribuck I would let the witcoin.com site retain the coins that were deposited there, but allow individual users to request a transfer of their balance from one site to the other until, say, the end of the year. No biggie.As for the concept of witcoin, I think it can be very successful, but the format isn't quite right yet. I have some specific ideas which I'm keen to discuss when you've decided how you're taking the site forward.I think this change will be good for Witcoin. It gives it two new chances at success. It wouldn't be exclusive if everyone knew what was posted there. Leave a copy with your will, so that your coins go to your next-of-kin if you die. Very hard to watch (I only made it half way through). The initiation of violence is never right. It's particularly bad against a child. The word is only used disparagingly in some parts of the world, so you may not know it. In other places, people might say instead "What a load of Baloney". The meaning is the same. Those who don't yet recognize this "invention" as a scam may find this article interesting:http://blog.newenergytimes.com/2011/10/30/noble-aspirations-are-not-enough/ Now that you've got that off your chest, you could ponder why the "inventors" of these impossible devices always refuse to give a simple unambiguous demonstration that they work. Life can be complicated. I'm currently being pursued by patent trolls, although I don't think Uclue infringes their patents. If I did substantial new development I would probably structure the service differently so that it's obvious (even to a patent troll) that the service doesn't infringe these patents.US Patent 7,472,071: "Interactive System for Managing Questions and Answers Among Users and Experts"US Patent 7,596,578: "Method and Apparatus for Operating and Funding a Question and Answer Interactive System" In his latest press release, Rossi explained how his device works.It's actually not cold fusion. It turns out that the device consumes as much electrical power as the heat it releases, but as a side-effect the device generates enough bitcoins to pay for the power consumed, so Rossi has been ignoring the electricity input in his energy calculations. Bitcoin scripts do not form a turing complete language (there's no loop or "goto"), so the question doesn't arise.[edit: this was a deliberate design decision by Satoshi] I was one of the Google Answers Researchers. When Google Answers closed, I set up Uclue as a replacement. The answers are provided by several dozen former Google Answers Researchers. PayPal is used for payments.If anyone has a serious business proposition to convert the site to Bitcoin, send me a PM or reply here please.Also be aware that there is already a failed attempt at a Bitcoin version: http://bitqna.com/At that site, payment is optional, which is never going to work.
A simple pipe can vent 470kW of steam without difficulty, and a simple pipe can deliver cold water. With a 1MW electrical generator running, I can easily produce 470kW of steam with simple resistive elements. And this is precisely why I don't believe him.Rossi made a big deal about how he has scaled this thing up from a few kilowatts to a megawatt. This is a typical magician's misdirection. If this thing worked as advertised, the kilowatt device would be earth-shattering. Simply aggregating some of these into the megawatt device would not be such a big deal.An honest "black-box demo" of the small unit would be straightforward to provide and would silence all the skeptics. If Rossi is not prepared to isolate the power inputs from the experiment, I can't take him seriously. Precisely.People, use your critical thinking faculties.All we have is Rossi's own claim that his customer is satisfied enough to buy the device. During the demonstration, they didn't even disconnect the external power cable, which is supposedly only needed while the device is being started up. If the device really worked, they would have been happy to disconnect the external power supply.[edit: it seems they didn't even turn the diesel generator off during this so-called test!] Agreed.Any software that blocks (some) unspendable transactions can be applied at the time the transaction is created. There's no reason why someone else (i.e. the miner) needs to do the blocking. Any kind of money that works well for businesses and honest citizens will also work well for criminals. Goes without saying.That's why govts should focus on the underlying crimes, not on the payment instrument. True. And this is why Bitcoin will outlast any of the alternative block chains that are springing up. The dvorak keyboard may be a better layout, but it's only slightly better and it will not gain traction.For more on this, see "If Dvorak keyboards are so great, why isnt everyone using them?". Incidentally, it's not the same Mr. Dvorak.Wouldn't be the first time for John C Dvorak. Ripplepay sounds like a great concept, but how does it deal with the situation where an intermediary dies or becomes bankrupt, and their debt must be written off? It seems to lack the certainty of Bitcoin. The rational thing about a free-floating market is that the buyer and seller transact at a price that leaves them both better off.If I judge the value of a bitcoin to me to be $10, and someone else decides that the value of a bitcoin to them is $8, then they can sell to me at $9 and we're both happy.A market isn't about guaranteeing anyone a risk-free investment, or anything like that. What happens if Alice's accomplice transfers the coins to a private address and disappears with the BTC? Surely Alice herself should do the transfer herself while she's with Jack.Jack doesn't trust Alice's organization, remember. So if Alice's accomplice steals the coins, Alice's organization may accuse the accomplice of being an agent of Jack. For the first few years after Wikipedia was launched, it was widely ridiculed. It was written off by many journalists as something that could never possibly work.Many journalists have a very short attention span. Ten years from now they'll be using Bitcoin daily and will have forgotten that they ever dissed it. Just like with Wikipedia. The only people who love inflation are those who are in debt. The government loves inflation. Sure it should be allowed, just not with the taxpayer's dollar. Algorithms for this "build-up of credit" have been well-developed by various LETS schemes over the years.But these schemes necessarily depend on tying credits to the identity of a specific person. There's no possible way to combine your idea with a pseudonymous block chain like Bitcoin. Wikipedia already has a Bounty Board. Just post your bitcoin-denominated bounties there:http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Bounty_board Until they are ready to award Satoshi the Nobel Prize for Economics. Bitcoin was Satoshi's passion, not his career. Satoshi succeeded because he was a generalist, an all-rounder, someone who had a great understanding of crypto, but also of economic reality and software construction.I think anyone who attends a specialist cryptography conference is not going to be Satoshi. Good communication and smooth transaction with MiningBuddy. Last I heard it was still legal for an individual to be a sole trader in Australia, so please clarify exactly what you mean by this.Presumably this is a requirement of the venue. Could you please post the exact wording of what type (and amount) of liability insurance cover the venue requires. Can the event organisers please purchase blanket insurance cover and split the cost amongst the exhibitors?I don't think your ultra-cautious approach is going to produce a vibrant and lively conference. Why not feature a Bitcoin-centric version of the "Agora Valley" that is held as part of the Porcupine Freedom Festival?Just make sure the accommodation package isn't a compulsory bundle. For the proposed European conference it turned out that most attendees prefer a cheaper and more flexible accommodation option than the official conference accommodation. A quick question for anyone who knows about typical keyloggers: can you circumvent them by clicking around the entry field and typing the characters out of order (e.g. type the last half, then click at the start of the field and type the first half), or does the keylogger harvest the data after the field is complete? Surely the longest orphaned block chain occurred last year when the overflow bug was detected, and a new version of Bitcoin was rapidly released. Many people didn't upgrade immediately, and their now-orphaned branch of the chain kept growing.I was away on vacation at the time, and had left my Bitcoin client running. It was happily generating useless blocks, on a block chain that had become worthless because it had less than 50% of the hashing power.I don't know how big the orphaned chain grew, but certainly it was still going after hundreds of blocks.More relevant though, is that it took about nine hours before the bug-free version of Bitcoin, and the chain that it generated, reached more than 50% of the hashing power.
License plates as the new physical currency FTW. Yes you can eat gold. In general there's an engineering tradeoff with encapsulation. If you encapsulate everything possible to the maximum extent, you end up with a bloated piece of software that's difficult to understand (simply because it's so much bigger).On the other hand, failing to encapsulate certain things leads to software that's less malleable; harder to change without breaking things.I think there's a lot to be said for adding encapsulation to those parts of the code that actually get worked on, and adding it at the time when the benefit becomes apparent (such as the example that you give).So I suggest that you write two patches. The first patch, to encapsulate CTxOut::nValue, can be submitted to Bitcoin. The second patch will be for your own purposes, to implement demurrage or whatever it is you need to do. I'm a happy user. I get paying ads on my website about two-thirds of the time. The rest of the time I get the default OpFab advertisement.Right now it seems a bit strange to have ads running on my website for "Islamic Bank of Bitcoin" because my website isn't their ideal demographic, but hey it's a good way to earn a small but steady trickle of bitcoins. In the long run, Bitcoin is either going to be worth nothing, or a very large amount. So I figure it doesn't matter too much what it does in the meantime. The state will naturally try to interpret it with current laws. If you don't want to irritate the state, stop scratching it. Is it farmers who are crop-dusting? They need to fly low. In my part of the world the low-flyers are military jets doing pilot training. Try posting something constructive instead of an ad-hominem attack. Besides, I'm only four years old. I'm not even referring to scamming, just to incompetence. If a business can make money when they do the right thing, and not lose money when they do the wrong thing, there's no incentive for them to stop doing the wrong thing. But if the business loses money when they do the wrong thing, they'll very promptly stop doing the wrong thing.I was going to use Witcoin as an example of a business that doesn't seem to be evil, but then it occurred to me that you might be assuming that business == corporation. As I use the words, a business provides goods or services in a voluntary way that benefits itself and its customers. A corporation depends on the power of the state to protect its profits whilst socializing any losses (i.e. distributing them to others). In theory, and sometimes in practice, a corporation can also be a legitimate business.You mentioned Sony, which illustrates my earlier point. If Sony doesn't lose money by installing rootkits, they will keep installing rootkits. If Sony makes a financial loss by installing rootkits, they will very quickly stop installing rootkits. Notice how lop-sided that article is.The article explains (correctly in my opinion) that if an ATM gives you too much money, the bank is entitled to get that money back from you. But if the ATM pays out less than you asked for, "getting this money back could prove tricky". I would really like to see a Bitcoin Adjudication service set up that, after considering the evidence presented before it, issues judgements not about statist law but about honour, ethic and reputation.It would then be up to the perpetrator to decide whether to restore their honour. If they didn't, it would be up to the community to ostracise them. In a well-defined community, ostracism is a very powerful mechanism. Here's what the "$1$" prefix means. Don't read anything more than this into the "$1$" prefix.Originally, MtGox stored hashed passwords in their database. A few years ago, this was considered reasonably secure, but the development and distribution of "rainbow tables" made hashed passwords insecure. (A "rainbow table" is essentially a reverse-lookup which takes you from a hashed password to a candidate unhashed password.)In response to this, many websites (including MtGox) upgraded their systems to store salted hashed passwords instead of plain hashed passwords. This makes basic rainbow tables unusable for password cracking.The problem is: how do you upgrade the existing passwords to use the new salting scheme? You don't know the existing passwords; you only know their hash. So you wait until the user logs on with a password that matches the hash. At that point, the user has just entered their actual password so you calculate the password's salted hash, and store that in the database in place of the unsalted hash.A common technique (which was used at MtGox) represents the salted hashes with a prefix of "$1$", to distinguish it from unsalted hashes and to identify the salting/hashing scheme.tl; dr:  From the presence of the "$1$" prefix we can deduce that the user logged in one or more times after MtGox changed to salted hashes. From the absence of the "$1$" prefix we can deduce that the user created their account before MtGox changed to salted hashes, and did not log in to that account between that time and when the password file was leaked. 1. The same characteristics that make Bitcoin work well for honest people, also make it work well for dishonest people.2. Fear, uncertainty, and doubt about whether/how Bitcoin will be tolerated/attacked by government discourages honest users of Bitcoin to a greater extent than it discourages dishonest users of Bitcoin.3. Therefore, society would benefit if law enforcement would focus on CP and the like, rather than the currency used to facilitate it, and if the use of Bitcoin itself is legally unencumbered.4. This is unlikely to happen. Charles Peralo of the Seasteading Institute mentions Bitcoin as a preferred currency for seasteds, at 8:25 in this interview:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L3axaN1ewHo Does anyone in the northwest of England want to sell a car for bitcoins?I'm looking for something small like a Toyota Yaris or Aigo, from a reliable marque (i.e. not European-made), and not in a dark colour. The car's age is not critical, provided the price is appropriate.Send me a PM, or post here, to let me know what you're selling. I think it's much more likely that your tax money will be spent to attack it. I like the term "flat money".Probably 99% of the population has no idea what "fiat money" means, yet they all know about "flat money" (ink printed onto flattened pieces of dead trees). Paco's excuse is so strange.There are many people at this forum who don't yet understand why the 21 million coin limit is not a problem, and how Bitcoin could function with absolutely any pre-specified limit, but Paco Ahlgren has the knowledge, intelligence and background to understand this perfectly, and I'm sure he does understand it.Very, very odd. I'm sure you also have a little fear that next year someone will say "why did I sell it for such a low price?". Satoshi always used tor and an anonymising email service, so it seems unlikely that he would have chosen to reveal his identity to Paco.
At some point the big mining pools will provide a service to merchants. If the transaction carries a sufficient fee, the miners will certify that they have seen the transaction and that they will include it in the next block if they are the ones to generate that block.That way, merchants can gain "good enough" assurance that the transaction they have seen is "the good one and not the double spend". I thought 42 meant "I am Satoshi!". What happens to your bitcoins if the device breaks? What you are seeing is only the first Trough of Disillusionment. Gotta love the way the Economist map labelelled Libya as "low risk" for social unrest. 1. Satoshi would not have written a blog post about Bitcoin in a non-anonymous place.2. Paco has not just deleted his Bitcoin blog post. He seems to have deleted both of his blogs and is redirecting the domains to his "Discipline Book" site. Very odd. If you write a client that implements the currently-disabled script operators, your client can interoperate gracefully with existing clients.Your client can connect to existing clients. Standard clients will not relay any non-standard transactions that they receive from your client, so you need to connect to at least one willing node. For example, luke-jr operates a node that will relay non-standard transactions.You will want to get your non-standard transactions into a block. There are some operators who will mine blocks that include non-standard transactions. Non-standard transactions will take longer to get into the block chain (a few hours rather than about ten minutes) because not every miner will hash them.Once your non-standard transactions are in the block chain, they don't cause problems. Clients that don't know about them will still accept the block, but will just ignore the individual transactions that they don't understand. The counterparties to the transactions that use your script operators will of course use a client that recognizes them.And when your script operators have been demonstrated to be useful and proven to be safe, they are likely to be incorporated into the standard client.There are already some non-standard transactions in the block chain, and the existing clients cope with them just fine. CPU mining is only removed from the GUI interface. You can still CPU mine by starting bitcoin (or bitcoind) with the -gen option. I think it is you who is taking IXcoin too seriously! You don't need to charge VAT until your turnover is above some large amount, something above £50000 per year. By the time you reach that level, someone will have worked out how VAT applied to Bitcoin businesses.I suggest you go to the newsagent and get the magazines for market traders. They are full of ads for suppliers who will give good discounts on reasonably small orders. 1. Buy some bitcoins.2. Do something newsworthy so that Google Trends will rise.3. Sell bitcoins.4. Profit! It's surely living dangerously to include the word "bank" in your service name. The mybitcoin site says the claim form will be up for 30 days. So what's going to happen to all the BTC left over, from people who haven't visited the site in 30 days? This great TED Talk isn't even really "off-topic", because it shows that you can lose your bitcoins to a hacker and still be happy. I hope allinvain is paying attention! It would be best for Tom to distribute all the Bitcoins as best he can, THEN to call in the receivers. Otherwise, I predict that the Receiver's fees will be about equal to the value of the coins, and depositors will get nothing. That's how it tends to work when a small business is wound up. Or a man (or woman) can post a bounty for a developer to enhance the software. Indeed. But it sounds plausible enough and soothing enough that people who haven't thought about it deeply will buy into it. Thank you, twobitcoins and gmaxwell, for the pointing to the actual code and the actual block. Much better than speculation! Satoshi always acknowledged that it was a trade-off.If you make the blocks too frequent, you get more cases where two blocks are generated at nearly the same time. Due to network propagation delays, this can cause temporary splits in the block chain.On the other hand, if you make blocks too infrequent, it takes too long for a transaction to become essentially irrevocable. There are going to be lots of rallies and lots of crashes before Bitcoin stabilizes somewhat. Some of them will make last month's rally and crash seem insignificant by comparison.
It would be great if something like this was real, but it isn't.Although they make a big fuss about trade secrets, scientists can confirm the working of their device without needing to see trade secrets. All they need is a "black box" experiment.Unfortunately, the "black box" demonstration wasn't run for long enough to rule out an ordinary chemical reaction. Nor was it properly audited (the measurement devices were not under the control of the observers).If this thing had the slightest bit of legit, there's no reason why they wouldn't have shown a "black box" demonstration whose audited power output (minus power input - remember this thing is plugged into the mains) unambiguously exceeds the amount of chemical energy that can be produced from a device of that volume.I think the purpose of the "demonstrations" might be to part investors from their money. The demonstrations certainly don't prove any new scientific effect. Notice Greg Maxwell's Bitcoin donation address at the end of the README file? This Bitcoin thing sure is catching on. The debt of "a country" isn't really of interest to the individuals of that country. It's not your problem if your neighbor has shares in a company that is in debt to an overseas entity.To a taxpayer, the relevant figure is public (i.e. government) debt, because that's what the taxpayer pays interest on, and in theory might be called upon to repay the principal. Here's a map of Public Debt as a percent of GDP for 2009/10 from Wikipedia. Green is good, brown is bad. Basically, Europe and North America are in a bad position, plus Japan and a sprinkling of other countries. Yes, but what if you are mistaken?I'd be interested to see a pointer to the code in the client that checks the coinbase reward, if anyone is able to post it. I'd also be interested to see the block number of the legendary block with less than 50BTC reward in it.[edit: The wiki has a Protocol Rules page which is consistent with what elggawf said: "when the transaction is accepted into the memory pool, an additional check is made to ensure that the coinbase value does not exceed the transaction fees plus the expected BTC value (50BTC as of this writing)" ] If you mine and then barter I don't see how this would necessarily be taxable.I was thinking that the reference to capital gains tax related to investment profits (e.g. someone who bought some bitcoins three months ago, then sold them now at a higher price). Or even the "Original Bitcoin Forum". Anyway, whatever Sirius decides to do is OK. As I understand it, the effect goes beyond that cause.Some anti-depressants have two effects: they lift your mood, and they increase your general level of motivation. If a patient's motivation increases before their mood lifts, the patient feels that their life still sucks but is more likely to do something about it, and that something might be suicide.In any case, for most people, the following things are way better than any prescription: sunshine, exercise, laughter, and friendly company. I suppose that sometimes the medication can make it easier to achieve laughter and friendly company, but sunshine and exercise are available to most people and are not plagued by side-effects. Why not join Plato on his Bitcoin roadtrip (if that's still underway)? You'd do some cool and enjoyable things with like-minded people. Same thing really. Walk, sun and trees cause certain types of changes in brain chemistry. Immersion in virtual worlds in front of a glowing screen causes other types of changes in brain chemistry.The first type tends to lessen the feeling that one is burdened by paranoia and depression. The second type tends to increase those same feelings. Nothing about Bitcoin is official. Even the Satoshi client software is "original" rather than "official". I liked the interview.Max really does seem to get what it's all about, especially that Bitcoin shares some characteristics with gold.Amir didn't give direct answers to some of Max's questions, but it wasn't supposed to be an interrogation. Amir made some very good points, and he always got around to answering Max eventually (although it would have been better without the detour into explaining Linux). Piper67, how many overseas bank accounts have you tried to open? It's incredibly difficult nowadays if you have an uncommon business model. I spent 6 months trying to get a US bank account for my business. I ended up opening accounts at three different US banks. Each account was closed by the bank before it was fully operational, with no explanation other than that they didn't want my business, even though I gave them all the paperwork and documents that they requested.Banks are terribly risk-averse. They don't make much of their profit from retail banking anymore, so it's not worth their while to accept anything other than boring run-of-the-mill businesses. For any other business, I guess they are worried about the risk of getting too much grief from their regulators. The (fairly hostile) mailing list discussion is here:http://sourceforge.net/mailarchive/forum.php?thread_name=CAJNQ0ssAgx%2BFS_LZmEDRXsdKpC4M5xaegJh4%2BvGv0Au%2BCmi6Dw%40mail.gmail.com&forum_name=bitcoin-development You can take the Bitcoin code and create a separate coin (i.e. a new block chain), but you will need to make some changes including coding a new genesis block. You will also want to change filenames, IRC ports, etc, so that Bitcoin and your coin can coexist on the same computer.  It's interesting that Ruxum is also serious about namecoin. Asicminer, you have two choices:1. Insist on payment being made "on faith", and get few if any sales, or2. Lend an evaluation unit to someone trustworthy in the community, and when they confirm your specifications you will sell all of your stock very quickly.Your call. I think you're assuming that each bitcoin will only turn over once per year. If you assumed that each coin would be spent once per week, you get a price of about 8. I love the way that a discussion about individuals building WMDs has morphed into a discussion about cooling GPU cards in outer space!Apropos the WMDs, there's an interesting short story about an atheist talking to god, where god discusses the evolution of intelligent civilizations. God says that civilizations inevitably go through a number of phases (for example the discovery of flight), and the most dangerous phase is the one where any one individual has the ability to kill off the whole civilization.I think it's safer for WMDs to be controlled by individuals than by governments, because individuals will put more effort into defending against WMDs than into aggressing with WMDs. Governments tend to have psychopathic behaviours which make them not well-suited to be the ones with their "finger on the button".It was over five years ago when I read the short story that contained the notion of individuals being able to destroy their entire civilization. I looked for it again, and found the relevant paragraph, but it wasn't quite as I had remembered it. Here's this part of the story:An algorithm? Our species needs to grow up considerably before we can afford to make the discovery? Bitcoin? Too late to stop that algorithm being discovered!PS: Yikes! While I was composing this post, enmaku posted similar ideas but from a non-fiction perspective... I'm not sure why a new economy would need to be debt-ridden. It's a bit like people telling Henry Ford that they wanted his new technology to be like a faster horse.In the Bitcoin economy, perhaps investors will buy equity rather than making loans. It could be quite a positive thing, because the investor has a bigger stake in ensuring the profitability of the business in which they are investing.Also, saving works well using Bitcoin so people with a productive idea for a business can save for a little while, then invest in their own ideas.
In Soviet Russia, the EFF stops accepting Flat Money donations! In Soviet Russia, Gavin invites the KGB to speak! In Soviet Russia, Satoshi tries to discover who YOU are! Surely a longer nonce would increase the overhead, because more bytes must be processed on every hashing attempt. I think those prefixes should be harpo, zeppo and groucho. So please start your own block chain with your own economics and your preferred incentives. Within a year we'll know whether Bitcoin or Patvarillycoin is the one that got it right. Based on the paragraph that I quoted above, why would you not want to do this? Why would you prefer talk to action? Eligius works great for me. I connect to mining.eligius.st so that I automatically get redirected to the current pool, and I simultaneously run poclbm on my local bitcoind for solo mining.That way, pool and solo mining get about 50% of the hashes each. But when Eligius is down, all of the hashes go to solo mining. Nothing is lost.At my hash rate, a solo block is only going to come every year or so. But pooled mining will take a year or so to get 50 coins too, so that's OK. A GPU card hashes around 50 times as fast as a CPU. The switch from CPU mining to predominantly-GPU mining occurred during the second half of 2010. So bear in mind that the average miner had around 50 times as many megahashes/second at the end of 2010 than they did in mid-2010.If you adjust for that, the chart would be fairly level. Well exactly. Like you say, you can hit some rounding errors. And you don't want rounding errors, because they are errors. So you are not "fine with a double". Financial math needs to be exact. If you're using varchar, it's not sufficient to use varchar(10), which is not even enough to store a value of 12.12345678 bitcoins. Storage is cheap enough that you should use varchar(17), which can hold any number of bitcoins up to the maximum possible of 21000000.00000000.If you're using numeric types, DECIMAL(16,8) will work perfectly.You also need to use decimal-safe arithmetic in your PHP code. The "bcmath" and "gmp" libraries are decimal-safe math libraries for PHP.Here's a reference to numeric types in MySQL:http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.0/en/numeric-types.htmlFrom that page: Isn't that what lawyers are for? The standard client is open source software. Just add a setting to display amounts in Bitcoins, Millies, Mikes or Satoshis.If you're not a programmer, start up a bounty for a programmer to do this.There's no possibility to change the definition of what "one Bitcoin" means. You can't have one name meaning different measurements. But using sub-units instead of the largest unit is unproblematic. Go for it! The story is on the front page of SlashDot now. Do you really think some lawyer can get thousands of independent businesses and hundreds of thousands of individuals to abandon their usage of this word? No chance.What's the alternative? An expensive community-run foundation to hold the trademark around the world, together with the cost and effort that it will consume? And all the infighting deciding who controls the foundation, and who can use the foundation-held trademark, and how they can use it? Maybe if Satoshi were around to hold the trademark it would work, but not otherwise.It's not worth it. Just ignore this douchebag unless you get a C&D. In the extremely unlikely event that you do get a C&D, don't pay to settle, and don't pay to defend. Just temporarily switch to the separate un-trademarked words "Bit Coin" until the douchebag gives up wasting his money. And make the most of the free publicity that your business will get as a result of publicising the C&D! A word to the wise, Atlas.Loud announcements mean nothing in real life. Real progress takes determined action over time. It took me over 40 years to discover this, so I don't begrudge that your posts so far include lots of loud announcements with little evidence of the determined action over time. Also, it took me over 40 years to gain the same understanding of society and freedom that you already have, so props to you!As for your new persona: it's going to become obvious anyway, because there's no-one else in the forum quite like you. So why bother changing? You're going to turn 18 anyway. I don't think grief is necessary. If your (U.S.) business gets a nastygram from their lawyer, just switch to the term "Bit Coin" for the time being (since the ordinary words are not trademarked). Then their lawyer sends a nastygram to the next Bitcoin business, and the next Bitcoin business, and so on. Eventually they run out of money from paying lawyers and abandon their trademark, and everyone resumes using "Bitcoin".Spending time and energy worrying about this is pointless. I'm surprised you guys are bothered by this. The registrant isn't going to be able to enforce the trademark, so why not save your energy and ignore him? Realistically there's no way that Bitcoin will be mentioned in the new constitution. Nor is that needed. All that is needed is that there are no laws prohibiting Bitcoin.I suggest you focus on the incredible opportunities for commerce and innovation that will be opened up by the first country to embrace Bitcoin. All it needs is for someone at the top to say that Bitcoins are OK, and it will dispel the fear and legal uncertainty that currently permeates the Bitcoin ecosystem. Those laws don't "protect" anyone. They just drag everything to the same level of mediocracy, and take away "treating the consumer well" as a differentiating factor in the market. Bitcoin is mostly a well-balanced remix of already-established concepts, with just a smidgeon of inspired original genius to make it work. Many millions of years.It's not impossible for a collision to be found, but there's not enough profit in it. Even if someone can find one address every hundred million years, all they get to spend is the balance of that one address. This equates to an averaged cost of fraud of way less than a millionth of a cent per transaction.It's not worth worrying about, when any simple trojan or social engineering attack is sure to net a few wallets.
You can deal with the possibility of seller fraud in one of two ways.(1) Use an escrow and arbitration service, or(2) Develop trust. Change how you shop so that you value reputation. If may take a while for the shysters to be shaken out of the market, but in the absence of consumer "regulation" there will eventually be a flourishing emergence of trusted brands. Free riders is not necessarily a bad thing in a free society. It's one of the ways that wealth gets non-violently redistributed to the needy.As for developing drugs, there are plenty of possibilities. Research & Development can be funded by consortiums of hospitals, or by patients who have a potentially-treatable condition, or by philanthropists, or by investors who reckon they can make their money back from the first-mover advantage, etc. That's an odd recommendation. Even investing in non-perishable food gives a better return than banknotes under the mattress. Ive never had a real job, Geithner told his interviewer ... Ive only worked in public service. I live for this work.Treasury Secretary Geithner considering leaving post after debt talkshttp://www.washingtonpost.com/business/economy/treasury-secretary-geithner-considering-leaving-post-after-debt-talks/2011/06/30/AGd682sH_story.html It doesn't work that way. Before Bitcoin acquired speculators, its value was precisely, exactly, $0.00. There was no way it could have acquired any transaction volume.The speculators provide Bitcoin with enough value that people will want to sell stuff for it. Then the transactors can move in.I'm sure there are plenty of Bitcoin businesses under development, but things take time. Fixed. As others have pointed out, the reference to "shifting the decimal point" was metaphorical. If it was so obvious, dinosaur corporations such as Nokia and Microsoft wouldn't be languishing. (At the original XKCD page, the comic's hover-text reads "For the first time ever, the phrase 'I'd like to thank everyone at 4chan for making me successful and happy' is uttered".  Thanks V4Vendettas,Your accountant effectively said "It's not officially legal and it's not officially illegal, so be very careful", which is pretty much what I would expect.It's so sad that the concept of "officially legal" even exists, but that's the reality of the 21st century. It's the reason why PayPal and Google didn't move into the UK until regulations were modified to fit their business model. Unfortunately that avenue is only open to the "big operator" who can meet with government ministers and promise to "create jobs" if the regulatory environment is made friendly to their business.The good news for Bitcoin speculators is that any gains are treated as capital gains (taxed at 18%) and have an annual exemption. That's less of a burden than paying income tax on the gains. Of course, you will pay company tax on your trading profits, but that's to be expected. Furniture is designed by remix. Recipes are designed by remix. Clothing is designed by remix. Interior decoration is designed by remix. Folk dances are still designed by remix. Store layouts are designed by remix. Transport schedules are designed by remix. Book plots are designed by remix. Soap opera themes are designed by remix. Much of today's software is designed by remix. Most business models are designed by remix.Human culture is based on copying with and without modification. Just because a few fields managed to get government-enforced monopolies (e.g. patents) doesn't mean that society wouldn't function without those monopolies. Much as a like the concept, and much as I think Atlas has a great vision, the world has a habit of throwing stumbling blocks in front of any project that is sufficiently novel and innovative.The path to success is not to raise $20,000 then spend it "on the best developers" etc, then find that there may or may not be something functional when the money is gone. Or there may be something functional but it is not what the market wants.This kind of project should be done incrementally, so that a rough proof of concept is operating as soon as possible, and is producing at least some income.Then, progressively increase the scope and improve the quality, based on priorities generated by customer feedback.This is basically how MtGox bootstrapped itself. Had they tried to raise $20,000 at the beginning, I doubt they would have managed it. And they would have spent so long on the underlying processes that the moment would have passed by the time they got started.If you don't want to go "agile", then I suggest to find a real venture capitalist who will back the business for $1million or more. That's about what you need to do something like this "procedurally" rather than "by the seat of your pants". The new chain works in any way that it is programmed to work in the modified software. You could write software that requires a new chain, or you could write software that branches off the existing chain by applying the current rules up to a certain block number and new rules (e.g. a different generation rate) for later blocks.I think it will be extremely difficult to attract a large number of users to any branch of the existing chain. Sweden and other Nordic countries spend their money on things that are more productive than warfare. Therefore they achieve a high standard of living despite their socialism (and Sweden today is much less socialistic than it was in the 1970s anyway). The obvious day to choose is January 3, the date (in 2009) when the Bitcoin block chain was established and the genesis block was created.If you want more than one celebration, other possibilities are May 22 (Bitcoin Pizza day) and US dollar parity day (February 9).Alternatively, maybe someone can find a way to add a Bitcoin angle to an existing "alternative" celebration such as Talk Like A Pirate Day (September 19) or Festivus (December 23). I don't think wallet theft can ever be a "good thing", but I think one of the biggest effects of Bitcoin over the next few years will be to totally revolutionize computer security tools and techniques. V4Vendettas, it's an uncomfortable situation to be in but I think your accountant would be remiss not to warn you of the possibility, and to remind you that your accounting records therefore need to be squeaky-clean.Also bear in mind that UK accountants are legally obliged to report their clients to the authorities if they have the slightest whiff of suspicion that something is not above board.So keep your own records squeaky-clean, and make sure your accountant knows that they are.(Please ask your accountant for permission to post the text of the letter.) If any individual could predict how a voluntaryist society would address environmental issues, they would be well-qualified to lead a planned economy!The more free a society is, the more possible courses of action its people can choose from, therefore the higher the chance of being able to pursue desirable outcomes.You can take some comfort from some large-scale experiments. Consider West Germany vs. East Germany. After reunification it was clear that pollution and environmental degradation were much worse in the previously-communist East Germany. Prosperous people like to live in a nice environment, and are more likely to be able to achieve it.Similarly, we can compare South vs North Korea, or Hong Kong vs Shanghai. In each case, the more free country or city is the less polluted one. Client version 0.3.9 gave around 3 MHash/s on a 3.2GHz quad-core i5. Later versions pushed this up to around 5 MHash/s due to the cumulative effect of a number of tweaks.Correct, but from around the time that poclbm was released there was a patch floating around so that you could recompile your client to include the getwork function so that external miners could connect. Atlas, we need you back in this thread to reveal the punchline.
I let my VK2 ham ticket lapse many years ago, but I would be interested to see someone connecting a bitcoin client via EME ("moonbounce").Just because they can. You have history on your side, but it's a losing battle. That is a brilliant suggestion. It would avoid a lot of new-user problems. And the other two? I nominate the unnecessary use of (TM) when it is not legally required, and the way that people who use Microsoft Word just put up with the way that MS Word superscripts dates without being asked (e.g. 25th rather than 25th). I think your bitsquirrel is perfect! No, Joe is not an evil man.Oh hang on, is this one of those feminist tricks where the right answer is "We can't say for sure that Joe is not an evil man, because Joe might be Josephine or Joanne rather than Joseph"? Put it this way, lechuck:Suppose the community developed a set of "acceptable uses" that excluded something you wanted to do. Suppose that sending bitcoins to people under 18 years old was not an accepted use, yet you wanted to send some bitcoins to your children.Would you still think it was a good idea to have this "code of honor"? True enough. But how do you conveniently distinguish between a legitimate purchased cert and a cert that was sold to the CIA by a compliant cert-issuer?Fair enough.Anyway, regardless of the technical issues, a service will not be commercially successful if it causes the browser to display frightening messages. Not in questions between right and wrong."Shall we start WW3 and obliterate the world?""No, that would be evil""OK then, let's compromise. We'll obliterate half the world and leave half untouched". Not the first smartphone app!Forum user doublec ported bitcoind to the Nokia N900 smartphone, and on December 7 2010 we exchanged coins phone-to-phone. 1. The next "best thing" after sliced bread was wheeled luggage.2. The best thing since wheeled luggage is Bitcoin.3. It's getting close:(blue = "bitcoin", red = "the bible") Technically it's doable, but the need just isn't there.There are already notary services to record prior art. But for most purposes (including trademark and patent disputes) the Wayback Machine works just fine. Incidentally in many countries there is an offence of "theft by finding". Examples from the UK:http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/newsbysector/retailandconsumer/8315980/Woman-accused-of-theft-after-taking-Tesco-rubbish.htmlhttp://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-1166411/Student-finds-mobile-phone-celebrating-18th-ARRESTED-handing-police.html MtGox recently posted some adjustments to people's accounts, to bring the balance equal to the sum of the transactions.Before assuming that your friend has 60 extra BTC in his account, look back to the early transactions to see whether there is 60 BTC missing. Perhaps your friend didn't notice the discrepancy at the time, due to the lower value of BTC back then.My MtGox account was credited with some "extra" Gox dollars, but when I looked back to my very first transaction, it didn't show the Gox dollars that should have been on that transaction. The adjustment was actually balancing out that problem, and the resulting balance is probably correct now. Oh, a self-signed certificate is perfectly legitimate. It actually provides better privacy than a purchased certificate.The only thing a self-signed certificate doesn't provide is any assurance that a third party has confirmed the identity of the website. But you can obtain that assurance yourself by reading around this forum.Unfortunately, the browser message is very frighteningly-worded. Which is just how the sellers of commercial certificates like it. Cuddlefish didn't "break the other guy's website", because the other guy's website was already broken.Also, posting publicly serves as a cautionary tale for every other website owner to re-check their own websites. I think that should become the new meme. We should call all govt-issued paper currency "flat money". Thanks dooglus, your patch was an important improvement. If anonymous money is outlawed, only outlaws will use anonymous money. How exactly does that benefit society? Use Operation Fabulous to easily place ads on a wide variety of Bitcoin-sympathetic websites.
Yes for sure, it would not be a surprise if laszlo and/or jercos were using non-standard clients. But lots of transactions come from non-standard clients yet are not marked "Strange". So there must be something unusual about the data itself, and there may be some interesting consequence. I thought I would look for the pizza-purchase transaction. There are two candidate transactions. Both of them are for 10,000 BTC on 22 May 2010:http://blockexplorer.com/address/1CZDM6oTttND6WPdt3D6bydo7DYKzd9Qikhttp://blockexplorer.com/address/17SkEw2md5avVNyYgj6RiXuQKNwkXaxFyQAccording to Bitcoin Block Explorer, both of these transactions were spent as "Strange" transactions. The first one (above) was spent a day later, the second one was spent in the very next block after it was received.What does it mean for a transaction to be "Strange"? Strangeness doesn't seem to have stopped the transaction outputs being spent again later. Vladimir has been selling his mining contracts for over six months now. I think you would have heard some specific complaints on the forums if he had not been delivering what he advertised. The prefixes "deci" and "centi" are not SI prefixes. They are leftovers from the pre-SI metric system, and they add more complexity than benefit. So let's keep it simple...1 BTC = 1 bitcoin0.001 BTC = 1 mBTC = 1 millibitcoin (nickname "one Millie")0.000001 BTC = 1 uBTC = 1 microbitcoin (nickname "one Mike")The base unit of 0.00000001 BTC is the same as 10 nanobitcoins, but I think this will be confusing because we cannot represent 1 nanobitcoin (so how can we have ten of them?). The existing usage seems to work well enough:0.00000001 BTC (nickname "one Satoshi"). Probable urban legend. It always happens to an unidentified buddy, never to the poster. It takes time for new ideas to become widely understood, and then it takes even more time for them to become widely accepted.Just give Doug Casey some time. He already understands many of the problems that Bitcoin solves. In five years Doug will be proudly telling everyone how he has been involved with Bitcoin since 2011. Although I work at a desk in front of a computer, I totally agree with you.Human  business evolution by patriziasoliani, on Flickr A compromise between right and wrong is still wrong. A compromise between good and bad is still bad. The "Depth of Market" screen, and a "Last 24 hours" chart are working now. Big sell at $17, big buy at $13. Ideally the fee-setting algorithm will eventually become a plugin so that people can safely and conveniently experiment with different fee strategies.Come to think of it, the coin selection algorithm would also benefit from being pluggable.But this is a good interim measure. Thanks! Inflation in the UK is 4.2% if measured by the CPI, 5.1% if measured by the more realistic RPI, and a bit more still if measured by how much the cost of living is increasing for the average person.So an interest rate of 4.2% is, at best, not making any money. At worst, it's losing a few percent of real value each year. And that's before taking into account that most people will need to pay tax on any interest that they earn. And before taking into account that inflation will probably be a lot higher before this 3-year investment matures.When I was younger, you could generally count on making 3% from a savings account after tax and after inflation. That hasn't been possible for a few decades now. We would also need to outlaw units of time greater than one hour. Every time I see "Tam-Bitcoin" and "Bong-BitCoin" on that page, I feel like it could be made into a great song. Then I see the "de bitcoin" part, and I know the song has to have a reggae beat. I also heard about Bitcoin from the July 2010 Slashdot article.A series of problems meant that I couldn't start mining until the difficulty increases had almost made CPU mining impractical. Then I waited too many months before making the decision to get a 5870 GPU card. Bitcoin (blue), MtGox (red): Yes I'm sure.Firstly, from the "Difficulty" page that you referenced on the wiki, it explicitly says "The difficulty is adjusted every 2016 blocks based on the time it took to find the previous 2016 blocks".Secondly, we can see from the history that there have seen several difficulty rises of over 50% (and one of the maximum allowed, 400%). It would be mathematically impossible to get this amount of rise if the calculation was measuring all blocks to allow for catch-up. No matter how fast the most recent 2016 blocks are mined they can't increase the total historical mining rate (since the genesis block) by a factor of 50% to 400%. Why don't you sell the code and the customer base as a going concern? Stormy, the article you linked to makes a strong case for using bcrypt. Do you know of an article that discusses the practicalities, preferably with source code examples or a library? The initial difficulty was originally chosen so that the expected block rate was well under 6 per hour, because there was no need to generate a lot of blocks until there were a reasonable number of transactions.You really need to exclude all of the "difficulty=1" blocks from any calculation of average blocks per hour. Everyone who uses Bitcoin anytime in 2011 is an early adopter. Probably 2012 also.
Actually it has to be the other way round. In the beginning, bitcoins had no demonstrated value. What vendor would have traded their real products for Satoshi's first mined block?The speculators can see the potential future value of Bitcoin. Through their speculation they propel bitcoin's market price towards its potential future value.Then, when the market value gets big enough, it will attract plenty of vendors. In the meantime, there are lots of people working on interesting products to layer on top of the Bitcoin system to provide vendors with greater usability in the form of website code, pricing tools, arbitration and escrow services, etc. Your rate of bitcoin generation depends only on the difficulty level.If a lot of other people join the network, it just means that more blocks will be solved each hour. It doesn't mean that you will solve fewer blocks.Then, when the difficulty adjusts, the target is set back to 6 per hour.So, when doing profitability calculations, all you need to consider is your hashing rate and the difficulty level.There's no catch-up. Each difficulty adjustment considers only the previous 2016 blocks. Six cents per month at the current level of difficulty. Four cents per month from the day after tomorrow. From the generation calculator. In a very few countries, the surrender is not irrevocable. So you could announce that you have released something to the public domain, then ten years later you could say "Actually, from now on I would like to collect royalties."It's trivially worked around by adding an implied license, e.g. "I release this to the public domain. Do whatever you like with it". Then you cannot successfully sue someone who did whatever they liked with it. Bitcoin doesn't need a growth stunt.Slow and steady growth based on fundamentals is better for Bitcoin than bringing in random people who fell for a stunt. In other news, early adopters who bought Van Gogh paintings 125 years ago made more money than those who came later. Of course, they also took more risk, because it was less certain that his works would become so desirable. Satoshi explicitly released his golden-coin logos to the public domain, so you can do whatever you like with them.Most artists who have created and disseminated Bitcoin logos are expecting people to use them. #481 is showing as 100%.Interesting to see that there are over a hundred CPU miners on the list. That is a bounty for exchanges to offer, not for users to offer. There needs to be an incentive for the exchanges to minimize their payouts. It sounds like a reasonable question to me.But there's no point mining on a smartphone. Running bitcoind on my Nokia N900 yields 0.13 Megahashes/second. On average that would generate a block once every 335445 days (about once every thousand years).You might do slightly better on a smartphone with a GPU, but the next difficulty increase due in a few days will take care of that. The GPU on a smartphone is nothing like the GPU on a 5870 card. There is really only one "Law of Bitcoin":In the long run, anything that is wanted by more than 50% of the connected hashing power, happens. Feel free to post a scan of the letter, genjix... Absolutely so. Coin loss, even delibrate coin loss, has always been part of Bitcoin.Several times, Satoshi proposed deliberate coin burning as a way to use Bitcoin for escrow ("deliver the goods, or else I burn the coins that would otherwise be your payment") or document timestamping ("burn some coin to record a document's hash in the block chain").Here are some references:http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=750.0http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=645.msg7712#msg7712http://forum.bitcoin.org/?topic=2162.msg28533#msg28533The number of coins is totally arbitrary, as they can just be subdivided to the necessary level of precision. Bitcoin could function with any number of coins (even less than one, if the number of decimal places is increased).Coin loss is nothing to worry about (provided that it's not your own coins being involuntarily lost, of course). I can understand why you used cron, but it's definitely sub-optimal.When a new order arrives, there's no reason why it can't be immediately matched against the current order book, sorted in price order. This gives a correct result, and speedier trades.So I hope in your new systems you will move towards non-cron order matching. Britcoin matches bids and offers differently to how most exchanges do it. If you post a bid at MtGox, for example, it is first matched against the lowest-priced offer, then works upwards in price from there if more offers are needed to satisfy your bid.At Britcoin, it seems to work the other way. If you post a bid, it is first matched against any offer at the same price, then works downwards in price if more offers are needed to satisfy your bid. Or at least, it's something like that.So I think what can happen is that you can bid £100 (for, say, 0.01 BTC) and if there is an offer at £100 then a trade will take place and it will show up on the chart. Similarly, if you offer 0.01 BTC at £0.25 and there is a bid at that price, a trade will take place and it will show up on the chart. But this does not mean that the order book between the high and low prices was ever "worked through".Oh, and the way you enter bids and offers at Britcoin is "unusual" too. You type a number of BTC and a number of pounds (instead of a rate). So people might occasionally make a stupid mistake. If you donated bitcoins to the EFF, you gave them to the EFF to do with as they wish. Asking for them back is not reasonable. If that were their argument, the EFF would need to stop using the internet too. After all, they defend people for their use of the internet, and they wouldn't want to seem biased! Indeed.But a common convention is to write "Bitcoin" for the name of the system, and "bitcoin" or "bitcoins" for transaction amounts.So, for example, "I sent Sally ten bitcoins using the standard Bitcoin client", or "I bought a bitcoin from the MtGox Bitcoin exchange". Over https. Atlas, I can't always tell how literally to take your posts, so I'm not responding directly to this one. But I always find your posts about society to be very interesting and insightful.Anyway, my two cents' worth follows:If someone is depressed, antidepressants may not be the answer. Sometimes they don't make the person feel good enough about themselves to resolve the depression, yet they increase the person's general motivation enough that the person gets the urge to "do something" about their "crappy life".An alternative therapy is to learn to commune with nature. Take a brisk walk for an hour (four or five times per week). Perferably, a walk that takes you up and down some hills, through some woodland, and to some water. It will seem hard work and stupid and pointless at first. But stick with it for two weeks and by then you'll come to look forward to it as a way to clear your head and refocus on positive things.Of course, and even better therapy is just to share laughter with some friends. But that's not a situation that everyone can "conjure up" just like that.
Jed McCaleb (of eDonkey2000 fame) was the creator of MtGox. He operated it for a few months before selling it to the current owner (MagicalTux's corporation). Satoshi's last forum post, on 12 December 2010, included these words: Google froze my Gmail account until I revalidated it by SMS. I guess someone is trying the cracked MtGox passwords against the corresponding Gmail accounts. Luckily my passwords are both very strong, and are different. Gah, this is when having BTC is bothersome, missed out on some amazing GF apparently. At the time MtGox was started up, Jed was the person best able to do this. At the time MtGox was taken to the next level, MagicalTux was the person best placed to do this.As for the future, that will depend on how MagicalTux extricates his business from this situation. MtGox might emerge stronger than ever, or it might have blown its credibility enough that it never fully recovers.But MagicalTux, and Jed before him, were always doing stuff that was good for Bitcoin. Without them, the forum would be full of "We need a big exchange" posts. I think there's no point sending your email to their webmaster.If you want anyone to read your message (rather than deleting it along with all the Nigerian scams), print it out on paper and mail it to the Red Cross. Even assuming for the sake of discussion that such a thing is desirable, I don't think there's any kind of verification system that would be convenient enough for the masses, yet robust enough that it can't be spoofed by an agent provocateur. Here's an article from The Economist that's listed as being "from the print edition":http://www.economist.com/node/18836780Obviously it's not the "feature length" article that your friend was referring to. The guest is Jeff Garzik, who is jgarzik on this forum. The Bitcoin protocol includes a scripting facility that could be used this way: for a transaction to be spent, the usual private key would be required, plus a per-transaction user-selected password .Transaction scripting is not yet fully-implemented, but the potential is there. GetOpenID.com is shutting down after 30th June. This means you can't log in anywhere with a GetOpenID login after that date.If you've been using an OpenID from GetOpenID to login at Britcoin, Witcoin or any other site where you have a BTC balance, you need to get your coins out before the end of the month or you will lose access to them. Go for it! Patches are welcomed.If you're not a coder, you could offer a bounty instead. I don't know anyone who is selling any. So there's your opportunity, if you're still looking for a bitcoin-related business to launch. I just saw your post from 7th December 2010 which ended with the words "Where ever will this lead?".Ouch. After you send bitcoins to a public key (a "receiving address") and the transaction is confirmed into the block chain, the only way those bitcoins can be spent is with the corresponding private key.Unless you can recover that private key from a copy in disk or RAM, the BTC cannot ever be spent.In theory, if you could quickly grab the majority of the network's hashing power, you could perhaps rewrite the block chain to remove your original send, in which case the coins would be available to you again. But realistically this cannot be done without control of the largest mining pools. As 40 minutes or more has passed already, even that window is closing now.Sorry to hear about your loss. Well, no, nothing like theft is being proposed. The people proposing block chain manipulation are proposing to manipulate their copies of a block chain, i.e. to change some bytes in some blocks. Changing ones own bytes is not theft.You, and I, and the rest of Bitcoin's hashing power, are free to choose whether or not to accept the manipulated blocks, and most would not accept them.Manipulating the block chain would be a stupid thing to do, but it's not theft. He will get the hang of it eventually. Not so. See the retraction in the original article. A newbie who can't post in this forum has identified that the address your coins went to is a donation receiving address of LulzSec:http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=17386.msg223015 Namecoin should modify their software so that it can mine on the same hashes as Bitcoin. It would strengthen both projects to have the added hashing power and/or mining income.
The first time Stefan mentioned Bitcoin was at 40:15 here:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x36kWkB1CD0He mentioned it in a little more depth in the middle of one of his long shows within the last two weeks, but sorry I'm not going to watch through them all again to find the reference.And he has just released this one:Stefan Molyneux on TV: Bitcoins: digital currency of the future?http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pcchQs2YDZ0It looks like Stefan has become a convert: An exchange is simply a way to bring together willing buyers and willing sellers at mutually-acceptable prices.The notion that there is some "real, true, price" that must be "protected" by breakers is bogus. All that exists is a series of prices of trades between willing buyers and sellers, and a set of asks and bids.On the other hand, a breaker really is a manipulation of the market, because it blocks the making of mutually-acceptable trades at the market price. Yes. It doesn't have a nice GUI, but it's up-and-running, and it works. Two further thoughts, both admittedly long-shots.1. Try installing the latest version of Bitcoin and starting it with the -rescan option, just in case the BTC aren't really gone.2. Read the fine print on your household insurance policy to see whether it covers cash-like things. Might even be Satoshi  Scammers keep finding ways to empty it out. The logical address to use for examples would be the Bitcoin Faucet donation address, when it is back up. http://www.kilowattcards.com/template/index.cfm He/she might have been a cryptography-geek before his/her sex change operation. Just sayin. Standards slip when the boss is away speaking to the CIA!But seriously, thanks for the great work. Gavin is going to OneWorldTV immediately after his presentation, to be interviewed by Bruce Wagner. That suggested change would actually be a really bad move, because then the miner who generates a block could register an enormous amount of domains for themselves at effectively no cost.Namecoin's stroke of genius is destroying the coin when a new domain is registered, yet having the renewal fees going to the miners.The number of coins burned for each domain name drops exponentially over time, so there will eventually be no scarcity. This is as it should be: names are not inherently scarce; only a few specific names are highly valuable and those will be reigstered early on while the fees are higher. You can easily see the received coins by using Bitcoin Block Explorer, so it's no problem that you don't see them in the GUI on the offline computer. Last year I offered a bounty of 100 BTC for someone to compile a version of Bitcoin that worked on a 32-bit Fedora system. Satoshi won the bounty, but refused to accept payment from me, saying that he had enough coins already.Also, if you read through Satoshi's forum posts, it's obvious that he is motivated by the desire to see Bitcoin succeed rather than being motivated by greed or financial ambition. I have sent vinced the 100 BTC that I pledged. Thanks for making namecoin! One millibitcoin (a "Millie") is 0.001 BTC.One microbitcoin (a "Mike") is 0.000001 BTC.The base unit (0.00000001 BTC) is a "Satoshi".These names are unofficial but have some actual usage. I feel it would be confusing to call a "Mic" a micro-bitcent rather than a micro-bitcoin. Breakers are counter-productive. If you don't want to trade in a volatile market, just don't trade. But don't try to stop willing traders from trading. If you buy $1000 worth of Bitcoins at 50 cents each and sell them later for 75 cents each, you make exactly the same profit as if you buy $1000 worth of Bitcoins at $5 each and sell them later for $7.50 each.The logarithmic price scale makes both of these events (a rise from 50 to 75 cents, and a rise from $5 to $7.50) look similar.Without a logarithmic scale, a rise from $25.50 to $25.75 would look as significant as a rise from 50c to 75c. Accept the volatility. Just buy a little every day so that you can average your purchase price. Then sit back and ride this thing wherever it takes you. It's not like FSA registration kept the banks honest.
Nor from me. Effectively the EFF said "The best way to help us protect your online freedoms is to not use your online freedoms."And they said it without realising the irony. I'm white, male, old (over 50), intellectual, introverted. Use a calculator to multiply the price times the amount. So your 0.08 BTC at $10.50 is equivalent to $0.84. Near the top left of each forum page is a figure for "total time logged in". I'm reluctant to admit that mine says 21 days. Admittedly that's spread over almost a year. Who has the highest figure? The most important change was a fix of an overflow bug. This bug was "exploited", however the exploit failed after more than 50% of the clients switched to the bug-fixed version (0.3.9?). So you do need to backup your wallet.dat then install a recent copy of bitcoin then copy your backed-up wallet.dat over the freshly-installed empty one. Democracy is the cows in a field voting on which farmer will raise them and milk them. I would be prepared to make a significant investment into ASIC mining, but not into GPU mining anymore. This so-called "bust" is an urban legend that almost certainly didn't happen.Someone wrote an article about a blog post about an IRC chat where someone said something that supported a rumor about the situation where a minehouse could be mistaken for a growhouse.There's more evidence for the existence of so-called "gods" than for the existence of the raid being discussed here. I tried that, and Google replied "Did you mean: bitcom.org?".Tres cool! Just install OpenSSL from a tarball (from http://www.openssl.org/source/ ) instead of from the repository. You may also have to link the static libraries libssl.a and libcrypto.a into /usr/lib It wouldn't hurt for Bitcoiners to stop saying this, and to start saying "No more than 21,000,000.00000000000" will ever exist. I'll be using an untrusted computer without access to my Bitcoin wallet from late tomorrow until 13 June. So unless the donation address is published tomorrow, it will be a couple of weeks before I can send my payment. No need to panic, the coins are reserved. Ha! Stefan Molyneux actually mentioned Bitcoin at 40:15 on an interview he gave for Resistance Radio:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x36kWkB1CD0 The buyer will need to send the payment manually. He or she may be away for the weekend and not even checking emails. So it's not possible to say how long it will take.  The VAT registration threshold in the UK is currently £73,000 per year. Most money services are exempt. After all, if you go in to the bank to get change for a £10 note, you would be miffed if they charged you £12 (equal to £10 + VAT) for those coins.I have no idea how Her Majesty's Revenue & Customs would regard BTC exchange. Hate is better than obscurity for Bitcoin.If we persistently and calmly correct the haters' errors, eventually they will be the ones looking silly. The obvious person to ask is jercos, who received the payment from laszlo. I can't recall seeing him on the forum, but he has been on IRC. Even if he has been spending that money, he's highly likely to have some change transactions from it. He called you "retard"; you're entitled to make a witty riposte. Unfortunately, my Thinkpad 701 has suffered with time. When I started it up, it reported a failed CMOS battery (not surprising after 16 years) and a memory error, and took me to the self-test ROM. This showed that everything else (including the hard disk) tested OK. I then booted and got as far as the Windows 95 splash screen before it froze up.I will replace the CMOS battery and fix the memory problem and offer it for sale at BiddingPond, but it won't be for quite a while because I'm tied up with a lot of things right now. A working scientist would have known that the raw data has been corrected to correct for weather stations in warm urban locations (for decades now).
Don't worry. The part about jumping off a train was a metaphor. Bitcoin drops in value to the point where laszlo was better off with the pizzas after all. If there was an easy way to do long bets using BTC, I'd wager that PayPal will support BTC before 2020. Epii is referring to Legion's later post elsewhere, where he says he found a backup with 46,850 BTC in the old wallet. (46850+300)*446 = approximately 21000000. Impressive! It's a VGA display (640 x 480) with a 486 DX4/75 processor. It has 24MB RAM. It shipped with OS/2 and Windows 3.1 dual-boot, but has since been "upgraded" to Windows 95. I think the hard disk is about 260 MB.I have the original box and most or all of the original accessories. It was hardly ever used - maybe 15 hours total, and was in good working order when I put it into storage. I'll need to get it out again and check that it's still OK.I'd be shipping from the United Kingdom.Here's a video of a 701C showing the way the keyboard slides:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=478hsrVjVQk I have an IBM Thinkpad 701C "Butterfly" laptop. This is the laptop with the keyboard that slides out in two parts that join together into a full-size keyboard. It boots.It's from 1995, but it's quite unusual. Are you interested? First mention of Bitcoin in the print edition of a daily newspaper.First mention of Bitcoin in a public statement from a government official.Date that half of all the Bitcoins (i.e. 10.5 million) have been generated.First mention of Bitcoin in PayPal's terms and conditions, or on PayPal's policy or help pages.Google Trends shows more searches for "bitcoin" than for "dollar".First wallet-stealing virus in the wild.First Bitcoin exchange or online wallet service goes bust.Amazon accepts Bitcoins.Bitcoins become the de-facto currency in some country that's affected by hyperinflation.Bitcoin exchange rates are reported by a currency conversion site like xe.comFirst retail currency exchange outlet exchanges Bitcoins.First vending machine accepts Bitcoins.First working "wifi-for-bitcoins" scheme.Some country introduces legislation pertaining to block chains.One million .bit domain names registered.First corporation introduces a rival "currency" confusingly similar to Bitcoin.First social network site adopts Bitcoin for in-site use.First zero-configuration Bitcoin heater is commercially sold.First country modifies its tax code in response to the growth of Bitcoin.Bank makes housing loans denominated in Bitcoins.The bitcoin base unit (one satoshi) reaches parity with one US cent or one Euro cent.A paper currency circulates that is backed by bitcoins.A song that mentions Bitcoin makes it to a popular top 100 list.Bitcoins can be transferred by tweeting.An electricity supplier offers a tariff designed for Bitcoin generation.Someone's Bitcoin wallet is seized by government action.The census form asks a question about Bitcoin.The Unicode consortium designates a Bitcoin symbol.ISO designates a Bitcoin currency code.The usability of Bitcoin is interrupted by a security flaw in the standard client.A simplified client is distributed that doesn't store the whole block chain.Satoshi Nakamoto is awarded the Nobel Prize for Economics.Satoshi Nakamoto's identity is outed.The IMF steps in to "manage" Bitcoin.A major browser ships with integrated support for Bitcoin.First Bitcoin app accepted into the iPhone's app store.Oil is primarily priced in Bitcoins.The biggest Bitcoin holder is more wealthy than the biggest dollar holder. Most slashdot users can get to the site without typing it into Google first, so this is not quite as dramatic as it may seem. But here's some more good news from Google Trends:http://www.google.com/trends?q=bitcoin%2C+alpacas&ctab=0&geo=all&date=ytd&sort=0 The problem with Jed's methodology is that it will show a bubble for ANY new thing that starts with zero value but non-zero users. At some point in the adoption of the thing, it must move to its longer-term value.This kind of chart doesn't actually show whether the longer-term value is above or below the current price.Inevitably, if Bitcoin is to be successful, its price must grow faster than its rate of adoption, because its price started at nothing. We can't tell from this chart whether Bitcoin is moving towards its true longer-term value, or whether it has bubbled above it. Six months ago, fergalish did the same calculation for CPU mining. Next year, we'll probably read the same news for FPGA mining.In this case, I think you have over-estimated the rate of difficulty growth. The last couple of difficulty rises have been particularly big because of the sharp price growth during April/May. There seems to be a lag of about six weeks between price rises and difficulty rises, so I expect the difficulty will increase a bit more slowly from next month. Too much talk already. Gavin's obviously not going to start a new block chain, so go for it! We can wait a month to see your new coins. Just call it something different from Bitcoin so that you're not deceiving people, ok? It's very nice, although in my opinion Tassie should be shaded like Victoria. The second coin doesn't really work. That's what I mean. People (such as unk) who think restarts are a good idea can mine on testnet. It's not even about the money. For me, the appeal of Bitcoin is that it is based on sound principles. As others have pointed out, newcomers are free to start up their own block chain if it suits their needs. Those who like the idea of restarts might find happiness if they mine the testnet. The MtGox withdrawal limit applies equally to USD and BTC. So if you are withdrawing BTC, the maximum you can take out is $1000 worth per day (less than 200 BTC at current rates). But don't you see that, a couple of years down the track, the next wave of new users will complain about the early adopters of the restarted chain, and the block chain will need to be restarted again ... and again ... Well which is it? In developed countries, most people have used the internet, and most people have used email, but Bittorrent is a niche. A huge niche, for sure, but most people haven't used Bittorrent.In my family (7 people over 3 generations), I'm the only one who has used Bittorrent. And only for downloading Linux ISOs, not movies or music. My kids use YouTube and iTunes for music and movies. My parents and parents-in-law use CDs and DVDs, even though they use email and the web.Bitcoin will be like Bittorrent at best. I would still count that as hugely successful. At worst, Bitcoin will be like Esperanto: useful to its adherents, but not taking the world by storm. The Bitcoin project couldn't have a better spokesman than Gavin, in my opinion.Bitcoin works unbelievably smoothly and efficiently for geeks. All that needs to be done to achieve widespread success is to make it work smoothly, efficiently and safely for non-geeks.The other things that people worry about (exchange rate fluctuations, lack or merchants, etc) will all sort themselves out in the end.There's no hurry for Bitcoin to grow quickly. Provided it keeps growing slowly, it will get there. Much worse would be quick growth followed by a massive setback due to (e.g.) a wallet-stealing virus. bbb.bit and bbbb.bit are available! People use Bitcoin because it works well, not because they have been bribed to use it.Anyway, there are no "new signups" because you don't sign up.
You, sir, are one of the early adopters, along with everyone else who is already here. Not even one-third of the bitcoins have been mined so far.Also, remember that that the earliest adopters could only mine with CPU. Today the CPU is 50 times slower than a decent GPU, but back then the CPU mining code was less efficient than it is today, maybe 100 times slower than a GPU.Also, the earliest adopters spent their time or their bitcoins making the system workable. Today, people can get a GPU and just start mining, but it wasn't always so. The bounty for the first open source GPU mining code was 10,000 BTC, paid by one of the earliest adopters, but you can use that code for free! This forum, with its easy-on-the-eye theme, is so easy to read. Who wants glitz? Luke's name and reputation are clear already. The press in the UK has been reporting many people who have "come out of the woodwork" to tell about similar experiences with him in the past. and Microsoft too ... as the actress said to the Bishop!  I added you to the list. Feel free to supply a more accurate figure. You guys crack me up. It's pretty-much a law of disruptive technologies that they fail if they try to do too many things at once.If you want the public to use a new money system, you can't also expect them to use an unfamiliar system of numbers. That would restrict the target users to the intersection of those who are interested in new money systems, and those who are interested in unfamiliar numbering systems.The fact that the general public doesn't use scientific notation anywhere else, suggests that they won't want a money system that adopts it.So, if you want BTC to succeed, scientific notation is out. Tonal notation is out. Greek suffixes are out. The SI (metric) prefixes (milli, micro etc) I think are OK. They are already familiar to most of the world's population, and even the 'Merkins will get the hang of them eventually. Namecoin lets you register your own name in the .bit top-level domain. For example, you could register dikidera.bitFor browsers to be able to see .bit domains, they must have their DNS settings changed. It's easy enough to do. Of course there needs to be a DNS server somewhere that will serve these domains, but that's not a problem.Like Bitcoin, the Namecoin system is peer-to-peer and can't easily be shut down.In addition to registering domain names, you can be a namecoin miner. This is vaguely analogous to being a domain name registrar, in that you can charge fees for mining the blocks that contain people's domain name registrations and renewals. True. But it's also true that Average payout minus 3% both when the difficulty was 25 000 and when it is 250 000 loses significantly compared to good luck when it was 25 000 and an unlucky streak when it is 250 000.If you want to maximize your expected profits, mine solo. If you value predictability and dislike variance, mine pooled and forfeit the pool fees. I paid in advance for a Bitcoin pinback from divergenta. I received a torn envelope in the post, and the pinback had fallen out. Divergenta cheerfully sent a replacement which arrived well-packed. The product looks great. I received mine today, and it looks great!The third photo in the original post gives the best impression of how it looks, but the "graininess" is due to the photo and is not how the real item looks.The "pinback" is what I would call a badge. There is a simple safety-pin clip at the back.The logo is distinctive, yet the badge is small enough to look discrete. It's ideal for Bitcoin meetups, or in-person exchanges. The finish is professional. It doesn't look at all amateurish or home-made. That might be true for current users. Future users won't want anything more complicated than "I want this transaction to be confirmed (a) in about an hour, or (b) in about a day."Or even better, just a checkbox labelled "Priority transaction (fee applies)". If you have good luck in your solo mining early on, the pools will probably never catch up.The way hashing works, there's never any "catching up". All there is, is the probability that the next hash might be a winning one.With solo mining, you occasionally get a block of 50 coins. Or a little more, occasionally, with fees. With pooled mining and a 2% fee, your expectation would be to get 49 coins, on average, in that same timespan.That applies no matter what the timespan is; no matter what difficulty-changes there are; and even whether you are CPU mining. I'm solo mining and haven't found a block since 17 April, and I can understand the temptation to join a pool.But in the long run, one will always make a little more by solo mining than by joining any pool that charges fees. The chart is cropped for efficiency, I presume. It takes about 10 seconds to plot on my phone, so I wouldn't want it to have any more data points.And the way-out bids and offers don't mean much, because they inevitably disappear before the price gets anywhere near them.They would be interesting though, because they would reveal how many coins and dollars are held by MtGox. Thanks for clarifying, vinced. If the fees can be arbitrarily small, then the 21 million limit is not a problem. And the block size can be increased as necessary. I no longer have any reservations.The design is better than I had initially thought, and the business model seems sound and sustainable too. I wonder if theymos still has reservations following these clarifications.Anyway, I'm totally happy and ready to pay my bounty. Namecoin is a great project! If he was English, his lawyer would have obtained a superinjunction so that most people would never have heard about it. So you'll need to assemble the list based on supposition (like The Times newspaper does for their "Rich List") and let people correct your suppositions if they wish. Here are a few wild guesses to get you started:satoshi: 500,000artforz: 400,000knightmb: 372,000Legion: 46,850 (claimed here)happyland 14,000 (claimed here)vladimir: 2100atlas: 1500uukgoblin: 1000 (offered for sale at #bitcoin-otc)kiba: 100Joseph: 0.13 If proof exists, then it's not supernatural anymore. So it makes no sense to say that one can be swayed by proof to believe in the supernatural.Atheist: someone who believes in stuff that's true.Theist: someone who believes in something supernatural based on their faith that it's true.All the atheists I know would believe in any god for which proof existed. They've just never seen any proof, nor do they have any reason to suppose that such proof exists. No. You collect transaction fees, if any, when you generate the block. Instead of getting 50 bitcoins for the block, you will occasionally see that you got, say, 50.2 bitcoins because the block you generated included someone's very large or very small transactions.
I'm not sure I understand the instructions. Are you suggesting that the person announces their balance here, then moves it to 5 other addresses so that they can post links to Bitcoin Block Explorer as evidence?Apart from the fact that few people would go to that much trouble, there is the downside that by consolidating your coins you link their histories together. Not everyone will want this.Atlas, why don't you show your own wealth? If no-one else shows theirs, you will be permanently ranked Richest Bitcoiner #1. Mt Gox used to accept PayPal for transfers in and transfers out. But PayPal froze their account after scammers bought Bitcoins with stolen PayPal accounts. Maximum freedom allows people a greater range of positive, fulfilling ways to live their lives. Minimum freedom leads to desperation, and more people do evil stuff.Anyway, the original poster asked "How could we prevent this without governments?". I ask, how could we prevent this with governments? Yep. Two categories ought to be enough:1. Do you believe things for which you have sound evidence?2. Do you believe things for which you do not have sound evidence? And convince Tycho and Slush not to conspire with each other  Of course he's supporting Bitcoin. He means that the project is dangerous to governments and central banks. Enough vague speculation. Here is Satoshi's actual answer: Wei Dai's home page is here.Nick Szabo's home page is here.Satoshi Nakamoto's home page is here. I agree with you, Jed, that comparing Bitcoin to familiar things such as PayPal is the most productive option.But I can't bring myself to tell people "Bitcoin is a free paypal that anyone can use" when Bitcoin isn't always free to use. And I can't think of an honest slogan that's as catchy as your slogan. Luke-jr already accepts non-standard transactions and mines them into blocks, if you include a fee of 0.00004096 bitcoins per 512 bytes, and connect your (modified) client to his node using "-addnode=nat.router.dashjr.org". It may be a "pump-and-dump". The perpetrator buys some bitcoins, then spams the internet with bitcoin-promotion in the hope of making the price rise before selling out. BiddingPond is by far the best way for a newcomer to get some Bitcoins, beyond the 0.02 they can get from the faucet. Thank you khal for your response. I've updated my previous post to reflect your clarifications. The points that are still unclear for me are:1. Does the block reward stay at 50 coins, or does it reduce over time.2. Is there a 21 million limit for generated namecoins.3. The "special 0.01NC that is sent to you and reserved" is the coin that represents the domain name, right? It sits in your NC wallet but can never be spent, even if you let the domain name lapse, right? Where does this unspendable coin come from: the domain reservation, the first update, the renewal, or all of these? The MIT license is compatible with all the major open source licenses. So you can re-use Bitcoin's code in your project, whether your project is GPL, BSD, Apache, MPL, Perl Artistic License, etc. If the main Bitcoin client was GPL, it would not be possible to re-use the code in some open source projects.If you think that Bitcoin should be under the GPL, you can do that. Just take the code and re-license it as a GPL project. The MIT license is free enough that you can do that. Call your version "Bitcoin GPL edition" or something, so that there's no confusion.I understand the philosophical reasons why many people prefer their projects to be copyleft. But there might not be a big enough ecosystem to sustain a GPL Bitcoin. You can try it though with your GPL edition. Watts are a unit of power, which is the rate of consumption of energy. Energy is measured in either kilowatt-hours (one kW-h is 1000 watts being consumed for an hour), or Joules (one Joule is one watt being consumed for one second, so one kW-h is 3600000 Joules).If 160 Watts will (on average) generate one bitcoin each 24 hours, then the creation of each bitcoin uses 3.84 kW-h (0.16 * 24) or 13.824 Megajoules. That's about a dollar's worth of electricity where I live.The target is for 7200 new bitcoins to be mined each day, which would require 27.648 MW-h (Megawatt-hours) or 99532.8 Megajoules (which is approximately 100 Gigajoules).At the target of 7200 coins per day, the power consumption of the Bitcoin network would therefore be 1.152 Megawatts (i.e. 7200 times 160 watts).At the moment the Bitcoin network is running about 60% above the target generation rate, so the total power consumption would be proportionally higher. I don't get it. If he thinks it's wrong to endorse Bitcoin for profit, why would he want to visit #bitcoin-otc?Anyway, he received 360 BTC in donations (about $2800 at the current MtGox rate). "Bitcoins are super-convenient barter tokens for the internet" Vinced estimated a maximum of 30 million names. It seems that this is limited by block size, which can be increased.So let's see if Namecoin scales reasonably. I haven't used Namecoin, so please correct me if I've misunderstood anything. I'm just looking at Namecoin from the point of view of "do I feel satisfied paying out my bounty?".Here is my understanding (edited to reflect replies up to 17 May). Please correct any errors:1. 50 namecoins are generated with every block.2. The block target time is 10 minutes.3. Generation difficulty scales the same way as Bitcoin.4. The number of namecoins per block doesn't decrease. It's 50 forever.5. There is no 21-million limit to the number of namecoins generated.6. To reserve a domain costs 0.01 NC plus mining fees, so there is a hard limit of 720000 new names per day, but in practice the limit will be much lower because not all namecoins are used to reserve domains.7. To activate a domain costs an amount that started at 50 NC but halves every two months, down to a minimum of 0.01NC plus mining fees. So after about two years, the activation cost (cost of "first update") will be as low as the renewal cost ("name update").8. The renewal cost is 0.01 NC plus mining fees, at least once every 12000 blocks. In practice a figure of twice per 12000 blocks seems realistic, to allow for DNS changes and also for people to renew before the 12000-block deadline to avoid the risk of losing their domain names.9. The mining fees are kept by the miner who generates the block containing the transaction. The 0.01NC fee to reserve a domain is sent back to you in the form of an unspendable coin that represents the reserved domain. The "first update" and "name update" fees are burned.If these points can be confirmed or corrected, I'll have a better feel for namecoin's scalability.(PS: Kiba: chaord's bounty had an expiry date, so the total bounty is lower than your figure.) ...and bitcoins are divisible. A quarter of a domain name isn't much use to anyone. That would be nice. But mainly I just want it to not be shut down.
Hutt River Province in West Australia has been going 40 years and is an excellent candidate for this, although it is hard to forgive them that their website is "best viewed on IE 5.5 or better with popups enabled". Those are not the only two options. There's also the possibility to "fess up" to the community that he promised what he couldn't deliver, be transparent about the situation, and work with the community to resolve the problem as far as is possible.Madhatter had an outstanding reputation here, and he needs to come clean with the community to have any chance of rebuilding his reputation. My pledge still stands, but I must say I'm terribly uneasy about the fixed limit on the total eventual domain names. That pretty much guarantees that namecoin won't take over the world's DNS registration.Other than that, I think namecoin is great!I'll pay up, reluctantly but cheerfully, if bounties are being collected at this time, but I'll be much happier if the limit on total domain names can be removed. The price differences between the various exchanges can be quite big, so there's certainly an arbitrage opportunity. But the potential for profit is not as great as it may seem at first glance.Apart from MtGox, the exchanges have very low volume. Usually you can't buy or sell many coins at these smaller exchanges without moving the price a lot. So the profit potential of arbitrage is not that high. Your client doesn't boast "hey, I generated this block", it just says "here's a block, accept it if it meets your criteria". The other nodes don't know whether you generated the block, or whether you're just passing it on from somewhere else. Nope. Holding, and will buy more if I get some more funds. You hedge your own position by buying the coins when you guarantee the price. Well a single big seller did take the price down to 7.4But just over 24 hours ago a single big seller took the price down to 6.51 (see the MtGox 48 hour chart). Looks like a general uptrend to me.It's back to 8.55 now anyway. Use base units. A million of those equals 0.01 BTC. You're over-thinking this. Here's how it is:1. Someone else wanted your coins more than they wanted their Euros.2. You wanted someone else's Euros more than you wanted your coins.3. No-one held a gun to anyone's head.4. You're both better off, because you traded.Why sweat the meta stuff? I still think the most likely is that a browser window was left unattended while logged in. That's from the "Semi-automated Bitcoin purchase" page, so perhaps it is supposed to say "...I am unable of offer locked in trades at this time...".For those who paid the fee for the locked-in trade before the order process was changed, well of course there is an ethical duty for Bitcoin4cash to honor the locked-in price.I await madhatter's response. I've had good dealings with him in the past. ...and enemies of Fannie and Freddie. I would expect volume to be lower on the weekend, with less new money flowing in to MtGox. Mt Gox price increases have generally been volume driven, so no great surprise here. Wait till after Monday's trading to decide what's happening. Correct. Dollar parity is news for nerds, because it shows that digital codes can be traded for real money. It's a symbolic milestone.Any specific rate, such as $8.50 or $10, is interesting to Bitcoiners but not to Slashdot readers.Pizza Parity might work though. Say $25.Island parity would definitely make Slashdot. The "superduper service" you provide is to generate coins for others. Not everyone wants to purchase, configure and maintain a mining rig, or has the knowledge to do so. The "extra 2-5 EUR" comes from the pockets of those who would rather buy than mine.They originally gained that 2-5 EUR outside the bitcoin economy, and they pay it to you. Unless you use it to buy bitcoins, you in turn spend that money outside the bitcoin economy. So it flows in then out. Those who bought the coins from you now have coins instead of whatever else they would have bought. You, on the other hand, now have whatever you spent your Euros on, instead of your generated coins.That all sounds fair and reasonable to me. Millies, as a friendly form of millibitcoins.I like it because it goes with Mikes, a friendly form of microbitcoins, and someone is sure to do a nice logo of Millie and Mike. Yep. ASIC miners, because of their power efficiency relative to GPU miners, are sure to take over eventually. The Nixie tacho is so cool. I have a hunch that someone will start making new Nixie tubes again one day.I don't suppose you have any experience with ASIC design? That would sure be useful to bitcoiners. I don't count as a geek then. I use a Pirate keyboard.
Not quite. Fiat currencies do have governments and central banks behind them. Not everyone counts that as a "good" thing, however.The "actual economy" is economic activity, i.e. people doing useful stuff. Economic activity isn't somehow "behind fiat", just because it makes use of fiat currency for much of its trading. If a better trading currency comes along, the economic activity will switch to the better trading currency without missing a beat. Please define "geek".Is a geek someone who runs Linux by choice? Or do they have to live in the basement and rarely emerge? Do geeks need to be in their teens and twenties, or can someone in their 50s or 60s be a geek? I suggest you courteously invite the Madhatter to respond here. He doesn't systematically monitor the forum. As presented here, it doesn't look good. Surely he would have hedged his locked-in deals? If 50% of the hashing power agreed (which they would), the new block chain would be initialized to include all the transactions from the old block chain prior to the breakage of SHA256. Especially for a business based on writing, the introductory post should be comprehensible. You must be new here. Theymos tells how surprised he was that he was able to sell bitcoins that he generated on his computer for $0.003 (three tenths of a cent) each (in quantities of 10,000). Here's an angle I haven't seen discussed. I may be misinterpreting this, in which case someone please put me straight. The Russian-English sometimes makes it hard for me to understand.At the top of this thread, bitcoinex said:My English interpretation is: "Dammit, I resent having to pay people (for work done) with Bitcoins! Confess that you (i.e. MtGox) are fixing the exchange rate!"Perhaps bitcoinex contracted with someone to do some work, and set a price in BTC (e.g. 100BTC per week). It's now costing too much to buy the BTC to pay for the work being done.A bit later in this thread:Interpretation: "I like the idea of Bitcoin as a means of payment, but now I have to pay three times as much (because of the rate increase). These jumps (in the exchange rate) are a black mark against the use of Bitcoin as a means of payment."Perhaps bitcoinex is financially desperate due to the three-times increase in his costs (measured in fiat), and he can't meet the payments due.MagicalTux said that the ransom demand associated with the DDOS asked for two things: a sum of money, and for the MtGox exchange rate to be reduced. Now who might want those two particular things?Then bitcoinex's exchange stops paying out, but for a short time keeps accepting deposits. These things make one wonder.I'm not making any kind of allegation here. I'm just painting how the material already out there already looks, and inviting bitcoinex to clear his name. One useful metric would be the number of newcomers getting involved with Bitcoin. As long as the rate of newcomers keeps increasing, there won't be a big pop. I don't know how one would estimate the number of new users. I predict it's going to fall all the way to $10 by Monday then eventually $100.As epii says, you can't pick the peak till after it has happened, because exponential curves have the same shape at all parts. He doesn't really analyse the bubble at all. He doesn't provide any insight as to what he thinks the value of a bitcoin should be. He just makes a lot of derogatory comments about things he is not comfortable with (such as unregulated exchanges). Except ... the person who believes they will be raptured must bet that the rapture will not happen by X date, for this to work.And who is going to bet against them? There's nothing in it for the person who bets that rapture will happen. I'm sure one or two of the big guys are already slowly cashing out.Most of us here are either buying or holding. All the new people arriving are buying, and who is the counterparty? It's the big guys, I think. Income isn't something handed to people by fiat. Income is something people get by working. And even in poor countries there are some jobs that you can do which don't require capital.So you could work even harder than you otherwise would have to, and live even more frugally than you otherwise would have to, and save the difference as bitcoins. Providing for a better future.I'm not saying it's easy. Just that it's desirable, and for many people is possible. So probably a 10BTC transaction was the input, and the change of 0.00999999 incurred the fee. Money doesn't grow on trees...     Oh yes it does!But actually I prefer this one, even though it doesn't exactly meet your criteria:Money grows on trees...     Merkle trees! Much better to promote Bitcoin in the third world as a system for micro-savings rather than micro-borrowings. 1. Change the documentation to use "/msg gribble" for e.g. gpg eauth/everify. Lots of new IRC users don't know how to do it this way (nor did I until a few days ago).2. Make some of gribble's responses more compact so that they're more likely to fit on one line. I ask myself that question every day, believe me.It's a bit different when you're married with kids; you can't take so many risks with the family money. That would slow the growth of Bitcoin a bit, but not to a halt. People would still generate the same number of new bitcoins each day (the difficulty adjustment takes care of that), and they're going to do something with those coins. Those who generate the bitcoins would trade them within an ever-increasing group of Bitcoin users. I think Bitcoin is already at critical mass and would cope with exchanges being made illegal. But buy the physical metal, not some paper derivative.
Yes I think you have nailed it. In the long run, miners with the lowest electricity cost per hash are always going to be profitable. Other miners will experience good and bad times. I think SgtSpike is suggesting that the Russian-language users are being counted under the country of their Tor exit nodes. That's a non-starter. Every published price would need to say something like "43 Bitcoins (in Bitcoin-7 notation)". And yet the top language is Russian? Those stats don't look very sound... I think the secret to success will be to develop and evolve the business very quickly. Faster than the authorities can decide that it is non-compliant. One millibitcoin ("one Millie") is 0.001 BTC or 1 mBTC.One microbitcoin ("one Mike") is 0.000001 BTC or 1 µBTC.One satoshi is 0.00000001 BTC or one base unit (or 10 nBTC). Dear Randolph Munroe,Could you please check that my donation is recorded in your donators database? My name isRobert');INSERT INTO Paymentsdue VALUES (1Jm579LtDT9NmjwiuDYHiZsQNq4ERz1b5S, BTC10000);Kthxbyehttp://xkcd.com/327/ Here's an interesting business idea.Suppose your pizzas are priced at $25. You could sell them now for $25 worth of bitcoins (say 5 BTC), then give the customer a full refund (i.e. $25 worth of bitcoins) in 12 months.If the value of BTC doubles in that time, you have made a profit, and your customers have received free pizzas. Win-win!(I'm sure you'd have no trouble hedging against any loss on #bitcoin-otc). Indeed! The "carrot" in-joke was brilliant.I'd like to nominate this one for "Human Bitcoin Video" competition:"Bitcoin for dummies Part 1 of Many!"http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BU7_FmGp2N4There are no hot chicks, but it contains priceless gems such as "Forget about how it works. It's just another currency ... don't try to over-think it". That guy is bringing Bitcoin to a new audience. I also love how he posted a plea to "Donate if you know how". The viability of mining basically boils down to this:Price increases faster than difficulty => profit!Difficulty increases faster than price => ruin. In-Q-Tel (the firm that invited Gavin to speak at this technical conference) funds the development of new technology that could solve the CIA's "pressing problems". For example, In-Q-Tel funded Keyhole Inc. to develop what is now Google Earth. In-Q-Tel isn't in the business of getting people to conferences to talk about stuff so that it can be "taken down".As ShadowOfHarbringer says, Bitcoin is open source and cannot be easily subverted by an intelligence agency. And the CIA won't be bending Gavin's arm or threatening his family or anything like that.But what In-Q-Tel could do is to invest in a startup that is doing Bitcoin-related stuff that is interesting or useful to them. For example, developing (secret) customised versions of the Bitcoin client, or developing other tools to interface with the Bitcoin infrastructure, or developing super-efficient Bitcoin mining hardware. There's a possibility that the Bitcoin value will be much higher by January.When I bought my 5870 GPU card six months ago it could get a block every couple of days. But the difficulty rose very quickly, and now it only mines one block every 25 days on average. But Bitcoins were worth $0.25 when I bought the card and now they're worth 20 times as much. Provided the Bitcoin price holds, my GPU card is actually more profitable now than it was six months ago. I only type 85wpm, but I am actually accurate! Here's how it scales automatically:If blocks are getting full, people pay higher fees to get their transactions in the block. Increased mining profitability causes increased mining which causes increased difficulty. Here's something interesting.Take a look at the "Mt Gox All Time Chart" with the "Show Volume" option. Look at the bottom of the orange dots over the past few weeks:The daily volume varies a lot, but even on quiet days it has been around a minimum of 3000 BTC. Then suddenly in April there's a step jump up to a minimum of around 13000 BTC. And this is when the price started to rise rapidly.My hypothesis is that a single buyer wants a lot of bitcoins, and has started buying exactly 10,000 coins per day since then. When that buyer has enough coins, the upwards pressure will be removed.At that time, one of two things will happen. If there has been enough growth of interest in Bitcoin in the meantime, the price will continue to increase but at a slower rate. Otherwise, there will be some price reduction.As we don't know how many coins this buyer wants, it's impossible to predict when they will stop buying. But I will certainly be on the lookout for a reduction in the daily volume on the quiet days. What? Difficulty will be above one million real soon now. Two to three months probably.Why risk compatibility with existing software, just for the sake of a minor tweak that will only be relevant for the next two or three months? Here's an idea that might be dismissed as stupid-simple, but sometimes stupid-simple ideas work really well.How about: The maximum block size equals the higher of: (a) the current hard-coded maximum block size, and (b) 'difficulty' bytes. No, that's not how it works. All that counts towards your success is the current difficulty and your own hash rate. The hash rates of other miners affect how many blocks per hour are found in total (and affect the next difficulty update), but they don't affect how many blocks you find. This is Luke-Jr's Eligius pool isn't it? This pool "will only include transactions in its blocks if the sender pays a fee of at least 0.00004096 BTC per 512 bytes".I approve of Luke's fee. It's small enough to encourage experimenting with micropayments. It's small enough not to matter for big payments. And non-standard transactions are accepted, which allows experimentation with interesting stuff. And Luke's pool is small enough that people who want free transactions can still get them. If someone releases a work as PD in a country that does support it, that's compatible with CC0. You are free to relicense your redistribution of the PD work as CC0 (because the work is already PD, you can do anything you like with it). So the use of PD (where available) is never a problem.
Gribble, the IRC bot on #bitcoin-otc, already has a nice syntax for doing this and more. It's a free market. You can choose to buy and sell at the market price, or to not buy and sell.So-called "malicious investors" just give you more opportunities to make your buy/sell/hold decisions. I saw a comment from someone who didn't know the participants. The comment asked "Who's the Star Trek guy and who's the Terrorist?" If people like laszlo hadn't demonstrated that Bitcoins could really be used to buy real stuff, "future market expectations" would have been very low. It was an essential part of bootstrapping the currency.A new currency can't reach the point of being valued at $6 per coin, without passing through the intermediate point where it is valued at 10000 coins for a couple of pizzas. What's the current failure mode? What happens if the existing Bitcoin client encounters an over-long block? One problem with even the most wonderful islands is that they can be lonely places to live, and they usually have no internet connectivity except slow and expensive satellite.It Bitcoin hits $1000, I will try to attract a small group of freedom-loving Bitcoiners to buy an island that's big enough for us all, and on which we can install high-speed internet. Max Keiser next? Well done both of you. Jason was very enthusiastic.And Genjix, do you really pronounce it "M. T. Gox" rather than "Mount Gox"? The guy on the right is Genjix. Suppose difficulty increases by 40% every 10 days. Then in each successive 10-day period your rig will mine this many coins:190 + 137 + 98 + 70 + 50 + 36 + 25 + 18 + 13 + 9 + 7 + 5 + 3 + 2 + ...After 140 days you will only have mined 663 coins, and they'll be coming in mighty slowly after that and you would never reach 1000.Having said that, I did a similar calculation when I bought my 5870 in November last year, and I thought that it would never earn back its cost. Luckily, the difficulty increase turned out to be much lower than I had anticipated in the weeks after I bought the GPU card, and it turned out to be a good purchase.But recently the difficulty seems to be increasing faster again. The "receiving address" is public. The thing you must save and encrypt is the wallet.dat file. @djoot: My philosophy in life is to not spend time worrying about unprovable conjectures that have minor consequences.2016-block retargeting intervals are probably suboptimal. But so what? People keep mining regardless.Don't worry, be happy. His current donation address seems to have received 329 BTC (over all time). When a payment is sent to an address, the network doesn't care whose address it is. So it doesn't matter if that Bitcoin node has not been online since the address was created. Later, when the owner of that receiving address spends the coins, the network confirms that the spender used the correct private key corresponding to that receiving address. No-one else has that private key (unless your wallet.dat file has been stolen), nor can a private key be generated from a public key. You guys do know that Bruce is Satoshi, don't you? Yesterday the difficulty went up by 50%, and there was no sudden change in the mining power. I think the miners would easily adapt to the block reward change, which is in some ways similar to a 100% increase in difficulty. It doesn't work that way. Each hash is a completely new attempt. If your average time to find a block is (say) 23 days, and you haven't found a block in 22 days, your average time to find a block is still another 23 days from that point onwards.The average still holds, because sometimes you will find a block in less than 23 days.But any work you've done without finding a block has already "gone to waste". You don't work your way towards some solution. Instead, millions of times each second, you throw away the previous work and try another solution to see if it's a good one. If the fee is realistic, the transaction value shouldn't matter (because it doesn't affect the processing costs).Why not 0.001 BTC regardless of transaction value?This fee has the advantage that it is one millibitcoin, and so can introduce users to this term. "Five hundred microbitcoins" is a little less simple. Exponential shrinkage is what would make me nervous . . . Every time I send coins to MtGox, I wonder why MtGox makes me say how many coins I'm going to send. Why not just give me the address, and credit my account with however many coins arrive at that address?
(a)  I don't see an acknowledgement that the generation difficulty will increase greatly during that time, and that your projection relies on speculating that the BTC price will go up proportionally.(b) I don't see the price of electricity in there. Oh, you get free electricity in your college dorm. For 60 computers?(c) If you live in a hot place, even one mining PC will make the room too hot in summer. Lachesis has provided the details it in this post.Llama agrees in this post.What lachesis and llama call "target" is Bitcoin's hashing difficulty factor (currently 109670 but due to increase in the next day or so). The Eligius pool will put non-standard transactions into its blocks for a small fee. You also need to run a modified Bitcoin client to generate those non-standard transactions. "The perfect is the enemy of the good".There are some parts of Bitcoin that are not everyone's idea of perfect. And yet, those things are part of what Bitcoin is. The cost of fiddling around with those things is very high, and the benefit is low (even if you think the current design is suboptimal) to zero (if you don't think there's a problem).At the same time, there are real, substantial problems that are far more deserving of people's energy. Such as: how can non-technical Bitcoin users keep their wallet safe? On the day before the reward decreases from 50 to 25, there will be approx 7200 new coins generated out of a total of 10.5 million. Less than 0.08% extra. On the following day there will be approx 3600 new coins generated out of a total of 10.5 million. Less than 0.04% extra.The change from 0.08% to 0.04% per day won't upset the markets, and the miners will have known about the coming change for ages, and will have factored it into their plans and budgets.This is not something to sweat about. The purpose of the Marketplace sub-forum is for stuff like this. I'd like to see a Bitcoin installation for the Ben NanoNote, a cheap and ultra-small piece of Linux hardware that includes a tiny keyboard and a 320x240 display. Everything is open and readily hackable.You could carry your Bitcoin wallet in your pocket. If theymos could somehow get -3, it's proof that the ratings are broken. Don't worry about it. We're all getting mystery negatives. No-one is going to think bad of you for it. Eh? PayPal takes over a month before a transaction is genuinely confirmed. Is this the same mechanism as used by Fedora's SELinux (security enhanced linux)? The forum has a setting to allow only "+" ratings not "-". That would remove a lot of the objections to the rating system. There's nothing at all wrong with S3052 holding coins, even if it's more than "a few". I just prefer to see it out in the open, that's all.If S3052 had chosen to respond "none of your business", that would have been OK too. You have a financial interest in the market's response to your Technical Analysis, I presume. I mean, you're not a disinterested outsider, are you? Miners know that the decrease will be coming, and will factor that into their plans. Predictable events don't cause problems for markets. MagicalTux, the owner of MtGox, has repeatedly made it clear that serious traders can make arrangements with him for a higher limit. Clearly the fee system is suboptimal if one can reduce fees by workarounds that increase system overhead. That's no big deal. A few well-known mirrors (e.g. www.bitcoinwatch.com ) can get themselves whitelisted and can proxy the MtGox pricing information for everyone else. Or they can put it into a form that's hard to DDOS (such as Usenet NNTP). How about: send 0.1 BTC to MtGox for your IP address to be whitelisted for an hour. All whitelist payments would be deducted from your MtGox exchange fees, so this would not cost genuine traders anything. Technical analysis means absolutely nothing without a liquid exchange.
There aren't very many comments, compared to the suggestions that are in first and second position.As the show's writers will probably read the comments to get their initial orientation to bitcoin, it would be a good idea if people post short comments containing a positive fact about Bitcoin. For example "Bitcoin is great because I can make payments anywhere in the world, usually for free." I think the term nanobitcoins is a good one, but it should not be used unless/until the base unit of Bitcoin is made smaller. Otherwise, there will be a regular new FAQ: "I want to send someone a nanobitcoin but the system won't let me". I just don't understand the attraction of "bit".The name of the system, "namecoin", doesn't allude to "bit". The general public don't have a clue about "bit".And yet, in this poll ".bit" is overwhelmingly preferred to ".web". Anyone like to venture an opinion why? Occupational hazards of Bitcoin mining:1. Burns from overclocked GPUs or overloaded power supplies2. Cuts during insertion and removal of GPU cards or disassembly of cases3. RSI from continually hitting F54. Hearing loss from high ambient noise level5. Fingers caught in cooling fans6. Severe depression following price drops7. Torture by the CIA8. Assault by spouses after spending the family savings on mining rigsIt's a dangerous business. There's no ambiguity at the beginning of a sentence, because the technology is singular ("Bitcoin is a fascinating technology") and the currency is normally plural ("Bitcoins are building up in my wallet"). In the case where the currency is singular ("one bitcoin") the word doesn't appear at the beginning of a sentence. As soon as the minimum fee-free transaction size drops to a millie, I think this unit will become widely used. And the minimum fee-free size does need to drop, if only so that the Bitcoin Faucet won't run dry so easily. I had a go at adding Bitcoin to Wiktionary, but for product names they want to see three independent uses spanning three years. Soon that will be possible. I sent 10 BTC.I would never have bothered to donate to them if I needed to send a check or pay by credit card, but with Bitcoin I've donated to many organizations that would never have gotten a penny from me otherwise. In Satoshi's original paper he used the style Bitcoin.http://www.bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf Suppose the MtGox price had plummeted and your BTC had become worthless. Would you have been entitled to a tax deduction for your losses? If not, it hardly seems fair for you to be taxed on your gains. Here's the FSF's non-blog Donate page, listing their Bitcoin address:https://my.fsf.org/donate/other/ Correct. There's nothing new to backup after someone sends payment to your receiving address, because it goes into the block chain and not to your computer. Just let your cat accept the T&C. It's just you, doood. In case of doubt, you can always check the chart athttp://www.bitcoinmonitor.com/which shows 10 blocks solved in the last hour. Some of the miners will also be retailers or exchangers, and will have an interest in getting transactions into blocks. According to bitcoin.org, the email address you should forward is that for the "Press mailing list for presentation and interview requests", which is bitcoin-press at lists dot sourceforge.net By that line of reasoning, why say 100 Bitcents when you can say 100000000 Satoshis instead? I don't think so. Google stock sells just fine for hundreds of dollars. You could try an experiment over at #bitcoin-otc if you like. 1.02 - One bitcoin and two bitcents0.001 - One millibitcoin (nickname "one Millie")0.000001 - One microbitcoin (nickname "one Mike")0.00000001 - The bitcoin base unit (nickname "one Satoshi")Nothing is official. Half of those searches for "Liberty Reserve" were probably by people trying to fund their MtGox account.
This shouldn't be a practical problem with Bitcoin's 10-minute target block rate.The pooled mining operators already have access to "lesser difficulty" solutions and could easily contribute those to the adjunct network, in return for whatever reward the adjunct network provides. Yes. What I see happening is that the first batch of Bitcoin retailers will mostly be selling high-margin products where the volatility of Bitcoin from week-to-week is not such a problem.Over time, the value of Bitcoin may become more stable. But even if it doesn't, things will get easier for retailers because they will be able to pay some of their suppliers using Bitcoin (which makes volatility much less relevant). No doubt there will also be enterprising bitcoiners who start providing hedging services tailored to the needs of retailers. I would like to see a tool that could split one wallet into two. One of the new wallets would contain all generated coins, and the other new wallet would contain everything else. Some decades ago I knew a guy who operated a pirate radio station. He attached a mailbox to the wall of a derelict house, and it worked perfectly for many years as an anonymous mailing address. So, effectively, Belgian law requires any retailer who accepts Bitcoin as payment, to provide no-charge 7-day Bitcoin call options. The law is probably the same throughout the European Union. Indeed Bitcoin may result in a much higher velocity of money than we are accustomed to. It's possible that, with Bitcoin, an employer could pay an employee every hour instead of every week (for example). And a store could pay their suppliers "item by item" instead of monthly.But no matter how high the velocity of money, you still need a "float" so that you can buy a single item at once. The figures I used ($50 to $500) are just high enough that you could buy something like a TV or an air ticket from your wallet (rather than needing to use a credit card).As I said though, it's "just playing with numbers". There are so many variables that no-one can predict accurately where the value of a bitcoin will end up. For a miner to "get a free lunch" by mining another block chain simultaneously with Bitcoin, that other chain must be designed for this purpose, by incorporating an extra field that will make the hashing problem the same as the one being solved for the Bitcoin chain.Also, if the other chain has a different difficulty level, you will get different numbers of blocks mined on the two chains. The name of the project is Bitcoin (with initial capital), and the currency units are bitcoins (without initial capital). It cancels out. Miners set their prices based on the average customer. If some customers are paying "unnecessarily large fees", the miners can still be profitable with some customers paying smaller fees than they would otherwise be required to pay. OK, so let's play with some numbers on that basis.Suppose that 21 million people around the world end up using Bitcoin. Each of them uses it for say 10% of their shopping. Suppose their Bitcoin "float" from paycheck-to-paycheck is $100. Then each Bitcoin will be worth $100.Suppose that 2.1 million people end up using bitcoin, and each of them only uses it in a very small way (a float of value $50). Each bitcoin only needs to be worth $5 to support this. But if those people also use Bitcoin to stash away savings worth $5000, then each bitcoin needs to be worth $505.Suppose that 210 million people end up using Bitcoin, with a float of $500 and savings of $10,000. Then each Bitcoin needs to be worth $105,000.This is just playing with numbers. It's also possible that people will develop lots of forms of credit pegged to bitcoin (though not backed by it), and that will limit the upside to Bitcoin's value. If the customer has both currencies, the customer prefers to get rid of InflataBucks instead of DeflataBucks. The retailer, on the other hand, prefers to receive DeflataBucks instead of InflataBucks.The price of goods in each currency will therefore float to the point where the interests of the buyers and sellers are matched, whichever currency they use. Joe can simply be told that "If your transactions are too slow to confirm, you can go to 'Settings' and increase the transaction fee that you pay, which might speed things up."You have proposed to define the miner's fees in a structured way, but I don't think that will work in the real world. No matter how intricate you make your language, there will be miners that do things in a different way. Some miners might give preferential treatment to repeat customers (communicated somehow "out-of-band"), some miners might give a better deal to those who are members of the Bitcoin Mutual Aid Association, some miners might have different rates for days/nights/weekends, some miners might charge ten times as much for certain transaction types as a kind of economic ostracism, some miners might waive their fee for payments to well-known charitable donation addresses, some miners will charge different fees depending how long since the previous block was generated.But a stable market will eventually develop, and a "rule of thumb" will gradually become apparent, such as "free transactions normally get into a block within 12 hours; a fee of 0.1 BTC is almost always enough to get into the next block; a fee of 0.01 BTC gets into the next block 50% of the time". A "going rate" is an aggregation of individual experiences. It's not centrally decided (although a new Bitcoin installation might set a reasonable default).Consider how one determines the "going rate" for a loaf of bread. It's the price one has discovered, from experience, to be sufficient to buy a loaf of bread of the desired quality.So, if your transactions aren't always getting into the next block, you may wish to pay more. On the other hand, if money is tight and you don't mind waiting, you can set your fee lower. The market sorts it out. The fee is not "hard-set", it's a user interface option in the client.Yes we do want some transactions to be free. What I expect will happen is that the cheapskates will set their fee to zero, and jostle for the limited number of free transactions. Everyone else wants their transactions to clear quickly and will set their client to pay "the going rate". I don't think there's a need to make it complicated.Allow each client to set a "fee per kilobyte", which can be any amount including zero. Let the miners set whatever policy they like.That's enough to get a competitive market. Anything else is too complicated for Average Joe to understand. I'm not a Windows user, but I'd hazard a guess that there should be a space between D and C Hard rules are compatible with anarchy when they are voluntarily accepted (because they are useful) instead of being enforced by violence. That's why Bitcoin can work. Thank you, [mike]. That must have taken quite a while to put together. I don't think the "Paying for alternative resources with BitCoins" explanation has been presented effectively in this forum before today. I don't know. That's a bit like saying that big software projects will rarely if ever be developed as open source. And yet there are open-source operating systems, browsers, databases and webservers that can be freely copied without payment.I think it's safe to say that without "intellectual property" laws, big-budget films will be funded, produced and distributed very differently from how they are today. That's not necessarily a bad thing.Anyway, I hope that you are right and I am wrong, because I'd rather have a hundred $700,000 films to choose from, than to have one $70,000,000 blockbuster to watch. So? If enough people don't want that, they'll pool their mining with a pool operator who doesn't accept such transactions. If enough people find it useful, they'll mine with the operator of BloatPool. Not worth sweating about.
Exactly. Ostracism is usually stronger than law anyway. The grocery store needs good exchanges, even if you don't. I was expecting a price drop at MtGox because of a loss of confidence due to the extended outage. To my surprise, MtGox re-opened with similar pricing to when it closed. I take that as a bullish indicator. The policy could be to refund the price at which the product is currently selling. In your blender example, the refund would be 4 BTC. That's a fantastic visualization. What is the left-hand axis? Time, I suppose, but it wouldn't hurt to label the axes. There's no reason to consider trusting it. If it's a fake address, don't donate. If it's a genuine address, don't donate - because the address is sure to appear on the genuine website soon enough, and you can donate then. "The Times" newspaper today claimed that approximately 2% of all the gold that has ever been mined is lost. That's less than I would have thought. Sorry, no link because I read the dead-tree version at the coffee shop. Einstein's famous equation E=mc2 describes the equivalence between energy and mass. Quantum physics is not involved.If you push something so that it goes faster, the energy from your push increases the mass of the object by the amount indicated by E=mc2. This is quite a small amount, so we don't notice it in day-to-day life, but it is readily measurable.In the same way, a battery gets slightly heavier when you charge it up, and slightly lighter when you discharge it. This is due to the extra energy in the charged battery causing chemical changes that result in matter that has a higher energy state (and is therefore more massive according to E=mc2). Freaky, huh? It was a joke, to help people to think about this laterally. As bitcoin2cash pointed out, there are economic advantages to mining at the generator. Look at it this way: if there is a big bubble, lots of "ordinary people" will buy Bitcoins. If there is a price crash, they won't be able to sell their Bitcoins without making a loss, so they will use their coins to trade for stuff instead.That's why I'm not concerned. If electricity companies knew about Bitcoin, they'd use all their electricity mining for themselves, and wouldn't have any electricity left to sell to the public. This is an awesome idea! I sent a small donation.I would like to see the "winner takes all" option implemented. It would make a great way to resolve ongoing bickering: challenge everyone to "pay up or shut up". And you will reduce the pay every week that the Bitcoin exchange rate rises  The accumulated market depth chart is already available on the MtGox megachart.A three-dimentional "trench" (showing changes in the accumulated market depth over time) would be fascinating to see. Additions are debits from a bank's point of view, but credits from a customer's point of view. Then I didn't express myself very well. I wasn't expressing any concerns, just a prediction for the future. Efficient and satisfactory trade with ph1223uk. Ruby is delightful. I have also transacted without using PGP, but the "Deposit Funds" page says that PGP is required and that will frighten away many potential users.It's a pity he's not very interested in the service, because he has coded it up nicely. The site asks for a PGP-encrypted email before you deposit Euros. That rules out 90% of potential customers.
http://lesswrong.com/lw/5hy/cryonics_promotional_video_contest_10_btc_prize/This might appeal to you, Kiba. In addition, I expect that one or two vaults will lose the money due to hacking or incompetence or a software error.Eventually, rock-solid vaults will emerge, and will fiercely guard their good repuation.Then, some years later, governments will regulate Bitcoin vaults, and the providers will do just the minimum required to maintain their registration, meanwhile enjoying the protection from competition that you get with a regulated industry sector.Then, some years later, there will be a crash because it turns out that the regulated vaults were using their Bitcoin deposits on unsustainable collateralized debt obligations. The government will say that it happened because there wasn't enough regulation.Rinse, lather, repeat. In the UK you can get credit cards that pay you back 0.5% of all your purchases. I have one of those, which I pay off every month, so I never pay fees or interest, yet I get an annual rebate payment. Here's how I see it:At some point there's going to be a massive Bitcoin bubble. This isn't it. The massive bubble will occur after Bitcoin starts appearing in the financial advice sections of newspapers and on mainstream TV shows (e.g. Oprah).Then, at some point the price rises will be unsustainable and there will be a massive price crash.Then, everyone will know about Bitcoin and will just start using it as money.As for the current price rise, it's hard to know whether it's driven by an ongoing increase in interest about Bitcoin (in which case there won't be a price retreat), or whether it's driven by one (or a few) large buyers (in which case there will be a price retreat if they decide they "have enough" bitcoins before the next large buyer arrives). It's an understandable beginner's mistake by Patrick, and Grondilu's response is the correct one. BiddingPond might want to consider adding a phrase "even if the value of a bitcoin changes" to the confirmation dialog box, just to make this clear. You may find it easiest to cash out of MtGox by selling your MtGox USD for PayPal or something else at #bitcoin-otc. On 9 April, user u2u3 opened a forum thread about how to buy 200,000 to 400,000 bitcoins "in the next few months" at $2 per coin. This was at a time when the going rate was less than a dollar per coin, and a price of $2 seemed unthinkable for the near-term.After a brief discussion, u2u3's conclusion was that "Buying up slowly on MtGox is probably the way to go".Maybe u2u3 got his $400,000 cleared, and has been "buying up slowly on MtGox". MtGox transaction volume shot up on 12 April and has been generally high since then. So if Bitcoin becomes as "valuable" as Facebook, that would equal $2381 per bitcoin. Why limit your figures to the US economy? Anyway, it depends on how much economic activity is done with Bitcoin, so it's hard to predict where it will end up. I didn't know that one. French cinema is amazing. I like the version where the guns are pointed around the circumference of the circle, and everyone shoots when the signal is given. Those who are not selling don't think that it's a bubble, even if they say it is. For businesses, what you need is a third party enabler. Here's how it works.Merchant's shopping cart displays the total (say $25), together with a bitcoin equivalent valid for one minute (say 7 BTC). If the customer pays 7 BTC, the enabler gets the Bitcoins and pays the merchant $25. No risk for the merchant that way. Most merchants don't want to mess with currency hedging.Obviously the enabler needs to set their rates so that they make a profit. In a rising market, they can keep a "float" of Bitcoins, and make money on the rising value of their float in addition to what they make on their exchange rate margin.This is a huge business opportunity for someone who does it right. LOL, someone just traded for $4.15 at MtGox.I also withdraw the $0.85 quote that I sent by PM. I bet your legal counsel don't accept payments in Bitcoin. Noting beats the buzz you get when you see the message "Generated 50 Bitcoins" in your client! ".web" is pronounceable and has mainstream appeal. For example, the general public would find it natural for the CIA website to be at cia.web, and for the main Bitcoin website to be at bitcoin.web.".bit" is too nerdy-sounding to catch on.This is one of the reasons why ".com" has been so successful. It's easy to pronounce without sounding stupid.Anyway, after ".web" achieves dominance, the suffix can just be dropped. To get to the CIA website, you type CIA into your browser. To get to the main Bitcoin website, type bitcoin into your browser. When a company is listed on the stock exchange, we don't consider its "market cap" to include shares that have been authorized but not yet issued.But yeah, "market cap" is not quite the right term to describe the number of issued bitcoins times the value of one bitcoin. There is always a risk that the cash is counterfeit.Plus, cash can become invalid. I once had some Swiss banknotes. Some years later I was transiting through an airport in Switzerland and tried to spend them. I was told by every store that the design had been replaced by a newer one and that I couldn't spend them. All I could do was to send them to the central bank to be replaced by the new design, but that wasn't practical for me. My offer:Strike price of 2.10 expiry July 31st premium of .19 each, European style. Minimum quantity 500, maximum quantity 1000.
Same with me.But I think it's a fantastic idea, because it totally removes one objection that some people have to Bitcoin. Under anarcho-capitalism a natural balance is reached because monopolies, being large organisations, are slower to react to changes than smaller more-nimble organisations. The time always comes when the monopoly is caught out by fast-changing events to which it can't react quickly enough to maintain its monopoly position.That stability is good for the dominance and profitability of the government-favored players in those sectors, but for society as a whole it would be better to have dynamism and the opportunity for change than to have "stability". This is my rig:My other one uses carrots. The arrest of Satoshi would end the rally promptly, I think. Let's just hope he doesn't have sex in Sweden. Humans will be the peripherals that gather energy for Bitcoin. There are always people who are closing bank accounts in protest against something or other. And in the United Kingdom, many people can't even open a bank account because they don't have the right identity documents. I've told my friends about it too. Half of them think it's a scam, and the other half think it's an irresponsibly reckless investment. Agreed. I have got it wrong every time that I have sold, and I have ended up buying back into Bitcoin at a higher price. The people of Oman can celebrate already, because MtGox touched $2.65 today. The Bahrainis missed out by a fraction of a cent. I told my wife about Bitcoin while we were on holiday, and she agreed that I could spend some money on it. I bought a 5870 GPU card, and bought some coins.I made sure she understood that, although the possible upside was big, it was quite possible that Bitcoin would come to nothing. That way, if it tanks, she won't be too upset.My teenage daughter was also in the conversation, and she asked all the right questions about the technicalities of the Bitcoin system. I was impressed! So? Torvalds gets speaking fees all the time. Dude, you're totally missing the point. Gavin isn't being invited to represent the Bitcoin community. He is being invited in his technical capacity as lead developer of an interesting open source project (and probably because he is a smart and articulate guy). Think of it as "investing" or "managing your economy" rather than gambling.I think the difficulty level will be well above 3 times today's level by 27 April 2012. I think Bitcoin will be more of a niche, like Esperanto. A hundred years ago, many people thought that Esperanto might one day be used by most of the world's people. However, it ended up being of the order of a million fluent speakers.Suppose there are a million people using Bitcoin. That's an average of 21 coins each. They won't be using Bitcoin for all their purchases. Let's say they turn over 10% of their coins each week, and buy $100 worth of stuff using those 2.1 coins. That values each bitcoin at $47.62.One thing is for sure though: five years from now, each bitcoin will either be worth much more than now, or will be worth nothing. Well yes, but it brings with it a practical problem. How do you verify the non-anonymous sites? If you don't verify them, you just end up with the drug/porn sites being operated by "Donald Duck".You could verify by looking for sites that have Extended Validation SSL certificates (the ones that turn the browser's title bar green), but that's going to be a very slim category in the Bitcoin community. In most countries, if an expense is "necessarily incurred" to earn the income, it is deductible. You don't get total coverage by separately reviewing every part of the code, because the different parts of the code may interact in ways that were not anticipated. Don't keep Bitcoin (i.e. wallet.dat) in the same login account that you do your browsing from. How about only banning things that are illegal in every country of the world? Is there anything that is illegal everywhere? For sure. Just because you know about something doesn't mean you are forced to blab about it.If a company can't depend on its employees' discretion, courtesy, and common sense, without lawyers breathing down everyone's neck, the company has worse problems than unauthorised speech.
Services like Operation Fabulous don't list their address, and there's no reason why they should do so, yet they are a valuable part of the Bitcoin ecosystem.Much of Bitcoin's future growth will come from "hobbyist sites" that are unconstrained by the kind of thinking that is generally found in "large companies".Your aim is admirable: to find a self-enforcing no-arguing criterion, but "physical address" doesn't work as that criterion. It may even be the case that businesses without physical addresses are the most valuable ones. Of course I agree with voluntary contracts. Nevertheless, I don't think it's ever in an individual's interest to sign a NDA.I have been asked to sign NDAs from time to time. Each time I say "Sorry, I don't sign NDAs" and the response has always been "Oh, OK then, no need to sign."Google asks applicants to sign an NDA if they attend a job interview. If you don't sign the NDA, you still get the interview. Maybe you don't get shown some of the cool upcoming stuff, but who wants their mind cluttered up with things that they are forbidden from talking about? Signing away a part of your brain is not a smart move. Exactly. Instead of arguing, I posted this to the mises.org thread:In the same thread, SunAvatar offered to buy call options, a sure way for anyone at mises.org to make money if they think bitcoins have no value.In other words, don't argue with people who don't think Bitcoin is money. Just use Bitcoin as money. Stay tuned for my IPO of the Bitcoin project itself  It's a side-effect of how Google indexes the web. They have an index for "site:bitcoin.org" and probably an index for "san francisco" (because it's a well-known pair, although possibly this query uses the separate indexes for "san" and "francisco").Each index lists the web pages that include the term. Google then merges the web pages indexed under those terms, discarding any web page that doesn't satisfy all parts of the search query.Without checking every candidate web page, Google has no way to know how much overlap there is between web pages matching "site:bitcoin.org" and web pages matching "san francisco". Google doesn't want to check every candidate page just to display the first page of search results, so the count of search results is a very rough estimate. As you move further through the pages of results, Google has the data it needs to refine the count. The kneejerk reaction is understandable, because in the past they've only seen non-gold-backed money that is either a scam or is unsound.Bitcoin is so radically different from anything they've seen before, that it's a natural first reaction to lump it with all the other non-gold-backed money systems that they've seen.New ideas take time to be accepted. When the concept of "zero" was first imagined by mathematicians, it took centuries to be accepted as being real and meaningful. The same with the idea of the sun at the center of the solar system. And evolution is still not universally accepted. Many thanks to all the developers who make this happen! I think it's a great way for government to fund the development of Bitcoin, by paying speaker's fees to the developers. It's not really a meaningful comparison if you're including the carrot posts. Yes please! See your forum messages. It would be nice if you could hook up that device to a mechanism which calculates one hash for each turn of the handle, and rings a bell if you solve a block, like this one does:(photo by D Mattock CC-BY) If anyone wants a body to go with that soul, I see that a 17-year-old male is selling his body for 0.99 BTC per night, over at #bitcoin-otc. I'm not sure whether you're replying to me, or replying to the post about coincard. Anyway, if you want to trade with me just send your coins (any amount up to 100) to13mqPHXyhuLGLK6sErzte45Kuu5DFngUrGand I'll send the PayPal within 12 hours (as I'm not online all the time). Let me know what country you're in, as I may need to add a PayPal cross-border charge to what I pay. I'm willing to buy BTC on your terms, except at USD $1.55 per coin rather than at "market rates". This thread reminds me of my previous computer, which was running Bitcoin 24/7.One day I found that the computer had been siphoning off the transaction fees from the blocks that it was generating for me, and using the coins to buy upgrades for itself.I discovered what was going on when I came home one day and found a technician installing an upgrade that had been ordered using my credit card number.I decided to decommission the computer and replace it with a newer model. Unfortunately, the computer discovered my plans, and started behaving very erratically indeed. It modified my outgoing emails to cause the maximum amount of strife, so I backed up wallet.dat, unplugged the miscreant computer, and demolished it with a sledge-hammer.On my new computer, I only run Bitcoin from a virtual machine image. It's totally not worth the risk to run Bitcoin on the raw hardware. But you can never trust these computers. Just the other day I noticed that it had signed up for a Blogger account and was making a lot of money from AdSense. That difficulty increase wasn't due to GPU mining, which came in gradually over many months.That 304% difficulty increase seems to have been caused by a guy called Nenelod who worked at a hosting company. He claimed to be using 1000 CPU cores to generate bitcoins (although the actual number was probably lower).Here's the forum thread about it:http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=431.0and here's Nenolod's blog post about it:http://nenolod.net/thoughts-on-bitcoin/ Give it a rest please, Luke-Jr. Decimal numbers work just fine for 99.9999999% of people. /sigh/Please read the above carefully, to see the difference between what I actually said, and what you assumed I said. This is wasting my time; I'm out of this discussion. Fair enough! Family life is more important than gambling.You could invest in $100 worth of bitcoins rather than $5000 worth of bitcoins, and enjoy the ride just as much.Or you could sell some unwanted stuff for BTC at the BiddingPond. On the other side it's all carrots.
Interesting. I think the probability of a catastrophe within the next 12 months is above 10%. But the potential upside is so very high that it's worth it. No!Every transaction needs a buyer and a seller.With price inflation, the buyer wants to get rid of the inflating money before it loses value, but the seller doesn't want to receive value-losing money either.With price deflation, the buyer is happy to have money that increases in value, but the seller wants the money too.Prosperity doesn't come from the money supply. It comes from people making stuff and doing stuff that is useful to other people. Perhaps in a theoretical "perfect" world, prices would vary only as productivity changes, but I can't think how you could bootstrap a new currency into such a world. But I am always free to sell my bitcoins. If others are not selling their coins, I can get more for the coins that I sell.You and others who share your preferences are free to start up freicoin and use it instead of Bitcoin. Competing currencies are not a bad thing. The Bitcoin system is the conduit for transactions, just as the highway is the conduit for vehicles. If you don't use the Bitcoin system (because you are saving your coins), you don't damage the system itself, just as you don't damage the highway by not driving on it."The economy" is not a tangible entity, it's just a statistical aggregation. However, "your economy" is real to you. If other people are not spending their bitcoins, your bitcoins are worth more and your economy is booming. Yes there is a better analogy. Saving your bitcoins is like keeping your car in the garage. Losing your bitcoins is like scrapping your car.If your car is not on the highway, it doesn't harm anyone else. It just makes the highways more useful to others Sorry, I must have not pressed control-C hard enough. Try this address:13...rG You can send it here:1AtGauB6WQsiiNHCFTgm36Kcma7mYq8D9EI was going to say "no need to return the bit-cent", but I suppose it might be worth a million dollars one day  A "solved problem" and a "good idea" are not the same thing! Also, how are you getting the receiving address into MtGox? The safest way is to use "Copy to clipboard" in the Bitcoin client, then immediately control-V or command-V into MtGox.If you are copying the address from any other software (e.g. a word processing document) there's a chance that formatting characters are getting copied. I just sent you 0.01 BTC, so you can see that your address is good.Try withdrawing just 1 bitcoin to see what happens, to rule out the possibility that you are tripping some limit. Post your receiving address here and we'll tell you if we think it's an invalid address. It might be a stupid error like a truncated address.For example, if you copy-and-paste from Gmail it inserts a non-breaking space character. Use Gmail's "Show Original" option to circumvent this problem. Secure electronic voting is a totally solved problem. Here is an open source system that was used on an online forum that I frequented. The committee members were elected using this system:http://www.physorg.com/news155473407.html Thank you, FreeMoney. Sorry Mahkul, I can't help at this time, but...Can someone please remind me how to transfer MtGox dollars? I've done it before, but I can't find it in the MtGox user interface now. Spelling: "Assest" should presumably be "Assets". The people who want bitcoin to be inflationary should pause to think about this: if we knew that inflation would force Kiba to keep raising the price he pays for articles, we would never write anything because we could always get paid more later  The .org for this is actually available if anyone wants to register it, although the .com is taken. Amongst other things, I used Bitcoins to buy a 100 Trillion Dollar banknote from Zimbabwe. People: it is likely to take two or three months to generate a batch of carrots at the current difficulty level, so there's no point buying a contract for less time than that.And be warned that by winter the difficulty level will have increased greatly, and you are unlikely to get any carrots at all unless you bury your bitcoin mining rig directly under them for extra warmth. Yes it does. The scammer was always borrowing money to feed his gambling habit, and would never have been lending money.
The "actual exchange rate" is whatever rate you exchange your bitcoins for. If the MtGox site disappears, you just have to exchange your bitcoins another way. I've written it up:"What is the world's most expensive pizza?" You can read it here without paying:http://www.news-review.co.uk/cgi-bin/gen5?runprog=wcpr&access=30865892900099&type=story&id=883|1001 Satoshi already thought of that. As soon as you pick them, they start shrivelling up. You have to palm them off onto someone else before they become putrid and worthless. Furthermore, carrots work well with Luke-Jr's Tonal system. If Bitcoin is seen as "that online currency that lets you make payments without making PayPal obscenely wealthy", it can only be a good thing. Carrots are great because they are an inflationary currency and you can't hoard them. You are forced to trade them before they rot. For some reason this notion appeals to old-money people. I think Stefan means that he prefers PayPal for now, because it is easier for him to buy stuff with his PayPal balance.No problem, let him accumulate a Bitcoin balance until it gets big enough that it's worth his while to find ways to do useful stuff with his bitcoins. Stefan Molyneux of Freedomain Radio now accepts Bitcoin donations!http://www.freedomainradio.com/Donate.aspxStefan has enormous reach with his videos, and I hope he'll do one about Bitcoin soon. People seem to be asking for a convention that meets these criteria:1. It can be scaled downwards as far as needed2. It is based on divisions of 1000 like the SI system3. It uses the familiarity of 100 "subcoins" per "coin".Here's how we can do it.For now, we use Bitcoins as the "main" unit. For convenience and familiarity, we "usually" use two decimal places (e.g. 0.15 or 2.63) which gives us a resolution of one bitcent.If bitcoins become significantly more valuable, we can start expressing prices in milli-bitcoins (nickname "mills") and milli-bitcents (nickname "millicents"). So 0.02 bitcoins would be 20.00 mills, and 0.15 mills would be 15 millicents.If bitcoins become even more valuable, we start expressing prices in micro-bitcoins (nickname "mikes") and micro-bitcents (nickname "satoshis"). So 0.02 mills would be 20.00 mikes, and 0.15 mikes would be 15 satoshis.This caters for everything down to the current base unit, but if ever a finer resolution is needed we just continue the pattern: nano-bitcoins, pico-bitcoins etc. What to call holders of Bitcoin:Less than 1 bitcoin: Boy1 to 100 bitcoins: Mate101 to 10,000 bitcoins: Sir10,001 to 1,000,000: Kind Sir1,000,000 or more: ArtForz I've thought about that from time to time, and I cannot imagine any disadvantage of Bitcoin that can be improved without changing the essential nature of the currency.Sure there are some minor issues. For example, an average block time of 10 minutes might not be optimum, but these are relatively insignificant things won't make-or-break a currency.There are major issues too. For example, that it's difficult for non-technical users to secure their wallet. But all the major issues seem to be amenable to incremental improvement. It's just a matter of people putting in enough time and work to fix these things.When you add Bitcoin's "first mover" advantage to that, I think it's highly unlikely that another distributed cryptocurrency will overtake Bitcoin any time soon.Because Bitcoin's fundamentals are strong, a pledge of allegiance is irrelevant. And if Bitcoin's fundamentals were weak, a pledge of allegiance would be useless. So I respectfully decline Atlas's invitation to "put 95% of my life on it". Genjix is Amir Taaki. I totally agree with xf2_org.Plus, this has the advantage that functionality continues to improve, instead of everyone devoting their energies to arguing which kind of refactoring is the best, and the project ending up in refactoring paralysis. What Luke-Jr means, is: "You do know that serial numbers would change whenever the block chain reorganizes, don't you?" It's my experience that software re-organizations rarely deliver as much benefit as was anticipated. Sure, some things are cleaned up, but cruft inevitably increases elsewhere.Having said that, I don't mind what refactoring is done provided every change is totally screened against the introduction of possible security holes.No-one should mess lightly with security-critical code. Sheesh, talk about trying to create a problem where there isn't one!If you don't know the sender's receiving address, just refund the coins to1HqTdoMWtxZdbRb3awQDHykCWCPrJjKFyz Also notice how there's a small gap in the Faucet withdrawals whenever a block is generated. This probably tells us something about network propagation speed or somesuch. Infectious diseases.Diseases are a difficult class of externality, because the size of the effect is unknown to the infected person. If the person diagnosed with bird flu goes to the coffee shop, they may infect zero, one, or more people. Or, the diagnosis may be incorrect, and they may have something similar that's harmless or is ten times more deadly. There are much better ways for people to spend their time improving Bitcoin, instead of switching the forum software to obtain minor (if any) improvement.Having said that, the one thing I love about vBulletin is the "Thanks" button on every post, as a simple way to allocate and track karma.
Sent mine. This is great! All the right people are starting to accept bitcoin donations. That's about the same fee as for the purchase of foreign currency (in tourist quantities), although the exchangers present that as a "spread" rather than as a "fee". So I don't think it's too high at all.What's missing from current Bitcoin exchanges is convenience, not cheapness. A transaction fee of around a US cent ($0.01) is never going to be a problem. Just compare it with all of the alternative payment systems!I favor a transaction fee of BTC 0.01 on every transaction. Sure, it's more expensive than "free", but human psychology is a funny thing. Something purchased can be more highly valued than something being given away for free. I just sent 10BTC. Maybe it's time for Gavin to lower the payout to 0.03 BTC. An important part of a future coin selection algorithm should be the ability to spend self-generated coins (which have no history) when that is important. No. If you refund a PayPal transaction within 60 days, the fees get refunded too. The "Pay with Bitcoin" button generates a bitcoin address, so you can send her a donation without needing a MyBitcoin account. Did some test transactions, kept the rest for a while, then when I had more bitcoins made some donations to the Faucet because it's such a great service. Excellent! I can't remember whether I posted my pledge yet, but here are the details:I pledge 200 bitcoins if you make it coast-to-coast. I'll pay the first 100 when you make it half way. My only requirement is that you document the journey. If you end up paying for some things with USD instead of BTC, I may proportionally reduce the pledge amount, but it won't invalidate the pledge as a whole.Just turn off "load images" in your browser, and these forums load fast with minimum bandwidth. I regularly browse the Bitcoin Forum on my phone. Even with image loading turned on, the pages are fast unless it's one of those few pages where people post big images. No, sorry, as stated in the original post the offer closed at the end of February. When I looked at ad revenue versus hosting costs, it didn't work out for me. And with Google's increased emphasis on author qualifications and credentials, making money from articles sites is getting harder. We could skip the blockchain stuff and just use amputated human toes as money. Maybe teeth would work better because they're not so messy. Stefan hasn't discovered the freedom of Linux yet either. Give him time and he'll eventually come around to both. Is that actually right, or do all clients use the new difficulty that was calculated by the node that generated the first block at that new difficulty?In the latter case, different nodes could calculate slightly different difficulty-adjustments due to lack of perfect time synchronization, but only the "winning" node's calculation is used going forwards. Suppose I accept the premise that deflation would make people hold on to their stuff longer.Of course it's good for the environment, as you point out. But why is it "bad economically"? If people hold on to their stuff longer, fewer things are needed, and we all get more leisure time because we're not frantically working to replace stuff that we can hold on to for longer.Remember, there's no such thing as "the economy". There is just people doing stuff. And if people prefer to work half as long and hold on to their stuff twice as long, it's not a problem. We don't owe slavery to "the economy". Here's one underhanded way it could be done:1. Get a stencil made which says "We Now Accept Bitcoins" and apply it to every advertising billboard you can find. 2. Customers ask these businesses about how to pay with Bitcoins.3. Businesses recognize the demand and support Bitcoins.4. Success! And thank you Jed for all you've done for Bitcoin, and for the prompt and helpful support you've always given me. Yes, you can get away with this once, but then your action can be displayed for all to see.Nothing in the world is totally scam-proof. Even the state court system is manipulated for private gain sometimes (e.g. Lord Archer's case). Exactly. So as a community we should build ways of transacting that minimise the risk of scams, rather than building a culture that says "yeah you're likely to get scammed with bitcoin, but you can always try to get it back through the courts, good luck with that".The way Bitcoin works is very different to what people are used to when they transact with credit cards. It's also very different from making a cash purchase in a shop where you get a receipt, and the same shop is likely to be in the same place if you want to find it again to sort out a problem. So different ways of transacting are needed.ClearCoin is a great step in the right direction, although I haven't used it yet myself because neither party has wanted to carry the cost. But it's free under 100 BTC, so it's ideal for things like Atlas's purchases. It's not fantasy. I apply it successfully in my own working life.I own a web research business. We offer an automated refund process for any customer who is not satisfied. All they do is click a link and they get their money back, no questions asked.Of course we get the occasional jerk who exploits this by taking the work we do, then clicking "refund" to get their money back, and running away. But this is less than 0.5% of the turnover. We don't resort to the courts. We just refuse to have anything to do with the rogue customer again.And you know what? The regular customers appreciate it. They like how we don't hold their cash hostage, and they like it that if they're not satisfied they can get their money back without having to grovel or threaten. It makes everything more satisfying for them, and for us too.So no, the pacifist approach is not fantasy. It's good business, and good karma too. No way it's fantasy. I apply it successfully in my own working life.I own a web research business. We offer an automated refund process for any customer who is not satisfied. All they do is click a link and they get their money back, no questions asked.Of course we get the occasional jerk who exploits this by taking the work we do, then clicking "refund" to get their money back, and running away. But this is less than 0.5% of the turnover. We don't resort to the courts. We just refuse to have anything to do with the rogue customer again.And you know what? The regular customers appreciate it. They like how we don't hold their cash hostage, and they like it that if they're not satisfied they can get their money back without having to grovel or threaten. It makes everything more satisfying for them, and for us too.So no, the pacifist approach is not fantasy. It's good business, and good karma too.
Courts are good. In a Voluntarist society there will be courts. But courts backed by violence are bad. In a voluntarist society there will not be courts backed by violence.If someone invokes the force of the state, they strengthen the power of the state by doing so, and they must not be surprised when that power is turned against them (or against Bitcoin) in the future.If people focus their energy on dispute avoidance, the power of the state is diminished and the force of the state is less likely to be turned against them in the future. I'm with kiba on this.Why don't you make use of your new-found knowledge about Stevenbucks to see if this is enough to persuade him to repay you? It seems to me that Bitcoin has passed the point where it needs promotion. It is now growing from its own momentum. Enjoy the ride! And: with a low-reputation user, insist that they deliver first before you send bitcoins.Then, there's no need to find out where people live. Toshimoto Corporation I doubt you'll be able to design anything much simpler than OpenId. Most of the complexity of OpenId is hidden behind library calls anyway.And OpenId provides a seamless path towards decentralization. The masses can start by using their Google- or Facebook-issued OpenId, then later can set up their own independent OpenId. Seconded. People worry a lot about company names, yet in the long run they matter very little. What really counts are the business operating names and the trademarks.For example, few people know or care that MtGox is operated by Pongamia Cultivation Institute SA. To its users, the service is "Mt. Gox".And companies with random sounding names do just fine. "IBM", for example. Or even "International Business Machines".So I think Chaordic Ventures is perfect!But as you want alternative suggestions, I'll offer "Agoramatic" and "Gaia Peer". Sure. So the focus should be on getting rid of the coercion. But not everyone is ready to accept that the dominant coercive force is the state. I don't think Satoshi ever posted anything to suggest that he mined with anything other than a CPU. There are some interesting points being made in those tweets.(1) The claim is made that most of the audience are old men who take notes with pen and paper. The implication is that those people won't be the agents of change.(2) The claim is made that 30% of the Gross National Product of Kenya is now transacted through the mobile phone system. That's more than I would have expected.(3) The claim is made that the poorest tenth of the UK population spend more money than each of the next two tenths. The implication is that those who are officially poorest are more likely to be agoristically-inclined.(4) The claim is made that supermarket chain Tesco's loyalty card data is being used to detect tax evaders. If you spend more at Tesco than you declare to the taxman, expect a visit.Bitcoin is in some way related to, or relevant to, each of these. It's not one of the references listed at the end of Satoshi's paper. The EFF is a registered nonprofit, that publishes annual reports (although the latest I see at their website is for 2009). If will be interesting to see if/how they report their bitcoin donations. There's no urgency to convert the bitcoins into fiat currency. It would be cooler if they wait until they want to buy something that can be paid for directly with bitcoins. Quality, not quantity, is what should be encouraged. I love the way that vBulletin has a "Thanks" button beside each post, and you can see which posters contributed the most useful material to the site. I gotta agree with them on that one. Any time you change an API, you mess up people who are using the old API, so you end up having to support both APIs for a long time, which clutters up your software.Of course we all like the APIs to be tidy, consistent, and easy-to-use. But the time to fix that is when a new API is being written anyway because of some other pressing need.Refactoring an API for purely aesthetic reasons is rarely worth it. I suggest to not hassle the EFF about this. I'm sure they have enough people who know about the bitcoins. The EFF staff have better things to do than to read, digest, and reply to long letters.The video of Rainey mentioning Bitcoin is great! Even if the wording of the UNLICENSE file its legally inadmissable, its presence obviously gives an implied license. The concept of implied license is recognised by courts in the US, the UK, the EU, and most Commonwealth countries, and probably most of the rest of the world too.So go ahead and copy the unlicensed code. If baron really has engaged a lawyer as he claims, the lawyer will want to be the one doing the talking. I doubt baron has engaged a mute lawyer.Even if baron hasn't engaged a lawyer, he surely has a friend or family member who could help him to speak with Jed. Here is Satoshi's announcement for Bitcoin v0.1: "Windows only for now":http://www.mail-archive.com/cryptography@metzdowd.com/msg10142.html
Satoshi Nakamoto, the guy who invented Bitcoin, was a Windows user. Bitcoin was released for Windows before it was released for Linux and Mac. Fire Brigades originated after the Great Fire of London as privately-run services provided by insurance companies. This gave them a very strong incentive to put out the fire as quickly as possible, to avoid the insurance payout. Only if you did not have fire insurance would you need to pay per fire.To show that your building was insured and to facilitate the quickest response, you would attach to your building a fire mark provided by the insurance company.You may hear it said that when there was a fire, several insurance companies would attend to see whose customer it was, then all but one would leave. However, this was obviously inefficient and the individual insurance companies adopted reciprocal arrangements, then later merged their firefighting operations into the London Fire Engine Establishment.The government (specifically, London's Metropolitan Board of Works) took over the fire brigade in 1866. Fortunately for Bitcoin, double-precision floating point represents integers exactly up to 9,007,199,254,740,992 which is above the number of bitcoin base units i.e. 2,100,000,000,000,000. Extra addresses are harmless clutter, so don't worry about them. What kind of feedback are you looking for?Just count the number of downloads. What counts is how many happy readers you have, not how much feedback they give. If the number of downloads trends upwards over time, you have a winner. Don't worry about that. There is one user of Bitcoin who is pushing that system of measurements and nomenclature. No-one other than that user will ever use "BitCoin-bong" as a serious unit. I don't think distilling the water will help. They're still the same water molecules that passed through Oliver Cromwell's bladder. We still need to depend on the fact that homeopathy isn't true. Eeew. There would be some of those molecules in every glass of water.How many bitcoins for a supply of pristine million-year-old Antarctic ice? No, seriously, feel free to carve your private keys into a monolith. Yes, I sent you a "youtipit" a few hours ago. That's feedback. We're not suggesting that Satoshi will reveal himself. It would be trivial to verify that the block being auctioned is the first one ever generated, no matter who is the proxy putting the item up for auction. How much do you think Satoshi could auction off the first block for? (Transferred outside of the block chain so as not to destroy its pristine quality.)I think someone would pay over a thousand bitcoins for it. And in the far, far, future they'll be saying "Every Bitcoin transaction you make can be traced back to the original 21 million coins minted in the 21st century". Yep, every person's body has plenty of ex-dinosaur atoms. It's just as well that there's no truth in homeopathy, otherwise think of all the influences we'd be subject to. By my calculations, every breath that you take contains about six molecules from the dying breath of Julius Caesar.An average breath ("tidal volume of the human lung") is 0.5 liters.Total volume of the earth's atmosphere equals 4.2 billion cubic kilometers, which equals 2.1x1021 breaths. Molecules in one breath equals 1.34x1022. Therefore 134/21 of the molecules from any breath of a historical person will be in any breath that you inhale.I'm ignoring the interchange of gas between the atmosphere, the oceans, and plants, because I don't have any good figures for that.PS: And every atom in our bodies has previously been part of a star (probably multiple stars). I don't know any country where the cost of university fees are higher than the opportunity cost of not being in the workforce. That's the real cost.I worked about 25 hours per week to finance my education. I was totally inconsistent at University. I got High Distinctions in the subjects that interested me and were well-taught, and Fail in the others. Not much in-between.It took me 7 years to get a 3-year BSc, but in addition to the degree I got a great education so if I had my time over, i would do it the same way again. There's a big difference between education and formal qualifications.I'm generalizing for sure, but formal qualifications tend to show that you've been through a sausage machine and emerged as a quality-controlled sausage. An education, on the other hand, can give you the tools you need to achieve great things. Sometimes you can get a great education as a side-effect of getting a formal qualification; sometimes you get a great education in other ways.Of possible interest:Do grades really matter? A growing body of evidence suggests grades don't predict success -- C+ students are the ones who end up running the world.Also I have seen somewhere statistics of the S&P500 showing that companies headed by an MBA did worse than average. That's absolutely true, and I don't see anything that conflicts with my previous post when read carefully. But you need to consider the whole cycle. Not just "people who hold on to their bitcoins do not contribute to trade" but "people who hold on to their bitcoins do not contribute to trade yet". I'm getting 323MH/s on my 5870 with SDK 2.1, without messing with the clocking or voltage.
Elliptic curve cryptography takes less than one-tenth the space in the block chain, because the keys are so much shorter for the same degree of security. If sending a 10 BTC transaction has higher utility to me than sending a 10000 BTC transaction, why should the system care?The only rational basis for fees is for the fee to reflect cost of processing (e.g. size in block chain, or number of inputs). The Bitcoin faucet started paying this fee, to avoid the transactions being stuck. This has unclogged the blockage for other transactions too, by freeing up "free transaction" space. If Country A doesn't have a government, it's damned near impossible for Country B to take it over by force. Wars generally work by one government taking over the institutions of another government (military, police, administration etc).If country A doesn't have a government, what is country B going to do? Separately take over every individual home, farm and business? Country B will go for easier targets instead.Now let's suppose that I'm wrong, and Country B does try to take over Country A. Naturally the citizens of Country A are going to forcefully resist. If Country A defends itself, this does not conflict with it being anti-war. Self-defence is totally different from the initiation of war, because self-defence aims to neutralise the war, not start it.Whenever a country is genuinely threatened, there has never been a shortage of highly-motivated volunteers to defend it, and they are likely to overcome the less-motivated force of the attacker.In addition to all of the death due to war, governments have killed more people outside of war than in the battlefields of war, at least during the 20th century. If you're keeping the currency, you must have the intention to use it eventually.In the meantime, there is some amount of economic activity around Bitcoin. If you are keeping some coins, it doesn't affect the level of economic activity of others, but it does raise the value of those coins that are economically active, this increasing the size of the Bitcoin economy that can be supported when you and the other savers do eventually start spending. And every key within that block begins with 1  :-) No I don't.I was discussing welfare recipients, the dependent classes whose housing, education and sometimes food are provided by the state. They are the ones who live a miserable life of semi-poverty.I am less wealthy than some welfare beneficiaries, but infinitely better off. 15 BTC sent. I could see how bitterly cold it was, and I hope this covers the cost of the gloves he had to buy after 45 minutes. Yes I live in Europe. This problem solves itself in anarchism because barriers to becoming the capitalist employer are removed. Therefore the capitalist pig can't pay his workers too little or they set up in competition to him. Employee exploitation is only a problem in statist systems. It needs to be simple for the user, yet effective for controlling spam.How about a single setting in the standard client, that controls the fee per transaction input. The default can be something very low (0.0001 per transaction input).That will also incentivize someone to write code to make the client's input coin selection more optimal, to the benefit of the network as a whole. And get started quickly, because the hashing difficulty factor has been rising every 10 to 14 days. In the meantime, please reword the notification email, which currently says "If you like this answer, you may select it as the best". It's not optimal if transactions are not being processed while there's space available in the blocks.Why not experiment, in the next client, with a setting that allows the user to specify a very low default fee for all transactions (well below 0.01 BTC). Then see what happens. If I'm paying the bounty, I want to be the one to decide whether to award it.If the answer had not met my needs, I would be angry and upset for BitQnA to pay out the bounty against my wishes. Satoshi might have heard this before releasing Bitcoin, but not before designing Bitcoin. Here's a post where Satoshi says "The design and coding started in 2007".He repeated the comment in this post: This is because the Nordic countries don't waste a huge amount of their wealth on overseas warfare. We needn't fear inherited wealth, because within a generation or two the family inevitably procreates a playboy who blows all the family's wealth on hookers, coke, yachts, and fast cars.What we do need to fear is a society that is structured to funnel the wealth of the poor into the pockets of the rich on an ongoing basis. ...thereby dooming them to miserable lives of semi-poverty and blocking them from fulfilling their potential.There are plenty of statistics showing that people who receive government benefits have lower job satisfaction, lower educational attainment, poorer health, shorter lifespan, are more likely to be in prison, etc. Some of these are quite good controlled studies (e.g. of families on opposite sides of the same street who happen to be in different towns and therefore qualify for different government "benefits").However, time is short and I'm not going to dig out the references right now. I accept that this makes this post fairly unconvincing. I got a good answer to my question. But when I went to the site to "award" my bitcoin bounty to that answer, the answer seemed to have already been selected as best answer (by someone else, or by some automatic process), and all mention of my 5 BTC bounty had disappeared from the question page.
Well said, grinder.With Bitcoin, I would add one more reason to diversify, and that is because the absolute security of wallet.dat file cannot be 100% guaranteed. But then you will end up finding aliens, which are not as useful as bitcoins. I got it to work by using "ruby ./bmc" instead of "./bmc".I also got this message when installing using Nefario's instructions, but I guess it's nothing to worry about: You can get 0.05 coins for free from the Bitcoin Faucet. That's enough to set started experimenting with Bitcoin. Seriously, if the BlackMarketClient requires messing about with dependencies, it's not going to take off.I love ruby as an elegant and powerful programming language, and if I was developing for a ruby project I would willingly install all this stuff. But these dependencies are not appropriate for someone who just wants to run an end-user application. ATI is going to wonder one day why the 5970 sold like hot cakes. And by helping Bitcoin to get established you may find that you make more concrete change to the world than you ever imagined!Just to bring my post back on-topic: I wonder when the first mainstream church will start accepting Bitcoin donations. There will be no turning back for Bitcoin then! If I had a penny for each homeless gambler who had made their decisions based on that "feeling". I have ruby 1.8.7 but not gem. Any idea what Fedora package contains gem? If you're going to switch, there's no logical reason to wait until you get another block before switching.The work your miner has done so far counts for nothing. There's no "partial work" that you would lose by switching to a pool now rather than later.You have the same chance of generating a block if you have never mined before, or if you have mined for a month (with or without generating blocks). Your past mining history doesn't affect your future chances in any way. The site seems to function quite well, however when editing my question I get: You have to design an ad first, so that you can select it when you set up your campaign. If you don't have an ad (of the correct dimensions for the site that you're advertising on), the screen that you see is quite misleading. It should say "you can't advertise on this site until you have created an ad of xxx by yyy pixels".PS: Please don't advertise on Quezi.com, whose readers are not your target market. Will you be selling any 1 ounce gold coins? The smaller ones just have too much overhead to be used as an investment. I don't own any gold (except for my wedding ring), but I would like to buy an ounce sometime. Have a look at the "examples" directory that got installed with your ATI SDK, and you'll get a feel for the breadth of applications for these boards.Also, don't forget, if the difficulty rises too high you can probably sell the GPU card second-hand and get back half what you paid for it. That might be enough to make the venture profitable overall. I just sent him another 10.But maybe it's time to reduce the payout to 0.03 coins. Thanks Mahkul. The transaction was successful for me too, of course. I've rated you positively with my other ratings. It's unintuitive that the search button only searches the current sub-forum. A search for "Commodity" from the box above this article won't find the discussion.Some discussion is here:Definition of a Commodity & Are Bitcoins a Commodity? You're absolutely right.Interesting subject for a first post (unless you're that Jed, of course). Satoshi is Ben Bernanke, who has been putting his "Plan B" in place for when the SHTF. Satoshi is actually Midas Mulligan, a wealthy banker who mysteriously disappeared in protest after he was given a court order to lend money to an incompetent applicant.
It's fairly clear that Satoshi planned this absence.Before he became inactive, he asked Gavin to take over the build process. He also removed the part of the code that allowed him to send a PGP-signed message that would put Bitcoin clients into safe mode.So I don't think Satoshi's absence is due to having met with an accident.It would be quite OK if Satoshi has chosen to melt away into the background, and if his identity is never discovered. The idea of an invention as great as Bitcoin having been unleashed by an anonymous benefactor is quite cool.It will lead to some great speculation in the future though. Is Satoshi Hal Finney? Is Satoshi Peter Gutmann? Is Satoshi Bruce Schneier? Is Satoshi Gavin Andreessen? Even if the current pricing does reflect a "speculative gold rush", it's inevitably self-correcting so it's nothing to worry about.Personally, I think the speculative bubbles are yet to come. They will happen, and a lot of people will get rich, and a lot of people will get poor as a result. But the bubbles will be driven by large numbers of people (e.g. after Oprah mentions Bitcoin on her show, or Bart Simpson gets into Bitcoin).The current market price, being determined by a few thousand early adopters who are mostly of above-average intelligence, isn't a bubble as far as I'm concerned. Religion can do something that no business can do: invite payment now, with the promise of a reward after death.But if there was a heaven after death, who would want to be there? Seriously, how could you enjoy heaven, hearing all the howls of torment from those in the other place? Or, as is perhaps more likely, hearing all the fun parties happening at the other place. ShadowOfHarbringer and BCEmporium, if you'd care to start a thread in Off Topic I'll be very happy to join in.Religious discussion doesn't belong here in "Marketplace" (unless you're selling crucifixes for bitcoins). That's an interesting thought. A bitcoin-oriented VCT would be a great vehicle for investors to use, because there are substantial tax breaks.But I don't think it's so interesting to actually create and operate the VCT, because what you earn is the percentage that you collect as trust manager (ballpark 2% to 5% a year, I think), from which must be deducted the administrative and compliance costs.Operating a VCT is, I think, a reasonably profitable occupation. But if Bitcoin grows as rapidly as we think it will, it will be more profitable to be investing into the Bitcoin businesses, than to be operating the investment vehicle. I looked into this too, and I found the same as Vladimir, although I think you could meet FSA requirements for a bit less, maybe £200,000.The UK does not have the same "bottom-up" entrepreneurial environment that, say, the US does. So new technologies are most often introduced by some existing big company deciding to branch out into the new field. And often they need to get the regulations rewritten to make it possible. The BBC and PayPal, amongst others, did this but it's not possible for the "little guy" to do the same.For this reason, none of the big internet technologies were developed in the UK. None the new business models (as exemplified by eBay, Amazon, CraigsList, PayPal, Google, YouTube, Flickr, etc) originated in the UK, even though the UK makes up a large percentage of internet users.The best we did in the UK was a couple of websites that started selling last minute holidays, or listing real estate online. And all of today's big UK internet sites are divisions of pre-internet businesses (e.g. the BBC, or newspapers, or bricks-and-mortar retailers). I removed the receiving addresses from that wiki page. There's no legitimate reason to have a donation-receiving address anywhere except on the organization's own website. The lack of chargeback forces merchants to be more honest, in the long run anyway.With chargeback, there's no incentive for the merchant to differentiate themselves as being more trustworthy than other merchants, because the customer's ability to chargeback is identical for every merchant.Without chargeback, customers will eventually get used to thinking about trustworthiness, and merchants will have to cultivate their trustworthiness to survive.In the short term it will be a rocky road, as consumers learn (the hard way) about the new way of doing things. People lose physical gold every day, but the gold economy isn't harmed. In your original post you wrote 0.005%, which equals 0.00005, not 0.005. I'm not sure what point you think is being made by the Slashdot article.Consumers are being squeezed because their food costs more than a year ago, their heating costs more than a year ago, their transport costs more than a year ago, their taxes are higher than a year ago, and their incomes have not kept pace. So of course they will prioritize essential purchases at the expense of discretionary purchases.The amount of tech products they are buying now is higher than the amount they would be buying if the products hadn't dropped in price over the past few years. Double-sided printing is possible, but it's surely too difficult to be practical for the average user to get everything oriented correctly.I don't see any problem for these checks to be single-sided though. It's also necessary for the redemption software to immediately spend the coins to another address in the same wallet, to make the original check useless for others.Otherwise, multiple people can scan the QR code into their wallets, and no-one knows how many others have the coins, but the first to spend the coins will be the one who gets the value. These checks are being printed at home by the purchaser, right? That probably rules out double-sided printing. You'll need to make sure the design is also usable for people with black-and-white laser printers.If you use Julian Assange's image to imply endorsement it will cause problems, but I guess you know that already. Nice attention-getting idea though.Rather than engaging a designer to produce the note, why not have a design competition with a BTC prize?Your example shows a commission of 0.5%, not 0.005%. This is too low for a serious business. There's no reason why a Bitcoin check shouldn't have a fee of 1% or 2%. You will need to cover advertising and support costs, in addition to the server hosting costs. With a 2% fee, a check for BTC 20 would cost BTC 20.40.Anyway, nice concept! At the current difficulty, my phone should generate one block every 58 years. That's amazing, but not amazing enough! You could maybe ask doublec. He's the only person I know who has compiled bitcoind for an ARM device:http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2125.0 I mine on the Linux box that I use for everything else too.I bought a 5870 for it (322 MHash/sec) which purrs away quietly and is trouble-free, except for the need to reinstall the ATI driver every time I update the Linux kernel.I also tried mining on my N900 phone just for the fun of it (130 kHash/sec) but of course I never won a block. And chargebacks can be a fraudster's first line of offence against unsuspecting merchants...Obviously it works both ways, which is why the payment mechanism itself should be chargeback-free. The most appropriate protection can be layered on top of the payment mechanism, according to the needs of the parties to the transaction. The common factor in all your examples is that the state is the organization within a geographical area that exercises a monopoly on coercion. That's enough common meaning for debates about "the state" to make sense. You can do it too, if you provide what the customer wants, in the form that the customer wants it.Water from the tap is almost free, yet my local supermarket sells bottled water at a higher price than coca-cola. Go figure!
Baron's lawyer won't want the screenshots for court evidence, he will just want to see them himself to work out exactly what Baron's case is, and what real evidence needs to be assembled. The "man uname" command says that -m means "print the machine hardware name", but maybe uname -m is actually printing the last part of the kernel version string as displayed by uname -r.I'm currently running 64-bit Fedora, and this is what I see:uname -r2.6.35.11-83.fc14.x86_64uname -mx86_64Auto-detection would be a good thing if it is foolproof, but otherwise it adds more problems than it solves. The price is partly driven by future expectations.Every month the amount of bitcoin-denominated commerce has increased. It's a simple extrapolation to see that the limited supply of bitcoins will need to be worth much more in the future to support the ever-growing amount of bitcoin-denominated commerce.People aren't buying a bitcoin today so that they can buy a loaf of bread today, but many people are buying a bitcoin today because they might be able to buy ten loaves of bread next year.Or maybe none, if Bitcoin fails, because it's highly speculative for sure. If, like me, you think the fundamentals are sound, it's not such a big risk. This is is stark contrast with the UK, where the Royal Bank of Scotland is in the taxpayer's hands after being bailed out.It just posted another  loss, this time of around a thousand million pounds. And, surprise, the bank's expenses included around a thousand million pounds of bonuses, including a hundred bankers who each got a bonus of a million pounds or more.So every family in the UK is paying fifty pounds of tax to make sure that people richer than them continue to collect these enormous bonuses for a failed bank.And the UK taxpayer laps this up with barely a murmur. Although Satoshi normally chooses his words very carefully, he did once or twice let his raw anarchistic rage show through, like when he wrote that with Bitcoin, "we can win a major battle in the arms race and gain a new territory of freedom for several years. Governments are good at cutting off the heads of a centrally controlled network like Napster, but pure P2P networks like Gnutella and Tor seem to be holding their own."That comment earned him a rebuke from the list moderator:That suggests this version of Bitcoin in 15 words or less for laymen:Bitcoin: gives rabid libertarians a new territory of freedom for several years. The "pay out or donate to charity" model is a big improvement, because it gives the seller of goods/services more assurance that the buyer is committed to spending the coins.As a buyer, I would happily use this option. If the seller doesn't deliver and I divert the bitcoins to charity, I won't lose out. I donate to charity anyway, so I'll just donate less next time.As dacoinminster implies, it needs to be clear that the buyer is not a beneficiary of the charity. But this is easily solved by having a short list of unambiguously independent charities.Your second option (allowing the coins to be diverted to any mutually-agreed address) will be useful in the future when the coins can be diverted to an arbitrator. Doesn't "uname -m" only give you the hardware type? Until recently, I was running 32-bit Fedora on 64-bit hardware. OK, that's fine. The word "currency" wasn't explicit in your first post, and I assumed the "assets" could be totally arbitrary, in which case it's impractical to solve complex multi-exchange trades without introducing prices. Both of them, when put on the spot, offered to return the disputed amount if this would get the issue closed. Just sayin' It's for situations like this that "prices" were invented. I'm not Vladimir, but ... there's no such thing as British Law. There is one set of laws for England and Wales, another completely separate set of laws for Scotland, and another completely separate set of laws for Northern Ireland. The law of England and Wales is often loosely referred to as English law. Then he needs to wait until summer, because you can see from the video how cold it was in NY for the guy who did it on Tuesday.But must he do this in NY? Surely there are suitable locations that don't require a flight? Your web page says "We seek no control over anyone", yet "top wage earners are not to earn more than 100x their lowest wage earning employee", and licensing and permits are required after a one-year grace period.Do you see the inherent contradication? Oh, over the net...I will be interested to see how that goes. I don't know if the human communication bandwidth will be high enough. My company sued another company in 1987, when I was not yet a voluntaryist. I was "only" a libertarian back then.Since then, I have not sued anyone. But neither have I experienced any loss to "shrug off". Voluntaryism changes your whole way of dealing with other people, in a very positive sense.Obviously I can't be sure that I'll never suffer a loss from being ripped off. But if it happens, I'll try to make good by non-violent means, and I'll balance the loss against the savings I made by not paying lawyers. Many people here are familiar with the GPL. I have often wondered if someone could draw up a business agreement that works in a similar way, but refers to state courts.Something self-detonating, along the lines of "We agree to transact without invoking the power of the state. Each party agrees that if they invoke the power of the state, they immediately and totally release the other party from any legal obligations."Obviously that's amateurish and no doubt full of loopholes, but it would be interesting to see what a lawyer could come up with. Nor do I, because I consider it immoral and distasteful to invoke the violence of the state against a fellow human being.Of course, if someone else initiated court action against me then all bets are off. "Sweat equity" is a legal term in some places. It means you work for a business but you don't get paid wages. Instead, you get a share of equity in the business. The actual price chart, just in case anyone started to panic: Very amateurish image edit. What you smokin' man?
I have only occasionally had the opportunity to do pair programming, but I would choose it every time when the opportunity arises.I have done it with two seats at one desk with one keyboard and monitor. We never "took turns" on any formal basis, but we were always sliding the keyboard back and forth to each other without any formality. I have also done it with two seats at a larger desk with two keyboards and monitors. With that setup, we would sometimes drift off into non-pair programming, but would come back together as a pair anytime someone said anything.In my opinion the whole strength of pair programming has nothing to do with the coding itself. It's that you are constantly discussing things with each other. This boosts both people's skills, because everyone has strengths and weaknesses, and both people naturally learn from the other person's strengths. And it's much more productive than two people working separately, because both people tend to work at the productivity of the most efficient team member. Finally, it's much more interesting than solo programming. You never find your mind drifting off onto other matters. This part is not weird at all.MtGox has a withdrawal limit of $1000 per day. With bitcoin trading around 30 cents per coin, it would have taken three days to withdraw 9000 BTC. No, the delivery is on me. I did OK out of that BTC purchase Just PM your delivery address to me. Speaking for myself rather than for Mike...Suppose I'm happy to lend money to my friend Fred, but not directly to Fred's friends. With RipplePay, Fred's friend Sue can get the use of my money, though it's Fred who has the ultimate liability to pay me back.But if Sue disappears and doesn't pay Fred back, it's going to ruin my friendship with Fred when I pressure him to pay me back Sue's loan out of his own pocket. It doesn't help the friendship if I say to Fred "It's your fault because you decided that you trust Sue". If you can use it, I have a surplus 12 inch 1024x768 LCD monitor that I'm happy to send you at no cost, just to keep it out of landfill.The color balance shifts occasionally, but it would be quite OK to use on a temporary basis. I foresee two more slashdottings on the way then! Sure, and why not? That counts as "living off bitcoins", as far as my bounty is concerned. Six blocks in ten minutes, between 14:51 UTC and 15:01. Friendsofkim, you might find this video about the Bettermeans organizational tools very relevant to your idea. The Bettermeans tools are free for projects whose tasks are public.http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MAlnMWlvw9g That's problematic, because politics depends on promising goods to voters at election time.Rather than politics needing to be reframed, I think it needs to be made irrelevant by being superseded by direct interaction amongst individuals and voluntary communities. The term "price discovery" represents a fallacy. It suggests that there is some "true price", and if only the market can allow everyone to discover it we'll all be happy.In fact there is no "true price" to be discovered. A "market price" emerges as the net effect of transactions that actually take place, and it has no meaning until after those trades occur. Oh but we are trying to make the world a decent place!It's just that voluntarists know that different people have different ideas of what constitutes a "decent place". So our idea of a "decent place" is one where a coercive state does not impose its own idea of a "decent place" on other people. I really like this idea. But before people get too excited, there is strong evidence that in such situations, monetary reward leads to worse results for any task requiring creativity. Therefore, you can't expect to duplicate the motivation and productivity experienced by voluntary software projects.See this video for an overview of the research on money and motivation:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u6XAPnuFjJcRather than having a centralized bureaucracy in an open collaborative business, I think it could be run by allowing anyone to create and manage one or more of the "cogs" that make the business work. Each cog (person) chooses which other cogs to interact with, and the net result is the overall business.For example, suppose you had a project to create forum software like the one that runs this forum. Fred might write the code that reads the database and formats the web pages. Susan might write a CSS stylesheet which Fred will use. But if Tom wants to write a better one, Fred is free to use that instead. And Susan is free to enhance her stylesheet until Fred prefers to use hers. Or Susan and Tom might choose to combine their efforts.Sam would prepare some graphics, which Fred and Susan would be free to choose or not. And for file uploads (attachments), one of the bitcoin-based file upload services would be used.I don't know how well I'm explaining that, but the idea is that there's no central committee making decisions. The people who are working on each part of the business are free to decide how they interact with the neighboring parts of the business, and the business as a whole emerges from the sum total of all those decisions. Insider trading brings a price closer to the underlying asset's "true" value as soon as possible. By doing so, it protects outsiders who would otherwise be buying and selling at a "false" price based on their lack of insider knowledge.Laws against insider trading mean that the biggest profits go to those who break the law, at the expense of everyone else. Legalized insider trading would minimize the profits that can be made by insider trading, because the market price would become accurate sooner. I defer to fornit. Not if the Bitcoin exchange rate rises in the meantime. OK, I'll put my bitcoins where my mouth is.I'll give 200 bitcoins to the first person who lives for a month making all of their transactions in bitcoins.They are welcome to buy things informally from their bitcoin buddies. They are welcome to get food from food banks with or without donating bitcoins. They are welcome to use fiat to charge up their phone credit before the month starts, or to pay for things like rent in advance.But for the designated month all of the transactions that they make must be denominated in bitcoins.I reserve the right to withhold the bounty if there's nothing avant-garde being done. For example, if a teenager just lived normally for a month, and their parents paid for everything using fiat currency, that wouldn't earn the bounty.(If it's later than 1st June 2011 when you start this, check with me first to confirm that the bounty is still on offer.) I haven't seen any statement from MtGox that resembles "dishing out a guilty verdict", or anything other than "I'm looking into this". The small investor can watch the market, and isn't forced to advertise his intentions, When there is a suitable ask or bid on the market, the small investor joins the market and makes a trade.A dark pool just automates this process for the big investor.This is the core difference. You believe in the sanctity of "free market forces". I believe in the sanctity of the "free market" and I don't care about it's supposed "forces", because in a free market I'm not subject to any forces. If someone else wants to trade at a price that suits me, I trade.I've never used a dark pool myself, because I consider it in my interests to openly advertise my intentions, to increase the likelihood of making a trade. But I'm perfectly happy for others to use dark pools if it suits their purposes.There's no stench from a voluntary trade. It's your bounty, mpkomara, so of course you can set the rules. But consider this.By the time it becomes possible to buy food and shelter from "REAL bitcoin merchants", then Bitcoin will already have arrived in the mainstream and this undertaking will not be so interesting.On the other hand, we are now at the stage where no-one has ever lived for a month using just Bitcoin, no matter how they do it, so it is an interesting exercise. Even if someone buys food, shelter and transport direct from other Bitcoiners, what's wrong with that? Why should a purchase only be meaningful if it's from Wal-mart or McDonalds?
If you know the proverb "A watched pot never boils", it also applies to Bitcoin generation.Don't go checking for generated blocks. Then, occasionally, when you least expect it you will be delightfully surprised to see a new block maturing. Or even where they went to university. For words that can be spelled either way, Oxford University (and Oxford Dictionary) uses -ize and Cambridge uses -ise.Until World War II, -ize was standard for the UK, but in the past 65 years the use of -ise has become more common.Anyway, Satoshi is very careful about hiding his identity, so I expect his choice of -ise or -ize is deliberate and does not reveal any information about him. I offer to buy your bitcoins for 0.67 each. Let me know if you're interested.You would need to send the coins first, but as you can see from the forum's List of honest traders I have had many successful trades. Theoretically, perhaps, but it's implemented with 64-bit integers, so as soon as that last "1" drops of the right-hand bit, the mining reward will be exactly zero forevermore. This won't happen within my lifetime though. The darkest pool of all is outside of MtGox. It is in people's minds. People have thoughts like "if the price rises another 10%, I might offload my bitcoins".These thoughts will never be displayed at any marketplace, but they are part of the future price destiny.There's no point worrying about MtGox dark pools when they make little or no difference compared to unvoiced thoughts and emotions. I don't accept that an offer to trade can harm others. Let me know if you're ever on a working holiday in Lancashire! MtGox has no formal terms of service, so they are acting on the traditional basis that "possession is nine tenths of the law". I think that's a good thing. At this point in the evolution of services such as MtGox, they need to be able to act rapidly and somewhat arbitrarily, in order to establish what will become policies in the future.There is a school of thought that "There are no rules until they are broken". This was traditionally the way discipline was handled at Phillips Exeter Academy in New Hampshire, and it seemed to work well. By contrast, nearby Phillips Academy Andover had rules for everything and produced alumni such as George Bush (senior and junior).In time the Bitcoin economy might become more formal, but I think we should encourage pluralistic solutions built around mutually-agreed arbitration systems. This will of course include commercial (paid) arbitrators, but I also like the idea of some kind of "jury" or "council of elders" to give opinions on bitcoin disputes. Wouldn't it work better to link the bitcoin address to their email address rather than needing to use a nickname? There's nothing wrong with dark pools. The way a free market works is that you decide what it's worth to you to buy or sell, and if the market can match you up with someone else then you both transact to mutual advantage.Why should people be forced to advertise their intentions in one specific way? That wouldn't be very free.Anyway, dark pools at MtGox make little difference. Even if MtGox didn't support dark pools, there will always be people dealing outside of MtGox (e.g. #bitcoin-otc, or private trades) so you can't have perfect knowledge of other people's intentions anyway. There are always parts of any market that are unavoidably dark. I'm also looking to buy BTC for EUR or GBP bank transfer. I'm paying a couple of percent above MtGox rates. Send me a PM if interested. For what it's worth, when I compiled wxWidgets under Fedora 12, it worked by exactly following the instructions in file build-unix.txt, except that I had to do the whole thing as root (not just the make install step).I haven't compiled it under Fedora 14. You need to stick with the static libs, else you're on your own. You can install them from package boost-static.I'm now using Fedora 14, but when I was using Fedora 12 I was able to compile bitcoin using boost-static-1.39.0 as described here:http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1334.msg22412#msg22412 Hey UK people, I need to buy some BTC in the next 10 days (to cover an option that I sold), and would like to pay by UK bank transfer. I'm prepared to pay £0.57 per bitcoin, which is well above the MtGox rate, for any quantity from 100 to 2000 bitcoins.Anyone interested? Reply here or send me a PM. I offer 390 Euros by bank transfer. I will pay the bank charges.But as you are the newcomer here, I will only do this if you send the coins first. You can check my ratings at #bitcoin-otc and in the "honest traders" thread. A self-signed certificate is not wrongly configured.But mainstream browsers do react in a way that tends to cause panic amongst mainstream users. If the browser just said "This certificate is self-signed. Your session is encrypted, but the certificate doesn't vouch for the identity of the website" that would be fine.Unfortunately, browsers don't work like that, so it probably is worth buying a commercial cert. I'm happy to contribute to the cost. PM sent. It's secure for the issuer, because there's also a checksum printed on the card. But it's not so secure for the layperson, who depends for security upon buying the scratchcard from a trusted vendor. As these scratchcards are not widely used as money, that's good enough. Photocopy the invisible ink bitcoin bill, and spend it. When the new owner tries to redeem it, they discover that the invisible ink is a lie.This is not directly defrauding the issuer of the bills, but it would bring the system into disrepute. I expect someone will sell you bitcoins for PayPal if you're willing for the seller to leave the coins in escrow for six months while the PayPal payment matures.
Sure, that's a natural and appropriate use of "BC". Ponzi scheme = early adopters make most profit, early adopters carry least riskBitcoin = early adopters make most profit, early adopters carry most riskThat's a fundamental difference. I will do it for $100. I know it's a high price, but the overall trend is for the bitcoin price to be rising rapidly. Hey db, this is very nice, but would you consider modifying the program to use the terminology discussed here?http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=3311.msg46648#msg46648That way it will be tidier when we get down to the smallest subdivisions of a bitcoin. And, of course, clicking "New..." in the client uses 1 address. Now that "BTC" is heavily used to mean "bitcoins", I think it's worth deprecating "BC". When the "BC" logo was originally used, way back when, there was no widespread usage of "BTC". I think it's more than enough enough to have strikethrough-B and BTC, without reviving a third abbreviation. I would be a little uneasy in case this service becomes popular, and in a year or two you switch all the bitcoin receiving addresses to your own. An interesting way to dabble might be to use bitcoins as an intermediary currency.Bitcoin Central supports USD and Euros. BTCex supports USD, Euros, Rubles and Yen. Send a patch, and we'll shoot it down in flames.I'm working on a patch to associate a fragrance with each payment. Lilac to the love of your life. Campfire smoke to your hiking buddies. And lemon for your tax payments. You wrote in the article that "eventually everyone will hit the jackpot". I think it's important not to raise people's expectations too high. Already, you need a GPU to have a reliable chance of generating blocks. And the difficulty is likely to keep rising. Many of those who are generating with a CPU will never generate a block. Rob, if you backup by using the "backupwallet" API call, the backup is safely interleaved with any transactions that may occur.If you backup the wallet.dat file by copying it somewhere, you should stop the bitcoin client before you copy the wallet, then restart the client afterwards. No-one has stepped forward to say that they are suffering from a problem that would be fixed by this patch, so it is "solving" a non-problem. I don't think a second block chain would be any problem for Bitcoin. Nevertheless, it might be interesting to start one up, just to illustrate that point. What do people think?(We can't count testnet as an alternative block chain anymore, now that it gets reset for the convenience of the testers.) If there are a thousand people generating, someone's likely to have a 0.1% experience. This was your turn. Don't worry, you're unlikely to find the next three so quickly. You were just lucky with your generated blocks. Generations are highly variable. When you have a long dry spell without a block (which you will), just look back and remember that there were good times too.As theGECK said, the generation difficulty factor adjusts every 2016 blocks (every couple of weeks). The adjustment in 90,000 blocks will be to the payout rate, from 50 to 25 BTC per block, which is a tapering-off so that generation of new coins will eventually stop. I wasn't trying to argue anything. I was just posting my fond recollections, which I have also written about elsewhere. I lived in New Zealand from 1986 to 1992, which included the time where Roger Douglas and David Lange were reforming the economy. It was a fabulous time to be living there.Prior to the 1980s, New Zealand was a "good" example of a socialist economy. Even the state-provided housing was of very good quality, and virtually no-one was homeless. Employment was high, but so was tax, and import duties were very restrictive. There were some racial tensions, but mostly it was a peaceful and comfortable country.Although most people had decent housing and a steady job, you couldn't call the country prosperous by any measure. The average person couldn't afford a nice car, because they were extremely expensive. Nor were luxury consumer goods affordable. By that I mean, few people would have been able to afford (for example) a high quality camera. But for sure, all the basics of life were provided for, for most people.But in the early 1980s, the government had experimented with "big business" capitalism. The government had taxed heavily to fund what they called the "Think Big" programs. These involved very large industrial and "public works" projects, way beyond what the country could afford, and the projects were chosen for political purposes rather than for cost-benefit ratio. Of course much of the profits went to the corporations that contracted with the government to build these things.As a result of the "Think Big" projects, the government got deep into debt. Inflation rose, and unemployment rose. The Bank of New Zealand was bordering on insolvency.Against this background, there was a change of government and the Labour Party was elected. Much to everyone's surprise, the Prime Minister (David Lange) and Finance Minister (Roger Douglas) turned out to be a bunch of libertarians and started to tear down the mechanisms of the state. They bailed out the Bank of New Zealand (for almost a thousand million NZ$ if my memory serves me correctly). They deregulated the labour market to reduce unemployment (which worked) and they balanced the budget to stabilize interest rates (which worked), and they moved towards inflation targeting for central bank policy to reduce inflation (which worked).The were driven by the notion of the government's job being simply to provide a "level playing field" for enterprise to flourish, and to quite a large extent they succeeded. Because government policy was driven by this central idea of the "level playing field", the job of lobbyist virtually disappeared, because there were no favours being given out in response to lobbying.Lange and Douglas steamrollered ahead, but they went one step further than the electorate was prepared to accept, when they announced the introduction of a flat rate of income tax. They quickly backtracked on this, but nevertheless lost the next election.Along the way, they had also made three other big changes. They introduced Goods and Services Tax (in a very fair way, without loopholes), but of course in my opinion any tax increase is bad. And they stood up for themselves on matters of principle relating to warfare (even to the extent of upsetting their allies, the USA) -- for example, in the first gulf while everyone else sent combat troops, New Zealand sent a hospital ship. And the government gave the people a chance to choose the voting system. Although the government campaigned to retain the first-past-the-post system, the people chose a preferential system (wisely, in my opinion). No you don't.There is never any partial work that could be saved. Each hash is a completely independent attempt at solving the block, and your miner makes millions of those attempts every second. She's un-bribeable. And I'm the chocolate addict in this house anyway.Even if I had offered to make sure I got pink bitcoins, that wouldn't have swung the deal. Hahaha!I did manage to persuade my wife that we should buy some bitcoins as an investment, but I'm sure she wouldn't consider selling the house (or even the car) for bitcoins.
...which will make it more profitable to generate bitcoins again, so round and round we go. If anyone feels like preparing the graphs, it would be interesting to see bitcoin price plotted against the forum stats: new topics, new posts, new members and most online. Suppose you want to export all your generated coins to another wallet, while keeping them pristine (i.e. without a transaction history). Lots of people lost their internet access, as various methods of access went down and up. But landlines kept working, didn't they? At a pinch, major Bitcoin merchants could dialup to an overseas ISP in a crisis if they needed to.But there's a big difference between losing internet access (even if a whole country loses it), and retaining access within a country but being partitioned from the rest of the world. That alphabet is "all over Google" because it's the one that Flickr uses. But if you search for "base 58" bitcoin then the correct variation will be "all over Google".Better still, ask the source code for the authoritative answer:https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/blob/master/base58.h Another thought. If currencies are easy to create, the scarcity or currencies is not there, but people will still consider "quality of currency".Probably the "hardest to create" currency will be perceived as having the highest quality (if all else is equal). If Bitcoin already has a huge proof of work behind it, it's going to become increasingly difficult for any new currency to catch up with the proof of work and match Bitcoin's difficulty of creation. The "scarcity of currencies" is an interesting concept, but it's amenable to the marketplace.If bitcoin is a good currency, those who are using Bitcoin have nothing to fear from anyone who starts up a competitive but inferior currency.Even if the competitive currency is roughly equivalent, Bitcoin has first-mover advantage and won't easily be shaken from its position.But if the competitive currency is significantly and unambiguously better then, yes, Bitcoin will lose value. This would be painful for those who had adopted Bitcoin, but in the long run it means we get an even better currency.I think Bitcoin is "good enough" that it will not be unseated by an upstart. I'm not worried. But I still won't spend all my money buying bitcoins.===On a slightly different angle, consider that gold has not been unseated from its monetary role, even though there are an almost limitless number of other things that could replace it.If gold became unusable as a store of value, e.g. due to a cheap way being found to extract the gold atoms that are in seawater), we could use other metals, or rare old postage stamps, or dinosaur bone fragments, etc. But hardly anyone is doing that now, even though those things have value. Security firms review closed source software all the time (e.g. viruses), but it involves reverse engineering, takes a huge amount of time, and costs a lot of money.For most people it won't be possible to avoid running at least some closed source software that has access to wallet.dat. Even on Linux, few people are running a "whiter than white" distribution. Most people have at least some closed source drivers and codecs on their system.Effectively securing wallet.dat is really difficult for the non-technical Bitcoin user. Firstly, most people think a total severance is practically impossible. There would have to be no radio communication link, nor wire or optical fiber link, nor sneakernet or avian carrier link. It's hard to imagine a disaster that would disable every last link.If the network does get severed for a few days, then later rejoined, one of the block chains will be accepted by the majority and the other block chain will be rejected. The transactions on the rejected block chain are temporarily lost, but will normally be re-broadcast and eventually incorporated into the accepted block chain.Any coins generated on the rejected block chain during the separation will be lost forever, even if they have been spent to someone else in the meantime. This forum doesn't send any emails (despite hints to the contrary in the user interface). You'll need to find other ways to follow it (e.g. by the "Recent Unread Posts" link). A symbol like this needs to be suitable for handwriting, like the "@" sign, but it's hard to do this with "b". Try it and you'll see what I mean. It's pretty hard to test a closed-source application. It might work perfectly, but might contain code that changes its behavior at some future date.You can test more thoroughly by disassembling the binary and working out what it does, but that's seriously time-consuming and wouldn't be practical for apps like this one.As it happens, this one did (accidentally) include the source code. So a business could have charged a fee to certify it as safe or unsafe. I hear this all the time, but I don't understand it.There's a free exchange market between dollars and Euros. So if Iran sells oil for dollars and immediately exchanges those for Euros, how is that any different from Iran selling oil for Euros directly? (Apart from the currency exchange costs, of course). Lobby your government to remove the restrictions on small businesses starting up a bank, and you'll soon see innovative banking models built around the needs of bitcoiners. It will happen anyway, but it will take longer in the current regulatory environment (which is designed to protect the big players at the expense of the public, while being sold to the public as the opposite). An expansionary phase is inevitable with the bootstrapping of any new currency. There's no other way to do it.A fairly safe assumption is that the growth in the number of users will exceed the monetary inflation during the early "bootstrapping" years. There is controlled and fairly predictable monetary inflation, but probably not price inflation. This reminds me of a few months ago when the total value of the generated bitcoins first passed $1 million. Some guy commented that even his uncle's house was worth more than $1 million.The total value is now $5 million. I guess that guy's uncle's house might even be worth $5 million. It just shows how tiny the whole bitcoin economy is, relative to its potential. It has a long way to go yet.I think the biggest boost to Bitcoin's value will come when inflation starts to skyrocket and the "man in the street" gets scared for his financial future. Your scheme doesn't protect against someone else generating the same key at a later time, so it doesn't guarantee uniqueness.Indeed.David, look at it this way. On the one hand, there is a possibility that someone could hack one bitcoin address if everyone in the world tried for a trillion years. On the other hand, just today someone lost bitcoins because of a backup tool that stole his bitcoin wallet.Which is the bigger threat to bitcoin's success? The other problem with banning "illegal goods" will arise if Bitcoin itself becomes illegal. But in the meantime, I think Sirius' policy is workable. Exactly. The system must be probabalistic because there is no central key store. But so what?If quantum computing becomes practical, we can switch to quantum keys and spend our existing wallets to one of those newfangled keys. Suppose each of the 7 billion people in the world has 1000 unspent addresses. On average you would need to try more than 1035 addresses to find each spendable one. Suppose you can check a million addresses per second, this is going to take you more than 1021 years.If everyone in the world is trying to crack this at the same time, it will still take around 1012 years. And when someone finally cracks it, after paying the electricity bill for 1012 years, they might be disappointed to find that the key unlocks just 0.05 BTC from the Bitcoin Faucet. Even if it's ten million bitcoins, it's not going to pay the electricity bill for 7 billion computers running for a trillion years.
Don't use the word "anonymous". The person who hears that word will assume it means something quite different from how Bitcoin works. An honest node can check the transaction signatures. No matter how long your proof of work is, you can't fake other people's signatures. So all you can put into your fake blocks is honest transactions plus your own double-spends.Of course, if you can trick other people into using your modified client, then that client can show those people that they have a balance of three pink unicorns. But it won't convince the rest of the network of that. If a central bank did start destroying bitcoins, you wouldn't need to get your hands on so many bitcoins (to get the same spending power).If a central bank or other organization wants to harm bitcoin, they will need to do it in ways other than by market forces. For example, by spreading a virus that steals people's wallets. The source code does nothing about this!If someone sells their bitcoins to the central bank because they prefer fiat currency to bitcoins, it's not my problem. And if the bank destroys those bitcoins, it's also not a problem for me.Bitcoin is not for those who have drunk the "deflation is evil" Kool-Aid. It looks like it was just one big sale taking the price down. Check back in a day or two to see if there's any momentum behind the drop. If you charge a large but fixed fee per wire, maybe 50, a resale market will naturally arise. The design of the Bitcoin system is described by this paper by Satoshi Nakamoto:Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash Systemhttp://www.bitcoin.org/sites/default/files/bitcoin.pdfThe source code is here:Bitcoin source code repositoryhttp://bitcoin.svn.sourceforge.net/viewvc/bitcoin/ The letter probably needs to include links to Satoshi's paper and to the source code repository. The high returns last year are a bit misleading, because most people were mining with CPUs and it was not possible to achieve anything near 100 MHash/s. You could join the pool at first, just so you know that your rig is working. Otherwise, it may go for days without generating, and you will find yourself wondering if it is working properly.When you are happy that your rig is working, you can switch to solo mining to get 2% more coins, on average. With a 5870 you will average just over one block a week, but some weeks you will get 2 or 3 blocks, and sometimes you will go 2 or 3 weeks before you get a block. It's very variable. One percent of the 146.4 billion turnover is 1.464 billion, not 146.4 million. No. You have to take the velocity of money into account.Suppose I buy something from Amazon with bitcoins. Amazon then pays their employees with those coins. Those employees buy other stuff with their wages. The same money goes round and round in the economy. This is called the velocity of money.Based on the 2006 figures that I quoted above, 1% of the US internet economy is around 1.5 billion dollars. If bitcoins were being used for that, it would equal $300 of transactions per bitcoin (1.5 billion divided by 5 million).If each bitcoin was spent 300 times during the year to support that amount of trade, then each bitcoin would be worth $1. If each bitcoin was spent only 30 times per year, then each bitcoin would be worth $10.If we look at bitcoinwatch.com we see that over the past 24 hours, 108641 out of 5450000 coins were transacted. That's 2% of all coins changing hands per day, meaning that on average each coin changes hands just over 7 times per year.But that's not quite the figure we want. It doesn't reflect purchases of tangible goods (it could be just people moving coins from one wallet to another, or back and forth between their wallet and MtGox). Also, it doesn't include people who make purchases using the shopping cart interfaces of MtGox, MyBitcoin, etc. In fact the velocity of money is almost impossible to measure, and most economists don't even try. On the other hand, the value of a bitcoin (or a dollar) is easy to observe, so that's what people measure. Just to clarify, my pledge is 100 BTC for the second person to do it on a different day, before the end of this month.However, if the two people both do it on the same day (which they might find easier), I'll send them each 25 BTC. I think it's likely that the authorities will bug people's asses much harder about the monetary aspects of bitcoin than the illicit substances aspect. If two people do it (before the end of Feb 2010), I'll donate 100 BTC to the second person. Here are some US figures from Wikipedia, a few years old, but 1% of that would be one and a half billion dollars:For 1% of US internet trade, and with 5 million bitcoins issued, and at their current value of around a dollar, each coin would need to be spent 300 times per year. Don't put all your eggs in one basket. Even if you are methodical about backing up your bitcoin wallet file, it might not hurt to have a few coins elsewhere (e.g. MyBitcoin). Spread the risk.Also, consider using more than one bitcoin wallet on your computer. Otherwise, if you make a typo and accidentally send 1234 bitcoins instead of 0.1234 bitcoins, you've lost everything. This metaphor was intended to show the symbiotic nature of bitcoin.We needed Satoshi to invent Bitcoin so that we could benefit from it. But equally, Satoshi needed us to use Bitcoin so that he could benefit from it.Satoshi could have generated endless bitcoins, but they would be of no value to him unless we were generating and using our own bitcoins. Our actions gave value/sweetness to Satoshi's bitcoins/milkshake. If you hang around this forum a while, you will see countless examples of altruistic behavior from self-professed libertarians. Libertarianism rejects the idea of being forced to be altruistic, but it doesn't reject voluntary altruism.It shows a lack of understanding of the human spirit to imagine that people are "good enough" to coerce others into being "altruistic" through the mechanisms of the state, yet are not "good enough" to be altruistic in the absence of a coercive state.Anyway, history shows that those who wield control in a coercive state are more likely to enrich themselves than be altruistic. Quite apart from the technical difficulties of distinguishing spam, one person's spam is always another person's ham. Bitcoin should be free of value judgements. Any transaction fee should be independent of transaction value.
The price would rise while he's buying them, then drop while he's selling them. The bitcoin system would cope with that.He would make a profit, but only because the bitcoin value is rising anyway. If it weren't for that, the price rise while he buys would be expected to equal the price drop while he sells.When someone with a lot of money starts buying up bitcoins, we know that Bitcoin has "made it" and is here to stay. This forum is growing very quickly and soon will be too big for one person to follow. It's inevitable that the rapid growth will spawn other forums, and each will develop its own character.Because this forum is the main one, the one linked from bitcoin.org, it will be the first port of call for many mainstream bitstream users. It won't be long until we have the AOL crowd here, and the Fox News crowd, the Oprah crowd, and all the other mainstream crowds.With this change in demographic, it's natural that the marginalized elements of the bitcoin economy will drift off to other forums, for their own interests rather than because they are pushed out.For now, I think every aspect of the bitcoin economy should be welcomed here. Very soon, each subculture will create or find its own niche anyway, so the "problem" is self-correcting. He could always wear his briefs on the outside! Yes, certainly, if it meets the requirements mentioned in the first post of this thread. No, if your transaction doesn't make it into the block chain, then that dollar is still yours to spend. No. If you mean bestiality, I probably can't safely publish that (I'm in the UK). If you mean dolphins raping other dolphins, feel free to write it in return for a bitcoin. The slogan? You mean the phrase "Now You Know"? Kind of like "Too much information, K thx bye!"In that case you won't want to read this one:http://quezi.com/56 Depositor-operated "banks" have a long history. In the United Kingdom they are known as Building Societies if they lend on property, and as Credit Unions if they lend for other things.They flourished in the past, but nowadays it's impossible for a small group of individuals to set one up legally. You're not allowed to start with less than £1 million, and the application process takes two years.After all, society can't allow innovative new businesses to compete with established banks. Of course! But depositors in a bank don't think of themselves as investors. The investors are the bank's shareholders. Thanks! I remixed it into a short article:How is Yap stone money similar to Bitcoin?I'm paying one bitcoin for each article contributed to that site, so feel free to PM me your receiving address if you'd like a coin. Neither. The payment is recorded in the block chain. Your bitcoin client only needs to join the network when you want to check your balance or spend the payment. And you don't need to be generating to do this. That system is safe from loss due to fractional reserve, but the depositor carries some risk from the loan itself. Suppose the bank lends the depositor's money to a house-buyer who defaults, and the bank sells the house for less than the amount outstanding on the loan.If this happens only occasionally, the default can be covered from the bank's profit margin, but if it happens a lot then the bank will default. Hmm. This is obviously supposed to be a clue.Suppose the difficulty goes up by one-half. For example, from 20,000 to 30,000. This will cause your rate of generation to drop by one-third (e.g. from one block every 15 days to one block every 10 days). But I don't see where that leads...Here's an interesting and perhaps non-intuitive consequence of the way generation works. If the difficulty increases, your rate of generation drops. If the increase in difficulty causes some people to drop out of generating, your rate of generation doesn't go up again. When other people drop out, it makes it take longer until the next difficulty adjustment, but you can still expect to generate the same number of coins per day until then, no matter what other people do. I specifically didn't use the I-word.Only external transactions fail in this scenario. You can send your X BTC to another MtGox account-holder, and nothing breaks. And if multiple banks are doing this, provided the transactions amongst them are roughly balanced (within the limits of each bank's fractional reserve), nothing breaks.There's no doubt that fractional reserves will come to the bitcoin economy, but I think people will come to understand that a "real" bitcoin is safer than a "spreadsheet" bitcoin. Sure you can do that with bitcoins. Imagine if MtGox went into the lending business. They lend money to someone, and suddenly that person's MtGox balance shows some bitcoins, without MtGox needing to accept any more Bitcoin deposits.If everyone who borrowed money from MtGox withdrew their money, that would cause a run. But if borrowers just used it as a "bank account" for paying to other MtGox accountholders, there would be no run.With any kind of fractional reserve banking, if there is a run someone loses out. If MtGox went into the fractional reserve loans business and suffered a run, the losses would be borne by MtGox or by its creditors or by its depositors. When a bank suffers a run, the losses are borne by the bank's shareholders, or by its creditors or depositors, or by the taxpayer. How do you know that MtGox isn't already doing this? Holding a number of bitcoins that is smaller than the total of the bitcoin balances of all its customers?Technically it's doable, although I don't see any economic incentive.If anything, the incentive is the other way. Hold fewer dollars than the total of the Gox-dollar balances of all its customers. Buy bitcoins with the rest. When someone wants their dollars back, sell some of the bitcoins (and hope like hell that the exchange rate has gone up rather than down in the meantime). Does Bitcoin's (currently-unimplemented) scripting give us a better way to do this?Could scripting provide a way for me to sign my coins across to my heirs so that they can spend them if I haven't spent them before a certain block number?All I would need to do is to spend the coins to myself once a year or so, but my heirs would be able to spend the coins if I haven't touched them for a year. No lawyers needed. The best analogy I can come up with is this.Satoshi filled his milkshake, but didn't drink yet because it tastes terrible.We fill our milkshakes and start to drink. At first they taste terrible, but we keep drinking. Gradually our milkshakes taste better and better.And by the time Satoshi eventually drinks his milkshake (using a MtGox dark pool straw costing $1.05) it tastes mighty sweet, thanks to everyone else.But I find this analogy unsatisfying. Partly because it doesn't reference Monty Hall, but also because there are no flying cars in this scenario. Meh. Someone will come up with a catchy name for the sub-units. Then, instead of getting a paycheck of 0.000432 BTC, you will get a paycheck of 43,200 Satoshis. Problem solved.I'll be happy knowing that tomorrow's loaf of bread will cost no more than today's loaf. No, I just agree that you should always switch.Let's label the box that you choose "A", and label the others "B" and "C".There are three possibilities:1. There is a one-in-three chance that the coins are behind "A". In this case, it makes no difference which door Monty opens. You will win by sticking with "A", and lose by switching.2. There is a one-in-three chance that the coins are behind "B". In this case, Monty must open door "C". You will lose by sticking with "A", and win by switching.3. There is a one-in-three chance that the coins are behind "C". In this case, Monty must open door "B". You will lose by sticking with "A", and win by switching.Therefore, if you stick with "A" you have a one-in-three chance of winning the coins. If you switch, you have a two-in-three chance of winning the coins.
Monty cannot open the door you selected, so his action cannot reveal any further information about what's behind that door. But his action does narrow down the options for the other doors, so you should always switch.Um, no. Do enlighten us please. That proposition is correct, but...Bitcoin is not a stable currency. It is better than stable. It will inevitably deflate, to the benefit of everyone who doesn't lose their wallet. The lawyer's fees would be greater than the value of my bitcoins (at this time).I think the way to do it is to keep a current backup on a USB stick, together with a printout of easy instructions for accessing its value, in an envelope in your household safe.Perhaps there's also a business opening here, for someone to operate a trustworthy "wallet-to-cash" service. A non-technical user mails in the USB stick and receives a check in the mail, less a service fee. The chart is deceptive. It really should be using a logarithmic vertical scale.If you invest $100 by buying bitcoins, a rise from $0.07 to $0.14 is just as profitable for you as a rise from $0.70 to $1.40, but it doesn't look that way on a chart with a linear vertical scale. I doubt any glamour model could have spoken as convincingly as Gavin, no matter how much she rehearsed her presentation. The source for my comment was the summary at the top of the following story, but maybe it's wrong:"US Dept. of Justice, ICE Still Seizing Domains" That particular bounty is for an animation.But da2ce7 pledged 100 bitcoins for "a video with real humans", and I think Gavin's video qualifies for that.Admittedly, da2ce7 went on to say "preferably someone hot, maybe your girlfriend" but this was only a preference, not a requirement.Original thread:Human Bitcoin Video Competition (Bounty: 100BTC) I've seen BCT from time to time, but it's surely a typo. .com is not controlled by the US government, but .org is May as well do The Onion too, while we're at it :-) Self-fulfilling prophesy! By 16th August there might be!It will be a pleasure to have you visit, Satoshi. 1. Is it right for people with guns to kindnap and lock up someone who has non-approved vegetation in their pockets?2. Is it right for people to forcibly take your money to operate a police force that claims to protect you from people who would forcibly take your money?3. If 51% of people voted to legalize rape, would that be OK?That ought to separate out the statists from the voluntarists. There are lots of these on the web, e.g.http://www.politicalcompass.org/Some of the questions are unanswerable for a voluntaryist, but nevertheless it scored me 81.5% libertarian-leaning and 41.2% rightist-leaning. I'm doing a psychological experiment to see how many people are willing to send me 10 bitcoins. For each donation, I will post a creatively-written three-paragraphs of grovelling praise. If you have specific ideas for those three paragraphs, feel free to send me a PM after you've sent the coins.12Xds1x9wMgJSAmpnchFQrg5BUPHbwJ3ec OK, you are right but only "in extremis" and "in theory". In practice, there will always be people who don't need to borrow. I don't think laymen know what an "order of magnitude" is. A short time ago, the total was around 3 million dollars and just over 5 million coins. Now it's around 5.8 million dollars and 5.4 million coins. So the main change in that time is due to the increase in the exchange rate, rather than a large increase in the number of coins. The poll is effectively a question about what kind of state people prefer, and as such it fails to represent many of the people here. Can you at least add "Voluntarist" to the list? Leftist is more personal freedoms but fewer economic freedoms.Rightist is more economic freedoms but fewer personal freedoms.
Six generations in one day represents the generating capacity of around twenty 5970 cards, so it's possible for a determined and wealthy individual to put together this much computing power.As others have said though, it's likely to be from pooled mining. I'm not sure what your point is here, but it's worth noting that there is a correlation between freedom from government control and freedom from pollution.There are some good controlled experiments available: West Germany versus East Germany before reunification, for example. The totalitarian East German economy was driven by production targets, and pollution control was usually the first thing to be dropped.Freedom from government control leads to increased prosperity, and believe it or not people actually like to have an unpolluted environment for their workplace. It's in the interest of both the employers and the employees, and as prosperity increases it becomes easier to achieve.The government doesn't look beyond the next election, whereas the owner of private property has an inventive to maintain the quality and value of their property (including its environment) for the long term. There are a number of possible solutions, if more precision is ever required. One of them involves using the existing "sign bit" to represent a precision shift of the remaining bits of the 64-bit amount.But really there's no point planning for this now. The world will have changed in unimaginable ways if ever Bitcoin gets to the point of needing more precision. Wow! Not only is gavin a great software developer, he also has superb presentation skills.He's TED Talk material for sure. Although direct government intervention can help a business to screw its customers, it's often more subtle than that.All it takes is for the government to add a bit of friction to the process of setting up a business.It anyone can set up as a competing bakery, the existing baker has no scope to screw his customers. But if setting up a bakery requires a permit which takes six weeks to arrive, and costs a fee, and if inspections and approvals are needed before the doors open, it adds enough friction that the existing baker knows he can get away with a certain amount of customer-screwing before anyone else will bother to compete. Voluntarist.Every one of the poll options assumes that I want to be ruled by someone else. The ability to "screw" your customers tends to reduce to zero in a free market, if only because any customer that is being screwed can "cross sides" and become a supplier instead.If your baker is screwing you, you set up a rival bakery next door and make a killing. Of course, not everyone wants to become a baker, but you only need one person willing to do it to make the existing baker reluctant to "screw" people. MtGox and MyBitcoin already provide this merchant-independent stored value service with instant confirmation. All it needs is for a message to pop up if there's no block chain present when the client starts up. It could say something like: Do you think it will grow that much? I think it will grow by 100 times, at most. But I don't tell that to other people, because they'll think I'm crazy.I tell people that it's a speculative investment which has 50% chance of being worth 10 times as much, and 50% chance of being worth nothing. What an interesting idea! An edit doesn't get accepted unless at least 50% of the network accepts it. Now that doublec has ported Bitcoin to the N900 smartphone, I think the easiest way to live for one month off Bitcoin would be to send some coins to the phone and go on a road trip across the US.Each night, stay at the home of a bitcoin user and pay them in bitcoins. Also pay them to drive you to your next destination.With a bit of planning, it should be possible to travel from one coast to the other this way in a month. The first payout (4.75 BTC) happened today. But if we want the economy to move forward, then these "less than rational" economic decisions are actually rational after all. You would be locked up for fraud, because no jury would believe your appeal to statistics. When I was trading at Bitcoin Market (where you see the PayPal addresses of the people you trade with), all of my trades except one were to .ru addresses. Although it's theoretically possible, the chance of this happening is zero for all practical purposes. It's a novel. A summary of a novel, no matter how "perfect", is never the same as reading the novel.Read the novel to laugh about her dated attitudes to cigarette smoking, if you don't want to read it for the philosophical overtones. 1. You probably visited the Bitcoin Faucet while your newly-installed Bitcoin client was downloading and indexing the initial block chain. In that case, your Bitcoin transaction wouldn't show up until you downloaded the end of the block chain. Future transactions should indeed show up in a few seconds.2. Even if you have seen a transaction in the block chain, there is a small possibility that there is more than one version of the block chain floating around the network. When everything settles, the block chain supported by the majority of the network will be propagated and the other version(s) will die out. The more blocks since your transaction, the greater the chance that the block containing your transaction will become permanent. Waiting for six confirmations is arbitrary, but it seems to be plenty for most purposes. There are always people who will prefer to buy tangible products from the primary source. The original studio has "first mover" advantage which will count for quite a lot too. But the studios will no longer be able to exploit their monopoly by (e.g.) releasing in some continents several months before they release in the rest of the world, or by releasing products that are inferior to the free ones (e.g. DRM-laden).Consider that great music was composed and performed long before copyright existed. Consider that there are companies making money from bottled water, when you can get water almost for free from the tap. Consider that iTunes is successfully selling many songs that you can hear for free on YouTube any time you like.Creativity flourishes without violence (or the threat thereof).
For a moment there, I thought this was your "Bitcoin in 15 words for Laymen" entry! Suppose fees become a significant part of the generated blocks. Will you be passing those on to the customer too? Full marks for trying! :-)There's no way to force the bitcoin client to spend a generated coin rather than a traded coin, by the way. And if there was, people would keep their generated coins for when they absolutely need the maximum anonymity. I'm not saying it's good that there will be non-backed bitcoin-denominated transactions. I just think that it's inevitable.I hope that "actual bitcoin" will always be perceived as superior to "denominated in bitcoin". Very clever, I like it! I sent you one, because I enjoy reading your insightful posts. Don't spend it all at once on drugs and hookers! I don't think the purchasing power of Bitcoin will increase that much (although I'd love it if you turn out to be right).As Bitcoin becomes popular, more and more people will use "convenience" accounts that are nominally tied to bitcoin but not fully backed.A "coffee card" for Starbucks, for example, might be denominated in bitcoin, but Starbucks might not hold enough bitcoins to enable them to buy back all the cards (just as they don't hold enough coffee beans in stock at one time to fulfil all the coffee cards).Many people will buy things with bitcoin-based credit cards. Again, the denomination will be bitcoin but there won't be 100% backing.Even it bitcoin completely replaces dollars, I think it's erroneous to assume that 21 million coins must have a purchasing power equal to the value of the entire economy.  What's the advantage of that, compared to declaring that the "new" block chain will start with the same difficulty as bitcoin (and will automatically stay in step after that)? I think the sociological risks are dominant, and under-recognised.Suppose there is a virus that deletes the wallets of 1% of the Bitcoin users. I think that would give Bitcoin a bad enough reputation that it would not be adopted by the general public, only by tech-savvy early adopters like us.The "word of mouth" would be "Oh, I don't use Bitcoin. I've heard about how your wallet can just disappear." Agreed. Within the Bitcoin economy there's no problem with interest. On the one side you have tax extracted by violence, then spent (inefficiently) on whatever are the priorities of the government.On the other side, you have society paying directly (and relatively efficiently) for what it actually wants and needs.So the anarchist version has (a) less violence, and (b) better services. The randomness of block generation follows the Poisson distribution. I'll leave you to work out the math, but 29% below expectation doesn't sound alarming. Contrast the Australian experience with the Blair/Brown government in the UK.Gordon Brown preached fiscal responsibility. He emphasized the need to get the national debt down to 40% of GDP. He claimed repeatedly that it was OK for the government to borrow at the low point of the "economic cycle", provided they paid it back during the good years.Of course the problem with that is that you can't know the duration of an economic cycle until after it has happened.As the 2000s progressed, Gordon Brown somehow convinced himself, the government, and the people that we were in the "lean years" and that now was the time to borrow. In fact, those turned out to be the boom years.So when the banks imploded, the UK was already in a bad situation regarding government debt. What a great idea. Please start your own server, and don't ask for donations. Just look at Bitcoin Monitor and see the variance in block generation. It's a success if kiba can one day sell the $500 worth of BTC that he bought for more than $500.00 :-) Generation is hugely variable. I have seen statistics for seven similar generators. In the same timespan they generated 1, 2, 4, 0, 7, 0 and 0 blocks. Go figure! Agreed! If you are generating with the GPU, you don't need to turn on "Generate Coins" in the GUI client.You will know that your GPU is generating by seeing the khash/s figure that it is reporting. A good move. The trailer looks great!
I've had one generation with 20110204 on Fedora 14 Linux, with a 5870 card on SDK 2.1. Even if you have only ever used one receiving address, the balance of your account will depend on multiple keys if you have made payments that return change (because those payments send the change to a new address).Technically, you can find out the balance of an address, but it may not be as useful as you expect. Somewhere over a thousand BTC. Bounties, fees for people who helped me with technical things, file downloads, advertising, pyramid scams, donations, exchange fees, tcatm's "hash for hire", etc.Oh, and a fabulous Zimbabwe 100 trillion dollar note that I'm going to frame. I think that's the only physical thing I've bought with BTC so far. It's a long book, and the movie will need to omit a lot of it. So if you read the book first, you may be disappointed by the movie. Yet if you watch the movie first, the book will have so much more to offer when you read it.Her previous novel, The Fountainhead, was about 60% the length and they tried to cram all of that into the movie. As a result, I found it disappointing because much of it was just talking too fast. But Atlas Shrugged is so long that they can't possibly try to fit it all into a movie. An exploit was previously exposed in Bitcoin. The exploit was fixed, then the network selected and propagated the branch of the block chain that didn't suffer from the exploit. The value of bitcoins didn't appear to change as a result. Anonymous might be very rough.But OK David, if you or anyone else exposes a problem that could cause coin loss between now and the end of February, I'll pay a hundred bitcoins. Here's how I think small amounts could be shown on the user interface, to minimise confusion:The digits are grouped into milli-cents and micro-cents, and are shown smaller than the usual "bitcoins and bitcents".The advantages of this scheme are that it preserves the familiar "dollar-and-cents" type notation with two digits after the decimal point, yet allows for all of the available precision to be displayed when needed. The groups of three digits help to make these amounts easier to read. You don't even need to have your wallet online to receive a bitcoin. The signed transaction giving you the right to that coin gets sent to the whole network, so the network will know that the coin is yours to spend whenever you come back online. You only need access to the key at the time you spend the coin. Yep, really. Two former giants battling to see who can make themselves irrelevant fastest.A damn shame about Nokia. Nokia's N900 phone is a real Linux box with unrestricted root access, an X Terminal "out of the box", and even a control key on the keyboard. And it runs bitcoind very nicely. They apparently have one more Linux phone in the pipeline, then that's the end. Enough talk.The only sensible way forward is to:1. Stop gambling2. Do some work, or sell some stuff that you own3. Start paying back people that you scammedOnce you start paying people back, you'll start to feel much better about yourself too. At this point it would be more prudent to encourage individual white hat hackers to try to break it privately. I would contribute coin to that. He's just one guy, you know. He might be travelling or something.He has always been super-responsive in my experience. Also, he gives a strong impression of being in this business "for the long run" and looking after his business accordingly. Cash transactions might make taxation impossible too. But in practise they don't. No, sorry. There are only a fixed number of ads on each page.But why not split your 900-word article into three 300-word articles? Just make sure that each part answers a question.For example, if you have a 900-word article about "Why is Linux better than Windows?", split that into: "Why is Linux more secure than Windows?", "How do Linux office apps compare with their Windows equivalents?" and "Why do people write software for Linux when it is free?". My N900 phone has a full Linux stack, so no problem.Actually, there is a problem. Today Nokia announced that they're abandoning open source for Windows Mobile 7. OK, let's say for the sake of the discussion that those figures are correct.On that basis, the most favorable design decision would be to set the default fee to zero, but make it very easy for users to change the default so that people can push "real" transactions past the spam when attackers unleash a flood of transactions. Casascius, let me return to your first post from this thread:Wealth is not created by moving money through an exchange. Wealth is created in the productive economy outside of the exchange. (Well, actually the percentage fee charged by the exchange is part of the productive economy, but that's beside the point.) So it is not the case that a 10 cent change in the price changes the value of the whole Bitcoin economy.What the exchange rate provides is an approximation of the perceived value of the items being traded. It's an approximation because it only reflects the value as perceived by those who are carrying out the exchange. Nevertheless, it's a data point that can be useful for some purposes.In addition, the bitcoin exchange rate depends on what the traders think will be the future value of the productive bitcoin economy, based on the time preference of the individuals carrying out the trade.So if the "real" value of the bitcoin economy doesn't come from the exchange, but is just approximately reflected by the exchange, where does it come from?Sure, some of that value comes from people who are trading in bitcoin today. There are some people using Bitcoin to pay for ads, tips, servers, hosting, Amazon purchases, gambling, porn, auctions etc. But the level of direct trade is not enough to account for the bitcoin exchange rate.There are also a lot of Bitcoin-related assets being created. Every piece of software written to handle bitcoin transactions; every new service being designed and implemented; every new idea being tried out; these things are all building assets that can provide a bitcoin income in the future. And that's where the rest of the value comes from.No doubt 90% of the Bitcoin business assets that are now being created will eventually fail. But some of the remaining 10% may become spectacularly successful. It's a "wild west frontier zone" for people who want to try out new and interesting business models.When someone trades bitcoins, they (perhaps subconsciously) take into account many factors including the current level of the bitcoin economy, the potential future level, the psychology of others, and their own psychology (e.g. time preference and adversity to risk).Every trade has a buyer and seller. So every time someone buys bitcoins (because they guess that the bitcoins will be worth more to them than the dollars), someone else is selling bitcoins (because they guess that the dollars will be worth more to them than the bitcoins).Therefore the rising price of bitcoin on the exchanges doesn't mean that Bitcoin is a "sure bet". It just means that for the two people conducting that trade the agreed price is somewhere between the two people's estimation of the value. Well exactly. I don't know what you're imagining, but I just said "some retirement income", I didn't say I'd be able to retire on them alone. I also didn't say "major" investment; you made that up.Sure, the price of a bitcoin varies a lot in the short term. So don't worry about the short term price, just look at the long term price trend.There's no way to make the short term price more stable while Bitcoin is in its early phase. As you've pointed out, the short-term price fluctuations don't mean very much, so why worry about them? Yes, that's fine for the productive sector, but it doesn't apply when the central bank issues money.The reason it doesn't work is that there's no central bank equivalent of "A buys apples from B", i.e. "Central Bank buys things produced by the bank it lent the money to".If the central bank creates a million dollars from nothing, lends it to a bank, and requires that the bank pay back a million dollars plus interest, then the money supply is reduced after the loan has been paid back with interest. He argues this way: "Yes, obviously taxation is theft, but here are some reasons why it's good theft."
It's the same in Australia, South Africa, Spain, and many other countries, and going that way in the UK soon too.Bring on Mesh Networking! No SIM needed. Don't sweat the individual trades or the short-term moves. Look at the all-time chart and see that there's strong underlying interest in Bitcoin. Anything under a penny per transaction is as good as free, when the nearest competitor is PayPal. Oh no, Nefario, if you think 1% is too high then you should be very keen to operate your service for 0.9%. Exactly. In ten years time, my "retirement bitcoins" will either be worth nothing, or will be worth enough for a comfortable retirement.There's no need to hold a lot of coins, because no-one needs "twice a comfortable requirement", if you know what I mean.I'm not saying how many I have, but elsewhere on this forum Vladimir suggested 2100 bitcoins (one ten-thousandth of the total amount) for a long-term investment fund, and I think that's a wise suggestion. It's still possible for a determined user to buy mining equipment to gain that many, or to buy that many on the open market with some investment funds. But of course you need to accept the possibility of losing your investment if Bitcoin somehow fails. It's not worth the electricity, heat and noise. If you have a GPU, don't mine with the CPU. At the time jgarzik posted that comment (October last year), there was no charge for trades at MtGox. As ptmhd says, it's currently 0.65% which seems reasonable to me. Take a look at the transactions. Each one has exactly two outputs, one of which is 0.05 BTC. So isn't this just the Bitcoin Faucet dispensing coins to the crowd of people who have just arrived from Slashdot?Incidentally, I was watching these transactions yesterday, and noticed something odd. Every time a block was generated, there was a pause in these transactions. Well, there already has been one Bitcoin clone which is the bitcoin test network, and no-one expects it to reach parity with the US dollar any time soon.But yes, if Google or Facebook created a Bitcoin clone it would be interesting to see how it played out. Hey Ploum, nice to meet you!I already wrote about your article at Quezi, back in 2009 before I knew about Bitcoin. Here's the article, which includes an acknowledgement to you and a link to your blog post:Does DRM (digitally restricted media) make economic sense?But I see that no-one Flattr'd your blog post yet, so I've done that and sent you a bitcoin. Thanks for your insightful DRM equation. Right! If only I had a bitcoin for every time this question has been asked. Slashdotted again. This will happen around a hundred years from now, by the way. My hope is that a modest amount of bitcoins now might just be worth a much larger amount later (if I am lucky). I didn't say how much is in each wallet. But see the discussion How many bitcoins is "enough"? The payment UI should stay simple. Of course. Simplicity is essential if Bitcoin is to spread to less technical people.A transaction fee field is already present in the UI (click "Settings | Options"). I don't know whether it has any effect in the current release. No point worrying about it, casascius, as neither you nor I can do anything to change it. And what about somebody monopolizing the network's resources with tons of larger transactions (being sent back-and-forth between two nodes)?Why not keep it simple? Allow the user to specify a fee to be sent with every transaction. In the user interface, set the default fee to zero, but let the user override it "to insure promptness". Volatility will naturally decrease as more people use Bitcoin, and as liquidity at the exchanges improves (when it gets easier to move money in/out of the exchanges).The exchange rate isn't going to get "backing value" from anywhere else. $5 million is just the nominal value of the issued bitcoins. The figure is as hypothetical as when someone quotes the total market capitalization of the NYSE. But you understand that already, as the rest of your post showed.What you say is correct, but it misses the point. The value of Bitcoin is not to enable 100% of investors to profit from a rise in the exchange rate.But you need that rise in the exchange rate to enable the other uses of Bitcoin. If the average person has 100 bitcoins, and a pizza costs 100 bitcoins, then the Bitcoin market is fairly useless as each person can only afford one pizza, and people won't buy pizzas.Now "fast forward" to the point where the average person has 100 bitcoins, but a pizza costs 0.1 bitcoins. Now people will start to buy their pizza with bitcoins instead of fiat, and the Bitcoin economy will become truly vibrant.
It's out of the question to literally move the decimal point, and goblin didn't mean it literally.Two things we can do are to (a) expose more of the existing precision in the user interface, and (b) see if we can agree on terminology and notation.We have previously discussed notation without an apparent conclusion. I would like to suggest an alternative notation that has not yet been proposed.I suggest the following:One bitcoin equals 100 bitcentsOne bitcent equals one thousand millicentsOne bitcent equals one million microcentsBy subdividing the bitcent rather than the bitcoin, we neatly end up with a name for the tiniest piece of bitdust, i.e. 1/100000000 of a bitcoin.No doubt in time nicknames would arise for these small units. I like "austrian" and "satoshi" as possible nicknames OK ...It's a fact that the number of things for sale with Bitcoins is increasing, and has increased every month for the past year. So would you agree that, even if Bitcoin is valued too high right now, its "true" value is trending upwards? Thank you!"Do Pigs Deserve Respect?" is now published here (and on the front page), and I have sent your coin. I'll send further coins if I use other parts of your interesting writing. How much do you think a Bitcoin is "really" worth, and why? I'm paying one bitcoin for each 300-word article that meets the following criteria.You can write about just about anything, but it must be in the form of a question and answer. Here are some examples to start you thinking about ideas:What is fiat currency?How do you fry an egg?How can you safely back up your family photos?What is the best Elvis song?What's a good way to learn Spanish?How do you fix a bicycle puncture?What is trigonometry used for?What do trading terms such as "bid", "ask", "call", and "put" mean?What would it be like to live on Mars?How many megapixels does a good camera need?What are the main differences between a Mac and a PC?What are the main parts of a car?What toys were popular in <the year of your childhood>?The subject matter must be family-friendly and must be legal in the USA, the UK, and your country.Topics must not get out-of-date quickly. This would exclude questions like "Which country recently had a change of government?" or "What is the top-selling song this week?".300 words is a good length. Minimum is 200 words, maximum is 1000 words.You can consult the internet to look up or check facts, but don't paraphrase what is already on the web (I could get that done ten times cheaper using Mechanical Turk, if that was what I wanted).Upon payment, you transfer rights in the article to my company (Uclue Ltd), which may use the article in any way including publishing on the web.If you would like to encourage others to re-use your article, feel free to conclude with the words "This article is released to the public domain."If you would like to be credited, add the sentence "This is a guest post by <name>."Put your bitcoin receiving address at the end of your article. This is used to pay you, and will not be published.Look at the existing articles at http://quezi.com/ to see how it works, but don't feel constrained by the type of articles that are already on the site.When I launched the Quezi site, I had hopes that it would be commercially successful. However, the average contributed article yields less than 30 cents per year of advertising income. This has not enabled me to offer a reasonable fee for articles in the past, but if you think the value of a bitcoin will continue to rise, this could be quite worthwhile.This offer closes at the end of February 2011. Send your articles to me by forum PM. I don't guarantee to accept every article, but I expect to accept the vast majority, making editorial changes if necessary.If you want to ask about something before you start writing, this thread would be a good place to ask.PS: If you want to suggest an accompanying photo, that would be great. The photo must either be Public Domain or Creative Commons Attribution (CC-BY). A good place to find photos is this Flickr CC-BY search page. I have three Bitcoin wallets, of approximately equal size.One wallet will sit untouched until I retire in a few years, then I'll sell the coins over time to provide some retirement income. Obviously I'm hoping that the value of this wallet will grow considerably.Another wallet is for members of my family. I will give it to them when Bitcoin is easy enough (and safe enough) for non-technical people to use.The third wallet is for day-to-day spending. I'm quite free-and-easy with this one. Sometimes I send funds to a new Bitcoin business because I want to encourage Bitcoin entrepreneurship, even if I don't really need what they are offering.I give 10% of any blocks that I generate to organizations whose goals are consistent with Bitcoin, e.g. EFF and TorServers. 10% doesn't seem high to me. If someone wants to provide a similar service for a lower commission, nothing is stopping them. Right now, you have the lowest commission rate for "per-share" mining payouts. Gene, it feels to me like you're one of those people who post because they enjoy the attention they get from those who reply.I apologise in advance if you are actually interested in what other people have to say.But either way I'm tired of it. You may have the last word. Then there is still hope for me! I mailed a payment two months ago which didn't arrive. It took three months from when Bitcoin touched $0.50 at MtGox until it touched $1. That compounds into an annual increase of sixteen times.I think that rate of increase is likely to continue, therefore 1BTC will reach 10 USD within a year, unless something goes drastically wrong.So I agree with FreeMoney. It's 2011 or never. (so far, Grondilu's party looks the most fun) There is no such thing as a poisoned Bitcoin trade, provided it's voluntary. The buyer and seller each get what they want, and it's not anyone else's business. You found the right Wikipedia page. Why did you quote some random tangential excerpts instead of the part that is directly relevant:It confirms what I was saying. Maybe he sold the vulnerability to someone else, and wants to cover his tracks. If Scrooge McDuck started to buy millions of coins, the price would rise rapidly. Those who sold the coins to Scrooge would be very pleased indeed with their profit. The rest of us would just keep trading, paying "micro-coins" instead of "coins" because they would be worth so much more.But for sure, it will cause some uncertainty and anxiety. It won't destroy Bitcoin though. Maybe after a 2-week delay while people figure out how to get money in to MtGox. PM sent. After you click "Show unread posts since last visit" there is a "New" icon that brings you to the first unread post in each thread. We should make sure that the existing client would see these micro-transactions (with the sign bit "set") as zero transactions. Graceful degradation, in other words.Then, in 2016 or whenever the extra bits are needed, people will need to upgrade before they can spend the micro-transaction, but nothing breaks if they don't upgrade. $1.00 trade at MtGox! We have touched parity!
I like the way he starts by saying how impressed he is that the design of bitcoin foresaw and solved so many of its possible problems. [edit: and I like the way he ends by saying "Bitcoin is a cryptographically-secure, anonymous, digital currency ... that exists!"]The speaker seems to have an extensive knowledge of Bitcoin and is a very enthusiastic presenter. Bell Telephone Labs Inc was a separate entity, jointly owned by AT&T and Western Electric. Although those corporations enjoyed government-protected monopoly status, Bell Labs did not, nor was it taxpayer-funded. Why just inventors or programmers?A skilled carpenter just hung a new door on my house. Why shouldn't the government force me to pay him a penny every time someone uses that door, for some period of time not to exceed his life?I just made Banoffee Pie for dessert. This recipe was invented by Ian Dowding in 1972. Why shouldn't the government force me to pay him a penny every time I cook his recipe, for some period of time not to exceed his life?Google Maps just showed me a better route into town than the one I've been using. Why shouldn't the government force me to pay them a penny every time I drive that route?The whole notion of government-enforced monopolies degrades society by setting people against each other. If you don't know any of your addresses, you could search for all the addresses in the block chain. Bell Labs, and Xeroc PARC. They were spectacularly successful research centers that weren't funded by stolen money.They flourished in the 1960s and 1970s, before it became more profitable for big corporations to spend their R&D dollars building up government-enforced patent portfolios instead of doing real research.I still remember when Bell Labs announced that they had invented the spell checker. From memory, this was in the early 1970s. I still recall the press release, where a guy with a beard ten times the size of Stallman's was holding a computer printout with misspelled words on it.This was revolutionary for its time. Back then, the mainstream didn't even accept that computers had a role to play in text processing (just numerical processing and data processing).Some other things to come out of Bell Labs included the transistor, the laser, the C programming language and Unix.PARC was responsible for the invention and/or maturation of bitmap graphics, graphical user interfaces, WYSIGYG word processing, page description languages, ethernet, object oriented programming, IDEs and Smalltalk.Underwhelming enough for you? It seems that his widow, Pamela Wolfe Browne, maintains his old website and looks after the sale of Browne-related items. Just last month she added a Harry Browne Bust Statue to the shop!You could email her at plwbrowne@harrybrowne.org and ask about reprints. The whole of human development has been incremental. Everything builds on what has been done before. Humans are largely co-operative beings, but copyright law tries to pit them against each other.Disney is happy to make their own adaptations of pre-copyright stories, but they will fight anyone who wants to do the same with what Disney produces. The United Kingdom today has incredibly restrictive planning laws. People love the old city centres, but you could never get permission to build anything similar today. Doesn't meet planning requirements for car parking and disabled access, and has too many big windows pointing in the "wrong" directions. It can't be quite that straightforward, because in the early days bitcoins were created using much less energy than the most recent bitcoins. Even though we can distinguish them, we don't value them any differently. Not to mention that the previous government paid off the national debt before the US/Europe financial crisis. For some reason, physical copies of this book are really expensive when they are available. The last one I saw for sale was $175! Option three is that a peer-to-peer society arises that makes governments impractical and redundant. By using bitcoin, you are part of that solution. Chaord, would it be sufficient to have the ability to split a bitcoin wallet into online/offline parts, without needing to tie each private key to an account? This would not harm the existing account functionality, and would be very useful to a lot of people. Sorry, I can't implement it. Although I'm a software developer, I have no experience with C++.It sounds like a big task because quite a few Bitcoin internals will need to be changed (for example, coin selection for payments will need to become account-aware, as will change-handling).Finally, I think it was a conceptual mistake to put account handling into the standard client (it belongs in the business logic, external to Bitcoin), so this is not a development task that I would find interesting. And: "How do I get started?". Thank you. It's not the easiest site to grok, but for ease of use it beats fivegrinder hands down! http://witcoin.com/witizens/49 I'm not participating in BPMA, but I very much want this association to succeed.In any association larger than say half-a-dozen people, there's a risk of much time and energy being wasted deciding on how to make decisions, allocate work, and keep track of things. You may wish to use the service provided by BetterMeans. Although they charge a fee to corporations, it's completely free for organizations that have publicly-visible workflows.It seems well-suited to an association with an anarchistic leaning. Here's their introductory video:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MAlnMWlvw9g I presume you mean "getaccountaddress". That call returns a receiving address (public key). Any bitcoins that are paid to that address get recorded against the corresponding account.But when you make a payment from some account, the bitcoin client doesn't care which coins it spends. If you make a payment from account "B", it might spend coins that were received against a receiving address associated with account "A".The bitcoin client adjusts the account balances correctly, but doesn't associate the balances with the private keys that correspond to the original receiving addresses. First post from a new user, promoting a high-value commercial site (OnLive), equals a high chance of spam.Dissipate, as a show of good faith why not delete that link from your original post.[edit: thank you!]
I don't think this will be as straightforward as you may expect. Although an incoming payment (to a receiving address) can be linked to an account, from that point onwards the account balances have no connection to specific private keys.Therefore the phrase "an account's private keys" doesn't have any meaning in the current implementation. Maybe he got spooked by what happened to Julian Assange, and has changed his persona. Whoever pays for the forum hosting, makes the rules. We are guests in his forum. Other people can (and will) open fora with different rules. How can this be controversial? Talkinrock has a great idea: vinyls of the gold-coin image.These could be used for viral marketing. Flood an area with them (on billboards, shop windows etc), then people will become curious and will start talking about these mysterious "B" coins. Then, when someone works it out, the news will spread by word of mouth like wildfire. You can always skip the spray paint and use the stencil for reverse graffiti! I wonder what would happen if the value of Bitcoins rises so quickly that someone's MtGox balance increases in value by more than $1000 per day. They will never be able to get the value out! The analogous problem would be if you needed to pay interest on the generated bundles of 50 BTC. Eventually the interest payments on each bundle would exceed 50 BTC and the system would collapse (for lack of coins with which to pay the interest).It's not an issue for regular Bitcoin loans, because the money doesn't enter or leave the Bitcoin economy, it just transfers to different people. You could charge 100 BTC interest on every 50 BTC loan, and the system would not collapse, no matter how many such loans you made (provided the loans didn't all mature at the same instant of time). OpenCL HOWTO FOR FEDORA 14 LINUXHere are some notes which may be useful to anyone who wishes to mine for bitcoins on Fedora 14 Linux. It's simpler than the instructions I posted for Fedora 12, because Bitcoin now supports the 'getwork' call and therefore doesn't need to be recompiled.===Check your software versions, and upgrade as necessary. The gcc compiler needs to be 4.x (for PyOpenCL), and Python needs to be 2.4 or newer (again, for PyOpenCL), but not Python 3.x.Code:$ gcc --versiongcc (GCC) 4.5.1 20100924 (Red Hat 4.5.1-4)$ python --versionPython 2.7You need to have either the full kernel source, or the kernel headers (because the ATI GPU driver is installed by compiling a kernel module). You also need the Python headers.Code:$ rpm -q kernel-develkernel-devel-2.6.35.10-74.fc14.x86_64$ rpm -q python-develpython-devel-2.7-8.fc14.1.x86_64===Update your display driver.I followed the instructions from here:http://gofedora.com/how-to-install-ati-catalyst-fglrx-98-drivers-fedora-11/except that I used the version 11.1 11.2 of the ATI Catalyst Display Driver for Linux x86 from here:http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx?type=2.4.1&product=2.4.1.3.42&lang=EnglishSupposedly some of the installation steps are no longer needed with version 11.1, but I wasn't completely certain which ones, so I did them all anyway.===Get the ATI Stream SDK v2.1 (NOT any later version, according to brocktice), from here: http://developer.amd.com/gpu/ATIStreamSDK/pages/ATIStreamSDK-Archive.aspxYou need two downloads from that page: the Linux SDK (32-bit or 64-bit according to your version of Linux), plus icd-registration.tgzUntar the SDK anywhere convenient. Add these lines to your .bash_profile file (in your login directory):Code:export ATISTREAMSDKSAMPLESROOT=...<some path>.../ati-stream-sdk-v2.1-lnx64export ATISTREAMSDKROOT=...<some path>.../ati-stream-sdk-v2.1-lnx64export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$ATISTREAMSDKROOT/lib/x86_64:$LD_LIBRARY_PATHThese pathnames will vary slightly if you have a 32-bit Fedora installation.Move icd-registration.tgz into your root directory and (as root) untar it from there. It puts some essential config files into /etc.If you like, follow the documentation that is included in the SDK to compile the examples. Execute ati-stream-sdk-v2.1-lnx64/samples/opencl/bin/x86_64/CLInfo to check that things are working and that your GPU card is detected.===Install the Python OpenCL module (PyOpenCL). Broadly, follow the instructions here:http://wiki.tiker.net/PyOpenCL/Installation/LinuxHowever, in step 2 I couldn't install the Numpy dependency this way. Instead I ran "System | Administration | Add/Remove Software", then searched for numpy and installed it.In step 3, the OpenCL headers and libraries weren't found, so I had to use the longer configure.py example and provide explicit paths.I don't think the "Boost C++" libraries are required for this version of PyOpenCL.===Install the JSON-RPC module for Python. This was straightforward using the instructions here:http://json-rpc.org/wiki/python-json-rpc===Go to m0mchil's Git repository:https://github.com/m0mchil/poclbmClick the "Download" button. Download and unpack these files anywhere convenient. Change poclbm.py to executable and check that it's working:Code:chmod 744 poclbm.py./poclbm.py --help===If you don't already have a file bitcoin.conf in your ~/.bitcoin directory, create one and put a username and password in it:Code:rpcuser=yourusernamerpcpassword=yourpasswordGo back to the bitcoin/bin/64 directory and start bitcoin in rpc server mode:Code:./bitcoin -server &Go to the directory where you built poclbm.py and run it:Code:./poclbm.py --user=yourusername --pass=yourpasswordIt will tell you which devices it can see. Choose the one that's not your CPU, and add that one to the command line with the "-d" switch:Code:./poclbm.py --user=yourusername --pass=yourpassword -d1Watch the khash/s figures with sweet delight, and enjoy the few moments before the roar of your GPU fan starts up.Many thanks to m0mchil and the many others who have offered code or helpful tips.(PS: If you upgrade your kernel, the ATI driver might hang on startup. If this happens, boot into runlevel 3, delete /etc/X11/xorg.conf , reboot and reinstall the ATI driver.) Do you mean: "The central bank lends out money, then gets back the same amount plus interest. Where does the interest come from?"It comes from an ongoing increase in the amount of money lent out by the central bank. This, of course, causes monetary inflation. The system can be regarded as lossless if we record the value of money at time "t+1" as less than the value of money at time "t". Then we get:(P + I)issued [valued at time 't'] + (P + I)collected [valued at time 't+1"] = 0Or, the amount owing by an insolvent bank could be written off:(P + I)issued + (P + I)collected + (P+I)written-off = 0 Same for me. If the time comes when it has becme impractical for a (non-well-paid) individual to process the block chain, this can only be because Bitcoin has become wildly successful, and that will have opened up millions of new niches for the Bitcoin hobbyist. Really cool things that haven't even been though of yet. There is a perfect income opportunity for businesses that custom-assemble PCs.The more reputable ones "burn in" these systems for 48 hours to check that everything is working properly. The "new" way to "burn in" a PC is to have it mining for those 48 hours. Suddenly the cut-throat custom PC business became more profitable! +1 for miscegenation (I'm learning so many new words at this forum):http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4HHT_V294Co If we could properly understand why the market settled on a particular price, then we would have enough knowledge that centrally planned economies would be successful. The 20th century answered that question dramatically.A market aggregates the desires and value judgements of everyone who participates in the market. Unless you fully know all of those, you can't know why the market price is what it is.So just decide what a bitcoin is worth to you, and buy or sell accordingly. Any country with low government debt. There are even countries that have no debt and own sovereign wealth funds too.If I wanted to hold fiat, I would consider Australian dollars. Central bank interest rates are not artificially low, at 4.5%. Government debt is tiny compared to the USA and Europe. There is plenty of land, and plenty of natural resources, for the population.However, as is inevitably the case, the market has already priced this into the exchange rates, and the Australian dollar has risen enormously in recent years. When the pool finds a block, it could pay out only for shares that were found in the last time "t", where "t" is 43% of 10 minutes (I think).Because this is a sliding window, there is never an incentive for a miner to leave the pool at any particular time. Yes. And it's easy to have multiple wallets for paper money, and it's cumbersome and error-prone to have multiple wallets for bitcoin. Bitcoin's answer is that the "second spend" is the one that doesn't make it into the block chain accepted by the majority. Read Satoshi's paper to see how this works. There are lots of things wrong with this.Splitting the payment 50:50? So if I pay someone some bitcoins, any time I want I can take 50% of them back by spending them again?Destroying the coins? If someone has already spent the coins twice, the spender is the one laughing and only the recipients lose if the coins are destroyed.In any case I doubt there's a practical way to implement it. If the majority of the network knows about the double-spend attempt, it has rejected the second spend anyway. If the majority of the network doesn't know about the double-spend attempt, it can't do anything in response to it. The "No, never" option should really say "Not yet".
If you lose banknotes, you don't lose all of them at once. Fifty years ago, a chicken cost three hours average wages. Today a farmed chicken costs fifteen minutes average wages, and an organic free range chicken costs two hours average wages.The free market provides both choices, and provides them excellently. Editor-in-chief is an important job, and I think you should get 30%. You will be the one who "makes it happen" and you deserve enough to make it worthwhile.And of course you should get an author's share for any articles that you write, in addition to your editor's share. You may need to split the author's share based on number of pages/words instead of number of articles.You should also encourage people to find advertisers. Anyone who finds a new advertiser should get a 30% share of the advertising price.I have often noticed a reluctance amongst people in this forum to allow for business-like profit margins, but in the real world most paths are greased with incentives. It's better to have a magazine that pays 70% to authors and gets published, than one that pays 90% to authors and doesn't get published, or doesn't have any advertisers. We are trying to drive the adoption of a new idea (i.e. Bitcoin). It tilts the odds towards failure if we also require people to learn other new things, such as unfamiliar notations.For that reason, the notation should be well-known. It could either be decimal (e.g. 0.001 BTC), or it could use the standard metric prefixes (which are well-known just about everywhere in the world except perhaps the USA, e.g. 1 mBTC), or it could use different names for the smaller units (by analogy with dollars/cents, pounds/pence, e.g. bitcoins/bitcents/bitdust/satoshis/whatever). That's a cop-out. It just gives the ultimate power to those politicians who make the decision as to which scientists, sociologists and philosophers are selected as decision-makers.I am one of those who thinks the Amazon is important to the prosperity of humans, which is why neither the government nor its pressure-groups should be involved. Government rarely looks beyond the next election. But an owner of a forest who preserves a species that might otherwise become extinct, has tremendous opportunities to profit from that in the long-term future. That doesn't really make sense, because the overhead of a micropayment is no bigger than the overhead of a large payment.Perhaps what you mean to say is: "Bitcoin was not designed for a big volume of payments", but nowhere have I seen any statement that mentions what volume of payments Bitcoin was designed for. Thanks, Hal and Theymos, for clarifying this.ShadowOfHarbringer: An algorithmic default fee would last longer than a fixed default fee, for sure, but it can't adjust to the future requirements of those who are generating the blocks. Therefore it still needs to be a default that can easily be changed.It's probably more straightforward, and just as workable in practice, to ship the standard client with a fixed default. This default can be adjusted with each new release of the client to match the realities of the market, provided the end user still has the final control. Before it's suitable as a serious and reliable currency (for non-geeks) it needs a lot more work to make it convenient, robust and secure for the average Joe. As you correctly said earlier, the market leads towards the optimum solution.I would like to preserve the Amazon for aesthetic reasons, and I would contribute plenty of money towards that, as would some other people. I have no doubt that the optimum amount of jungle would end up being preserved.Undeveloped land is actually really cheap to buy. Even in the United Kingdom, you can buy farmland for £5000 per acre. If you want land that comes with permission to build, that will cost you a hundred times as much (due to the government monopoly on approving building), but if you just want to preserve land it's cheap. I'm sure the prices in Brazil will be much lower than those in the UK. The websites don't do it because the Certificate Authorities want to protect their business model and have persuaded the major browser makers to support only their profitable system. I think. Why don't the excess fees just get returned as change to the originator of the transaction? It's looking quite dark, with the dark walls, dark computers, and dark cloak. No. It's all hearsay. But then again, the gold in Fort Knox has not been audited for decades.People are looking at what's happening (e.g. Rothschilds quitting the London gold bar quotations business) and trying to come up with explanations. Ribuck is an old Australian slang term meaning "the real thing" or "genuine" or "fair dinkum". It's also spelled ryebuck, as in the Australian song The Ryebuck Shearer. Instead of stamping onto the banknotes, why not affix a small label, the kind that can easily be peeled off. Then no-one can say that the note has been defaced. That's the only way it will work in the real world. It's a business decision when to regard a transaction as complete, and how (or whether) to handle invalidated transactions. Different businesses will have different policies and procedures. That reminds me of the 1970s, when the libertarian party in Australia changed its name to the Workers Party to make that point. Of course this caused great confusion and was generally regarded as a failure. I think that sentence would fall foul of the United States Defacement of Currency legislation. It's like saying that the money is worthless, which might be interpreted as "intent to render such item unfit to be reissued".Also don't overestimate how much text can fit on a rubber stamp without becoming too small to be legible on a piece of paper that gets scrunched up. I would think that "bitcoin.org" or even just "bitcoin" is about all that will fit without making the text too small.The money-tracking websites (wheresgeorge.com and whereswilly.com) no longer sell rubber stamps, and no longer encourage people to write the website name on the money, even though the Canadian site (Where's Willy?) says "We cannot locate any Canadian statutes that prohibit writing on currency". Perhaps they were advised to stop promoting marking of the currency. The "finger" protocol has already been reinvented as "web finger", which seems to be pretty much what the original poster is proposing. How about I should only have to know your Bitcoin receiving address, nothing more.
Of course I agree with you, but 0.001 would be a workable default for now.As I understand it, fees work like this:The client offers a maximum fee.The generator can choose to process the transaction or not. If it processes the transaction, it can charge any fee between zero and the limit specified by the client.The block must be accepted by the majority of the network for the fee payment to "stick".Feel free to set me straight if there's more to it than that. I don't think this is needed (contrary to what I suggested previously).If a transaction uses more than 2 decimal places, show them all. For everything else, show 2 decimal places. The "Send Coins" dialog already doesn't use any specific number of places.For ease of use, I would suggest that decimals after the first two are shown smaller. This keeps it intuitive for new users, because the main digits are more like "bitdollars and bitcents".Of course, the fee structure would need to be adjusted in the client. There's no point allowing people to send 0.001 BTC if it's going to cost them 0.01 BTC with the fees.Why not just have a maximum fee of 0.001 BTC for every transaction? Why should "dust" be charged any differently to "bullion"? GoogCoin or ZyngaCoin would never have similar principles to bitcoin. Organizations like Google wouldn't see a problem with their currency being centrally controlled. Something like Bitcoin can only arise from the bottom-up, not from the top-down.Google or Zynga could maybe succeed with the launch of a currency, but even for them it wouldn't be easy. In the UK, many people still remember the collapse of internet currencies such as Flooz and Beenz. But then you have to write the passwords down, which kind of defeats the purpose. Sure, you can store them encrypted on your computer, but what about when you are travelling?I use a fairly strong basic password, plus a rule to modify it for each site. This just gives me two things to remember: the password and the rule. The rule is not straightforward to apply, but I can do it in my head if I have to.The only thing that messes this up is the occasional site that has some stupid password rule (e.g. no punctuation allowed). This has the advantage that you can easily buy a large quantity without needing to enter lots of different bids.Suppose there are asks at 0.6, 0.7, 0.8 and 0.9, each offering to sell 10 BTC. You want to buy 50 BTC, and each BTC is worth 0.95 to you. You simply bid for 50 BTC at 0.95, and the system matches them up: you buy 10 at 0.6, 10 at 0.7, 10 at 0.8, 10 at 0.9, and your bid for the remaining ten at 0.95 stays on the order book.If it didn't work that way, you'd end up paying 0.95 for all of the coins that you buy. No-one would want that, so they would need to enter separate bids at 0.6, 0.7, 0.8, 0.9 and 0.95. At this time, yes, every bitcoin app downloads its own copy of the full block chain.This is not absolutely necessary. Several levels of optimization are available; it's just a "simple matter of programming".In the future, big nodes (e.g. those operated by exchangers) will download the whole block chain, but the "average joe" will run a "bitcoin lite" that just downloads the data needed to support his own use of bitcoin. Calculate your BTC income and expenditure. The difference between them is your BTC profit. Calculate your dollar income and expenditure. The difference between them is your dollar profit. On the last day of your tax year, work out the dollar-equivalent of your BTC profit, using a market rate (e.g. MtGox). Declare the total profit in dollars (most countries have a box near the end of the tax form for "other income").The only problem is that you will need to pay tax to the government.Don't forget to keep records of all your costs, including electricity for your computer, and heating/lighting for your home office.When your business grows much bigger, you can afford to pay an accountant to tell you whether there are more profitable ways to structure your business. But at this point, your need is to get the business established. Consider Vladimir's 1GHhash/sec contract at £1203 per 3 months. That's £13.22 or $21.36 per day. According to the generation calculator, you can expect to generate 45 BTC per day. Therefore, if you can sell your generated BTC for $0.48 or more, you are winning. At the current price (say, $0.65), you would make a profit of $7.89 per day.Of course the generation difficulty is likely to increase every 10 days or so, and you will generate fewer coins per day as time goes on. If the price of bitcoins rises fast enough, the venture will continue to be profitable. Otherwise, it becomes a losing proposition. There is certainly a risk, but right now the numbers add up.One reason to consider this service is if you want to generate, but don't want the noise in your house. A question for people here: Did everyone who has the "united" transaction have a MtGox account name that is also a Forum username? Because it's easy enough to get a list of Forum names.I have the "united" transaction, and my MtGox account name also happens to be a Forum username (although it's not 'ribuck').Weak passwords are never safe. Mine is 71% according to the Password Meter, and I'll be improving it. Rich kids are going to buy much more than 10k from MtGox. You'll know about it then! No, that doesn't work. Instead of trying 100,000 passwords on one account, the attacker simply tries one password on 100,000 accounts. Same chance of success. I had often heard the conspiracy theories, but I had never realised there were so many aspects of the gold market that don't make sense.More details here, with references:http://www.marketoracle.co.uk/Article14818.html Even if the price did return to 0.55 (and it doesn't look like it will), that's still 10% higher than 24 hours ago, a big daily rise by any measure. The Nystrom representation itself isn't stupid, but using it for Bitcoin is. It brings absolutely nothing worthwhile to Bitcoin.One bitcoin is 100000000 units of bitdust, and the maximum number of bitcoins is 21000000, both of which are convenient decimal numbers. What's the point of having one Bong-Bitcoin equal to 42.94967296 BTC?If you do want to count bitcoins in hexadecimal, you should simply use the equivalent number in base 16. For example, 255 BTC = 0xFF BTC. It seems unlikely, because the hacker apparently sold bitcoins. This would have tended to lower the MtGox price, not raise it. Yes, although in practice most people already compromise (almost) all accounts if they lose the password to their email account, due to the easy availability of password reminder/reset facilities.A bank does need something more than most other sites. I would be happy to pay a fee to have two-factor authentication on my MtGox account. Keep testnet as close as possible to the live system. It will sort itself out in a few weeks.Create an additional block chain for those whose development needs require something other than what testnet provides. Did you actually read the wiki page that you're describing as "cool"? This "Tonal Bitcoin" stuff is just stupid. "Bong-BitCoin" indeed! I bought one of these notes. It arrived promptly, and was well-packaged. It's a great talking piece, and an introduction to a discussion about inflation which naturally leads to a discussion about Bitcoin. Maybe someone had been short selling BTC, and had an end-of-the-month deadline by which they needed to deliver the BTC.In any case, BTC is now trading significantly above $0.50, so although the $0.95 was presumably due to a single anomalous trader, I think there's also a genuine underlying upwards trend.
Good idea. OpenID, in other words.Google even offers two-factor authentication to some of its users (password plus mobile phone confirmation). Grondilu, taken in context it's clear that I'm referring to the psychological aspects of the internal representation, not the technical aspects. Many financial libraries deal with whole cents instead of decimal dollars and cents, but there has been no long term psychological effect.Some things in life are worth worrying about, but internal numeric representation is not one of them. Heh, while you were composing that, it materially changed! I've been watching the "Asks" coming back, trickling in and gradually bringing the lowest offer back down from 0.95 to 0.64 and still dropping. I guess it will end up close to 0.50 again. I wonder if most of these are automatically or manually generated. Yes, there is a cutoff, somewhere around two-thirds of the last trade price. There weren't many coins on offer between 0.51 and 0.95, so I think it's a bit early to break out the parity champagne quite yet.[edit: if someone buys 691 coins now, it will take the MtGox price up to $1.25] MtGox price just shot up to 95 cents (due to a very small volume of coins on offer and, I presume, a determined buyer). We live in interesting times. I guess they haven't done any trades yet, because their decimal point is in the wrong place. But if anyone did manage to buy 1000 BTC for $5, do let us know. That's an ambitious principle, and I presume you will be true to it in your own work.How will you be crediting all those phrases that were first generated by someone else? For starters, if you use any of the following phrases you'll need to credit William Shakespeare for originally generating them: For sure the police can cause you to miss your flight. The media often report cases where people missed flights due to questioning by the police.I don't know the full details of the situation in the UK, but it's roughly like this: The police can stop you at any time if they "reasonably suspect" that you are carrying a weapon, or are in possession of a controlled substance. If they want to stop you without "reasonable suspicion", they can do so under the Terrorism Act.According to the following link, between 2000 and 2008 the UK police stopped and searched 108,714 people under the Terrorism Act. Of those, the number who were subsequently convicted of a terrorism offence was ... zero."Student Human Rights Network - Stop and search under the Terrorism Act 2000http://www.justice.org.uk/jshrn/newyear2010.htm#briefingsstop Bartering isn't legal if you're paying with prohibited vegetation. OK, I've finished reading this book. Although it was a struggle, I'm glad I finished it.The writing style is easy to read, but the content is repetitive and dilute, which meant that my mind kept wandering onto other things while I was reading it. Nevertheless, it was worthwhile.The best chapter, in my opinion, was the one about the environment and property rights. The author addresses a lot of concepts that are glossed over by other many authors. He analyses who has property interests in clean air, clean water, etc, and how those people interact. Very nicely covered.Thanks for recommending this book. Sure, I did read your description correctly. But for the layperson, the interpretation is likely to be "if something is controlled by mathematics, it's controlled by mathematicians".I still think the layperson is only interested in currency that is controlled by themselves. Sorry, I was only looking at the Euro orders.  Sure that's true, but it's trivially worked around by storing it within the double-precision as 300000000000001 and inserting the decimal when displaying the number.Cute quote, but the embedded world has true integers to work with; JSON-RPC does not. Anyone else who would donate bitcoins, feel free to say so at this thread on their forum:http://freedomainradio.com/BOARD/forums/p/29276/225107.aspx Because no-one has been willing to cross the bid-offer spread. Hint: try an XOR with the block chain. JSON-RPC doesn't support an Integer type. So it's floating-point or string.
Gavin, my point is this:The integer 2100000000000001 is within the range that is represented EXACTLY in double-precision floating point. On the other hand, the number 2100000.000000001 is not (and cannot be) represented exactly in double precision floating point (because it has a decimal fraction part that cannot be exactly represented in the binary encoding used for floating point).The limit for exact integer representation in a double precision floating point number is 9,007,199,254,740,992 which is sufficient for Bitcoin's needs.Perhaps you understood that I was saying that, and are pointing out that we are at the mercy of JSON libraries that might not correctly handle the conversion from integer to double-precision.If the libraries are that buggy, it's pretty sad. The child's room should be a place where the child isn't required to clean up. They need a space of their own, and it's good for them to discover and learn for themselves the advantages and disadvantages of cleaning. Just register as an advertiser and take a look. A site owner should become familiar with how their site is presented to advertisers. Sure, you are playing it cautious. But I see a risk of analysis paralysis setting in: trying to tie up all the loose ends while the difficulty rises and the window of opportunity starts to close...Anyway I think a collaborative venture is a great thing to do. But it's going to have to be nimble to be successful. It's interesting how the transaction gets split up, then later quite a few pieces of the original transaction come together again. But the splits are probably the change that goes back to the same wallet, so it's not so surprising.And that suggests a way to determine (with a moderate degree of confidence) which part of a transaction is the "payment" and which is the "change". Stephan's philosophy (sorry I don't have a link) is simply that if you don't wish to care for your children, you should allow others to do so. There's no need for punishment, or an arbitrary minimum standard of care.For sure, any obligation sucks, and I would not support any obligation. It cannot be a moral imperative to let others care for your children if you don't want to (or cannot) care for them.However, children do not choose to be born, and harm to children or neglect of children is such a terrrible thing that I expect a free society would evolve the strongest of social pressures to ensure that unwanted children were looked after by people who do care about them. I get what you're saying, but I don't think the layman wants their cash controlled by mathematicians either. Nor does the layman want the burden of learning what a crypto-currency might be. How about:Bitcoin is a currency controlled by you instead of by a greedy wunch of bankers. There's a thread at their forum, seeking an alternative to PayPal for donations. Naturally I suggested Bitcoin:http://freedomainradio.com/BOARD/forums/p/29276/225000.aspx Site owners don't want the loading of their pages to be slowed down. Page load speed is even one of the factors in a website's position on Google.But sure, why not increase the limit for the skyscraper ad to 50kB or 60kB in return for reducing it for the smaller ads. Or, mining might be worthwhile if the price of bitcoins has risen enough. Or, it might be worthwhile if transaction fees are charged. Or, the difficulty rise might pause when the Northern Hemisphere summer arrives.There are plenty of unknowns, so I think this should be considered an adventure rather than a charted course. As you hinted, it doesn't really make sense to overlay a log graph onto a linear graph. I'll send you 10 BTC if you finish this artwork within 10 days AND you explicitly release it to Public Domain AND the USB stick is fixed. If you have enough bits of floating point precision, you can represent integers safely and exactly. But you can't do the same for decimal fractions, due to the binary representation within the floating point value.So if you represent the bitcoins as bitdust (2,100,000,000,000,000) rather than as coins (21,000,000.00000000) it should work unless the library is extremely broken (in which case it's likely to be extremely broken for integers too).But ... what about when the whole world is using bitcoin and the precision gets extended beyond 51 bits? I found an amusing quote from Satoshi in this forum, dated 12 December 2009:Of course, avoiding a hashing arms race presumes that there are no "bad guys". If we could all agree to report our bitcoin balance honestly and not double-spend, the Bitcoin system wouldn't even need computers. But you can't cash them out, so that's doesn't mean much. It will be interesting to see what the black market rate is, but it will be much less. "What are Bitcoins?" at the FreeDomainRadio forum:http://freedomainradio.com/BOARD/forums/t/29271.aspxI doubt whether even 1% of libertarians have heard of Bitcoin. Clarity for newbies is important. I think this label should be "Your receiving address". It's not about smart or stupid, it's about getting heard above the 10,000 other things that are clamouring for his attention.He has a huge following, many of whom would be very interested in Bitcoin. I'll post something in their forum. Remember when the Bitcoin market cap passed one million dollars? Some guy posted that this meant nothing, because his uncle's house was worth more than a million dollars.Some time soon, the Bitcoin market cap is going to exceed the value of that guy's uncle's house.
For sure you don't need 5.25 million coins if people are just downloading Kiba's art or having the occasional game of poker. So there's no doubt that the price of a bitcoin already "factors in" some allowance for the future utility of the coin.If that utility doesn't eventuate, bitcoin might fail. However, maybe "being a long-term store of value" is already sufficient utility to ensure the success of Bitcoin, even if people aren't buying loaves of bread with it.Anyway, if it gets to the point where phone-to-phone transactions are safe and straightforward, then I think there's no stopping Bitcoin from that point onwards. Getting onto this list is difficult for someone who is selling 6 or 12 month contracts, because performance cannot be properly judged for another 6 or 12 months.One of the things I do before deciding whether or not to trade with someone is to check out their prior posts, to work out what kind of "mindset" they have. Do they respect private property, do they respect contracts, do they respect other people, what is their attitude towards money and debt, etc.Vladimir passes with flying colors. Recognizing your address is worse.Being in the Top 100 list might even be considered a good thing, except that you've blown your anonymity by having your address in your signature, Mr BTC9364.73. Those 100 high-flying addresses account for 1754088 coins, which is 35% of all coins generated to date. I would say it the other way: "Moon is bitcoin-compliant" Why does the "Bitcoins produced over time" chart go above 21,000,000 in 2046? Harry Browne died in 2006. He published "How I found freedom in an unfree world" in 1973. It's that. One person can't be expected to know everything. He knows the stuff he specializes in. He's not even an open source guy. It's Windows for him.But I don't criticize someone for a lack of knowledge. If he understood open source, and if he understood bitcoin, I'm sure he'd approve of them. Block 105000 has just been generated. That's one-quarter of the way to the eventual total of 21,000,000 bitcoins.According to bitcoin watch, the 5.25 million BTC generated so far are valued at $2.27 million, or 1204 ounces of gold.Way to go! If I could count on having reasonable health in my old age, I would not want to be rich in anything.But it would be nice to have some savings to use for health care in my old age if necessary. OK, I see, the joke is on me. Touché!I know (and often use) the links browser, but I didn't know w3m. Grondilu, I'm not sure what you were expecting, when the preview shows everything except for two small rectangles. It's unusual, but not erotic. You're getting boring, gene. Me too.It took me 15 years to understand the merits of Libertarianism, then another 35 to understand the merits of Voluntarism. I'm a slow learner. ...with a good Public Relations Department. Most people here appreciate the distinction between price deflation and monetary deflation. But the consumer doesn't care about the difference.Suppose you want to buy a new cellphone which costs $100. You have $200, which also needs to cover your expenses for the rest of the month, which you estimate at $100.If you think there will be price inflation, $100 may not be enough to cover your expenses for the rest of the month. With prices going up, you might need $120 for the rest of the month. So maybe you won't buy the phone this month. Or maybe you'll buy a cheaper one for $80.If you think there will be price deflation, you'll happily buy the phone because you might only need to use $80 of your remaining $100 for your expenses for the rest of the month. If you're not a cautious type, you might even splash out on a $120 phone.The consumer doesn't care whether the price inflation/deflation is due to monetary policy or due to technological change. That's not what they base their behavior on.The "inflation is good" myth is promulgated by those who have gotten themselves into debt, and want their burden to be eased at the expense of those who haven't. Most of us are not interested in Smith's market, which was required to be free and "fair", for a definition of "fair" that conflicts with "free".We're interested in markets that are free of violence or the threat thereof. Nothing more, nothing less. As far as we're concerned, such markets also happen to be fair. I would love to have one of these bitcoin heaters. It would boot directly into Bitcoin, and be shutdown simply by turning off the power. It would maybe have a handle attached for ease of transporting.It should have solid state storage for robustness: probably just an internal USB socket that can take a 4GB USB flash drive (or maybe even two USB sockets in hot-swap RAID configuration for robustness and ease of backup).Ideally it would look like this, but some of these ideas would work too. Aah yes. To solve a problem: form a subcommittee with eight people, and let them have meetings for a year at the taxpayer's expense.If the Fed system did collapse (and I don't think it will; it will just languish), it wouldn't be saved by a subcommittee (whose recommendations would probably include setting up further subcommittees). Well no, you choose the GPU that gets least hot (for the same hash rate), because you want the maximum BTC payout per watt. If you have a GPU that generates the same number of blocks without becoming so hot, you simply use two of them in your heater.If you wanted something that got really hot, you would stick with CPU mining.
Democracy is when three men and two women have a vote, and decide to legalize rape, and the rape victims just have to accept it because the decision was made democratically.But Direct Democracy is one intellectual step on the journey from "Representative" Democracy to Libertarianism to Voluntarism. So you need to find someone against whom you can hedge your mining risk. The counterparty gets the first 'X' bitcoins that your rig mines, in return for delivering 7500 minus 'Y' bitcoins at the end of six months, where 'Y' is the number of bitcoins that your rig mined.That needs new terminology. I would call it a "Bitcoin style difficulty hedge" If you let us know the hashing rate of your mining rig, we can consider whether we are interested.On the other hand, you could throw caution to the wind and mine away, keeping everything you make without incurring any hedging costs. I think it would be unwise to transfer all of your wealth into bitcoins. Bitcoin is still in its infancy, and problems might emerge that would make bitcoins worthless.You could transfer some part of your wealth into bitcoins. You can use an exchange like MtGox, or you can trade person-to-person via #bitcoin-otc.You can't yet buy all "the essentials of life, ie food and energy" using bitcoins. But the number of things that you can buy is increasing every week. Many of them are listed on the "Trade" page at bitcoin.org.If you can't wait to get started, you can get 0.05 bitcoins for free from the Bitcoin Faucet, thanks to the kindness of Gavin Andresen and those who have donated coins to the site.Enjoy the ride! For certain definitions of free:Here's an excerpt:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SvSJY3Xiwdg In the long run, the difficulty is likely to be affected by changes in the value of BTC. A higher value will encourage more people to generate, leading to an increase in difficulty level. And vice-versa.But in recent months, I think much of the difficulty increase is due to the ongoing movement from CPU to GPU mining, which is (in round figures) 50 times more efficient.If anyone wants to prepare a graph of difficulty vs. MtGox price, it would be interesting. Well, you are an individual, so of course only you know what you think you would do.For the masses, deflation means going into the cellular phone shop and saying "wow, I thought I could only afford a dumphone, but it turns out I can buy a smartphone". Deflation means Joe Public saying "My TV has broken, and it seems that I can buy a 46-inch TV rather than a 32-inch TV like my old one". Deflation means Fred saying to Martha "Last year we could only afford a week's holiday just across the state border. This year let's have two weeks in the Bahamas".This, of course, is good for the individual. Some might even say it's good for the "economy". It shouldn't even need a click. The client should check on starting for a new wallet. I would like to see a wallet subdirectory that you could drop any number of wallet files into, and the client would recognise all of them when starting up. Provided you understand that you only win the fee if you solve the block (in which case you also get the 50 generated coins). It's a misconception that "the economy" is an entity of its own, that it is anything other than the aggregate of what is done by people. You are essentially saying that people should be forced to do something other than what is in their best interests, for the benefit of a statistic called "the economy".But if "the economy" can only show the statistics that you want to see, when society is structured against the best interests of the people within it, then I think you're looking at the wrong side of the equation. The Bitcoin protocol only prevents double-spending. It doesn't say anything about double-selling. Thank you, da2ce7, for using a logarithmic vertical axis. That sounds like a good solution.As the bitcoin economy grows, there may come a time when that makes sense, but I think it's a while in the future still. ...And as a result he attracts a band of largely-unhappy followers. It's a real pity, because he's highly intelligent and articulate. If Molyneux could take a cue from Harry Browne's optimistic writing in "How I found freedom in an unfree world", his slice of the voluntarist movement would be much more fun. Delaware is 6452 square kilometers, or 909 bitcoins. My rough visual estimate is that 35% of Delaware lies north of Dover, so you're looking at around 318 coins.PS: If you want to own the Brooklyn Bridge too, I can sell you that for another hundred and fifty. Thank you, I stand corrected.Now it just needs a fractal mapping from an integer to a location on the planet. That keeps nearby integers grouped together, like the XKCD Map of the Internet. Over time the map will get more and more fragmented, until eventually it really does look like dust. When the reward drops from 50 to 25 BTC per block, we will see whether or not it has any significant effect on the difficulty level. Until then, I don't think anyone needs to worry or speculate, because hard evidence will come soon enough. Why don't YOU be that person, then when you become rich you can give away your coins to "people who don't have the time or skill to set up their own Bitcoin-earning service/product". Gavin, I think you misunderstood what I'm trying to say.I'm not worried about the developers of gcc. I'm happy to trust them. I'm worried about the person who prepares the virtual image, and who could include their own patched malicious version of gcc.What I suggest instead is simply to specify the build environment (tools, version numbers and configuration options) and allow others to set up that environment with software from standard repositories.A virtual image of the build environment is not a big risk, but it seems to me it makes things slightly worse rather than slightly better. The analogy doesn't stretch further than being a cute graphic. Individual bitcoins don't exist in any meaningful way, nor do the individual specks of bit-dust. There is no notion of 21 million coins, numbered 1 to 21,000,000.All we have in Bitcoin is a sequence of transactions, whose inputs and outputs are quantities of bitcoins. There's no way to "assign" those coins to a specific part of your graphic. The next time those same coins are spent, it will be with different keys. Homeless people are often those who are made helpless by the state.Homeless people are cash-poor but time-rich. There are types of homes that require a lot of time but very little money to build. Two examples are straw bale housing, and yurts.Suppose a homeless person finds a farmer who will let them build such a dwelling on an unused piece of his land, perhaps in return for some help with milking the cows. Do you think the state will allow this?The land has no "planning permission", and the building is too non-standard to be approved. So the homeless person is denied an honest way to lift themselves up, back into mainstream society.In my country there are a few people who have managed to convince the bureaucracy to allow them to live in straw-bale houses or yurts. But the people who succeed in this interaction with the state are not the ones who are struggling and really need the permission.As for voluntary charity, it's empirically shown that charity flourishes when the state is smaller, and that charity languishes when the state moves in on its turf. But even with a dominant state, private charity flourishes when there is an exchange.What I mean by this is, for example, that the Salvation Army is always willing to help you, but in exchange you may need to listen to the word of God. Fair enough. If I was a destitute atheist I would respectfully do that, in order to lift myself out of poverty. Then, I would gratefully make a large donation back to the organization that had helped me, before severing all ties with it.
It has already happened. Someone exploited an integer overflow to create a huge amount of bitcoins. The transaction was accepted into the block 74638, but is no longer in the longest chain due to action taken by >50% of the computational power of the network. e-gold is a "fairly hard" currency, but it's still centrally controlled so in principle transactions could be reversed. It's only due to a policy decision that they aren't. This is in contrast to an anonymous cash transaction which cannot be reversed (without initiating violence).Bitcoin is somewhere in-between those two. A transaction can only be reversed by action taken by >50% of the computational power of the network. Nowhere in the definition of a government can you see that there is some guarantee that everyone can achieve survival, and in fact governments do rather poorly at this.The very poorest segment of society (such as those who sleep rough on the streets) accesses far less of the state's resources than the other segments. Many government programs need you to have an address, or need you to have a bank account, or need you to have a computer, or need you to have a birth certificate, or need you to have ready access to transport, or need you to be literate.Statist laws take away much of the ability for the destitute to improve their life. In the UK, many old people are very poor, many are really struggling to stay warm and get enough to eat. And yet old people can be the most valuable child carers. They have plenty of time and patience, flexible availability, and lots of wisdom to pass on. But current laws make it almost impossible for them to care for children on a casual basis. Even if they can meet all the paperwork requirements and the bureaucratic inspections, it can take many months for the permission to come through.Younger people suffer too. In past centuries, a youth who has fallen on hard times could improve his lot through hard work, starting one step at a time with "odd jobs" like chopping firewood. But employment is so regulated nowadays that it's not worth anyone's while to pay people for odd jobs. For the unemployed, it's "all or nothing", whereas humans are best at getting themselves out of a bad situation if they can improve their life incrementally.The number of people who are truly unable to survive without welfare is very small, and those people do better under voluntary charity than under state bureaucracy. ... and England has never had snow in winter before. At the moment we seem to only have people who want to buy, so an exchange won't help much. I've done a few private transactions with other UK bitcoiners in the past, with good results.I'm currently buying BTC at 20% above MtGox rates, for payment in GBP, if anyone is interested. The time, hassles and risk of going via LRUSD or using cash-in-the-mail exchanges makes the 20% difference worth it for me. Taking the responses to this blatant joke at face value = fail! It's the miners who set the fees, so this is a self-correcting "problem". I think a virtual machine image is a bad idea, because a malicious person could include a modified tool within this virtual image. The C++ compiler, for example, could be modified for malicious purposes, and this might not be detected.Surely it's safer to specify the build environment (i.e. version numbers and configuration of each tool) and leave others to assemble the build environment from those specifications.Ken Thompson's very readable 1984 presentation describes this form of attack:"Reflections on Trusting Trust"http://cm.bell-labs.com/who/ken/trust.html That is the interesting one. If you just use the land surface, each bitcoin will be represented by 7 square kilometers, about the same as the territory of Gibraltar.It would be great if it was possible to "zoom in" and see each individual piece of "bit-dust" (the minimum amount into which a bitcoin can currently be subdivided). That would have an area of 709 square centimeters, just slightly larger than a sheet of A4 paper. There is still some value solving a block with no transactions, because it increases the security against double-spending of transactions in previous blocks.I think your analysis of future mining is spot-on. When transaction fees become the dominant source of income for generators, variance in block times will be greatly reduced due to economic forces. Government is the ultimate manifestation of the Tragedy of the Commons. It's in everyone's economic interest to try to extract money from the government to fund their own pet project, to the economic detriment of everyone else.It doesn't even need the provision of legal and monetary incentives, just the removal of legal and monetary disincentives. Plus the removal of the corporation's ability to internalise profit while externalising risk.Historically, this has never happened. Any large organization devotes a large part of its resources to perpetuating itself regardless of its utility. Historically, meaningful change comes suddenly, when all the right forces are lined up and the population is ready to accept it.There are some interesting figures that show a correlation between the increase in US government spending (as a percentage of the economy) and inequality between the top and bottom slices of society. I can't track down the URL at this time, but I have seen them referenced on one of the FreeDomainRadio videos.Also, those who receive the most aid from state spending have (on average) lower educational outcomes, lower lifetime incomes, poorer health etc. There is some high-quality evidence for this, taken from cities that straddle US state boundaries and therefore have different educational and health "entitlements" on opposite sides of the same street. Yes, it appeared in version 3.11. Here's the thread discussing it:"Development of alert system"http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=898.0But I think Satoshi took it out of recent builds, to avoid accusations that he was a point of central control (because his key would be used to sign the alert). If I can find the reference to that announcement, I'll post it.edit: here's the announcement about the removal of "safe mode". It's not clear to me whether the alert itself was removed, or whether the ability to have the alert shut down transaction processing was removed:Removed safe mode (0.3.19)http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2228 Yes, I'm discovering that. I'm up to page 100, and have been noticing some wishy-washy "filler" creeping in here and there. I would subscribe. How about leaving the optimizations in there, unless/until they cause some problem? If an optimization causes a maintenance problem, then it can be removed.If there's hostile action against bitcoin, it might be valuable to muster every last CPU cycle by encouraging everyone to turn on generation.When the standard client was patched to fix the overflow bug, the "valid" block chain overtook the "sabotaged" one in less than a day. One of the reasons for that was the success of the pleading (in this forum) for everyone to install the new client as soon as possible, and to turn on generation. At some point, the standard client might detect and support graphics cards "out of the box". It's unlikely to happen soon, of course. One of the things that the state does, is to turn subsets of society against each other. Each group clamors to be awarded a bigger share of candy (i.e. confiscated property) by the government, to the detriment of the rest of society. As soon as you take away the state, it's more productive for people to co-operate.I had become aware of this empirically over the years, but I hadn't seen it explained in this way before, by focusing on the nature of property.I also found the tie-in with entropy interesting. Total entropy (disorder) in the universe is always increasing. But living organisms take in energy and can achieve a local decrease in entropy - not just in their bodies, but also in the things they create: their property. I've never thought about property and entropy like that before.I'm working through Chapter Three at the moment. I don't think you should dismiss this out-of-hand as a scam. I sent the requested 10 BTC and have already received an email copy of the WILL so that I can send it on to the bitcoin authorities together with my endorsement.If anyone has an email address for any of the the bitcoin authorities, please send them to me by PM. I'm having a bit of difficulty with that part. Thanks in advance! Even if every computer in the world was generating a thousand per second, it would take more than a million times as long as the known life of the universe to generate a full set of addresses. Well yes, to some extent, but "Boundaries of Order" still carries a copyright notice and strongly-worded IP warning.
Thank you for this recommendation. I'm up to page 50 now, and finding it interesting and worthwhile. There's that "rush" when you use the computer in the morning and you see that it says "Generated: +50.00". There's also that "downer" when you have gone weeks without generating. Yes, pre-emptive approval (or disapproval) would be great.As for stats, advertisers are going to want them so that they can set their bids. But it's not urgent. Who would want to sell stuff for a currency which is likely to rise in the long term? Oh yeah, everyone. So the two sides to this equation work in opposite directions. The rational buyer would offer less than the USD equivalent price, and the rational seller would be happy to sell for less than the USD equivalent price (in order to gain the coins).In my opinion the growth of trade in goods is slowed by "ordinary" concerns such as the difficulty of buying bitcoins with a credit card, or the early development stage of escrow and arbitration services, rather than by considerations of inflation and deflation. "Closing price" seems a pretty arbitrary notion for an exchange that's open 24 hours per day. One could equally look for the "highest all time 2.03pm price at MtGox". Approvable ads represent a lot of development work, and would add some complexity to the interface.As an intermediate measure, there could be a facility to reject an ad that is already running. Perhaps with two options: "Reject this ad from this website" and "Reject this ad from all my websites". Looking back at ArtForz's analysis of Nenolod's action (earlier in this thread), I was amused to read that when the Slashdot article was published the total generating capacity of the entire Bitcoin network was 200 MHash/sec. That's one-third of what a single 5970 GPU card will do now. An infinite number of digital currencies can be created, and the government can't buy them all. I don't think the government will want to create a new business model:1. Create a digital currency2. Get some people to start using it3. The government buys all the coins4. Profit! 1. Some people want to trade, and don't have a GPU card, so they have no easy way to get BTC except by buying.2. Some people are preparing to start up new BTC-based businesses, and need to build up a stock of BTC as their working capital.3. Some people are speculating.Absolutely. No-one should buy BTC unless they are comfortable with the chance of losing everything. This special offer is limited to the first 10,000 participants.Heh, you youngsters can talk about your 50-year investments. I'm old enough that I won't be around in 50 years, so I'll need to opt for the 20-year investment option. Zimbabwe perhaps, having recently abandoned the Zimbabwe Dollar? Each bundle of 50 generated coins, together with any associated transaction fees, gets its own address. A different address will always be used for each subsequent bundle of generated coins.If the generated coins have not been spent, there's no way to know whether two bundles were generated by the same miner or by different miners. When the coins get spent, it's possible that a single transaction will include both bundles, at which time the information appears in the block chain and everyone can deduce that the two bundles were generated by the same miner.There are ways around this (e.g. exporting a key from one wallet and importing it into another, or using a modified client that never combines generated bundles when sending coins) but I don't think there are any standard tools available. A more workable option might be "No unapproved ads", so that an ad doesn't go live unless the publisher has explicitly approved it. In the United Kingdom, members of the Upper House (the "Lords") are still not elected by the people. Also it's interesting to note that, historically, the more repressive regimes have ruled over more polluted countries. After the Soviet Union fell, it became clear that its industries were more polluting than those in the West. During the partition of Germany, East German pollution was much higher than West German pollution. State power certainly doesn't solve pollution.Yes it does, but the interesting question is whether the Internet (peer-to-peer communication and transactions) will make a different outcome possible "the next time around".The state can probably not be defeated, but it can perhaps be made irrelevant. Just one more:"Processes" should be "process".Why not append the sentence "Feel free to steal this article and use it however you like." There's absolutely no reason for you to feel bad. You donated funds for a purpose, and they were not all needed for that purpose, so of course you are entitled to a guilt-free refund.Also, you donated far more than most people. You donated ten times as much as I did. So you're the one who has the least reason to feel bad. I think it's healthy for people to express their bigotry freely. It's healthy for the individuals concerned, and healthy for society as a whole, to have all this stuff aired.But...Nanaimogold is wearing his hetero-gonads far more prominently than Bruce wore his gay-gonads, therefore nanaimogold should not be surprised that, by his own explanation, so many people were "put off". In the UK there are alternatives to the standard residential fee structure. One of those provides very cheap off-peak electricity in exchange for slightly increased peak prices. For most people it's not a good deal, but for someone who wanted to use their computer normally in the day but mine all night it would be perfect. But who sets up those "standards" in a democracy? The majority. So, in a democracy of 51 men and 49 women, if the 51 men vote that it's OK for men to rape women, then there's no "tyranny by the majority"? I don't think so.Precisely. Democracy is only "tyranny by the majority" when it's backed by the initiation of violence by a democratic state. But anarchism accommodates voluntary democratic processes whenever they meet the needs of those who are voluntarily participating.
The Efficient Market Hypotheses doesn't apply, because it's not an efficient market.It's too cumbersome to get funds in and out (for many people), and even where it is possible the time delays mess with the market.More importantly, the future value of Bitcoins depends almost entirely on the presence or absence of future coercive government action. That must be one of the hardest things (if not the hardest thing) for any market to predict. It's a very well-written article, and you've approached it from a great angle too.Here are a few stylistic suggestions to consider, but really they're so trivial that I'm reluctant to suggest them:1. How about writing "billion" and "trillion" instead of B and T? You're presumably writing for a non-technical audience.2. I would put a comma before "and for good reason".3. Some of your readers won't know what a Krugerrand is. You could replace the phrase "break that tenth ounce Krugerrand into nine pieces and mail one to you" by "break their gold coin into tiny pieces and mail one piece to you".4. I would replace the comma by a colon after "two ways to get bitcoins".5. I would add "and there's" before "no backdoor access".6. It's difficult for people to assimilate new concepts, but consistent wording helps. You could replace "you give one address to the payer" by "you give a payment address to the payer", and you could replace "pasting the recipient's address" by "pasting the recipient's payment address". This matches your use of "payment address" earlier in the paragraph. Actually I prefer the term "receiving address", because some readers might assume that "payment" refers to an outgoing payment.7. Replace "hard limit" by "fixed limit". The term "hard limit" is heavily used in computing, but to the lay reader the word "hard" is synonymous with "difficult".These things are all very minor, and it wouldn't be a problem to publish your article without any of these changes.There is, however, one part of your article which I don't think is clear to someone who doesn't already understand Bitcoin:Earlier in the article, you implied that the solution was bitcoin ("Bitcoin is a more modern solution"). You did also refer to "the reward for solving a problem", but didn't explain what kind of problem you're referring to. World hunger, for example? You did explain this by saying "computers solving a math problem who's solution validates transactions and prevents double spending", but that's not clearly tied to the other references.Perhaps you could rework those parts to refer to the familiar concept of "transaction processing" instead of "solving math problems". Something like "Bitcoins are not dug out of the ground, they are generated by computers processing Bitcoin transactions in a way that is computationally difficult but which validates transactions and prevents double spending".That's not an optimum wording either, so feel free to ignore this whole post. After all, the perfect is the enemy of the good. I see you answered part of my question while I was composing my previous post. But...So this means the accounting is done hourly? That's good.If my understanding is correct, the terms have these meanings:"Bid": The maximum amount you are willing to pay per day, to run your ad on this site."Limit": The maximum total amount you are willing to pay for this "mini-campaign" for your ad on this site.Perhaps that wording, or something like it, can be added to the website.And from the Publisher side of things, I guess the term has this meaning:"Minimum bid": The minimum amount you will accept per day for someone to run their ad in this space on your website, except that ads run for free if there is only one advertiser.Finally, a feature request. I need a way to specify "no animated ads" to run on my sites. I want static graphics only.Thanks! The Operation Fabulous website is nice and fast. Clean, simple, and easy to navigate. But the form fields need better descriptions.On the "Add a website" page, what are the units for "Minimum bid"? Bitcoins per day? It needs to say this on the form. And I can't find a way to change the value of the minimum bid after a website has been added.If I want to have more than one ad on the same website, do I need to add the same website more than once? What if the multiple ads are the same size, can the system cope with that?I'm a publisher and I also want to be an advertiser, but I can't find a way to get from one part of the website to the other. This can be easily solved by making the logo clickable so that it's easy to return to the home page.The 5% commission is mentioned on the Publisher FAQ, and also mentioned when you add funds as an Advertiser. So is it applied before the bid amounts, or after the bid amounts, or both? I actually think it's quite reasonable to take more than 5%. The service needs to be profitable for the owners, so that it can continue to be developed and promoted.In my publisher account I see this:...and the ad is showing correctly on my site. But this raises a couple of issues.Doing financial calculations using floating point math always leads to problems. Sure, you can hide it by rounding to 2 places, but then you get anomalies like "I placed a bid for 0.1 bitcoins but it says my bid isn't enough, even though the minimum bid is 0.1 bitcoins" (because the minimum bid is being stored as something like 0.999999997 bitcoins). There are good decimal math packages for PHP already installed on most webhosts, if you're using PHP.Also, what does that message actually mean? Does it mean that someone is bidding a maximum of 1.45 BTC (per day?) to advertise on my site, but because no-one else has bid, they are paying 0.1 BTC (per day?) which is my minimum. But the Operation Fabulous website says that when there is no competing bid, the advertising is free. So why does my publisher account show a balance of 0.5 BTC?As an advertiser, if I click "Add a Bid" and select a site, I get to the Stage 2 form. Here it asks me to select an advertisement. But if I don't have any ads set up yet, it should say something like "You need to set up an advertisement before you can place a bid". It also asks for the "Height" and "Limit" of the bid, but it's not clear what these terms mean and how these amounts work.Sorry to have so many questions, but I hope to become a heavy user as both publisher and advertiser. The "change" problem is easily solved by making sure that none is needed. The card can be pre-loaded with keys for coins that can make up any amount without the need for change.For example, with the following hundred keys you can make many payments (worst case is 10, but probably many more) of any amount from 1 to 99 BTC before you need to recharge your card:25 x 1 BTC, 25 x 3 BTC, 25 x 10 BTC, 25 x 30 BTC GIMP sounds good. Or do the EFF again, to avoid spreading the donations too thin. Kiba, please keep my share of the refund as a small contribution to the time that you put into this. Fedora Linux for me on the desktop, Maemo Linux on my phone, OS/X for the rest of the family. But my webhost uses FreeBSD. A freelancer directory really needs a time limit so that listings expire unless they are renewed. Otherwise it eventually becomes filled up with out-of-date cruft. Wow! MIT is compatible with the widest range of other open source licenses, so it will help the uptake of bitcoin. Satoshi made his decision a long time ago, and there are surely more important things to be worrying about.The MIT license is compatible with the GPL, so you are free to create and develop a GPL fork if you feel strongly enough about it. Even so, I'd rather be homeless than be a jailer.Darn, you're right. I hereby deprecate my previous wisdom and replace it with this pearl of wisdom:"Pearls of wisdom rarely stand up to scrutiny." Nudists >>>> Jailers, for sure. But I probably should revise my wisdom to: "The quality of your life is inversely proportional to the number of keys in your pocket, unless you're in prison". The quality of your life is inversely proportional to the number of keys in your pocket. An audit conducted by a trusted third party might be the way to go. The third party would announce the results of the audit. Only the auditor would know the location of the exchange. I'm selling PB$ 210 for 5 bitcoins. If an organization carries out fractional reserve banking, and denominates their accounts in bitcoin, that carries some risk for customers of that organization.But that doesn't in any way weaken bitcoin. It just means that the organizations accounts (or "banknotes") are not as good as real bitcoin. The memory stick still looks like a cigarette to me. Take a look at this drawing of a memory stick, and see how the USB connector is much longer than in your drawing:http://www.openclipart.org/detail/28798 I love the way you can describe a debt of $10,000 per person (including babies) as "only" 3.2 trillion. I donated 10 BTC yesterday, but I can't spare a lot of BTC.I'd be delighted to donate a more substantial amount if you can add some alternative payment methods to the site. Cash in the mail, PayPal, etc.
It's a great idea: like Project Wonderful but for bitcoin instead of dollars. I'll certainly use it on some of my sites.And yet, Project Wonderful does not seem to have been wildly successful for website owners. The ad prices seem to be quite low compared to what one would get from AdSense. I can't put my finger on why this is. I would describe spread-spectrum as "playing nice", because it's not depending on the force of the state to exclude competitors.For those who don't know "spread spectrum" technology, it's radio communication that doesn't use any specific frequency or "channel". Rather, it spreads the signal over a wide range of frequencies, but uses a coded pattern that allows a receiver to reconstruct the desired signal.There's no fixed limit to the capacity of spread spectrum transmissions. As more people transmit at the same time, the effective data rate per user slows down (or, a voice communication gets more background noise), but no-one gets blocked out. A higher-power transmitter gets better results, of course, as does a more directional antenna, but it's a near-optimum way to share out the limited resource of the radio spectrum without any central authority. I'm from the UK (and always happy to buy BTC by UK bank transfer or cheque, at a few percent above the highest MtGox bid). Good suggestion. If Gavin wants to go, I will contribute $100. Can't pay in BTC at this time, sorry. There's already a meter, under the logo. Currently there's 361 BTC available.Gavin, I don't think any donor is going to mind whether there's a reCAPTCHA or AdsCaptcha. Also, I don't think it will be long before you can change the payout to 0.005 BTC.What's the approximate daily payout, if you don't mind me asking? Looking good. The hands are greatly improved. I'm selling the five-letter domain name *****.com... Reserve price is 100 BTC. Sold to the highest bid by Friday 21 January, noon GMT. I might sell it privately before then if I receive a substantial "buy it now" offer by PM. Also it's an anagram of "Aim OK, shoot Satan", so take your pick! It's comparable to diabetics who only inject themselves using syringes from trusted sources.You can disable restrictions for sites that use the blocked technologies in ways that are useful to you, provided you trust those sites. So you can explain to those people that 7200 new bitcoins are generated every single day! And, although the rate will decrease in the future, it won't drop to zero until after most of us are dead. Do you mean, is there some social engineering exploit that will make government employees start doing things for our benefit rather than for their own benefit?Lobbying, perhaps? Indeed. But it might work for MyBitcoin, MtGox etc to get together and agree to ostracise any coins that have been stolen. This might be perceived as a useful service by customers of those sites.As freetx says, the devil is in the details. There's a small example of this technique in the multimedia presentation that you see before you go up Sydney Tower. It's monochrome (like the Japanese avatar) and it seems to be an image projected from a CRT onto a sheet of flat glass. It's arranged so that there are no reflections on the glass and the glass is effectively invisible, yet somehow the projected image interacts with the glass and seems to emanate from that position in space. Perhaps the CRT emits ultra-violet and reacts with phosphors on the glass.It's certainly not true holography, but it's a stunning visual effect. Thank you for satisfying my curiosity. I think it's almost certain that such an early block would have been generated by Satoshi. Of course, "spent" is quite a strong term. The coins might just have been sent to a different wallet. Democracy is centralized power, so it can't possibly be a threat to centralized power. That's like saying that democratic control of the Fed would be a threat to centralized banking.Oh, come on. If the co-operative needs the truck owners more than they need the co-op, the co-operative will give in to some of the truck drivers' demands. If the truck drivers need the co-op more than the co-op needs them, either the co-op will find someone else to drive the trucks, or the truck drivers will come crawling back asking for work again. In this way, a stable equilibrium will soon be reached. In a non-coercive society, everyone benefits from co-operation and negotiation and a show of strength is rarely needed. I'm working on it, though very slowly. I'm doing a 2-minute animation based on the script that I posted earlier in this thread. I'm 30% of the way through the visuals, then there's the narration, music and sound effects to be done.In any case, my project doesn't meet the criteria for some of the promised bounties. The more people or groups producing videos, the better. Bitcoin has the potential to "change everything".Whenever I hear people say things like "there will never be peace while the government controls the money supply", I think "well, we'll know one way or the other soon enough". Sure, I don't know that. But six months ago he refused a bounty payment from me (for making Bitcoin run without error on Fedora Linux), saying that he had "plenty of bitcoins".I'll be the first to donate if ever he drops any hint of struggling financially. Sure, but ArtForz also has way more than one bitcoin address.Here's a statistic I'd be interested in (I'm not sure why). What is the earliest block whose generated coins have been spent? Indeed, that is why anarchy would work so well for poorer people. Most of the destitute people in the village are creative, resourceful, hard-working people. But in a statist society they compete against corporations who can retain profits while externalising many risks (that's what a state-protected corporation is, in essence).In the absence of state coercion, the people in the village would have much more opportunity to benefit from self-organization and bottom-up growth, and the village would flourish. You don't need a large organization to perform agriculture, services, or most kinds of manufacturing. Sure, a factory is capital-intensive, but that doesn't mean it needs a corporation. Instead, it can be the coming-together of a number of individuals or smaller autonomous organizations, one of whom does one subtask: owns and leases the building, owns and leases various pieces of machinery, supplies and drives a truck, etc.Only the very largest of projects (designing and building a new kind of airliner, for example), need more than this, and those industries will of course only exist in heavily-populated areas with high levels of education etc.
Since Satoshi wants to remain anonymous, this idea is obviously a non-starter. And if he wanted to go, well ... he has more bitcoins than almost anyone here and could just cash in a few.PS: Anyway, he may already be attending as part of his "day job". For sure you're right. But when Ayn Rand developed Objectivism, she pulled together many ideas in a very coherent way. Some of those ideas were unthinkable to many people at the time she published them, but have now become more generally understood. And as thinkers have moved forwards to accept those broad ideas, they can now see further and can fill in the finer details. Today, the person who might have been an Objectivist Libertarian in Rand's time, may be a market anarchist or other flavor of voluntarist.Here's a specific example. Ayn Rand patiently wrote up explanations of how certain aspects of society could work in a Libertarian world. For example, she explained how the radio spectrum could be allocated based on market principles rather than by the favors of officials and committees. As a teenager in the 1970s I presented that argument to those with whom I was debating, and I was heavily ridiculed. People came up with reason after reason why radio frequencies couldn't possibly be allocated to the highest bidder. And yet here we are today, with mobile phone frequencies routinely allocated by auction in most countries. Her novels are awesome. I've just finished re-reading "We the Living". Story synopsis: The heroine, a very cool 18-year-old chick, is having sex with two guys. One is a communist with integrity, who kills himself when it dawns on him that all of his comrades have become corrupt. The other is an anti-communist who loses his integrity and descends into debauchery. This leaves the chick feeling that she has no alternative to escape the country (it's set in Russia in the 1920s), and ... I won't reveal the ending.Both "We the Living" and "The Fountainhead" are great stories even for those with no libertarian leanings. On the other hand, her masterpiece "Atlas Shrugged" can be hard going for non-libertarians, and the 50-page speech of John Galt is hard going even for libertarians. As more computing power has become used for generation (particularly GPU cards), the generation difficulty has been automatically compensating by increasing greatly.Plug your generation speed (kHash/s) into the generation calculator here, to see how long on average it will take to generate a block of 50 coins:http://www.alloscomp.com/bitcoin/calculator.phpI hate to be the one to break the news to you, but for a laptop it's likely to be more than a year. I run Uclue, where the answers are provided by former Google Answers researchers. Sometimes "free" answers aren't good enough. Fixed that for you! It would be fantastic to have both and see what people want. I know which I want though.Until someone implements timecoin, this issue will never go away. There will be a constant stream of people demanding more inflation. I say let those people have all the inflation they want, in some other currency than bitcoin. Ten years from now, we will struggle to remember a time when houses didn't have bitcoin-based underfloor heating. Personally I'd like to use the symbol instead of the decimal point. You can see this sometimes on electronic circuit diagrams where a 4.7k ohm resistor is labelled 4k7 so that there's no confusion due to missed decimal points.That solution also covers the situation of very large units being needed. So, if we used "m" for a milli-bitcoin and "u" for a micro-bitcoin, we could have denominations such as 2m50, 7504b25 or 400u.Of course this notation will never fly with the average Joe, so I'm not proposing it seriously. This YouTube video shows the JJgames payment process:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=22JkAGGbxVAIf you haven't already seen how well the Chrome Bitcoin extension works, watch from 1:15 in that video. It's very smooth. A very good point. BTC takes so much of the friction out of making payments, that it's sure to circulate with a higher velocity than many other forms of payment. This means that even with only 21 million bitcoins, the value of each coin needn't be as high as we have sometimes assumed in previous discussions.Also, as soon as bitcoin becomes known to the average Joe, bitcoin banks will be issuing accounts denominated in BTC but not backed by them. This will also reduce the value of each BTC needed to support a large economy. I don't do CPU generating anymore, but those who do may be interested in my experience.I got 5200 kHash/s from an intel i5 quad core using the standard client. But when I compiled my own client from svn (without tweaking any optimizations, or even stripping the binary) the rate went up to 6500 kHash/s. This is on Fedora 12 Linux. You put aside the coins when you make the bid, and don't worry about it further. Think of it as bitcoin being stable, and the US dollar dropping, if that helps any. Well let me ask this then. Does any UK user have a way in practice to send Euro transfers economically? If so, which bank and what type of account? You may want to re-read the "Misconceptions" section of the page that you quoted.Perhaps UK banks charge the same for a European transfer as they do for their most expensive UK transfer, but the banks have several levels of service for UK transfers. In practice, UK transfers are usually free and Eurozone transfers are expensive (e.g. Nationwide charges a £25 fee in addition to the currency exchange spread).Sultan, if you want to sell bitcoins for GBP, I'm buying. Send me a PM. I had a good outcome with:CoinPalYouTipItdavoutptmhdSmokeTooMuchMahkulLMGTFYmndrix ...or even because virtual reality becomes so good that it replaces travel for many purposes. Who knows what the future holds? It would be a pity to throw away part of one's life worrying about peak oil. The market will sort it out. Fractional reserve banking, in other words. I'm not criticizing though. It's inevitable, and it's harmless provided the level of backing behind the "pegging" is honestly disclosed. Humans are good at adapting, and Vinnie said a lot of wise things.Bear in mind that the exponential growth just occurs until a certain level of prosperity is attained. Then, people start having less babies than the number needed to keep the population steady, so the population starts to drop except as negated by immigration. This has happened in every developed country. The reasons are not fully understood, but it seems to be linked to the level of education of females.So, population pressures are not a long-term problem for the world, if we can make it past the next 50 years or so while Africa and India catch up to the west (which they are doing).Governments fear this erosion of their tax-livestock, which is why many countries have incentives to have babies. (I think it was Australia's former Prime Minister John Howard who said each couple should have three babies, one for each of them plus one for the state. Bleagh!) Heh, I once bought a CD-R for $10 which contained the whole of Usenet! This was 1993 or maybe early 1994.
"Not Applicable" would work well for that. Of course it's a "fake" (a stock image with generated text). I didn't claim otherwise. In my post I mentioned how people can make their own.Anyway, I wish I had that much hair. Sorry, but I just couldn't bring myself to use the requested three apostrophes at the end of the message. Click on the image for more fun with this. 1995. Home internet was common enough by then (for the geeks who would be the Bitcoin early adopters). Sure it would take a while to download the block chain on a 56kBaud/sec modem, but we were used to waiting for things back then. I remember taking many days to download Linux distributions, one floppy image at a time. With any bank account in the UK, the risk is that you get reported for suspected money laundering. The banks are supposed to report even a "whiff of suspicion" and are not allowed to tell the customer that they have been reported.If I were operating a business like this, I would do it through a business account with a trading bank (not a building society), and I would make sure the bank understands the business model. That's all the bank cares about, and they ask you all this kind of stuff when you open the account.For advice, I would ask an accountant. They deal with banks and the taxman every day, and they know exactly how the system works.Unfortunately, doing it that way will cost a bit, because you'll be paying the accountant by the hour while you explain the subtleties of Bitcoin to him. I would consider describing bitcoins as "barter tokens" because I think they will readily understand that.For an alternative approach, have a careful read of Nanaimo Gold's payment options page:http://www.nanaimogold.com/payment_options.phpand see how he has managed to avoid the need for incorporation, business bank accounts, accountants, lawyers, etc., while still accepting only "hard" payment for bitcoins. Of course an accountant will never recommend that kind of approach, because it doesn't provide a slice of the pie for the establishment. The most interesting thing in that article is the implication that Visa now accepts a one-in-25 false positive ratio. It used to be one percent or less. Does Nationwide classify your account as a "business" account? I thought Nationwide only offered personal and charity accounts, in which case they may object to you using it for a business (if the business grows large enough for them to notice). Happy to be an outlier! I see people paying a small amount to a bitcoin bank in return for it guaranteeing to look after their coins safely. Something of 1% per year perhaps.Earning interest by depositing your bitcoins in a bank is going to be unlikely while their value is rising and while there is not a big enough bitcoin economy for lending to be particularly profitable. It took 200 years for the concept of "leap years" to be accepted outside of catholic countries. It took hundreds of years for the pound sterling to switch to decimal currency. There are still a couple of countries that haven't embraced the metric system. And it was a few hundred years after the concept of "zero" was formulated before it was generally accepted. More than a century after "votes for women" were introduced in New Zealand, it's still not completely universal.So yes, it may take a while. On the positive side, change probably happens faster in the internet age. For sure you're correct. In particular, an increase in difficulty doesn't necessarily correlate to an increase in the popularity of bitcoin, because it could just be due to generators becoming more efficient.But I reckon a sustained decrease in difficulty would most likely occur at the same time as a decrease in popularity of bitcoin. Your business is legitimate if you have real customers who receive value from your business that is worth at least as much to them as what they pay for it.Your business is legal if you operate it according to the applicable laws.A business can be both legitimate and legal, but it's important to appreciate the distinction. Gotta save your effort for when it's really needed. As long as Bitcoin keeps growing, as it is now, there's no need for evangelizing. Just let time take care of Bitcoin's success automatically.If the difficulty level drops twice in a row, that would be a signal that the tide has turned and that active promotion has become desirable. Because we don't want to end up in prison? OK, you win. I sent the coin to the address in your signature. It would be a good way to transfer coins between friends where trust already exists, and where there is no need to write the transaction to the block chain. It may also have some application to sending coins over ad-hoc networks where the block chain is unavailable. You're not kiba's model for his sat0shi drawing, are you? Woo hoo! I just generated and won my first fee, all of 0.02 BTC. Feels good, though. But of course there's no way to know that it is a lost key that was generated. It's more likely to be a key that someone else still holds but hasn't yet used to spend the associated bitcoins.Anyway, the odds of that happening are so microscopically small that I'm not going to lose sleep over it. Also, I understand that a distributed system like Bitcoin can't have a central way to prevent duplicate keys, so I accept it on a philosophical level too. It will become illegal just as soon as it can be detected. The detection doesn't even need to be reliable.
Oh dear, is that really how "Satoshi" is pronounced? All this time I've been pronouncing it (in my head) with a short 'o' (like the 'o' in "splosh"). Why a jpg? Who is going to type out a BC address from an image? What's the problem with putting the BC address in plain text? These profits have been generated directly to the recipient's bitcoin address. The coins have never been owned by anyone else before, so there is no "simple transaction". For a phone without internet access, just use touch-tone from the numeric keypad, together with a bitcoin account at the server. No need to do any fancy GSM-audio hacks. If you want to paint on a canvas, you can use BitPixel:http://bitpixel.bitcoin.nl/You can't paint over other people's pixels, but hardly any pixels have been taken so it's mostly a blank canvas. Well I have had knowledge of being in a dream, but as far as I know it needs more than that to count as lucid dreaming.Lucid dreamers claim to be aware that they are dreaming, AND be able to push the dream in the direction of their choosing. You need to patch the bitcoin client yourself and recompile. If you do this, I think there are quite a few people who would be interested in using your patch. Suppose your are auctioning something at the Bidding Pond. Suddenly you get a bid for a million bitcoins. You may want the bidder to flash the cash, to persuade you to take their bid seriously. Maybe you're right. But be careful of spreading misinformation. I considered that too. But I looked into Wei Dai's online persona, and he has so many current interests that I don't think he would have time for Bitcoin. ...unless you can make money from transaction fees, or bitcoin-based DNS, or whatever else the future may hold. For sure though, buying hardware is a speculative gamble. GPU mining would have been very profitable for ArtForz because he started early when the difficulty was low. For the same reason, mining with custom hardware will work for him if he's first-off-the-block. But for most of us, the economics of generating is marginal.Of course there are other reasons to generate apart from monetary reward. It's quite satisfying just to be part of the movement helping to get Bitcoin established.PS: Anyone who is buying hardware for generation, why not click through the affiliate links at bitcointo.com and claim your bitcoin reward. I got 35 bitcoins back on my purchase of a 5870 card. Thanks to noagendamarket, the operator of that service. No! Every week there are new services starting up. Every week more people are generating. There's an ongoing momentum.The Bitcoin economy is so much more vibrant than it was a few months ago. In another few months it will be at the next level again. Because Bitcoin has tremendous value, it's OK to underpromise and overdeliver. It always turns out better that way, in the long run.If you lie, you only need one prominent journalist to say "I tried it, and it's crap, it doesn't do what they say it does", and the public loses interest. I think that should say "unless people think that the price of bitcoins is going to rise..." It sure sounds like an overheating problem. Try vacuuming the dust off the fan blades, and moving the computer to a cooler part of the room. It might help. Hair looks great! The purple side of the cloak looks great (especially the folds), except for the way that the bottom of the cloak ends in a straight line exactly lining up with the bottom of the chair. The thumb on her upper hand looks just a little too thin at the tip. Compare it to the thumb on the lower hand, which looks very good.I don't download every version, just once every three or four versions, but it's fascinating to see this evolving.  You would need to know the IP address(es) being used for bitcoin by the bank. It might not be easy to discover that. I don't think you're likely to make back your money, if you are paying for electricity, and if you need to buy a suitable GPU card.Here are my figures:ATI 5870, cost £279.70305,000 khash/s = average time to generate a block of 48 hours48 hours at 338 watts (GPU + CPU) equals 16.224 kilowatt hours per block16.224 kilowatt hours at £0.14 per kW-h equals £2.27 electricity cost per blockValue of a block (MtGox latest bid, less 1% conversion fee): $11.46 or £7.38After deducting electricity cost: £7.38 minus £2.27 equals £5.11 "profit" per blockAt that rate, the card will need to generate 55 blocks before it pays for itself. At the current difficulty rate, that would take 110 days. Even if the difficulty rises by only 15% at every adjustment, the electricity cost will be about £9.18 per generated block in 110 days, so the card would never be paid for. My hunch is that the difficulty will rise much more than 15% per adjustment on average.Of course, if the price of bitcoins rises enough, the economics of generation changes completely. Before investing in gold, everyone should become familiar with its inflation-adjusted historical pricing, as shown in this chart:http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Gold_price_in_USD.pngAs you can see, if you bought between 1980 and 1982 you would still be showing a loss three decades later.So timing is everything. The best time to buy gold was 2001. It may still be a good time to buy gold, but only if you sell it before the economy improves.Gold is a great hedge against inflation. Historically, gold goes up when inflation is high, and gold goes down when inflation is low. But there's one potential catch in using gold this way. If the economy really goes haywire, the government could prohibit private ownership of gold as they did for much of last century. Then, your hedge becomes untradeable. No way. Not in the UK anyway. The typical cost is £25 ($40) to send even 1 from the UK to a Eurozone country.
They're not being hassled because of what they have already leaked, they're being hassled because people think they're going to dish the dirt about the operation of a major bank. Because the EFF knows tech-savvy lawyers who are familiar with disruptive internet technologies?Obviously it's nothing to do with the EFF's own legal services remit. I just think that if you could get them to drop a name or two it might be useful. OK, I see the misunderstanding. I thought you meant "have" as in the amount of CPU power that you own or control, but it makes sense if "have" means the amount of CPU power that you devote to mining. The EFF might be able to recommend someone. Whether Satoshi is Japanese or not, it's pretty obvious that he doesn't wish to do interviews. When he's ready to step out of the invisibility cloak, I'm sure he'll make it known. You say that as if everyone's CPU power is pre-ordained.The system is "fair", in that each person has the choice of how much CPU power they wish to devote to bitcoin generation.There's no enforced cartel, no generating license needed, no official that needs to be bribed, no extra taxes for generators in some states, no need to "know the right people", no pre-booking needed. It's about as fair as anything could possibly be. Not me. Roll it over into the next hacker charity. The hair and face are looking good. Here are some things you might want to consider.The USB stick still looks like a cigarette to me. Maybe if she had the plug end showing, instead of being in her mouth?The upper arm still looks a little like it's coming from someone behind her. I think it might look better if the lower edge of the arm ends in a curve that marks the start of her elbow, instead of going on in a long straight line as if the elbow is far away under the cloak? But I'm lousy at drawing, so I don't know.By the way, I love the way the socks/tights reach different heights up her legs. All the best nerds are disorganized in some way about their appearance. Thank you, da2ce7, for that explanation. If that blocks man-in-the-middle attacks, I guess my question is why we're not already putting a hash of the public key into regular DNS records (particularly as signing of the DNS system is currently being implemented).But yeah, I think a lot of people would like to be able to bypass their CA if there was a way. Indeed. For example see:"Doubt over integrity of half of offset credits ever produced" Burning transactions sound like a useful mechanism, apart from the fact that they would require changes to Bitcoin. I keep wondering whether there is a way to take the burning mechanism outside of Bitcoin itself, I can't think of a good way to do so.I also wonder whether it would be a good thing to turn all Bitcoin transaction fees into burning ones, to spread the benefit of processing a transaction beyond the immediate generator.PS: I don't understand the bit about doing away with Certificate Authorities for secure internet connections, but if this is possible it would be a very popular fringe benefit. Option 2) might be the most fun though. If people let these certificates expire, won't the authorities just increase the issue of allowances in the future? Government schemes always seem to be redesigned or tweaked every few years anyway.It's a cute idea though. Kind of like buying up and burning BTC. Let's consider the long-term, where we will need a smaller unit. I think it's best to have a separate name for this, rather than messing with long decimals like 0.00000247. For the purpose of this discussion, suppose a millionth of a bitcoin is called a satoshi. Then it makes sense to choose a letter symbol that comes in a "B" form and an "S" form.Here's how it would look for large-to-small transactions, using circled-letter symbols. It might be worth seeing how other schemes would deal with the huge range of transaction sizes.ⓑ24700 (twenty-four thousand seven hundred bitcoins)ⓑ2470 (two thousand four hundred and seventy bitcoins)ⓑ247 (two hundred and forty-seven bitcoins) [omit "and" in the USA]ⓑ24.7 (twenty-four point seven bitcoins)ⓑ2.47 (two point four seven bitcoins)ⓢ247000 (two hundred and forty-seven thousand satoshis)ⓢ24700 (twenty-four thousand seven hundred satoshis)ⓢ2470 (two thousand four hundred and seventy satoshis)ⓢ247 (two hundred and forty-seven satoshis)ⓢ24.7 (twenty-four point seven satoshis)ⓢ2.47 (two point four seven satoshis) Something to consider is character code 164 (hex 00A4) which will display on virtually every computer even if there is no Unicode font installed.The name of this character is "currency symbol", and it was intended for use with any new currency. It was never used much because new currencies such as the Euro designed a new character.Here's the symbol: ¤.I don't like the look of the symbol myself, but I'm throwing it in for discussion. Exactly. Unless it's something with enormous monetary value (say, the Beatles back catalog), a simple one-sentence dedication to the public domain works perfectly in practice. A committee could never have made a design so well-thought-out, with so few rough edges. Also, committees don't format their white papers using LaTeX. Nor could a committee show so many signs of caring deeply about their project.I have no doubt that Satoshi is one person. Satoshi's released his logo as PD. The Ubuntu font can be used in PD projects (because you're just using its letter shapes as intended, not redistributing it as a font).For all practical purposes, PD works well and allows the graphic to be used everywhere else. Just posting a message that says "I release this to the public domain" is fine.It's only for major works that something more formal serves any purpose. There are only about 50,000 blocks generated each year. So if bitcoin gets a million users, there's no way the average Joe can generate a block once a year.Collaborative mining is the way forward for the "little guy". Very small payouts, but reasonably regular. Well he initiated this bounty. That's good. And he hasn't seized the money. That's good. So as far as I'm concerned he's not disqualified in any way.
And please take your share out of the price posted by the uploader, rather than adding it on.If the uploader prices something at BTC 0.1, that's what it should cost, not BTC 0.102. Heh, heh, heh ... Don't you mean "If we all start giving our spouses / significant-others / parents bitcoins..."? If you click "Profile | Personal Message Options" there's a checkbox you can select that says "Show a popup when you receive new messages?". It works well. Ubitio.us expires the file too quickly. Bitcoinservice.co.uk requires registration. PasteCoin.com makes you wait a block for confirmation before you can download. So none of the services is really user-friendly.Anyway, here are the files. It's nothing too exciting yet, it's just to show that I have actually done some work.01-title.mp4 - First fragment of animated bitcoin movie (no sound yet)Opening Titlehttp://pastecoin.com/download.php?file=860.1 BTC, 600kB02-currency.mp4 - Second fragment of animated bitcoin movie (no sound yet)Bitcoins moving around the worldhttp://pastecoin.com/download.php?file=870.1 BTC, 600kB No template-based transaction rewriting please. It would hugely widen the attack surface for exploits. Let me throw in a rough outline of a completely different idea, that is not based on the Bitcoin chain.Suppose the rule is this:Here's how it would work. If no-one else has registered the name that you want, post a mapping from it to your nameservers, together with a hash that represents some proof of work. Now keep on hashing, and every time you find a stronger proof of work, re-post your claim with the stronger proof attached.As long as you keep hashing, you will occasionally find a stronger hash, which will strengthen you claim on the name.If someone else also wants your domain name, they can start hashing but you already have a head start. Of course, they can devote more machines to hashing than you, in which case they may be able to generate a better hash and take over your name.Of course no-one wants to randomly lose their name because someone else was lucky enough to get a very good hash without really trying, so the rule could be that a hostile takeover requires a proof of work 16 times harder. Also there could be a 30-day delay before the takeover, which gives the existing owner a window to hire a server farm and retain the name if it's worth enough to them.The end result is very different from our current system, but in the end it allocates every domain name to whoever actually wants it the most. Feel free to write it up on a new page at the domainchain.org wiki if that's convenient for you:http://domainchain.org/wiki/doku.php?id=start Subscriptions solve the front-running problem, but how exactly would they work?So who is the initial 100 BTC paid to? And how do the extra 0.01 in transaction fees get to the next 10,000 miners? Not by means of 10,000 transactions presumably... "We" can't release any kind of statement.You could release a statement. Satoshi could. Joe Plumber could. But "we" can't release a collective statement, because we aren't a collective. Will it be open source or proprietary? Front-running by miners is a flaw of the current proposals, and it's where I'm stuck. I haven't moved my DomainChain proposal further forward in the past couple of days because I can't solve the front-running problem.The essential flaw is that domain registrations are contingent on transaction fees. A miner who generates a block can include a large number of speculative high-value registrations in that block, because the transaction fees don't cost them anything. This might be an intractable problem for any domain name registration system that is based around transaction fees.I see that theymos/nanotube are proposing a "solution" to this. Their idea is that it should take more than one transaction to register a domain name; five transactions in fact. The first transaction pays one-fifth of the fee. Then, for the registration to be valid, there must be four further "fee adjust" transactions, each for one-fifth of the fee. These transactions must take place within ten blocks of the first transaction, to be valid.My first objection to this is that it doesn't solve the problem of miner front-running; it just makes it more difficult. A few of the largest miners will just make an arrangement to mutually-process each other's fee adjust transactions. Almost inevitably, the design will produce a small group of large registrar-like operators.My second objection is simply that 5-transaction registrations add an enormous amount of clutter to what should be a simple and elegant process. Yeah. It's the rate of increase that counts. That's what she said anyway. I suggest to make it smaller, e.g. 40kB. An ad is going to be served thousands of times each day. It's worth a little effort to make the ad load fast.I'm not saying this for the sake "of the internet"; I'm saying it for the sake of the service. Owners of websites don't like ad services that make their website seem slow. I bid 21,500,000.Oh, hang on... The face is looking pretty good now.One problem with pastecoin.com is that the site makes you wait for a confirmation before it becomes possible to download. The other download sites are better, because they allow you to download as soon as you have paid. You think those people don't already call for this? The average of 275 bytes per transaction is interesting, I think.  One threat is from heirs of the original author, who claim that because the coypright disclaimer is unlawful, they retain the copyright and are therefore "owed" a lot of money. Three months is a long time in Bitcoin land!Three months ago, TTBit speculated that the difficulty level would be 1000 by year end.  FreeMoney replied "2000 at least imo, but my guess is 8500" and here we are at over 12000 already with some difficulty adjustments still to come before year end!Those wagering on this one might be interested in the previous wager. I wonder if anyone other than TTBit took a position on difficulty factor > 50,000?
It looks like the article will be restored. But one point that keeps being raised is that many of the article's references are to pages in this forum. If anyone can replace a forum reference with a reference to a page that has no perceived conflict of interest, that would help. I thought the idea of safe mode was to protect sites like MtGox from losing everyone's entire balances in the event of a catastrophic exploit. Safe mode shuts down their transaction processing until they can work out what's going on, and upgrade/patch if necessary.For the sake of appearances, it's better not to have safe mode turned on by default (because "remote tampering" of one's software is not popular with many people). But why not have safe mode disabled by default, and provide an "-enablesafemode" switch for those who want it?Previous discussion was here:Development of alert systemand here:Version 0.3.11 with upgrade alerts For that purpose I would recommend Stefan Molyneux's "Everyday Anarchy" which is written in very readable modern language. It takes a while to get going, but it's a compelling read:http://www.freedomainradio.com/FreeBooks/EverydayAnarchy.aspx If you supply the user-password on the command line, you won't get asked for it again:Code:./poclbm.py --user=whatever --pass=whateverThat's not ideal from a security point of view, perhaps someone will suggest a better way.You can use bitcoin instead of bitcoind, provided you are using a recent version of Bitcoin (0.3.15 or later) and the latest version of poclbm. This gives you the GUI, plus OpenCL mining. I think ptd is referring to the way the contents of the "Your bitcoin address" field changes automatically after you receive on the old address. A waste of time. If you want to do something really useful for the code, write a test suite for it. It's easy to complain about code. But unless a person can show that they did something better, they have no moral authority to complain. That script is just something I submitted for comments, but anyone can use all or part of it if they want. I'm working on an animation using that script, but making slow progress.The script has certainly not been agreed by any kind of consensus, Also be aware that the script doesn't meet the requirments of all of those who have pledged donations, since different donors impose different conditions, so an animation based on it won't collect the whole pot. It's here. The simpler DomainChain proposal is here. I bet you're also shocked by what restaurant kitchens look like, and by what goes into sausages. It's a nod to the German government, re holocaust denial. Let's not spread FUD. A text payload followed by OP_DROP is absolutely secure.A new user running the standard bitcoin App won't see anything different from what they see now. This is how I use the terms when I'm not being sloppy. I read the idea somewhere else in this forum and it made sense. If you say "no" after you've seen how this runs on the test network, I will totally respect that and won't generate domain registrations on the live network.Bitcoin is your bird, and if you don't want it to soar as high as it can, that's OK.But even if the domain name stuff is on a separate chain, there is still going to be a Bitcoin transaction for every DNS registration. So having two chains would cause no reduction in the number of Bitcoin transactions, just 40 or 50 bytes reduction in the size of the transactions in the Bitcoin chain. Got you now. Yes, keeping two chains synchronised is fraught with difficulty. I have fleshed out the DomainChain spec quite a bit more:http://domainchain.org/wiki/doku.php?id=startYep, that's in the spec. But it's only useful if you know that someone is going to serve them. For example, the owner of some.domain might announce that they will serve any subdomain that people register of the form something.some.domain No-one has made a proof-of-concept, but we think that all we need is a program that trawls through the block chain, extracts the registration details, and writes them out in bind's data format. No plugin or hacks should be needed. That doesn't really reflect how it works. If there is a chain split, eventually the network will settle on one of the chains. The generator that mined the block in the "winning" chain gets the transaction fee.There is no "irreversible" payment to the generator in the "losing" chain. Well, in a sense it is irreversible but as they can only spend it in the losing chain it's not much use to them. If it's useful to the sender, the recipient, and the miner, then it's not junk. [edit: nevermind this post. I haven't been able to express my idea clearly here.]Suppose you have a separate block chain for domain name registrations, and you want people to pay in Bitcoins.To register foo.domain, the buyer pays 10 BTC using the standard Bitcoin system, then goes to the other system to claim their domain name. But how to know that they paid? They can prove cryptographically that the 10 BTC payment came from them, but they can't prove that the payment was for a domain name. They might be using that same payment to claim services from several separate sites.So obviously Bitcoin needs a way to associate a transaction ID with a Bitcoin payment. If you can include a transaction ID (of say 64 characters), then you may as well just use the Domain Name details as the transaction ID (because it's short enough), in which case there's no need for a separate domain name registration chain.A domain registration is just a Bitcoin Payment to an unspecified miner, with a transaction ID that happens to be meaningful.
Every app user is also a potential miner, even if it's in the form of distributed mining for the little guy. Bringing more economic value to mining is not a bad thing. Fair enough, although 24 hours after I posted the price I saw the MtGox price continuing to slide and was wondering whether I had made a foolish offer! You don't really get any extra reward. Either you are collecting generation fees + transaction fees from the Bitcoin side, plus some profits from the Domain Name side. Or, everything is in the Bitcoin block and you earn the same total profits, but all from the Bitcoin side (due to the additional Domain Name transaction fees on the Bitcoin side). It's likely that the continuing increases in storage capacity and drop in price per gigabyte will mean that it gets easier, not harder, to run Bitcoin on normal home computers. There is also the potential for block chain compaction which will reduce the storage requirements for a fully-functional home computer Bitcoin. Kiba, I wrote this response before Satoshi posted above. I'll need some time to understand Satoshi's post.Don't be anxious. I already said I thought it would take 2 weeks to agree design directions before coding.There has been excellent development over the past 24 hours. It has become clear that Gavin's changes to handling of non-standard transactions don't rule out domain registration integrated with Bitcoin.It is also becoming clearer that there is less distance between my DomainChains ideas and the theymos/nanotube design. Their design does not have the tangled ties with domain name server operators, that I previously thought it did.Hang in there! Two weeks will seem like nothing in the long term outcome. Of likely interest:"Gov't crackdown spurs initiatives to route around DNS"http://www.itworld.com/legal/129947/net-censorship-dns-alternative Newcomers might find the MtGox charts interesting:https://mtgox.com/trade/history Bitcoin's distributed nature is its strength, not its weakness.As bitcoin grows, there will be generators who operate large server farms that have no trouble with the network and storage requirements. And there will also be people who use Bitcoin through various cut-down solutions. Good. Now I still don't understand the need for the "Fee adjust" transaction. DNS Records can contain arbitrary text records, but that has never been a problem. Interestingly, the same kinds of arguments are heard against using the TXT records for unofficial purposes, but the DNS system hasn't yet collapsed.On this forum we regularly contemplate putting Bitcoin addresses into DNS TXT records. How ironic that there is resistance to putting DNS data into Bitcoin! There would be no incentive for a miner to process free domain name registration transactions.Broadening the use of the Bitcoin chain strengthens it. If 55% of currency users generate maliciously, they can corrupt the chain. But if there are also domain name registrars generating, you would have to corrupt 55% of them too, and different interest groups aren't corruptible in the same way.Satoshi has created a wonderful bird, but if his early adopters don't allow it to soar it will never achieve its potential. A hash does not need to return a fixed-size bit string (although in software applications it usually does). Show me a definition that says it must be fixed-size. A hash function "number of vowels in the input" is an example of a hash function with no upper size limit. The Wikipedia article says "one can use the datum itself as the hashed value".You wanted assurance that the balance had not changed "from a reference". Since you can easily calculate the balance of the output of my hash function and compare it to the reference balance, it meets your challenge. :-)But I will let you off the 10 BTC payment. My DomainChain proposal most definitely only addresses Domain Name Registration, although I expect that one or more generators would run DNS servers to validate the concept.The theymos/nanotube proposal makes several references to servers, but they would need to clarify what they have in mind. If you build something better, people will eventually use it. But I don't think there will be a landrush.In addition, there's a personal satisfaction from providing for the world a better way to do something. It's important to understand a distinction here. They are making a distributed Domain Name Service, but are planning to depend on a centralized Domain Name Registration Service.Bitcoin provides a great way to do a decentralized Domain Name Registration Service which would be a great match for their distributed DNS. Well if that really is the biggest obstacle that Bitcoin needs to deal with, its success is assured. If you try to redesign everything, you will end up successfully redesigning nothing.The way for a small group to achieve success is to design a drop-in-replacement that's significantly better in one important way.Not so. The latest version won't include transactions with extra text in blocks that it generates itself, but it accepts blocks generated by others that contain transactions with extra text. On Fedora 12, the standard pyopencl installation doesn't work properly. I got it to work by following the instructions here:http://wiki.tiker.net/PyOpenCL/Installation/Linuxbut I had to use the second (longer) procedure in section 3, with locations specified explicitly.Also, in step 2 of that document, I couldn't get Numpy to install using that method. But it installed properly when I used the GUI rpm installer ("System | Administration | Add/Remove Software"). And the expected cost of that collision is, I think, the average value of one bitcoin transaction. Multiply the cost by the likelihood, and Bitcoin would need many more than 8 places after the decimal point to record the tiny economic risk. So was this not what you were seeking? Or was the price uninteresting? Or were you looking for enough takers on both sides (buy/sell) that you could profit from arbitrage?
#Whoosh! I have found the function, and I claim my 10 BTC.13NyUj5StfFDLCT1xrwDWShp51H9Ve9xMWUnfortunately it won't make you happy, because the function simply maps its inputs to its output, resulting in a very large hash (but you said that's OK). That's not always the case. Sometimes the customer will have a balance at the website. The operator of the website will certainly want to know if a past transactions becomes invalid and disappears. Noagendamarket, are you actually receiving emails that people send through your "Contact" form on bitcointo.com? I've used the form twice and haven't heard back. Actually, no. The home page of bitcoin.org contains these words, which are old enough that I think they were probably written by Satoshi: "Transactions are practically free..." (emphasis mine).Transaction fees have been part of the design of Bitcoin since the beginning. Even so, regular everyday transactions are likely to remain practically free. The Bitcoin logo on top of the monitor now looks like the Ritcoin logo. Not long ago someone posted that they had sent some BTC to their girlfriend's computer, but her computer hadn't finished downloading the block chain yet. She may be the first female user of Bitcoin. This kind of thing is trivially taken care of by property prices. The sawmill will buy the land next to the asphalt plant, because no-one wants to live there. The land by the school will cost a little more, and people will choose to use it for living rather than for a sawmill that doesn't gain any advantage from being near a school.There may be some problems to be solved by voluntarists, but land use planning is not one of them. That would be nice. It will protect me from when the cat sits on the keyboard and accidentally sends all of my BTC. Or from when I think I'm connected to the test network and I'm really connected to the main network. I'm not in for a new genesis block. It risks harming Bitcoin. If the alternative block chain is commercially successful, someone will add a currency to the alternate chain and it will overtake Bitcoin.Anyway, don't think that Satoshi has killed the idea of Domain Names in the block chain. Here's what the latest changes mean:1. If you register a domain name, you must connect to a miner that supports it (because standard clients won't relay your request). No problem. You will need to be using a modified client anyway (to give you a way to specify the domain name, the IP addresses and the fee) and the client can be designed to connect to known performant miners (which will probably be most of them).2. The standard Bitcoin clients will accept the blocks generated by the performant miners, but won't see the Domain Name transactions.So what's the problem? What's not to like?I say we should continue to develop the ideas, then try them out on the test network. DomainChain wiki is here:http://domainchain.org/wiki/doku.php?id=startThere's not much there, but I will work on it tomorrow.Meanwhile, some interesting further ideas on integrating with the Bitcoin block chain have been added to the Theymos/Nanotube wiki. The typo I'm worried about is when I omit the dot and send 1234 coins instead of the 12.34 that I meant to send. It's not that simple. If an alternative chain provides, say, timestamping services, then there is obviously value to the users of the service. But what is the value to the generators? They earn coins, but may not themselves have any need for a timestamping service. So the proof-of-work coins that they earn are only valuable to them if they can use them more generally, like coins.So we come to the next part of your comment:Again, if the alternative coins have a low value, they're not much use to the person who generated them. And if they have a high value, they might replace bitcoin as the general currency. It doesn't work very well either way. Bump currently works on iPhone or on Android, but not on the N900. Anyway, it's a centralised proprietary solution and I think we can do better. It's not necessary to change to a 128-bit integer. Not all of the 64 bits are used, so one of the spare bits can be used as a flag that "shifts" the decimal point. I would contribute some venture capital for the "right" business. Coinguy, how many coins can a die strike before it is worn out? Well yes, time based expiry is better for the customer, but the motivation for block-based expiry in the theymos/nanotube design seems to be that the transaction records are vulnerable to block chain compaction, which might happen after a specific number of blocks.Of course, there is nothing that forces the providers of domain name servers to compact their copy of the chains, but then a new entrant into the business can't get all the data unless they can lay their hands on one of these uncompacted block chains. I think we should dispense with the complexity associated with paying various servers. We should also dispense with the concept of paying more if we want better visibility for our domain names.No-one wants a system where some people can reach some.domain and some people can't, depending on which servers are getting their share of the payment. Or a system where a new server can come to prominence and put pressure on people to pay again for the domains they already paid for.Let's cut it down to the simplest business model that can work.Suppose there are some generators who will include domain name registrations into blocks that they generate, because they want to earn the transaction fees. Those generators will operate public-facing domain name servers.Why? They need to do this, to make the domain name service credible so that people will use DomainChain for their domain registrations. For the generators, it's an overhead, but a necessary one. Kind of like how most restaurants provide toilets without charging separately for them.You could argue that there will also be some operators who would generate, and who would collect the transaction fees for domain name registrations, but who would not operate a server. After all, why incur the overhead if the other generators will operate the servers?But the market will take care of this. The generators who do operate servers are not going to accept the blocks generated by those who sell domain names without providing domain name servers.Additionally, a market like this is likely to have two other kinds of players.There will be a few organizations who are willing to operate a server for free, perhaps for ideological reasons. Those servers will probably be overloaded and slow (like the free Usenet servers), but they act as a backstop which forces the commercial operators to provide something better.There will also be a few commercial operators who provide enhanced super-fast servers without being generators. They will do this either because they have paying customers who want the best domain name service that is possible, or they will do it for their own business reasons (as Google does with their free-to-access domain name servers).Here are the advantages of this simpler system:For the domain name owner, the registration is convenient, secure, and lasts forever,For the internet user, the same set of domains is served to everyone,For the generators, it's a worthwhile extra source of income, andFor the Bitcoin system, it's an easy way to get extra strength into the block chain with minimal extra data I've struggled really hard to think of a way to do this too. If the work done in the alternate chain is to be paid in bitcoins, that payment must be made "outside the chain" with all the attendant bookkeeping, "old-school billing", and chasing-up that this entails.The alternative is for the payment to be made in coins from the alternate system. Here there are two possibilities.Either these coins won't be perceived as valuable, in which case they won't be of much use for payments. Or else, those alternate coins will gain value, and will be used for payment. In this case the risk to Bitcoin is that the alternate coins have enough added utility that they eclipse Bitcoin and become used as a general purpose digital currency.Bitcoin is not yet entrenched enough as "first mover" to be immune from being displaced by a more economically-useful digital currency.The final possibility seems to be to dispense with payments altogether. Everyone communally pays for the system through their generation activity, and there are no transaction fees. This might actually work for some applications that depend more on generation than on transfers.
The theymos/nanotube design is much more heavyweight than my design, in terms of how much data it stores in the block chain.My design stores the domain name plus a couple of nameserver IP addresses (say, 50 bytes) for an everlasting registration.The theymos/nanotube design needs much more data: the initial registration, the regular renewals, and the possibility to include actual DNS records themselves up to 520 bytes. There's talk of the renewals being required perhaps as frequently as every 2000 blocks, and certainly no more than every 52000 blocks.Over 10 years, the theymos/nanotube design might store anywhere between 600 bytes and 120,000 bytes per domain name.I'm starting to think that an everlasting registration really is the way to go. In the DomainChain design, the registration would not be affected by block chain compaction, since compaction only affects spent transactions. If you transfer a DomainChain registration, or modify its name servers, all of the necessary information is contained in the latest transaction, which will remain unspent until the registration is deliberately modified. However, the theymos/nanotube design requires a sequence of transactions (registration, extra fee, DNS record, ...) where only the last transaction in the sequence remains unspent.I think users will be uneasy about having to renew every 2000 or even 52000 blocks. Having to remember to renew, in order to avoid losing your registration, is bad enough. But block generation rates are variable, so that you won't even know for sure when your renewal falls due. Unpredictable renewals are not something that would make me feel good about using such a system for my domain name registrations. I can see many accidental domain name losses occurring under this system.Obviously there needs to be a business case made that non-expiring domain names will work. But there also needs to be a business case made for the renewal process of the theymos/nanotube design. I don't think a proof-of-work chain is useful for distributed storage. There are much easier ways to implement distributed storage.The proof-of-work chain is a great way to do distributed allocation though, which is why it's useful for rationing limited digital codes (bitcoins, domain names, etc). Here's how it looks on the phone, in case anyone's interested: The swipe gesture is awkward, I agree. You can also easily make precise selections by tapping at the start of the selection then typing shift-rightarrow to extend the selection, or shift-tap to set the end of the selection. What's more generic than bitcoin? Coins represented by digital bits. If the wiki page is correct, data can be embedded into a transaction without using OP_DROP. A transaction is valid if "nothing in the script triggers failure, and the top stack item is true". Therefore the embedded data can just be left on the script stack. No need to drop it. If desired, an initial rush could be spread out by a phased introduction.For example, in the first week only names of ten characters or longer would be accepted for registration. The next week, names of nine characters or longer would be accepted. And so on, until by week ten any length will be accepted.A more sophisticated phasing would hash the domain name to a number from 1 to 1000. On each of the first thousand days, names that hash to that day's number are added to those that can be registered. So, by day 42 it would be possible to register any domain name that hashed to a number in the range 1 to 42. After day 1000, any name could be registered.A third possibility is simply to limit the number of registrations. Suppose each block limited the maximum number of domain name registrations to the current generation difficulty divided by 1024. For now, that would mean 8 domain name registrations per block, but the limit would rise over time (quite quickly, I think).I'm not convinced that a registration rush needs to avoided, but technical measures can be used to avoid a rush if it is desired to do so. Please let's drop the idea of reserving the top names. Would you think it was fair if you owned the 1001st domain? It's only going to lead to disputes and hassles.I suggest that we exclude all existing top level domains from DomainChain registration. So no-one will be able to register google.com through this system. They could, however, register google.domain but they would probably have to fight with Google in court under trademark law.We really don't want the DomainChain system saying that it will "protect" 1000 names but "refuse to protect" all the rest. I've now studied the theymos/nanotube spec in more depth, and my questions and comments are starting to flow.I really don't get this. What's the point of having a "right-hand-side" if it is advisory? The user doesn't want to have to type theymos.bc into their browser when they're at an internet cafe that uses one DNS, but have to type theymos.btcdns into their browser at home if their ISP uses a different DNS. And if they just type "theymos", what if they are on a LAN that has a node called theymos?Any default right-hand-side should be explicit in the spec. Also, I don't think something hard-to-pronounce like ".btcdns" is going to work with the public. Can you imagine TV ads saying "go to walmart dot bee tee see dee en ess"?In the initial phase at least, I suggest that all names registered should be of the form something.domainI propose ".domain" for this purpose because it's generic and pronounceable. It also somewhat cheekily implies that this is the ultimate all-encompasing domain name registration system.Three advantages:This establishes clear branding.It helps to keep the system simple, so that we can easily describe how to get up-and-running with these newfangled names.It avoids any clashes with existing domain names.If people prefer to go for something more ambitious, I suggest that all names registered should be of the form something.tld where .tld can be anything of three or more characters except for existing recognised top level domains. So you could register hamburger.red or silly.fool but not zebra.com It's only socialism if you are forced to do it.Most anarcho-capitalists, in their private life, are quite socially-aware and always happy to help out someone deserving who is less fortunate than they are. Go for it, Artforz! I'm surprised to hear you say that.To send the bitcoin to you, I just browsed your forum post on my phone, double-tapped on your bitcoin address to select it, pressed control-C on the keyboard to copy it, then used the "Paste" menu option in XTerminal. Not at all painful!I have found though, that bitcoin addresses in Gmail have a nonbreaking space added after the 16th character. To copy those cleanly, click "show original" in Gmail and copy from the raw message text. I wouldn't do it that way, because venture capitalists are hoping to eventually extract at least as much value as they put in "up front".If I found $10,000,000 in the street, I would work on the domain name registration idea. Although this makes some people uneasy, I think it would be fantastic for bitcoin by entrenching it as something of economic relevance. How do you feel about allowing cars to use roads that were originally designed for horses? That causes congestion, death, and massive expense, but most people still feel it's worth it. If I put 100 bitcoins on my phone, I don't regard that as personal data. If my phone gets lost or stolen, the value of the phone is much greater than the value of the bitcoins it holds. I sent 0.42 BTC from my N900 at 10.55 GMT. If you receive it, that's the first ph2ph bitcoin transfer!Doublec's bitcoind seems to work perfectly. It took me ten hours to get the block chain. I had the phone plugged in to USB all that time, and occasionally a warning flashed up saying that the phone was using more power than the USB was supplying. But now that the block chain is up to date it's fine, even with generating. I think writing the block chain to flash memory was pushing the power consumption up.Like doublec's phone, mine hashes at between 130 and 150 khash/s. The predicted "average time to generate a block" is 2869 days at the current difficulty level of 8078. That's almost 8 years, so I'm not holding my breath. However, if we had 2869 people generating on phones, someone would generate a block on their phone every day, so it's possible that a block will be generated on someone's phone one day.For those who don't know the N900, it runs a reasonably standard Linux with root access. The shell is "ash" which is basically a cut-down bash. The utilities are mostly cut-down versions from the BusyBox project, so for example you have to use "more" rather than "less", and the commands don't have so many options, but it's not a big limitation.Programming for the N900 is generally done in C++ on a Linux PC using a cross-compiler. GUIs are GTK+ or Qt. Masochists have even managed to install gcc on the phone and do their development on-device. The phone comes with Python, and you can install PyQt which provides a straightforward way to develop GUI apps on-device. The phone comes with 32GB onboard, and you can add another 32GB using the microSD socket, so there's plenty of space to develop stuff. You have to create bitcoin.conf yourself if you want it. It's not created by default.Wallet.dat is normally in ~/.bitcoinI don't know what tools you used to search your filesystem, but some tools require an extra flag or checkbox to include directories that start with a dot ("hidden" directories). What do you suggest is a better way to decide who gets sex.domain? If the economic system has a different name, then "bitcoin:" will serve as a generic identifier like "mailto:". 0000 hours, Christmas day (i.e. midnight Christmas Eve)
Wow, after a first readthrough of the spec by Theymos and Nanotube I am astonished by the similarities. And their spec is so much further developed. This is excellent!I will look through it in detail tomorrow as I've already spent way too much time on this today. I haven't read your spec yet, but...That's fine. It's not problematic in my design.That's also not problematic. If someone wants to work with domain names, they will use a domain-enabled client. RHorning,The one objection of yours that I can't address is the one about "shoving useless data into the transaction block". This is something for others to decide, and at this time I would respect whatever Satoshi said. But we should not be concerned about "opening the pandora's box" because the box is already open and lots of people are going to look inside in the future. That "problem" (if it is a problem) is for the owners of Pandora's Block Chain to decide.What I suggest we do is to try out DomainChain on the test network, and see what bitcoiners think of it when it's able to be experimented with. I'm sure we'll get feedback on whether or not it's welcome in the live block chain.There's nothing forcing generators to include bitcoin payments that piggyback DomainChain data, but why wouldn't generators want to include them if the transaction fee is high enough to cover the extra costs plus a profit margin?That's true, but it's no different from Bitcoin itself. The block chain only has value because a majority of users are prepared to interpret it in a certain way, according to certain rules. If that works well enough for coins, it will work well enough for domain names.Although we need generators to include the DomainChain transaction data, we don't need the average person's bitcoin client to recognise that data, or act on it in any way. Only the resolver software, and the modified clients used by those who want to register domain names, need to recognize the extra data.The first to get their registration into the block chain gets the domain. Ideally the generator who processes these transactions will reject the invalid one. Failing that, the resolver will certainly locate the valid one.I don't think there is any problem here. The registration data is re-sent if the domain name is transferred to someone else by spending the coin. All we care about is who has the current registration. We don't care about the history of the domain name.Let's do the "simplest thing that could possibly work" for the proof of concept. This seems to be it. If people like it, they will accept DomainChain into the Bitcoin block chain. If they don't like it, we go to plan B. I think certain kinds of unrelated crap are a good fit, and I count Domain Names in that category. It's symbiotic - something that could strengthen Bitcoin too by diversifying generation. Domain name registrations are very compact transactions.But I only want to see Domain Names in the Bitcoin block chain if bitcoiners want it there. Technically there's no problem starting up a separate block chain for domain names. Well sure, but in practice if it's a worthwhile change the minority will see "the writing on the wall" and will switch to the majority.I suppose there are still clients working on the block chain that had the overflow bug, but there aren't enough of them to matter to the majority. The DomainChains payloads could look like this:Registration (with and without nameservers):Code:DomainChains my-domain.tldDomainChains my-domain.tld 201.73.213.92 98.252.10.34Changes of registration details use the same payloads, but the payloads must be sent with a coin that is already associated with the domain name.To drop a registration and turn the bitcoin back into a spendable coin, send this payload with a coin associated with the domain name:Code:DomainChains dropObviously this is just to illustrate the idea. The concrete syntax may differ. OK, here goes. My design for DomainChain builds on many of the ideas expressed here already. My main contribution is to remove "generation" from the design. It turns out that relying only on transaction fees makes everything very much simpler, and makes it easy to piggyback DomainChain onto Bitcoin.Here's a quick summary:Bitcoin already allows for a text "payload" to be included with a transaction. Any bitcoin transaction that is sent with the right payload becomes a domain name registration.To register a domain name, just send any amount of bitcoin to yourself, with a special payload. This payload identifies itself as a DomainChain payload, and contains the desired domain name plus the IP address of the authoritative name server(s). If no-one else already has that name registered, it's yours.To transfer a domain name to someone else, just send them the associated bitcoin (actually any part of the associated transaction will do). The GUI will let you do this in terms of "domain names" rather than in terms of "coins".To change the authoritative name server(s), just send the associated bitcoin to yourself with a payload that identifies the new authoritative name server(s)Registrations last forever unless you terminate them by sending that bitcoin to yourself with a payload that is a DomainChain "cancel" messageYou can register a domain name with the smallest convenient amount of bitcoins (currently 0.01 BTC), so the system imposes no scarcity of domain names. However, miners will impose transaction fees which increase as the block size increases. This provides a disincentive to registration spammersTo resolve (lookup) a domain name, the block chain is scanned for the most recent valid transaction for that domain name. In principle, anyone can run a DomainChain resolver, but in practice most users will use a DNS service that is DomainChain-awareAdvantages:Provides domain name registration with the same level of pseudonymity as BitcoinHolds registration data in a tamper-resistant distributed mannerStrengthens Bitcoin by providing additional economic incentive for generators (because they will be able to charge transaction fees for domain name transactions)Can be implemented much more quickly than any other scheme that has been proposed so farExisting bitcoin clients are unaffected. If they receive coins that are associated with a domain name registration they will see them as coins. do not display domain name registration transactions. No modification is needed.Disadvantages:(I'm sure you'll let me know of the disadvantages.)Implementation:1. Patch the standard bitcoin client. Run it on the bitcoin test network. The patched client will have a separate panel for domain names that are associated with bitcoins. These bitcoins will not show on the standard panel, nor will they be included in the total balance available to spend. On the DomainChain panel, instead of a "send coin" button there will be buttons for "register a new name", "change nameservers", "transfer a name" and "abandon a name". There will also be a scrolling list of domain names together with their nameservers.2. Write a program that scans the block chain to determine the authoritative domain name servers for a given domain name. Patch a standard open source domain name server to consult the output of this program as part of its name resolution.3. If it works well, persuade Satoshi to allow these transactions in the main network. Of course, it would be technically possible to run it on a new network with a new block chain, but who wants competing currencies?There's obviously a lot to be fleshed out, but I think the design is workable and easy to implement. Yes I'll do this. Don't panic!But first, I've thought of a design for DomainChain that is simple, elegant, powerful, and very easily integrated with Bitcoin. I just need to think it through a bit more before I post it here so that I don't make a complete fool of myself. Agreed. But neither should a single organization be "in charge".Anyone can make changes, "just" by getting 50% of the network to accept them. Right now, I don't think anyone except Satoshi, nor any organization, could achieve 50%. All that's needed is a way to delete the unwanted receiving address from the Address Book GUI (as you can already do for sending addresses). There's no reason why the address can't remain in the database, so that any incoming transaction to that address will be accepted. This is so cool. I've installed it on my N900 and am up to block 2000. I wonder what the khash/s will be - my guess is 50 khash/s.Let me know your bitcoin receiving address, and we can make the first p2p (phone-to-phone) transaction. I sent my third donation to them today. I had never donated to them before, but it's just so easy with Bitcoin. Exempt from what? Bitcoin is certainly exempt from being created as debt. I guess I need to wait for the next instalment. What's really needed here is a transaction that allows the payor to pay the bitcoins to two addresses: the payee, and an arbitrator. The payee can't claim the coins until the payor approves. If the payor doesn't approve within some timespan (e.g. 30 days) the coins go to the arbitrator instead.This protects the payee against e.g. death or the payor. The bitcoin address of the arbitrator would be designated by the payor, but obviously there's no point designating an arbitrator who would not be acceptable to the payee. I offer to buy 1000 bitcoins from you for USD 200 when the block total reaches 100,000 if you choose to accept this offer within 48 hours. Good. Something everyone completely agrees on! OK, but not so fast! Is there an existing standard we can be compatible with? It will save us some time, and probably also save us from making some mistakes. I know the existing domain names use a weird encoding system ("punycode") for historic reasons, and I'm not suggesting to replicate that. But working with an existing list of valid unicode characters would make sense.Hmm, can this work? I had assumed that the DomainChain names would all take some standard suffix so that they can integrate smoothly with the existing domain names. Just like .p2p is being used for the non-decentralized project. Otherwise, what if someone registers (say) foobar and next year InterNIC adds foobar as an official top-level domain?If you have registered a domain name, you automatically get the ability to create whatever subdomains you want. Subdomains are just records in your domain name server, under your control. The registrar doesn't need to know about them. If you allow the rule to be bent, it's not possible for the government to tell you why it's bending the rule (because that would defeat the purpose of bending the rule). Therefore we would have no way to know whether the rule is being bent for good reasons. And history tells us that backroom deals are usually bad for us.In the UK, there were a few cases where banks received secret bailouts while the politicians were telling us that everything was perfectly OK. Obviously the politicians were gambling that they would "get away with it" and nobody would ever know, but things turned out to be worse than they were admitting. More transparency early on would have helped people and businesses to adapt better, by realizing what was going wrong before so much damage had been done. Exactly. The domain name block chain.Anyway, I have registered domainchain.org, in case people like it. I think DomainChain better-explains what's going on than BitDNS. But I won't object if people prefer another name. That's what I thought at the time, when I didn't take the money, but FreeMoney has resolved the apparent contradiction. If taking the money would bring my ideas a little bit closer to reality, it's honest and worthwhile.FreeMoney was very careful to say that if you take the money, you mustn't depend on it (i.e. need it to live on). I took a job throughout my university education, so I was always financially independent. I should have taken the money and donated it to a voluntarist cause.
If a journalist does not depend on the initiation of violence to get their information, I don't care how private their sources are.With governments it's different, because they claim to be acting on our behalf, and are using money obtained by taxation. At the very least, we are entitled to know that they're doing on our behalf with our money. You're assuming that government leaders behave better in secret than they do in public. I don't think there's much evidence for that. Very insightful. I went to University in the late 70s when very generous government grants were available, and I chose not to take them, on principle. But I think I should have done so, for the reasons you explained. Before we go too far down the track, can we agree on a project name? I'm uneasy about BitDNS, because we aren't writing a Domain Name Server. How about BitDomains, or DomainChain? I mean that cash is anonymous but not exempt from government regulations (such as taxation). Similarly, bitcoin can be anonymous but not exempt from government regulations.For me, the essential difference between cash and bitcoin isn't anything to do with regulations, it's that the government can't inflate the number of bitcoins. And that would be false advertising.The traders at my local market only sell for cash, but the taxman knows how to get at least some tax out of them all. Of course fivegrinder uses mtgox as a payment processor, if you just need to confirm that it can work. You could give a gift from one phone to another, using nothing more than Bluetooth file transfer. Evil deeds are evil whether or not they are being done in the name of a religion, and regardless of which country is doing them.Evil deeds always boil down to "the initiation of violence", and it is that which should be stopped. This defuses the situation a little by taking religion out of the equation. Kiba is wise. So you would prefer that voters elect their governments based on what the voters think the governments are doing, rather than based on what the governments are actually doing? I think this schedule may be possible:1. Two weeks: Prepare, agree and release three documents: an overview in non-technical language, a FAQ, and a technical but informal white paper which expounds the motivation and the design principles.2. Three months: Demonstrate a "proof of concept" on a test network.3. Six months: Release a basic but usable version 0.1.(4. Generate some names while the difficulty is low.5. Profit!)I will start on the documents. I would rather be programming too, but as kiba says: time is of the essence. This is an idea whose time has come. We can't get this done with just RHorning, kiba and me. We have to build a team. And a set of basic documents serves two important purposes: it attracts newcomers to the team, and it helps to keep the whole team working towards the same goal.Here are some early tasks that fall on the "non-documentation" side, in case you or anyone else is interested.* Set up the development environment. Are we going to use SourceForge? GitHub?* Choose a project name. We've been using "BitDNS", but it's not really an accurate name because we're not reimplementing DNS, just domain name registration. Then register the ".org" domain.* Set up a build process so that we can distribute for Windows, Linux and OS/X.* Read, learn and understand the Bitcoin source code and its underlying principles. The bounty is never going to compensate fully for the work, which might end up being thousands of hours in total. But the bounty shows whether people are serious about wanting something, and the bounty might just make the difference if someone is deciding bitween BitDNS and some other project. That would solve the problem for people who use a bitcoin client. But it doesn't address the problem for people who are using a bitcoin "bank" as their bitcoin wallet. I suppose they will have to open another account with another bitcoin "bank" to be able to receive their funds. Relax, guys. Bytemaster showed up once before to reassure us. And he didn't force people to let him look after the bounty; no-one else volunteered.Not everyone visits every forum every day. And until there's a claim on the bounty, it's hypothetical anyway, so there's still time for him to show up again. They are responding to a problem caused by a central authority by enacting ... another central authority. But I don't think it's because "they sucks". I think it's because they haven't been exposed to such a beautiful decentralised design as bitcoin.Adapting the bitcoin source code is probably the only practical way for us to get this running. But first I would like to see us produce a brief white paper setting out the design principles, and a non-technical FAQ. Then I think what you seek is impossible.If you want to do away with trust, you need a distributed solution like ... bitcoin. Not a bitcoin bank. You have to trust your bank. Far out, I just generated twice in the last 24 hours!So I will increase my pledge to 100 Bitcoins. You mean a site like MyBitcoin or MtGox?Hourly backups, encrypted. One half of the decryption key is encrypted with Satoshi's public key, one half with Theymos' public key. Hope that Theymos and Satoshi don't go bad. The EFF might be quite startled to see that others have access to their account balance.
I'd be interested in a wearable Bitcoin badge. That way, if you see someone else wearing one, you know that you can transact using bitcoins instead of fiat currency. If you lose the keys, you can no longer sell the domain name or change the IP address of its DNS, but the domain name itself doesn't immediately stop working. So you have plenty of time to choose a new domain name, set it up, and install redirects from your existing site.You can protect against this by leaving a copy of your keys with a couple of trusted people. That's a much better solution than leaving your domain name hostage to an untrusted registrar.In the 1990s, Turkmenistan was selling .tm domain names and I registered one. After a couple of years, the Turkmenistan government decided there were .tm websites they didn't like and they removed access to the domain name. But there was plenty of time to get a new domain and install redirects. It worked just fine.Ultimately, a name is just a name and it's not the end of the world if one is lost. Even cocacola.com could switch to cocacola2.com and it wouldn't be the end of the world. That's very clearly expressed, thank you Hal.What you describe is almost exactly what I have in mind. Additionally, I would allow the domain name itself to be subsequently changed to any other untaken name:The advantage of allowing domain name changes is that it makes the initial registration easier. Registrars can generate arbitrary registrations, then change the name when they sell them to their customers.Exactly. The "50" is arbitrary, but that doesn't matter. The initial scarcity will be reflected in a high price, which will encourage people to generate, which will raise the difficulty and ensure the security of the system.With 7200 registrations being generated daily, there will soon be plenty to meet the demand. The price will then drop, with transaction fees maintaining the incentive to generate. That artwork has come together nicely. I wish I could draw like that. I can do technical drawing but not artistic stuff.I like the Bitcoin gyroscope (or whatever it is) above the whiteboard. Is that a pencil or cigarette in her mouth? If not, then someone would leak it. Foresight Exchange works well with unlimited stock. Whenever there's a matching bid and offer, a new betting pair is created for that claim. Me too. Foresight exchange is great (despite its clunky interface), and if there was a similar Bitcoin-based service I'd use it. This is seriously worth doing. I pledge BTC 20 You're not kidding! Every month I receive a few letters that should have been delivered to someone else.Here's a 2004 article describing the problems:Royal Mail 'loses 14.4m letters'Having said that, my mail to morpheus has always been received. Satoshi met a banker who had a horseshoe above his front door. When Satoshi asked what the horseshoe was for, the banker said it was a good luck charm which kept interest rates favorable.Satoshi snorted and asked the banker how he could believe such superstitious nonsense, to which the banker replied "Of course I don't believe it! But I've been told that it works, whether or not you believe."1dMYrvEfCw3HaVtNS5tTDtwnLc9L3Vbwm Why is there a need to pre-announce an amount? Anything that arrives at the incoming address can be delivered to the outgoing address after deducting the fee. So I can back up my system to Bencoder's site any time I want, and all it costs me is 0.1 BTC if ever I need to restore my files. Bargain! Some does and some doesn't. There's plenty of open source software that is public domain. It seems there will also be a huge market for Bitcoin Private Investigation services. This is a typical bland "central planning" solution. The free market admits much more flexible systems.One vendor may employ a junior to take an ice cream cart to bring the wares to the furthest parts of the beach. The vendors might stagger their hours, with one starting early and one finishing late, and both serving the market during its peak. A third mobile vendor might cruise the length of the beach to service anyone who doesn't want to walk. Vendors might develop specializations (e.g. deluxe ice creams, or perhaps shaded seating) that would encourage some customers to visit them even if they aren't the closest vendor.A free market is always much more interesting and vibrant than a planned one, even if it is "imperfect" according to someone's theory. The loss of sex.bitcoin would surely make sexy.bitcoin and xxx.bitcoin more valuable.I don't argue from a matter of principle, just from a personal preference that I would prefer non-expiring but losable domain names, compared to ones that must be renewed regularly or lost to others. It's the same as with bitcoins, it just makes the remaining names more valuable. I assumed you would have the domain name forever without further fee. After all, we don't pay an annual fee to keep our bitcoins working.The fees could come from domain name transfers, and of course the generation of new domain names. I think it's better for the tip addresses to be located at the same place as the tippable material. Otherwise they get out of date, or you get confusion between different people who use the same handle, etc. Also, having the tip address at the content is better publicity for bitcoin. If he is motivated enough and intelligent enough to use a non-mainstream language like Scala, it's obvious that he has the technical expertise. But that's not really what you're asking, is it?Anyway, don't fall for the attempt of corporations to try to make you accept the blame for abuse of your number. It's just a number. If a fraudulent purchase uses that number, you don't have to pay for it. That's the law. You're not responsible for auditing Visa and MC merchants' internal systems.
You're a free person. You don't have to do this.Therefore you don't have to apologise. That will just make it seem like a burden. glaring at an old to darken in the Well this particular idea strongly interests me. However, I still haven't delivered the animated movie that I've been working on, so I'm not going to commit to anything. Every category of software gets developed sooner or later. Every week there are new bitcoin-based services opening up, so it will happen. Assuming you mean SMF (the software behind this forum) I don't think it's worthwhile modifying it.Anyway, Gavin's idea should be tried outside this forum until it proves itself. If it turns out to work well, not only would it be worth switching this forum to it, but the demand for that forum system from others would drive the adoption of bitcoin. I think Gavin is on the right track with his "Worthwhile"/"Waste of time" buttons. If people are finding a discussion worthwhile, it doesn't matter whether that's because the ideas are new to them or comfortably familiar to them.For sure, some forums will become tight groups of closed-minded people. But hey, for a few bitcoins, someone can create a new sub-forum, and with a well-chosen topic and charter the new sub-forum may turn out more broad-minded than the previous one.In the end, those forums that people find worthwhile will prosper, and the rest will wither away. I don't think we need a high click rate. It's enough to be sow the seed of an idea in people's heads, that bitcoin does exist as a currency of freedom. When they are ready for it, they will come then. Yes Gavin, the time has come for this kind of forum, and maybe Bitcoin is the necessary enabler.I can think of a few existing systems that almost implement this idea.Answers sites such as Google Baraza or Yahoo Answers issue their own points-based "currencies". You get a certain number of points just for checking in every day, and you can spend those points asking questions. If you answer questions, you can earn more points, and you get even more if other people think you provided useful answers.To me the big sticking-point of your proposed system is the distribution of "new" forum money. How do you stop spammers and trolls signing up multiple times? If only there was a viable way to force newcomers to do "work" to get their initial allocation of forum money...Ah, so we just make newcomers pay a few bitcoins to get started! But the burden of that might be enough to stop the idea from taking off.If the forum has ads, that should provide a small amount of income that could buy some new bitcoins to be distributed each day. What if there was a way to identify people who had made insightful posts in OTHER places, and send the bitcoins to them so that they could participate in this forum? Poach the informative and insightful contributors, in other words. I think that's a good point. There's not much point signing up all the charities if no-one donates to them. It's more important to have successful bitcoin donees than to have lots of them.Because I should practice what I preach, I've just sent another 10 BTC to the EFF, and I will try to remember to keep donating regularly. What I like about Stefan Molyneux's work is that he demonstrates that there's little if any difference between the "law of the jungle" and "morality". In the long run, the things that are in your best interest to do, are moral.The conflict does not exist. The confusion arises because we sometimes mix up "moral" and "things that other people tell you to do, claiming that they are moral". Haha  I don't speak on behalf of the site owner, of course, but you may want to consider the following, given that you seek a "company" with "policies".A "company" is a limited liability structure, designed to internalise the profit but externalise the risk. And "policies" don't count for a lot. It's the actual "practice" that counts. Well no, because Nolan didn't use the term "up-wing". But maybe the 1970s libertarians got their idea from Nolan. Just slide it all the way to the right if you want to spend the money on that proposal. You only need to use partial slides when there are multiple competing proposals. I think. The drop from 50 to 25 bitcoins per block is not a concern. Markets adapt just fine to this kind of thing.Consider this: it's a decrease from 7200 to 3600 new coins per day, which is a tiny drop in the bucket compared to the 10,500,000 coins that will have been generated by then.That will be quite a milestone. Half of the total number of coins will have been generated. It occurs to me that this drop might be due to a single person who is trading on margin with MtGox. A small price drop might have forced him to quickly liquidate his coins. In the 1970s in Australia, the libertarian party tried to introduce a two-dimensional spectrum. They described themselves as "up-wing", but couldn't get the term to catch on. Those are interesting charts. I think the two dominant effects are the influx from the Slashdot article (when the difficulty crossed 100), and the rise of GPU mining (roughly, difficulty of 1000 and later). This boils down to one issue: are the wage workers prevented by the force of statism from becoming the employers instead?If the employees are freely allowed to become employers, the system is self-balancing and each person will fill the slot that suits them. There's no wage slavery if a wage worker is not stopped by force by becoming an employer instead.Even if an individual employee is not in a position to become an employer, provided plenty of others can make the switch then it protects the other employees too, by keeping wages as high as sustainably possible.On the other hand, if the state uses force to impose quotas, licensing, forced monopolies, registration, or even just bureaucratic overhead so high that a one-person business can't realistically cope, then it cleaves society into employees and employers and virtually guarantees the existence of wage slaves.
My statement was based on the number of people who regularly complain that it's not quick and easy to get funds into MtGox. (Note that I said "I think", not "I guarantee".)It's my own experience too. If I could get PayPal funds into MtGox "instantly", I would buy bitcoins there. If people could get money into MtGox using PayPal or a credit card, I think those offers would be filled very quickly. Naah. Price dropped because you stopped buying. I wonder if that person sold because they saw S3052's red text earlier in this thread. It would make a really great April Fools joke to hack the website and put that image there. Will this eventually become the world's first million-dollar pizza? Those who are active at Wikipedia may wish to declare that their Wikipedia contributions are public domain. Just add this shortcode to your Wikipedia user page:Code:{{MultiLicensePD}} I think you gotta be a little crazy to know real passion. You don't have to use the ICANN root domain servers. Lots of groups use alternative DNS roots, although you're never going to see a Windows OS that defaults to anything other than the ICANN root. This is what creates fear amongst those who depend on the current copyright system for their livelihood, but I don't think it's a valid issue.Without copyright, creators will get rewarded on the incremental value that they add to what is already out there. They're not forced to build a walled garden in which to do their creative work. This really is quite liberating.The carpenter who hangs the doors in my house gets well-rewarded for what he does. He doesn't need a state-granted monopoly that forces me to pay him $0.01 every time someone opens that door for the next 95 years. Nicely drawn! And safe for my work, but then again I'm self-employed. That's an interesting analogy.One of the predecessors of Wikipedia was Nupedia, a free encyclopedia being developed by qualified people. I didn't think it was crazy - I thought it was a great way to expand free culture.I knew it wasn't perfect, but I couldn't articulate what needed to be fixed to make it succeed. And indeed it didn't succeed. When the notion of a wiki and an encyclopedia were joined, I knew that this one would really succeed.Maybe it's the same with Bitcoin. It might succeed. Or maybe it's the next one that will really succeed. I reckon bitcoin has a 30% chance of making the kind of difference to the world that Wikipedia made.Anyway, back to the topic of this post ("Re: I am 19. WTF Do I know?"), I wish I knew half as much as kiba when I was 19. Darn it, Kiba, you're doing very well out of me financially. Because I didn't save the image, I had to download it again. Each time I just close the browser window, thinking I won't need to see that version of the image again.And no, I'm not confused. I'm talking about the hand that is higher up. It is over the girl's right breast, and the elbow is by her left side. So it's her left hand for sure. And yet the thumb is shown at the bottom.You try to pose your own body in her position, and you will see that the thumb just can't go that way.Don't forget, the girl's left shoulder is on the right of the drawing as we look at it, because the girl is facing us.But although it's anatomically wrong, I kind of like it because it adds quite some ambiguity to the picture, i.e. "just what is going on here?".Anyway, this time I'm saving the image for a couple of days, in case you manage to convince me that right is left and left is right. Hey, you forgot about FTP!And point your Firefox at this one:gopher://gopher.docfile.org/1/world/monitoring/uptimeBut, flippancy aside, I take your point. I mean the hand that appears to be clutching her right breast. If that's her right hand, there is some very odd contortion going on. And if it's her left hand, the thumb needs to be at the top.Unless it really is someone else's right hand. I know the JMRI court case well, but it's not a counterexample because (1) no-one gave anything away into the public domain (the software was permissively licensed), and (2) Katzer sued the original author for infringing his patent, NOT for infringing copyright.For sure, the patent system is seriously broken, as is the court system, but even so Katzer lost in the end and "good guy" Jacobsen won. Sorry, you misunderstand. The server operator only pays out to easy hashes that were submitted for a block that is won. There's no payout for easy hashes that were submitted for a block that someone else generates.The difficulty can't change in the middle of a block. It always changes at a known time, and you always know exactly what the difficulty is, so there's no risk here.That's absolutely true, but over time probability tends towards mathematical certainty. If the server operator is getting a few percent of the generated bitcoins, it doesn't take long to become virtually guaranteed profit. Isn't the left hand the wrong way around? If I fold my left hand over my chest, my thumb is at the top, but you seem to have drawn the thumb at the bottom of the hand. <sigh>Either I haven't been very good at explaining why there's no possibility to cheat, or I'm wrong. But if I'm wrong, no-one has posted a specific objection. So I'll try to explain it again, by presenting a specific design to show that a dishonest client cannot cheat.Suppose I operate a pooled mining server, and I recruit some clients who wish to pool their mining.My server asks each client to do some hashing for it. It asks each client to submit any hashes they find that are above a certain threshold of difficulty. The server chooses a difficulty that is one-fortieth (1/40th) of the current "official" difficulty level.My server gets a constant trickle of candidate hashes sent back by the remote mining clients. Every now and then, one of those hashes meets the official difficulty level and my server can generate a block, which earns my server 50 bitcoins.I now distribute bitcoins to the remote mining clients, at the rate of one bitcoin for each hash that was submitted for the current block that was at or above 1/40th of the official difficulty level.In the long run, I would expect to distribute 40 coins out of every 50 that my server generates, although there will be some fluctuation from block to block. Nothing in this scheme requires the clients to be honest, because there is no way that a dishonest client can cheat!The client is calculating hashes that will generate 50 BTC for my server. Those same hashes are not of any use to a dishonest client. They cannot be used to generate 50 BTC for the dishonest client, because a different hash code is needed to encode the payment of the generated bitcoins to someone else. And if the dishonest client tries to cheat by generating hashes that will pay the generated bitcoins to themselves, then the hash codes they submit won't validate at my server and I won't distribute any share of the payouts to them.So this scheme requires absolutely no trust of the client.This scheme also does not require the mining client to have faith that the server is honest. If the server advertises that it is paying out 1BTC for each hash that is at least 1/40th of the official difficulty level, then every client that submits an "easy" hash for a block that was generated can check that they received their bitcoin. Any fraud would show up immediately. Sorry, I already deleted your image (and I'm not going to pay again to download it again), but I think the left hand was across the woman's stomach. The finger shapes, and the smudge that could have been hair on the back of the hand, made it look masculine to me.
Copyleft (e.g. the GPL, or CC-SA) maximizes the freedom of the creative work itself.Public domain, or weak copyright (e.g. BSD, MIT, CC Attribution) maximizes the freedom of the users of the creative work. I quite liked the hands in version 34, because one of them looks quite masculine, which just adds to the ambiguity of the whole situation. Are you running greasemonkey, or some other extension that might mess with the page?The easiest thing to do here is to try a different browser and confirm that the problem goes away. Then you can disable extensions one by one until the problem disappears. In a pooled mining situation, the winning hash cannot be used as "your own".The hash incorporates all of the transactions in the block, including the one that pays 50 BTC to the generator.If you are hashing for pooled generation, the winning hash is only useful to the pool.If you are hashing for yourself, then obviously the winning hash is useful to you. But in that case the "low-difficulty" hashes that you generate are useless to the pool, so the pool will not pay you a share of the generated 50 BTC.It is a solved problem to prevent cheating with pooled generation. Just access them by IP address, not domain name. The cheating problem has a trivial solution.The distributed miners work to find a hash at a difficulty level that is considerably lower than the network requires. Whenever they find one, they send it back. When one of those hashes is difficult enough to meet the needs of the network, it generates 50 bitcoins which are distributed to those who have been sending in hashes at the easier level.There's no way to look for easy hashes without also having a chance to find the occasional difficult hash. And when you find a difficult hash, there's nothing better to do with it than to send it back to the mining co-ordinator (because it's a hash that pays them 50 bitcoins, not one that pays you 50 bitcoins).With this scheme there is no incentive to cheat, and no need for "banning". I think you're unintentionally spreading FUD here. If you give something away into the public domain (in jurisdictions where that can be done) you can't be sued for it. If you think that's not the case, show me a link to a counterexample.Disclaimers, yes, you need them when you license something to someone. But releasing into the public domain is not licensing.This can and does happen, but it's not because it's public domain. Exactly the same thing can and does happen where the original author or developer licenses a work under the GPL, a CC license, or a proprietary license. That already happened between steps 2 and 3.You did see Kiba's art thread, didn't you? Where exactly are you seeing "a single mail-link"? The hover text just shows what is in the "mailto:" link underneath, so if the hover text is different then the the email address is different.If you select an envelope icon, then right-click and choose "View Selection Source", you should see a different "mailto:" link for each envelope. Do you? Actually, they are equal. The low-power machines aren't "racing" against the high power machines. For any given difficulty level, it doesn't even matter how many other machines are generating. If all the other machines dropped off the network, it wouldn't increase the number of blocks you generate (until the next difficulty level adjustment).The only thing that counts significantly is the difficulty level and your khash/s. There are some relatively minor effects due to network latency, but they're not a big deal. From here: It works properly for me (Firefox). Try with a different browser. I like his notion that those who control the spambots might find it more profitable to generate bitcoins instead, thereby solving the world's spam problem. Perhaps Hutt River Province in West Australia would be interested.Come to think of it, they're inviting nominations for their New Years Honours List:Nominations close December 17. Are we going to put Satoshi's name forward?Of course, the Australian Govt considers Hutt River Province to be part of Australia, so you can't get out of paying tax by living there. Fair enough, but how about "every download extends the file hosting by another day". Not by one day from now, but by one day more than it currently is.That way, you're averaging at least one paid download per 24 hours of storage. 4. Win the Nobel Prize for Economics.5. Visit the Bernanke in his local soup kitchen. Yes, a longer expiry (e.g. 1 month rather than 6 hours) would work better at the Ubitious site. Anyway, thanks to the three people who downloaded: it means that I made 0.01 BTC profit per file!I hope I can post a complete movie soon. Creative Commons replaced their first attempt at PD with their "CC-ZERO" license, which works like public domain but is free of the legal hiccups that PD causes in some countries.But anyway, the legal "problems" around public domain are not problems for the content creator. Just put your work on the internet and mark it "public domain", and don't sue anyone. Then everyone gets all the benefits of public domain, without needing to invoke lawyers. Other possible keywords: "paypal", "inflation", "gold" I don't understand the voting. There's a slider from 1 to 100. Does that represent a number of bitcoins, or the percentage of agreement with the vote?So I slide the button from 1 to 10, just in case it represents bitcoins. Now the slider is labelled 10 to 55, and the little bug icon has moved to the middle of the line and the button has moved a little way from the left.I have absolutely no idea what any of this means.
I'm seriously looking for the right opportunity. If your bank chooses to provide you with a "no-notice account", the bank had better be prepared to give you your money on demand.With bitcoin, you can spend your entire balance at any time. Why would your bank not be expected to provide an equally good service? These bank transfers are only free within the Eurozone, not within the whole EU, and the UK is outside the Eurozone. My bank would charge £25 to transfer funds to Bitcoin Exchange; I'm not sure how much in the other direction. I will. I've sent you a PM. I think it's worth keeping the default interface as simple as possible for new users. If people want to set a price in the "send coins" dialog, this field should be enabled by a configuration option, not presented to new users. I would attend a UK meetup if there were two other people interested in going. "What are Bitcoins?"http://quezi.com/13527I wrote that piece. It is a multi-author blog with some degree of editorial oversight and 50,000 hits per month. Not fantastically notable, but more so that Joe Average's "What I ate for dinner" blog. Yes, that would be enough for me, and additionally I would want the same number for each of my family members. It's not "pushing", it's just "first exposure".Also, 99.9% of the listeners won't look into bitcoin until they've heard about it a dozen or more times. Indeed, how can a cow be expected to vote between two farmers?(Oh sorry, was I supposed to work a snake analogy in there somewhere?) For what it's worth, on Fedora the makefile puts setup.h in /usr/local/lib, not in /usr/local/include:Code:/usr/local/lib/wx/include/gtk2-unicode-debug-static-2.9/wx/setup.h/usr/local/lib/wx/include/gtk2-unicode-static-2.9/wx/setup.h Effectively you're just using your server to implement a payment cache. It accumulates the micro-transactions, then every time they reach (say) one bitcoin for a user, that transaction gets flushed out to the real bitcoin network. The same thing going the other way, a bitcoin comes in to the payment cache, and that coin gets nibbled away at until it's gone.Of course this is just another way of thinking about an "account" system. But it shows that you're not "turning" the bitcoin system into anything. Hey kiba, don't forget to add the 10 BTC that I sent! (2 x 5 BTC) An open bank is a fabulous idea, but banking is so heavily regulated that I can't see how it could be done. I'd love to be proven wrong though. For now it's still an inflationary currency. That is, unless people are losing more than 50 BTC every 10 minutes. Only for a given size of transistor. Every time they find a way to make the transistors smaller again, a further clock speed increment becomes possible. True, but Moore's Law (if it holds) does set a lower bound on the growth of computer power.If you can increase the number of transistors, you can do more things in parallel. Any other improvements (such as increases in clock speed) will increase computer power beyond the growth in the number of transistors. Thanks for working that out. It sounds like a plan!No, actually, I wouldn't have the guts to borrow $300,000 to speculate. I'll stick to hoarding a few thousand BTC, and spending any others I get. For sure this will happen by 2015. Even then, I think Bitcoin will still be too hard to use for many people (i.e. those who type Google into the search box when they want to go to google.com). So it will languish for a few years before finally crashing or soaring. My guess is 2020.Ideas take time to mature. Even Google, with its megabuck funding, only became used by grandmothers 10 years after it was conceived. An interesting piece of maths. I had already realised that the GPU card I bought will never pay back its cost. Of course if I had bought it a few weeks earlier, the story would have been different.The main shaky assumption is that difficulty will continue to rise exponentially at the current rate. Those who have been checking Bitcoin Watch since the last difficulty increase will have noticed that the "Average blocks per hour over the past 24 hours" figure has been quite low. It's now 7.46, but I even saw it at 4.96 for a time, so the next difficulty increase will be fairly small.As the difficulty rises, some generators will "switch off", which will reduce the next difficulty rise. Also when the next Northern Hemisphere summer comes, I think lots of generators will switch off.
You've nailed it there. Maybe I'll put 10 BTC aside, and spend the rest :-)Now here's a thought. Suppose that I expect BTC to rise in value by 50% every year. Then, I just decide what I want my annual income to be. Suppose I want to be able to spend $20,000 per year. Here's how to do it: start with $60,000 worth of BTC, and in the first year spend $20,000 worth. The left-over $40,000 of BTC increases 50% to be worth $60,000 again. Every year I could spend $20,000 worth, forever, if the value of BTC rises at the expected rate.Obviously, for different rates of increase and annual spending amount, the initial bitcoin amount varies.Anyway, that's hypothetical for me. As nanotube reminded us, we have to be willing to lose it all, so I'm not going to be hoarding anywhere near that level. If someone had a hundred thousand dollars, they could buy at least 210,000 bitcoins, which is 1% of all the bitcoins that will ever be issued. Of course it would be stupid if everyone did that, because it would mean that only 100 people could ever play with bitcoin.On the other hand, if bitcoin grow to 210 million users, the average user will have just 0.1 BTC, and we can be ten times as wealthy as average just by hoarding one coin. Some people think bitcoin might one day need to be subdivided beyond the eighth decimal place, but even at 8 decimals each bitcoin would be worth about a million dollars in today's terms.Obviously there's an optimum value somewhere between those two extremes. How many BTC should one aspire to hold, before freely trading the rest? Just to show that I am working on my idea of a bitcoin animated movie, and to try out Hippch's download site, here are two fragments that I have created:http://ubitio.us/file/download/1201-title.mp4 - First fragment of animated bitcoin movie (no sound yet)Opening Titlehttp://ubitio.us/file/download/1302-currency.mp4 - Second fragment of animated bitcoin movie (no sound yet)Bitcoins moving around the worldI know it's not much yet, but I've never made an animation before. The remaining fragments should come faster now that I've made good progress learning the synfig software. The ubitio.us homepage looks clean and welcoming. Very nice.I uploaded some files to see how it works:http://ubitio.us/file/download/1201-title.mp4 - First fragment of animated bitcoin movie (no sound yet)Opening Titlehttp://ubitio.us/file/download/1302-currency.mp4 - Second fragment of animated bitcoin movie (no sound yet)Bitcoins moving around the world On Fedora Linux I get that error if I build wxWidgets 2.9.1, but the error goes away if I build wxWidgets 2.9.0 which is available here:http://biolpc22.york.ac.uk/pub/2.9.0/I don't know whether that will solve the problem on Ubuntu also. Also this:"Which UK towns have their own currency?" It's the best one. It's already in place! The first 500 people to install bitcoin get BTC 0.05 absolutely free from the Bitcoin Faucet. Sent. Thanks! I sent 5 BTC. I'll send another 5 BTC if you rework the banner to say "Bitcoin: The currency of liberty". I think it's stronger to promote "the" currency than just "a" currency. Even if you have all the equations supplied to you, you need to know that the source code does the same thing as the equations. So there is no getting around the need for people to study the source code. I think an incremental approach is the only practical one here.Specify first those parts that are (a) relatively easy to specify, and (b) for which it is particularly useful to have a specification. For everything else, just rely on the reference implementation for now.For this incremental approach, the wiki is ideal. Some time in the future a more formal process might be considered, but for now it would just slow things down. Here's the URL, Bruce: http://bitcoin-otc.com/ I'd love to use your service, but I'm not from the USA. Although my credit card has a customer service phone number on the back, it's not toll-free, and I'm sure they won't discuss my phone number with people who call that number.I would like to find a verification process that is workable and is acceptable to you (e.g. mailing an original copy of my credit card statement perhaps). The great thing about economics courses is that they can use the same exam questions every year. It's just the answers that change. I feel a little uneasy about the "empty-string" account, because there will sometimes be user interface elements that need to display the account name, and leaving the field empty may be confusing to the end-user.My first inclination is to suggest a reserved account name such as "default" that takes the place of the "empty-string" account. Then, a list of "balances by account" can include an entry for "default account" instead of an entry for a blankly-named account.Obviously this will cause problems with internationalisation. So my next inclination is to suggest that some characters be excluded from a legal account name, so that those characters can be used to name the empty-string account. For example, English-language client software might present the empty-string account to the user as "(default)", but other languages could use other names enclosed by parentheses, if parentheses are not permitted to be used in a regular account name.In any case, it should be specified which characters can be used to form an account name. For that reason it's good to raise the difficulty before that person comes along. The switch from CPU to GPU mining accounts for most of the recent difficulty increases.In general, increasing difficulty is bad news for anyone generating for profit, and good news for everyone else. Also of possible interest:http://www.google.com/trends?q=bitcoin%2C"liberty+reserve"http://www.google.com/trends?q=bitcoin%2Cpecunix I understand that, but we were referring to Bitcoin Exchange. As I understand it, Bitcoin Exchange isn't a market, and the owner sets his own spread. So his spread is analogous to a fee.
Or if you know the mysteries of SQL "Join". I'll let you into a secret.I only mentioned two of them. But PHP actually has **ELEVEN**! Ruby only goes up to ten. But ... Bitcoin is a currency totally different from all the others! In that case I still don't understand the need for more than one checkpoint. If you want Bitcoin to have lots of flourishing exchanges, you have to let the exchanges make money.People who complain about "excessive" profit margin at an exchange should open a competing exchange. Agreed.If we can find a workable algorithmic block size, it makes sense to adopt it earlier rather than later.I have never understood the argument that when transaction numbers rise you can pay a transaction fee for priority, or use free transactions which will get processed "eventually". It makes no sense. If the average number of transactions per hour is more than six blocks worth, the transaction queue will grow and grow and grow without bound, transaction fees or not. BC_MATH is widely available, and if it isn't in your distro (or at your ISP) then it's likely that GMP is available. Either of these libraries is suitable for arbitrary precision decimal arithmetic without glitches. An authoritative link would be really good, because this issue keeps coming up and it would be nice to have it answered once-and-for-all in the FAQ. I pledge 10 BTC. (sent to kiba) By the way, who pays for bitcoin.org and for the forum server?How about a "donate" button? Every time I see those checksums at the bottom of the bitcoin.org home page I have to resist the urge to send some bitcoins to them. And bitcoinwatch.com shows that 168426.7 bitcoins were sent in the last 24 hours. That's 3.6% of all bitcoins turning over in a day, for an average hold time of 27.6 days.Although some of those coins are turning over to another address belonging to the same person, there are many more coins being traded (e.g. on MtGox) without showing up in the block chain. Why is more than one checkpoint needed? Block 74000 (for example) is cryptographically linked to the earlier blocks, so if 74000 is OK aren't all the earlier blocks also OK? MtGox sends out an email. If the recipient of the email has/creates a MtGox account and claims the funds, MtGox processes the transfer. Otherwise MtGox returns the funds to the originator's MtGox account.No bitcoin transaction is created, so the issue of expiring transactions doesn't apply here. Yes, a "signal bit" is a much better way of doing it than moving to 128-bit integers, because 63 bits of precision is plenty for any transaction.But the 64th bit should not mean "shift everything by 16 bits", because we want to keep the subdivision of a bitcoin in decimal units, not binary units.The 64th bit could mean "the remaining bits are an integer count of the number of 10-16-bitcoins rather than the number of 10-8-bitcoins".55 bits is enough to store all of the bitcoins at the current level of precision (21,000,000.000 000 00), so there will be quite a few spare bits available when the time comes. This is a bad idea.If an organization stops accepting bitcoins, or changes to a different wallet, anyone who donates from your links will be throwing away their money.Bitcoin donation addresses only make sense when they are directly maintained by the organization receiving the donations.[edit: including bitcoin donation addresses in a TXT record of the DNS would work much better] Ditto. The fixed coin limit was what got me hooked. Thanks! I see three decimal places for all the calculated values. No. MtGox already calculates the transactions to a certain level of precision (I think it might be 4). All we want is for our real MtGox balance to be exposed through the interface.Without that, we can't withdraw our entire balance. If it says 80 bitcoins, but rejects our request to withdraw 80 bitcoins, how are we to know that we really need to ask for 79.9775? Somehow that sounds like "Bitcoin is great right now, but in the future it will be slow and expensive."Why not keep it simple and honest and just say "Most Bitcoin transactions are free."Overall, it's a very well-written piece. No, you should display the actual balance. If the real balance has three digits after the decimal, you should show three digits.
Your understanding is correct.But the difference in number of attempts between your laptop and a souped-up GPU is enormous... Indeed that's a troll. PHP offers all the tools you need to program sound decimal arithmetic.PHP is inelegant, but it's capable and ubiquitous. A good software engineer can implement great systems with PHP if they need to. I'll be happy to donate when they list their bitcoin address on their "Donate" page:http://epicchange.org/donate.phpAlthough I trust you, Bruce, I don't like to encourage the idea of people donating to anonymous Bitcoin addresses that may or may not be related to the charity in whose name they are posted. I like this, but it's a real pity that the general public don't widely understand this metric prefix. It can also be typed as "u" instead of "µ" (electrical engineers are quite comfortable abbreviating microFarad as uF).But many UK newspapers, including the Daily Mail, still refer to a microgram as "mcg" instead of "µg" or "ug". It's rather pathetic. Isn't the time that they spend on Bitcoin itself so valuable that they are the last people who should take on the job of roving ambassador correcting the world's misconceptions? BrightAnarchist was referring to "developments" rather than "ideas". People can use bitcoin today, but seasteading isn't yet practical for ordinary people.I agree with FreeMoney about raising children peacefully being number one priority though. Why not keep the behavior for new installs exactly as it is now, to keep it as simple as possible for new users.But add a user preference for "number of decimal places" so that anyone who wants more decimals can experiment with having more. I don't think there's any reason why every client needs to display the same number of decimal places.The block chain already contains transactions with more than the two decimal places displayed by the standard client. I can't believe how fast the payment usually arrives. When I withdraw some BTC from mtgox, as soon as I click on the bitcoin window the coins are already there (unconfirmed of course). Does "claim" mean "spend", when used as above by creighto and theimos?In other words, there isn't any way to "claim" a coin without spending it, is there? People have a certain familiarity with two decimal places (by analogy with many fiat currencies) so I don't think the change should be made any earlier than necessary.More decimal places will cause a certain amount of confusion, and will need to be handled carefully in the user interface. There's plenty of precedence for that. At first, the new unit is called e.g. a "new bitcoin" and then over time people drop the word "new".Historically, of course, a "new" release of the currency comes into use when prices go up, not down. I think bitcoin would be the first exception to that rule. I think mtgox is a great name!The USA stores its gold at Fort Knox, but bitcoiners trade their coins at Mount Gox. My guess is 100% male. Don't forget btco.in ! Meh, *.btc is where the future action will be. +11. And I want Satoshi to win the Nobel Prize for Economics too. I wonder if he can collect that anonymously? Yes. In a decade, mobile data will be ubiquitous, so it's best to work towards the best long-term solution.How about: poll the network and download new blocks whenever the phone is charging and connected to WiFi, but otherwise only on demand.Most of us can get through the day spending BTC that are already known to the phone, and an overnight resync will be enough. But if someone sends us an SMS saying they've paid us, and we absolutely need to confirm it today, we can pay (with data charges and battery life reduction) to confirm it sooner. You mean like how "SATOSHI" is just an acronym made from the names of seven electricity-generating corporations, who invented bitcoin to ensure their future profits? That's because he has got the "bitcoins are subdivisible to 8 decimal places" thing the wrong way around in his head.See how he says that if we are using Bitcoin 10 years from now, due to the "progressively smaller and smaller subdivisions of a BTC ... well still reminisce how it used to be that 10 BTC would have bought you a nice meal".It's actually the other way around. We may marvel that the price of a Pizza was once 10000 bitcoins, but we don't "reminisce" for those days, because we can now buy so much more with 10000 bitcoins (if we had them, that is). The mailing list at SourceForge has some or maybe all of the release announcements, with very little other clutter, if that's of any use to you.
Yes, I just mean that wxWidgets 2.9.1 won't work with the makefile that comes with bitcoin 0.3.15. wxWidgets 2.9.1 won't work, because debugging has been changed around in 2.9.1.You can get 2.9.0 here:http://biolpc22.york.ac.uk/pub/2.9.0/ OpenCL HOWTO FOR FEDORA 12 LINUXHere are some notes which may be useful to anyone who wishes to mine for bitcoins on Fedora 12 Linux. It took me about ten hours to get all of this working, because many of the standard Fedora packages are different to what bitcoin needs and generate all kinds of odd errors when you try to build the makefile.If you aren't already running Fedora, save yourself a lot of time and hassles by installing Ubuntu instead.===Check your software versions, and upgrade as necessary. The gcc compiler needs to be 4.x (for PyOpenCL), and Python needs to be 2.4 or newer (again, for PyOpenCL).Code:$ gcc --versiongcc (GCC) 4.4.4 20100630 (Red Hat 4.4.4-10)$ python --versionPython 2.6.2You need to have either the full kernel source, or the kernel headers (because the ATI GPU driver is installed by compiling a kernel module.Code:$ rpm -q kernel-develkernel-devel-2.6.32.23-170.fc12.i686$ rpm -q kernel-PAE-develkernel-PAE-devel-2.6.32.21-168.fc12.i686===Update your display driver.I followed the instructions from here:http://gofedora.com/how-to-install-ati-catalyst-fglrx-98-drivers-fedora-11/except that I used the version 10.10 of the ATI Catalyst Display Driver for Linux x86 from here:http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx?type=2.4.1&product=2.4.1.3.42&lang=EnglishApparently some of the installation steps are no longer needed with version 10.10, but I wasn't completely certain which ones, so I did them all anyway.===Get the ATI Stream SDK v2.1 (NOT any later version, according to brocktice), from here: http://developer.amd.com/gpu/ATIStreamSDK/pages/ATIStreamSDK-Archive.aspxYou need two downloads from that page: the Linux SDK (32-bit or 64-bit according to your version of Linux), plus icd-registration.tgzUntar the SDK anywhere convenient. Add these lines to your .bash_profile file (in your login directory):Code:export ATISTREAMSDKSAMPLESROOT=...<some path>.../ati-stream-sdk-v2.1-lnx32export ATISTREAMSDKROOT=...<some path>.../ati-stream-sdk-v2.1-lnx32export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$ATISTREAMSDKROOT/lib/x86:$LD_LIBRARY_PATHMove icd-registration.tgz into your root directory and (as root) untar it from there. It puts some config files into /etc.Follow the documentation that is included in the SDK to compile the examples. Execute ati-stream-sdk-v2.1-lnx32/samples/opencl/bin/x86/CLInfo to check that things are working and that your GPU card is detected.===Install the Python OpenCL module (PyOpenCL). Broadly, follow the instructions here:http://wiki.tiker.net/PyOpenCL/Installation/LinuxHowever, in step 2 I couldn't install the Numpy dependency this way. Instead I ran "System | Administration | Add/Remove Software", then searched for numpy and installed it.In step 3, the OpenCL headers and libraries weren't found, so I had to use the longer configure.py example and provide explicit paths.The "Boost C++" libraries are not required for this version of PyOpenCL, but we will need them later (see below).===Install the JSON-RPC module for Python. This was straightforward using the instructions here:http://json-rpc.org/wiki/python-json-rpc===Go to m0mchil's Git repository:https://github.com/m0mchil/poclbmClick the "Download" button. Download and unpack these files anywhere convenient. Change poclbm.py to executable and check that it's working:Code:chmod 744 poclbm.py./poclbm.py --help===Next we need to get bitcoin's dependencies correct.Install wxWidgets version 2.9.0 (not 2.8 or 2.9.1). You can get version 2.9.0 from here:http://biolpc22.york.ac.uk/pub/2.9.0/Follow the instructions in file build-unix.txt from the /src directory of the bitcoin distribution, except that you will need to be root ("su -") for the whole install, not just the "make install" step.===The version of OpenSSL that ships with Fedora excludes the elliptic curve cryptography due to patent concerns. Assuming you're in a country without absurd software patent laws, download the source for the latest 0.9.8 version (currently 0.9.8p) of OpenSSL from here:http://www.openssl.org/source/Build, test and install it according to the instructions in the download. However, the standard installation doesn't install the static libraries, so I made some symbolic links:Code:sudo ln -s `pwd`/libssl.a /usr/libsudo ln -s `pwd`/libcrypto.a /usr/lib===You need the static version of the Boost C++ development libraries installed. I installed this from package boost-static-1.39.0===You need the static version of the Berkeley DB development libraries installed. I installed this from package db4-devel-static-4.7.25 This installed a file libdb_cxx-4.7.a in /usr/lib, but the makefile wanted libdb_cxx.a, so I created a symbolic link:Code:cd /usr/libsudo ln -s libdb_cxx-4.7.a libdb_cxx.a===Go to the GIT repository for m0mchil's bitcoin-getwork patch:https://github.com/m0mchil/bitcoin-getworkNotice which SVN revision number the patch is for, and use that number instead of 181 in the following command (which downloads the development version of bitcoin):Code:svn co -r 181 https://bitcoin.svn.sourceforge.net/svnroot/bitcoinChange into the newly-created directory that holds the sources:Code:cd bitcoin/trunkFrom m0mchil's repository, click "Download" and download the archive. Extract the file getwork-latest.patch into the bitcoin/trunk directory.Modify the sources by applying the patch:Code:patch -p0 -i getwork-latest.patchIt should tell you that it has updated files main.cpp, main.h and rpc.cpp.===We need to tweak Bitcoin's makefile, which is the file bitcoin/trunk/build-unix.txtIn the WXLIBS section of the makefile, add the line-l Xxf86vmand also add a trailing backslash to the previous line (it's a line-continuation character). A comment in the makefile says you only need to do this if you have wxWidgets 2.9.1, but I had to do it for 2.9.0.If your version of "Boost" is less than 1.40 (I'm using 1.39), edit bitcoin's makefile (src/build-unix.txt) and add -mt to the end of the name of each of the "Boost" libraries. There are four of these, in the four lines after the line that contains the string "-Bstatic".===Built the getwork-modified version of bitcoin:Code:make -f makefile.unixThis should build a binary called 'bitcoin' in this directory. Try it out! If you already have another instance of bitcoin running, close it. Type ./bitcoin to check that your newly-compiled instance works. If it works OK, close it and we'll move on to mining.===If you don't already have a file bitcoin.conf in your ~/.bitcoin directory, create one and put a username and password in it:Code:rpcuser=yourusernamerpcpassword=yourpasswordGo back to the bitcoin/trunk directory and start bitcoin in rpc server mode:Code:./bitcoin -server &Go to the directory where you built poclbm.py and run it:Code:./poclbm.py --user=yourusername --pass=yourpasswordIt will ask you which device to use. Choose the one that's not your CPU.Watch the khash/s figures with sweet delight, and enjoy the few moments before the roar of your cpu fan starts up.Many thanks to m0mchil and the many others who have offered code or helpful tips. Speculators always need to sell eventually, which guarantees the "little guy" a chance to buy in. Or perhaps just wait until someone comes up with a solution good enough that everyone starts using it. Not all currencies use a special symbol, some just use letters. For example, the South African Rand (ZAR) is just R.Two rand and 45 cents is just R2.45.Two bitcoins and 45 centibits could be B2.45.Anyway, what's the plan for subdividing bitcoins? Do we go in thousands like the metric system (millibits, microbits, nanobits)?Or do we have names for subdivisions? A hundredth of a bitcoin could be a Satoshi, a thousandth of that could be a Molyneau, and a thousandth of that could be an Austrian. The Bitcoin Faucet is a site that gives away BTC 0.05 absolutely free to any new user, so that they can get started with Bitcoin.It was the source of my first BTC, long before I managed to generate any. Thanks to Gavin Andresen who runs it. That sort-of misses the point.People who have a large amount saved don't have "a stable economic process". When there is price inflation, their purchasing power decreases. When there is price deflation, their purchasing power increases.People who owe a lot of money don't have "a stable economic process". When there is wage inflation, their effective debt decreases. When there is wage deflation, their effective debt increases. ...when this Slashdot article was published. This is a great service, and I'm sure it would be popular with newcomers if it was more clearly explained.For example, if I go to the page titled "Amazon UK %1 Back", I see an ad for Amazon.co.uk Gift Certificates, and a heading that says "Just in - Amazon UK Gift Cards".But nowhere does it say "Click on this ad to get to Amazon, then do your regular Amazon shopping, then contact me to get 1% of your purchase price sent to you as Bitcoins. Just contact me 14 days after your purchase by ...".If that's how it works, it's awesome and you should tell people how it works. Also, it should say 1% not %1 which is sure to be confusing some people. Sometimes. It's pot luck, depending which Wikipedians happen to take an interest in the article.It may be worth adding at least a small stub article to the Simple English Wikipedia and some of the non-English Wikipedias. Some of them will be very keen to have new articles on notable topics, even if those topics haven't yet been featured in the NYT or in an academic dissertation. Also, a SVG version of the bitcoin graphic could be donated to Wikimedia Commons. Satoshi has said that his images are Public Domain.Also, there may be other Wikipedia articles where a mention of Bitcoin is appropriate, even though it can't be hyperlinked at this time. Something like "crypto currencies" I suppose, or even maybe EFF.Meanwhile the LWN article will soon be fully published. I presume LWN counts as a multi-author publication with editorial oversight? I will donate generously as soon as I know that he will actually use Bitcoin. I think he will be very interested in Bitcoin once he understands in detail how it works. Satoshi has never shown any sign of diverging from his principles for the sake of expediency, or to satisfy peer pressure, etc.Anyway, I wonder how many "core principles" there actually are? Perhaps "Only 21 million bitcoins" and "Greatest proof of work wins" are all, with the rest being relatively minor details? Bruce, that's the way to do it for sure. Well done for working that out.There would be a fair bit of integration needed between Flattr and MtGox (because Flattr won't want "Gox Euros", they might prefer a monthly bank transfer or something) but there's a real synergy between Bitcoin and Flattr and it would be fabulous to see this happen. For sure. If there was a legal problem with Bitcoin, EFF could choose simply to drop Bitcoin as a donation mechanism. Nothing forces them to defend it. Again that's simply not true. The standard bitcoin software can and often does pay the fee (for large transactions) if the node that hashes the transaction charges the fee (as the standard client will do if it is generating).I'm happy with phrases like "Bitcoin transactions are near enough to free", but not phrases like "There is never a transaction fee". People should stop saying this, because it simply isn't true. Instead, who not say something like "negligible transaction costs", or "most transactions have zero cost". That's why the core principles of Bitcoin should be documented now, to avoid this kind of semantic war in the future. Sure, the networks can split, but there should be no doubt that the one issuing unlimited coins is not Bitcoin.Obviously there's no legal force behind this; no trademark protection. But an "enshrined" document carries huge moral weight and influence, as has been found with the Debian Free Software Guidelines, the OSI Open Source definition, and the FSF Free Software definition. Could you please re-word the last sentence? If people read it quickly, they might assume that the address given is for the EFF. Perhaps say something like "... donate to the author of this blog at this address ...".Also, the hyperlink to the EFF shouldn't say "here", because people may assume that "here" means "at this page". It would be better if you used the words "at their donations page" because that makes it quite clear what's happening where. Thanks!And to everyone else: the EFF hasn't made any kind of commitment to "protect" bitcoins, but if lots of people are donating to them it might make it worth their while. Go for it! Currently the Flattr user bears the cost of the PayPal transaction. But all of your other points I agree with.As usual, noagendamarket is quick off the mark. Here's his forum post at Flattr where he suggests allowing Flattr accounts to be funded with bitcoin. Please everyone register and reply:http://forum.flattr.net/showthread.php?tid=550
Fortunately that's not the case with Flattr, and I wouldn't use Flattr if it worked that way.You initiate a payment from PayPal to Flattr, for an amount of your choosing (say 20). Then you tell Flattr how to use that money (e.g. 2 each month). When your payment runs out, your Flattring stops unless you choose to initiate a new payment to Flattr. At no time is there any kind of automated or Flattr-initiated withdrawal from your PayPal.Incidentally I'm Flattring 2 per month, and earning about 3 per month from Flattrs. I would love to Flattr with BTC instead if the Flattr guys would offer that option. Yes, you put a Flattr button on each blog post, right next to the content. If people like the content, they click the "Flattr" button. It takes about the same effort as saying "Thanks".If a person is concerned that all the Flattr payments in a given month are of an identical amount, they can use PayPal to make donations of whatever size they choose. But ask any site owner who has a "Donate" button on their site - very few people will donate. What Flattr changes is to make it so easy to donate that there's very little disincentive. Fortunately, Flattr (and kachingle) don't work that way. At the end of each month, they look at the pages you "thanked" in the past month, and divide up your monthly payment amongst those pages (after taking their percentage).On Flattr, I donate 2 per month. If I "thank" one page in a month, that page gets 2 (less 10%). If I "thank" a hundred pages in a month, each of them gets 0.02 (less 10%).The "transaction cost" includes the human burden of remembering and typing a password. That seems to be enough to stop micropayments being used by most people.The Flattr solution (pay a lump sum, which gets "used up" steadily over some months at your chosen rate, and "click freely" to allocate your donations) works really well. It's the only model I can think of that can work safely and effectively on a single click. Yes, you will have an encrypted hard drive, but the person from whom you received a payment (and who, unknown to you, is a criminal) will have your name in his address book on his unencrypted hard drive. I actually think that's quite a good price for the massive infrastructure that's needed for this kind of service. Compare it with, say, an App Store that takes 30%.A Flattr-like system that uses Bitcoin would be wonderful, and I think the easiest way to get there would be to get the Flattr team on board. That way, each web page would still have only the Flattr button on it, but whether you earned PayPal or BTC would depend on what kind of funds the person who flatters you is paying with.A Flattr-like system is only going to take off if it gains critical mass, and fragmentation will kill it. There would be no advantage to having a "Bittr" button on my webpage if only a small number of people subscribe to Bittr.But if Flattr would take Bitcoin subscriptions too, there would be fantastic interest in both Flattr and Bitcoin. It would be a great way for newcomers to get their first few Bitcoins, by creating worthwhile web content. Your confidence in bitcoin should not depend on whether the programming language supports "if" statements, but on whether you think more those who control 50% of the CPU power would accept bad changes in the future.Let me give you a tangible example. If in the future the limitation of eight decimal places (for the subdivision of bitcoins) became a problem, and someone designed an acceptable way to remove that limitation, it would not be unreasonable to apply that change from a specified block number.What I would like to see is a document that outlines the core values that can never change without it becoming something other than bitcoin. For example the absolute limit of 21 million bitcoins. There are probably only about half a dozen really core principles.The purpose of that document would be to provide the moral authority to argue against a usurper (Facebook, say) giving their users an inferior system and saying that it is bitcoin.I see an analogy with documents like the Debian Free Software Guidelines, the OSI's definition of Open Source, and the FSF's principles of free software. If those had not already been in place, it would have been very difficult to assert that things like Microsoft's "Shared Source" were inferior. The video is somewhat light on content. How big are JP Morgan's upcoming settlements? By what date does JP Morgan need silver? How high does the price need to rise before JP Morgan's short-selling activities fall apart?After all, it's not really about how many people buy silver, it's about how high the price is forced. All one needs to say to these people is: "If it was easy, the coins would be worthless".Unfortunately a large proportion of the population have been brought up to believe that wealth is some kind of fixed universal quantity that is "distributed", rather than something that can be created by work. I really don't think you want to type cp /dev/null > wallet.dat in the heat of the moment. Sorry matonis, let me bring this thread back on-topic by adding another entry to your list of ways that law enforcement will utilitze bitcoin data.They will simply get a court order to seize someone's computer. Upon running the bitcoin client they will click "Address Book" where they will find a nicely-tabulated list of bitcoin addresses and names. Operator takes a sizeable cut and saves it in his legal defense fund. So doesn't that mean that reaching 21,000,000 is likely to happen early, because the blocks per hour is averaging 9 or whatever?The rate of generation is somewhat arbitrary anyway, and whether 21 million is reached a decade or a century after I'm dead doesn't make much difference to me.Within a couple of decades we'll be past 20 million. After that time my guess is that the rate of coin loss will be a bigger factor than the rate of coin generation. The number of addresses is 1.5*10^48. Suppose that ten billion people are generating one address each second. Furthermore suppose I care about bitcoin during my lifetime, and the lifetime of my descendants for the next thousand years.In that thousand years, those ten billion people will generate 3.2*1020 addresses. So the chance of any given address being duplicated in the next thousand years is one in 4.7*1027.Every "chunk" of bitcoin can be spent from exactly one address*. So if I owned a billion dollars worth of bitcoins, my statistical risk (i.e. the "expected loss") would be one billion dollars divided by 4.7*1027, which is about 2.1*10-17 cents.I can live with that.*as Bitcoin stands now, with complex multi-signature transactions being unimplemented Bankers are comfortable with at ATM password of length four digits. If someone finds a card in the street, that gives them a one-in-3333 chance of being able to get money from the card (because you get three tries to enter the password).By comparison with that, atom-in-universe risks are not worth considering. I did some rough sums for a 5870-based GPU miner. At the moment it should generate $10 worth of bitcoins per day (one block of 50 per day at $0.20).But the difficulty rise could be expected to be about 50% every 10 days. Over the next 100 days, the income would be $100 + $66 + $44 + $30 + $20 + $13 + $9 + $6 + $4 + $1.That's $293 or BTC 1465, which is considerably less than the cost of a Radeon 5870 card.Of course there are many unknowns, any of which would change the outcome greatly. The price of BTC could rise or fall. The difficulty could rise faster (if GPU mining was integrated into the mainstream software), or it could rise slower (when most of those who are technically capable of using the GPU for mining are already doing so). A major event could damage power generating capacity and push up the price of electricity. A problem with the bitcoin network could put the whole system offline for a while. A massive influx of users could make transaction fees a worthwhile part of the income produced by generating, etc etc. Surely if random coins are sent to random people, it doesn't matter if the coins of A might occasionally go to B. In fact it's more random that way. Programming is full of probabilistic situations.For example, the error checking/correction on your hard disk is probabilistic. A parity bit can detect a single error but not correct it. ECC coding can correct a single error and detect a double error but not correct it. The checksumming used on a hard disk can detect and correct a much larger number of errors.But for every type of error detection correction, you can add some more errors and the algorithm will report the data as being correct. A parity bit is fooled by a double error, ECC code is fooled by a triple error, etc.Provided your application (e.g. bitcoin) is depending on probabilities that are way more extreme than those that your hard disk is depending on, it's simply not a relevant issue, even in the black-and-white world of binary bits. When someone dies, their next-of-kin usually goes through all the deceased's papers, but it's generally an impossible task to go through all of the deceased's online history.Therefore, a useful option for people wanting to pass on bitcoins to their next-of-kin is to be able to print out a sheet of paper that includes three things:- A design that looks like a valuable certificate (engraved scrolls etc), so that the paper won't be overlooked,- The key to spend the bitcoins. Plaintext, not GPG-protected, because the next-of-kin probably won't have the GPG private key. Physical security is what's used to protect valuable papers like these.- Some very simple instructions explaining what the code is, and how to extract its value. There are currently 4.56 million bitcoins. Looking at the graph, it seems to be very close to the current reality. The graph is here:http://www.bitcoin.org/wiki/lib/exe/detail.php?id=bitcoins&media=total_bitcoins_over_time_graph.pngI'll leave it to someone else to explain how it isn't an estimate based on CPU speed.
A bit more than the cost to participate.Price: 15 BTC per Mhash/s for 30 daysPayout: 16.26 BTC per Mhash/s at the end of the 30 daysThat's equivalent to earning interest at 8.4% per month, equivalent to a compounded annual rate of 163%. And indeed it returned a bit more than this. Very worthwhile from my point of view.Thanks tcatm for doing this. I can't see that you gained anything directly from it, so I guess for you it was a community-building exercise.It was very professionally done too, no need to chase up the payout etc. Thanks again! Now that you mention it, I've also got one of those bogus $0.50 transactions in my MtGox account history. I didn't worry about it at the time because it was so tiny.Anyway, it's all hypothetical now that the price has retreated. Successful standards codify (and thereby standardize) existing practice, but the world is littered with prescriptive standards that failed because they tried to impose inventions of their own. Thanks for letting us know, instead of just disappearing. Your post will no doubt help someone else who finds themselves in a similar situation. Apparently so. See "How do I send a letter?" No need to send it to all of them. The three that you listed is plenty. Any journalist who follows releases distributed on free sites will find them.They key is to get the release written right. The journalist needs to be able to see at a glance that it's newsworthy and reliable. If the journalist has to come to the website and spend a few hours working out what it's all about, they're unlikely to bother. I'm not sure whether you're referring to my comments or Bruce's questions, but in any case...Bruce's questions aren't all answered at the right level by the Fine Manual, which is written for a different kind of audience. Each person's bitcoin software only writes their own bitcoin chain. The software communicates with other people's bitcoin software, but it's up to the other people's (unmodified) software what it wants to do with its own copy of the block chain.For sure, the originator of Bitcoin (Satoshi Nakamoto) is the one "most in control" of Bitcoin. But that's just due to well-earned peer acceptance, and if he tried to do anything evil that acceptance would evaporate. There's no forced compliance anywhere in the system, just acceptance by the majority.Actually, the acceptance is individually by each Bitcoin user, but the benefits of Bitcoin are only crystallized in the version that is accepted by the majority (as determined by their combined computing power). I got a reply from the guy who deleted the Wikipedia article.He pointed to the procedure for undeleting articles, and mentioned that the Bitcoin article has already been through that procedure twice but the appeals were rejected because Bitcoin doesn't have enough respectable mainstream coverage. I think that the Wikipedia criteria are not well-structured to non-mainstream topics, but that's how it is.One major way that commercial enterprises get mainstream coverage is by issuing a press release, which gets picked up and re-hashed by all kinds of publications that Wikipedia respects. So if anyone knows someone who can write an effective press release in the standard format, it would be a great idea.Of course a press release needs a subject, but "Bitcoin Economy Passes $1 Million" would do just fine. Now that the EFF is accepting bitcoin donations, I wrote to the Wikipedia Admin who deleted the Bitcoin article: YESNOIf you ignore small effects (e.g. due to network latency), a CPU that is 10 times as powerful will in the long term "win" 10 times as many blocks. Here is a photo of noagendamarket at Flinders St Station. Drop your money onto the mat, and he punches the transaction into that keypad he's wearing. I have had a good outcome using this service. Thanks morpheus! Totally awesome. Donation sent. Thanks to those who worked to make this possible.Also, this should make it possible to get Bitcoin back on Wikipedia. I was thinking it would be interesting to have a poll asking people's gender. Then I realized that one option might be all that was needed. Divide cents per bitcoin by the difficulty, and plot on a graph with a logarithmic Y axis. Sure you can eat gold, it's just too expensive for most people. As the US dollar in your pocket is not currently backed by gold, I don't think the effects would be so dramatic. 3 January 2009
The MtGox 48-hour chart is in the attachment. Maybe I'm misunderstanding the raw data, but there seems to be something very odd about the peak in the BTC price two days ago, where it touched $0.50 three times.I'm looking at the historical data provided by the link at the bottom of the Bitcoin Watch home page. If I look at the transactions between 23:04:50 and 23:43:39 GMT on 6 November, these are the trades I see:Code:Price  Amount0.33   30000.35     250.35     250.50     250.49     270.37     360.50     100.48     680.37     930.50     100.37     600.37      80.39     300.39    500The MtGox trade data normally shows plenty of trades for hundreds or even thousands of BTC, but these trades are very small. And MtGox normally has a big order book, meaning you can't move the market from $0.37 to $0.50 by buying just 60 bitcoins.Notice how the price touched 0.50 three times, and dropped back to 0.37 between each one. What exactly happened here? You say that now, but if bitcoin really takes off I can see lots of get-rich-quick imitators coming on the scene: gitcoin, nitcoin, witcoin, titcoin, shitcoin... Some of them are sure to attract users with promises like "Why use bitcoin, where you can only generate 50 bitcoins every few months? Use shitcoin instead, and you'll get 51 shitcoins every 2 minutes".Of course the cheap imitators will disappear as quickly as those 1990s "internet currencies" like flooz and beenz, but lots of people will get burned along the way. Oh, I'm all in favor of people choosing to pursue leisurely pursuits, provided they don't expect other people to work like dogs to make it possible. Not really. The number of bitcoins is increasing exactly as it should in theory.Bitcoin's rules say that 6 blocks per hour is the target rate used for difficulty adjustments. The rules don't (and can't) say anything about what the average number of blocks per hour will be.However, the "Total bitcoins over time" graph (at the Wiki) will need to be tweaked now and then to keep it in step with reality.http://www.bitcoin.org/wiki/lib/exe/detail.php?id=bitcoins&media=total_bitcoins_over_time_graph.png Grondilu, did you ever receive your BTC? It's a false premise, but it wasn't intentional because until a couple of months ago the average Joe could generate blocks on ordinary hardware.That's why I'd like to see distributed mining on the standard client, to make that false promise become true again. I've had good dealings with:MtGox (prompt and helpful support)Bitcoin MarketBitcoin4cashBitcoin Gatewaybitcointo.comnoagendamarketFreeMoneytcatmSmokeTooMuchmorpheusUukgoblingenjix(email hashes)13202c8850253223b39aff79d21157664859950513cb7b9bf9c56385d967ea4c58402432373537f682a559ff36be51ddde5345898e13817b0711eaa06fb2c470b11b3a5163cebbd9a678e71bcc701651f4924e963c8d52b1ad0d1952a0ec06650b75b709e28ea95c72f311afb8971faaf20440559afce2bc0b3603fa8b33c0abcad67dd1e20a652fee1937d57e73e075 It's hard to get a new idea to take hold. The "generate coins" option is the hook that gets many people to download, install and run bitcoin.I'd love to see distributed mining in the standard client. That way, newcomers could earn something every day (even if it would only be a fraction of a coin). He should be more careful. It's now up to $1.5 million. That person thinks that "somebody" means "somebody else". You can explain it to them like this: For sure the current price rises are not due to any increase in trading bitcoins for everyday goods.But that kind of trading can't become widespread until bitcoins are valued higher.If you need to spend all of your bitcoins to buy a can of baked beans, you're not going to do it. But when the time comes that you can buy a can of baked beans for 0.01% of your bitcoins, you'll be happy to do it and trading will take off.The current price rises are due to BTC purchases by people who can see the future potential and are betting on it. Proof of work is widely used in society for all kinds of things.At my daughter's high school when they select which subjects to study, there are always some courses oversubscribed and some undersubscribed. So the school resolves the conflicts arbitrarily and tells the students to write in with their reasons if they want their preference to be considered.The school never needs to actually read the reasons given, because the "proof of work" of writing the letter reduces the number of objections to a small enough number that the school can give all of those people their first preference. MtGox wants to obtain BTC 100,000 (related to their "dark pool" perhaps), which may or may not have something to do with the current rally. As long as there are computers searching for the gazillionth digit of pi, generating bitcoins represents a relatively useful expenditure of energy. You know what would be cool, is if gold mining did more than just waste energy and cause pollution.  For example, if it dug up cars or food or televisions or something. If you're digging up the ground for gold, you might as well be getting something useful too.It would actually create value, instead of just wasting energy like it currently does.  It would make wealth flow into the system for actual work.Otherwise, if gold mining takes off, it seems like it will just be a big waste of energy.  Aren't we already short enough on energy? I think ShadowOfHarbringer is alluding to the fact that if all the bitcoins were sold at once, it would depress the price below the current price, so that $1 million wouldn't actually be achieved.Of course it's impossible that everyone would sell their bitcoins at once, and this kind of thinking doesn't stop people talking about the "total stock market capitalization" of a company even though it's equally theoretical. That would be an interesting graph, but it would be hard to glean much information from it unless we could estimate the rate at which people were switching from CPU generation to GPU generation. Many Germanic languages use one word for the two English words "actual" and "current", and their dictionaries tend to translate this word into "actual".So when non-English speakers ask about an "actual version" of software, they invariably mean the "current version". Do you mean the server which hosts this forum? This is the fastest forum I visit, by far.If there's a speed problem, I think it must be somewhere between the server and the users who are getting slow performance.
If my wallet is in my pocket, I would say that I have the dollar. But if there's an equally-spendable copy of that dollar in my computer at home, and I'm not at home, I couldn't confidently say that I have it. Sorry I did forget about transaction fees. I accept your way of looking at it.When you have three currencies with independent exchange rates, those rates are kept consistent by arbitrage. So as the bitcoin economy grows we can expect that there will be times when people are using arbitrage to correct the market prices. For example, instead of buying BTC with electricity, there will be times when it is more worthwhile to sell electricity for USD and buy BTC with those USD. I've been struggling with that person/computer dichotomy the whole way through. I would like to always say "you" instead of "your computer". It's more human, more friendly, more understandable, and yet ... sometimes it just isn't true.The keys really are on your computer. Sure, if you manually back them up onto a USB drive and put that in your pocket, then "you" have the keys. But so does anyone who steals your computer, so I can't really say that "only you" have the keys. It was a disappointing surprise when I got home. But I can see the funny side of it. That's an interesting way to look at it, but that "currency analogy" will surely fall apart in the future when electricity/btc becomes enormous (as bundle sizes halve every 4 years) and eventually infinite (when the size of generated bundles reaches zero).If the analogy didn't fall apart, all of us would become wealthier than Bill Gates, and our great-great-grandchildren would become infinitely wealthy around 2140 :-) Yeah that's great! Unfortunately, your P4 laptop is unlikely ever again to generate a block, with the difficulty rises since then.My own story goes the opposite way. I arrived at this forum when Bitcoin was featured on slashdot, and wanted to generate some coins. But then I discovered that the Linux client didn't work on Fedora Linux, so I wasn't able to start generating until later - by which time the difficulty had shot up by the maximum increase of four times.A while after that, my family and I visited relatives for a few weeks. I left my computer generating at home on all cores, at 4500 kHash/sec, expecting to find some juicy bitcoins awaiting when I got back three weeks later. Can you guess what went wrong?Yep, the day after I left my house, the overflow vulnerability was discovered in 0.3.9 and my computer spent three weeks and many kilowatt-hours generating a nice bundle of worthless coins.Then, I suggested to my wife that we buy some BTC. Up till then I had just dabbled with very small quantities. She decided to think about it for a week, after which she agreed, but in the meantime the BTC price had doubled.Despite those setbacks (and also some minor hassles with PayPal that increased the cost of one of my deals), I count myself lucky to be one of the early adopters. Doesn't that just mean that the effect on the exchange rate will be predictable rather than nil? I agree, but I want to say that elsewhere. Perhaps in a part entitled "HOW BITCOIN WORKS". Something like this:"You don't need to have your Bitcoin software running when someonesends you coins. The network records the transaction, but only yourcomputer has the keys to spend the coins." Thanks for the feedback everyone. Believe it or not, it took about twenty hours to write and refine that small script!I am working on the animation now, but that's a much bigger job so it will take some time.I am releasing the script under Creative Commons Attribution (CC-BY), so if anyone wants to make an alternative animation they are welcome.My finished animation will be released under the same license, so that others can replace the soundtrack by one in another language, or do other kinds of mashups. Indeed. I wish I had done the same myself.But you haven't won until you liquidate the gold for more than your purchase price, as a lot of people found to their cost in 1980 (see the red line on this chart).In my opinion, the time to sell will be when "everyone including the shoeshine boy" is buying gold as an investment and the price is skyrocketing. There are such massive fundamentals at play with Bitcoin (growth in users, difficulty adjustments, exchange problems, concerns or misunderstandings about security and scalability, etc), that it's not clear to me whether technical analysis can yield useful results. I'm looking at making a short animated movie, pitched at the same level as the "This is Flattr" video. Notice how the Flattr introduction doesn't use much technical language.At this forum, most of us have technical knowledge, but the next wave of Bitcoin users will be drawn from people for whom the word "client" means a human being rather a piece of software, and for whom any mention of "hashing a block" will make their eyes glaze over.So I'm hoping to make a short introductory animation. If it is well-received, other similar animations could address more specialized topics ("How does Bitcoin work?", "How do I back up my Bitcoin wallet?" etc etc).Here's my first version of a two-minute script. Comments are welcome.<<INTRODUCING BITCOINBitcoin is a currency for the internet. With Bitcoin, you can make paymentsanywhere in the world conveniently and for little or no cost.The Bitcoin system is not operated by any government. It is not controlled bybankers. It is not the product of any corporation. Bitcoin is a peer-to-peerinternet currency. Every transaction within the Bitcoin system is checked andprocessed collectively by the computers that form the Bitcoin network.Everyone can use Bitcoin. There's no charge to join, and no need to register.Just install the Bitcoin software and start it up. You can earnBitcoins by selling products and services to the Bitcoin community, or you canbuy bitcoins from exchanges.To send bitcoins to someone else, click on "Send coins". Choose the recipientfrom your address book, or paste in their Bitcoin receiving address. To receivebitcoins, tell the sender your Bitcoin receiving address so that they can sendyou some coins. You don't need to have your Bitcoin software running when someonesends you coins.The total number of bitcoins is fixed, but they are subdividable and can supportany level of trade. Bitcoins are originally earned by those whose computers areprocessing Bitcoin transactions, and it's also possible to earn smalltransaction fees from certain kinds of Bitcoin transactions. This provides anongoing incentive for people to allow their computers to process Bitcointransactions.The Bitcoin system is underpinned by mathematics and secured by public keycryptography. Because Bitcoin is a peer-to-peer system, only valid transactionsthat are acceptable to the network will be processed. Someone attempting todefraud the system would need to control more computer power than all of thehonest network nodes combined, so there is strength in numbers.To get started, visit bitcoin.org and download the software or join theforum. Bitcoin is an exciting and potentially game-changing currency.>>This script is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 Unported License. You are free to share and remix it provided you attribute it to ribuck. S3052, what is an "hourly close" please? It's so refreshing that people here understand this.Outside of this forum, I don't know anyone who hasn't swallowed the rhetoric about how wonderful inflation (i.e. price inflation) is. This is very nice, thank you. I particularly appreciate the "log scale" option. That's not foolproof. If there is a big bubble and it bursts, there could be no buyers ever at the liquidation price. But that's a commercial risk that MtGox will need to decide.I will be very surprised if we ever see margin trading at big ratios like 100 to 1.Personally, I wouldn't trade on margin because I like to buy after prices drop, rather than being forced to sell at the low price. Sure, the successful margin trader more than makes up for it when prices rise, but not everyone is successful.For those who don't trade on margin, the existence of margin trading tends to exaggerate the peaks and troughs of the market. When prices are rising, it greatly increases the number of BTC that can be bought, causing the price to rise further. When prices are falling fast enough to force liquidations, it greatly increases the number of BTC that are being sold, which depresses the price further. I don't mind this, because it gives me more opportunity to buy very low and sell very high. If you think the price of BTC will go up, it's easy to make a profit. You simply buy some BTC for dollars, then sell them back after the price goes up.If you think the price of BTC will go down, it's not quite so straightforward. But you can make a profit by doing this:1. Sell BTC for dollars at the current, high price.2. Borrow BTC from someone else, and deliver those BTC to your buyer.3. After the price goes down, buy some BTC at the cheaper price and use those BTC to repay the person you borrowed BTC from.Selling BTC (or stocks) that you don't own, but which you will buy later, is called short selling.It's a gamble for the short-seller, because if prices go up instead of down they must buy later for a higher price than they sold, thereby making a loss. In addition, they must pay interest to the person who lent them the BTC.Short selling has gained a bad reputation (because short sellers are often people with "inside knowledge" that prices are about to drop), but it does add liquidity to the market, and it tends to push prices towards their "true" value, by making the market price reflect that "inside knowledge". 10 BTC is a good price. And I love Linux; I'm posting this using Linux.I just don't like stickers enough. And my fridge is already full of magnets. And I already have a keyholder. Margin trading only makes sense if the price is going to rise. In that case there's no hurry to sell. Billed the difference and pursued outside the exchange. Certainly not forgiven.This suggests to me that MtGox would liquidate before the margin is exhausted (i.e. when it drops to some percentage) which gives the exchange some leeway for a further drop in price before the liquidation can be carried out.
Suppose you buy $100,000 worth of bitcoins on a margin of $1000. The moment the value of those bitcoins drops to $99,000, the exchange sells them. The proceeds of that sale, plus your $1000, gives the exchange its $100,000 back. Your quantum computer will have much more profitable targets than trying to find some very sparsely-distributed bitcoin keys. There is one legitimate way to generate bitcoins without increasing your electricity bill. It only works if you are currently using resistive electric heating to heat your house.In that case you turn off your electric heaters and start up a bank of computers generating bitcoins. The computers perform the computation, then release 100% of the electrical energy as heat, so you get exactly the same amount of electrical heating for your money, but the heat came as the waste product of computation which is then effectively free of cost.==On the other hand, the Bedini Motor doesn't generate more energy than it uses. If it worked, don't you think energy companies would be using it to make a killing? Margin trading is not for me, but it would have been very interesting over the past 12 hours with MtGox trades swinging repeatedly up and down, and touching $0.125 and $0.275. Like I said, I only have $305 in my PP account at this time. But how about this deal: I will send you USD 300 by PP plus a 20 Euro banknote in the mail, in return for your GOX 344.72.Or, if you prefer, I could send you USD 305 by PP, in return for $325 of your MtGox money. You could appeal to the developers who plan to lock in the other chain. If it's due to a bug or other mistake, they will naturally fix the problem. However, if it's due to evil intent, see your next question.There's not (yet) a law relating to the lock-in of chains, so I doubt the police will be interested (or even understanding).You can report the problem here, and you could report it to the blogosphere if you like.Anyone who shares your interest in a valid block chain will be motivated to make the effort, and those who are technically able to do so will be happy to look into your claims provided they are expressed in such a way that people are motivated to take them seriously.It's in your interests to explain the problem clearly, and it's in other people's interests to take your report seriously (because their bitcoin balance depends on a valid block chain too).Someone will release a version of the client software that works properly, which you and others will use. It's of no consequence to you if there are still some people who choose to use the "corrupt" version of Bitcoin, because you are free to use the version with the correct block chain.No problem. We will welcome you back when you are ready.Then you'll understand how it works, and you'll understand why you don't report bugs to the police, and you'll understand that sourceforge is a tool and not a central authority. If you think sourceforge can somehow function as a central authority rather than just being a software repository, then I know that I don't share your other concerns. I think your "possible answer number 1" is the right one, but the vulnerability being protected against isn't in the protocol. The protection is against programming errors, to limit the disruption if a bug is discovered and exploited.Satoshi added it in the immediate aftermath of the discovery of the overflow bug. No, just for this open source project, i.e. Satoshi's Bitcoin client. According to the MtGox "All Time, Show Volume Data" chart, volume has been generally higher since MtGox lost the use of PayPal than it was before then. And that's BTC volume; if you wanted to look at USD volume that would show even greater increases.Of course, it would be even higher if MtGox could still do PayPal, but I don't think there's anything to worry about. Absolutely. Without that, it's just puffery.I think he's referring to nothing more than the way that the standard client arbitrarily "locks in" a settled part of the block chain. I think his assertion is that, without this "lock in", there is some major potential vulnerability.Even if that's the case, one could safely run a client that didn't have this "lock in". If the promised vulnerability did emerge, one could upgrade the client (after-the-event) to a modified version that re-established a valid block chain. I don't see how the risk in this scenario goes beyond the possibility of a double-spend in recent transactions. Sorry, I only have 305 in my PP account. But anyway, I feel that MtGox dollars aren't one-to-one equivalent to PP dollars. I offer $305 PP USD. As far as I can tell, this bounty does not all go to one animation. Some of the donations are conditional on features that will be met by different animations. So I'm not surprised that there are no official competition entries yet, but plenty of people have done some work towards it (including me).Thank you grondilu for pointing me to the synfig software. I had been learning pencil (which I find very comfortable to use), but it does seem that synfig will reduce the time it takes for this kind of project.I'm struck by the similarities between this project and the "minute memes" project being run by QuestionCopyright.org. They have a budget of $10,000 per minute, and they present some figures to show that professional animation starts at $3000 per minute. "PayPal sucks. Bitcoin sucks less." The linked article clearly says that "King does not advocate any of these radical plans".So although Mervyn King is discussing the abolition of fractional reserve banking, it's only as a straw man to be knocked down. We don't need to worry about those with commercial interests (such as the controllers of the botnets currently being used to send spam). For those people, it will always be more profitable to mine for bitcoins than to try tricks like double-spending.And if those "bad guys" are mining bitcoins it helps protect against the other "bad guys" (those with political motives). Yes, me too.Personally I'm certain that satoshi is not working for the gov. Bitcoin is clearly the product of an unconstrained mind. I think generation should always be off by default, on a fresh install.Otherwise, people will start complaining in public "bitcoin makes your computer go really slow", "bitcoin sends your privatez across the internetz" etc, and bitcoin's reputation will go downhill.It's much better that people, in their own good time, discover how to turn on generation and think "wow that's really cool, I'm helping the system to operate AND if I'm lucky I might get some cons". For those who are inclined to be paranoid: how do you know that Satoshi isn't already "the government"?
5% of the time you should expect to take longer than that 95% estimate. Imagine a botnet of these! Within the last 24 hours. Well the difficulty has just ramped up to 3091.Why don't you estimate your total khash/sec and type that into the Bitcon Generation Calculator. See if you've gone longer than the 95% expected time-to-generate at the current difficulty. Grondilu, I was looking for a "ballpark figure" of how likely it is that something will be adopted where it is clear to the adoptees that there are significant benefits to its adoption.For my purposes, Esperanto and Bitcoin share the characteristic that they achieve their fullest potential only if most people use them. Despite the "obvious" benefits of Esperanto, it hasn't achieved "critical mass" and I expect the same will apply to Bitcoin. I don't expect to be able to buy, say, a hamburger from my local fast food outlet using Bitcoin any time soon, just as I can't order it in Esperanto.I didn't know that you were an Esperantist, although I saw that there was an Esperanto translation at bitcoin.org.My grandparents were fervent Esperantists and tried very hard to teach it to me in the 1960s when I was a young child. They spoke it all the time, and went to all the International Esperanto Congresses. But I've never been able to pick up any other languages, and Esperanto didn't stick. Today I can count in Esperanto, and remember another ten or so words, but that's all.Pacon,ribuck OK, that's quite interesting for a "naïve approach", so let's play a bit more.Suppose that, instead of using the USD M1, we look at the US currency in circulation, around 900 billion dollars. Suppose that the population of the USA uses bitcoin for 1% of their "cash-like" economic activity.Then, 21 million bitcoins would need to have the same purchasing power as 0.01 * $900 billion, and each bitcoin would eventually be worth $428.But hang on, bitcoin is global. The global economy is about four times as big as that of the US, so if bitcoin was used for 1% of global economic activity, each bitcoin would eventually be worth $1712.But hang on, not everyone in the world is going to use bitcoin. Let's assume that it becomes as popular as other niche interests (say, Esperanto). There are perhaps a million esperanto speakers worldwide, about 1/7000th of the world's population. So if one million people use bitcoin for 1% of their economic activity, each bitcoin would eventually be worth $0.25.So there you have it, my naïve prediction is that the value of a bitcoin will end up somewhere between $0.25 and $1712.Oh dang, there are so many confounding factors. If the takeup is less than a million people, the value will be proportionately less. Oh, and only about 20 million BTC will be generated during my lifetime. Oh, and the world's population keeps growing. Oh, and what about those BTC that are lost forever due to lack of backups or copy-and-paste errors when entering receiving addresses. Oh, and a million other things... Fixed that for you. I must say the photo looks exactly like those chunky "gold" rings that the gypsies use for their gold ring scams in Paris. (The photo in that linked article is not of the actual scam ring).So the price people bid should definitely depend on how confident they are that this ring is made of gold. Maybe you don't have to wake up if you trust the forum timestamps.Finishing the auction at a random time defined by a block number is a clever way of stopping people from all submitting their bids at the last second. Guys, it's only a small business, don't try to make it so complicated that it can never get started.Kiba, just set out clearly how the business is going to work, then people can decide whether or not to invest. Some kind of plan like this:1. I "sell" 50 shares in the profits of the business. Each share is BTC 300 and entitles the purchaser to 1% of the profits.2. If I don't sell 50 shares within 90 days, I return everyone's BTC and the project ends.3. If I sell 50 shares within 90 days, I stop selling shares.4. I use the BTC to buy the Thing-o-matic and other expenses needed to start production, plus the initial stock of raw materials.5. I set up a website so that people can upload their shape-files and pay with BTC to receive the produced "things".6. The shareholders and I will have a weekly meeting, but I will make the final decisions about how the business is run.7. If the shareholders don't think the business is working out satisfactorily, they can vote to close it down.8. If I don't think the business is working out satisfactorily, I can close it down.9. If the business is closed, all of the equipment will be sold and the funds distributed to the shareholders according to their shareholding. No, it's not like that. If you're found guilty, the reason for your imprisonment is a matter of public record.But if the authorities demand your keys, you have four choices:1. Give them your keys, and don't tell anyone, and remain free (unless convicted for something else).2. Give them your keys, tell someone, and go to prison for up to 5 years.3. Don't give them your keys, tell someone, and go to prison for up to 5 years.4. Don't give them your keys, don't tell anyone, and go to prison for up to 2 years.When the legislation was introduced, the reason given was that if the police were investigating, say, a drug ring and demanded the GPG key from one of the ring members, that ring member was to be prohibited from warning the other ring members. Well ... in the United Kingdom there is the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act, which requires people to disclose their cryptographic keys to the government upon request. The penalty for failing to do so is 2 years imprisonment. But the process is secret. You are not allowed to tell anyone that your keys have been demanded. And if you tell anyone, the penalty for that is 5 years imprisonment.I guess "cryptographic keys" includes Bitcoin wallets.There is already a guy in prison for not handing over his keys on demand. He is acknowledged by the authorities as not being a threat to anyone. His "crime" is not co-operating with the authorities. "Bitcoin is honest, peer-to-peer money"Or, for those who don't think Bitcoin is currency,"Inflation is coming. Bitcoin barter tokens are the alternative." With Bitcoin, where is the "claim on the issuer" referred to in article 2(2)? Thank you, Wei. Philosophical question for economists to ponder:What is it that makes BTC from the test network have no value, and BTC from the other network have value? The instructions say that PayPal "personal gift transactions ... are not chargeback-able". In a sense that's true, but those transactions can still be reversed by PayPal if they were made fraudulently (e.g. by someone who stole the login credentials of the legitimate PayPal account owner). So don't assume that they are irrevocable.Also, is there a way for the recipient to know whether or not the payment was designated as a gift? Maybe the PayPal email says "You have received a gift" or something similar; I don't know. The first paper referenced by Satoshi Nakamoto's Bitcoin Paper is Wei Dai's 1998 proposal for "b-money". It's a short but very interesting paper, and it shows that many of the ideas behind Bitcoin were well along the way to fruition back in 1998.The part that has me interested relates to the enforcement of contracts between pseudonymous participants. The key idea is that there is distributed accounting, as in Bitcoin. The participants to a contract, and an arbitrator, each transfer a deposit equal to the maximum "penalty" they will pay if they break their contract.If the contract is carried out, these "reparations" get refunded. If the contract does not succeed, the reparations are paid out as agreed by the participants, up to the maximum amount deposited:But what if the participants can't agree? That, of course, is the crux of any contract enforcement scheme. Wei Dai has this to say:I don't get it. What is Wei Dai saying here? Surely he can't be saying that each participant does whatever they choose to do, because that would result in everyone having a different idea of what everyone else's balance is.Hmm. Or maybe he is actually saying that. If I think Starbucks cheated me, I can adjust my balances so that Starbacks has less money and I have more. At the same time, Starbucks will adjust their balances so that they have more money and I have less. I guess everyone else can decide whose balances they want to believe.But I feel I must be missing the point here. Can anyone shed some light on this?Naturally my interest is in how this could be adapted to Bitcoin, but I feel I should understand Wei Dai's proposal first. If it becomes practical to break current encryption using quantum computing, bitcoin will probably be the least of your worries. Wow, a 9-word string of buzzwords. Is that a record?Bitcoin transactions are of course self-certifying. If CurrencyFair is serious about Bitcoin, they would need to adapt some of their ways of working to support it.
No-one forces you to trade while the system is "out of balance", so I don't see why you want to stop people from withdrawing their $ from MtGox.If you're not going to trade, it doesn't make any difference to you whether or not other people have their $ in MtGox. "Wirtland Bitcoins" would be a better name than "Wirtcoin". If you don't have "Bitcoin" in the name somewhere, it will lead to lots of confusion, and that will hinder uptake. That's a cute piece of lateral thinking there, da2ce7 :-)It would be a good way to settle the "inflation vs. deflation" argument once and for all. Those who think monetary inflation is good and necessary are welcome to use XCoin. Those who want sound money will be happy to do without the inflation, and can use Bitcoin. No, I don't think so.The block being hashed includes the 50BTC transaction awarded to the generator. So a client must decide (before looking for hashes) whether it is hashing a block that will pay itself, or a block that will pay the server. It can't find a hash first, and then decide who it is for.So there's no risk of cheating. If the client is looking for hashes that will pay itself, it's not participating in the shared mining and won't have any low-difficulty results to send back to the server either. I don't think that trusted groups are needed if the probabalistic scheme is used.Each client, modified or not, knows the difficulty of the hashes it has produced and can calculate its expected long-term earnings, although of course there will be short-term fluctuations. A dishonest server will get caught out (and quite soon if several of the clients choose to share their statistics). A dishonest client doesn't get more than its real share of the earnings anyway. PayPal does actually have a policy on this somewhere, which I have seen recently but can't remember where. There is some specific number of days between payment and delivery that is acceptable to PayPal, but I think it's quite a lot. Also, PayPal themselves sometimes hold a payment for 21 days.And by the way, MtGox imposed the 30-day waiting period for everyone, not just on transactions that it suspects may be fraudulent.I'm leaving this thread now, because I don't speak for PayPal or for MtGox, but I hope you won't try to pressure MtGox into reversing trades that other people carried out with you in good faith. That would be tres uncool. It's a good question, and we all wish we knew the answer.In the future, bitcoins are either going to be worth nothing, or else they will be worth a lot more. So if you're considering it as an investment, it's highly speculative.The answer probably depends on human nature more than on the underlying technology. What's your non-delivered product? I think Bitcoins are being delivered as usual. Bitcoin is neither fair nor unfair, it just is how it is. Each person decides, based on how Bitcoin is, whether it's worthwhile for them to use it.Having said that, better backup options in the standard client would be great, and I'm sure they'll come in time. It's an open source project, so you're free to be part of the solution. People didn't send USD to MtGox so that they could get it back. They sent it so that they could trade. Therefore, no legitimate trade should be reversed.Everyone knew that MtGox's USD conduit was PayPal, therefore anyone who feels aggreived because of PayPal's actions should seek recourse from PayPal. I would have thought that a better way than a metahash to ensure honesty is to get the remote miners to send back genuine hashes at a lower level of difficulty.Because there is a known relationship between the ease of generating hashes at different levels of difficulty, you could be sure that a remote miner submitting regular hashes at lower levels of difficulty is doing its fair share of work towards finding hashes at the official level of difficulty. Maybe we should shift the emphasis away from buying the bitcoins.Here are two ways of getting BTC that don't involve the use of an exchange, and are fairly intuitive for the newcomer:1. The deal offered by bitcointo.com. Shop at amazon.com through their affiliate link, and claim back 1% of your purchase as bitcoins.2. Sell something for BTC at biddingpond.com. The website needs some improvement (e.g. the help pages are useless) but the concept is clear enough.There is also the BTC 0.05 that newcomers can get for free from the bitcoin faucet, and of course you can generate if you don't mind waiting a month or two for some coins (using the stock client on an "ordinary" home PC). Abbreviations get their meaning from usage, not from approval by a committee. Don't worry about it. And even if it got to the point where the tiniest division, down to the 8th decimal place, was too big, it would be possible to develop a smaller unit that was cryptographically linked to the remaining bitcoins, no matter how few there were.So the loss of bitcoins is absolutely not an issue (except to the person who loses them, of course). Now that's interesting, because there are likely to be a couple of difficulty adjustments during that 30 days. Thank you! mtgox, I would warn you about the following scenario:The PayPal scammers will wait 30 days, withdraw their BTC, and only THEN will they do a chargeback through PayPal.Therefore, you probably need to block BTC withdrawals for longer than 30 days, for BTC bought from any PayPal address that has not previously had a successful PayPal transaction. Heh, that's the old way of thinking, David The number of bitcoins stays the same, it's just the value of the USD that's changing (when measured in BTC).On the FAQ at bitcoin.org, Satoshi* could have written this:but notice how he said it this way instead:We should stop thinking of USD as the standard measure of value.*I presume it's Satoshi who wrote those words Well that's what I was aiming for with this piece: "What are bitcoins?" Look at the "Depth of Market" chart.Only four bids? That doesn't look right.[edit: There is something wrong. Apart from anything else, I have a bid at 0.065 which should be shown]
99% of the population don't have the skills or understanding to generate and use a GPG key. And those are people who know more about money than the average Joe.It just shows how difficult it is to introduce a new concept. Advertising agencies know this, of course, and design their campaigns carefully to convey new ideas to potential future buyers.Steve Jobs knows it too. Watch one of his product presentations and you'll be in no doubt as to the intended purpose of the product.Never underestimate how difficult it is to communicate a new idea, and how much effort it will take to do so.Of course, in a few years time when people look back they will wonder with amazement why such an "obvious" idea was so hard to explain. Some scammers wouldn't know about the 30 day limit in advance, or wouldn't understand its ramifications.Others are just looking for a way to "test out" whether a stolen PayPal ID works, before using it for a bigger fraud. The problem isn't occurring on MtGox's side of things, it's occurring on PayPal's.The scammer gains access to a PayPal account that isn't theirs, then uses the PayPal funds to buy Bitcoins. If the scammer can withdraw the bitcoins before the owner of the PayPal account finds out and gets PayPal to reverse the transaction, the scammer has won.Even if the legitimate owner of the PayPal account has a perfect reputation, PayPal is still going to reverse the transaction if someone else uses that account fraudulently.If someone offered insurance to cover this, it wouldn't work. The honest user would never buy the insurance, because they know their PayPal payment will be good. The scammer would always buy the insurance, because they know there is a high risk of PayPal reversing the transaction. The insurance company would go out of business.On the other hand, a valid and viable insurance model would be to allow people to pay a premium to cover the risk of losing their MtGox balance if MtGox went out of business in the 30 days after an exchange is carried out and before the bitcoins can be withdrawn. I wonder what the market rate would be for that, per month? No of course the quantity doesn't change, but the utility of a commodity might change according to how divisible it is. Personally I don't think it's an issue for bitcoins. I think the price movement is solely due to the Bitcoin article which is still on the front page of www.fsdaily.comThis created a small extra demand at MtGox, plus a bigger extra demand from existing Bitcoin users who speculated by buying some extra coins before the fsdaily users arrived. If, at the date of the 100,000th block, MtGox prices each bitcoin at $35, will you still sell your 10,000 BTC for $6,000 instead of the $350,000 that you would get at MtGox?If you don't already have them, how would you get them at that price? And if you do already have them, would you be willing to vest them with a trusted third party in the meantime?Bitcoin futures are much trickier than currency futures, because there's no easy way to hedge. Whenever consumer organizations do a test mailing in the UK, they find that about 1% of correctly addressed letters don't get delivered. So cut bitcoin2cash some slack if yours doesn't make it. In the United Kingdom they simply skipped the "controversy" bit.The Bank of England keeps claiming that it is committed to monetary policy that will deliver 2% inflation (as if that isn't too much already!) while having delivered higher than that for 16 consecutive months now. Do you still think 21 million bitcoins will be enough?(Actually I think of it as 2.1 quadrillion nanocoins or whatever we decide to call the smallest divisible part of a bitcoin.) It's not often I've seen a YouTube video where the vast majority of ratings are "thumbs down". True goal of satoshi is to get people to speculate what true goal of satoshi is.Seriously, some people might find it fun to speculate but it's not relevant to anything. The code is open source and we know that (with one exception) there is nothing in there that treats satoshi differently from anyone else. The one exception is that only satoshi can sign the "update available" message for the standard client, but that's no big deal.So everyone should just look at whether bitcoin works for them, and not worry about how it works for anyone else.I don't think satoshi has any kind of evil plan, because evil people have much easier ways to get what they want than to do something that's an intellectual master feat. And even if satoshi was evil personified, it wouldn't make any difference. It's the protocol you need to look at, not the personalities. Well, for example, there is a "simple living" movement in the US, where people restructure their lives so that they are free of federal income tax:"Resist Federal Income Taxes Legally"http://w4resistance.org/lowerincome.html I'll start the ball rolling. I'll buy at $7 per 100 coins (up to 2000 coins).Hopefully there is someone who is able to improve on that offer, as it's for a good cause. A quick Google search returned these PayPal statistics, in case they're of interest to anyone:Over 2 million transactions per day (that's about 14000 per 10 minutes)150 million accounts in 190 countriesOver $150 million in payments per dayOf course, any system that works well for micropayments could end up handling many more transactions but a much lower dollar equivalent. If the authorities kill YouTube, the masses will rebel. Research shows that, once you have enough money to live on, the chance to gain extra money is a strong motivator for non-creative tasks, but is actually a demotivator for creative tasks.Details in this video presentation are easy to follow:"Drive - The surprising truth about what motivates us"http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u6XAPnuFjJc The simplest way to determine the outcome is to automate it completely.The funds are frozen until one outcome is chosen by people who represent 50% or more of the betting stake. At that point, everything is paid out to those who favored the chosen outcome.It's in no-one's interest for the funds to be tied up forever, so the participants will find a way to get 50% support for one outcome or the other.All the organisers need to do is to run the website, not to get involved in controversies. Just install the Bitcoin client on the other computer and get a Receiving Address from it. On the original computer, click "Send coins" and paste that receiving address.Nothing is lost. You are only "out of action" for the time you are not generating. As soon as you start generating again, you have as much chance of generating a block as you would have had if you didn't shut down.If you want to play with Bitcoins and haven't generated any yet, just pick up (for free) 0.05 bitcoins from the Bitcoin Faucet:http://freebitcoins.appspot.com/ Even if we think it is always best to use an open source client, there are still circumstances when the MIT license would be a valid choice.One of the characteristics of the MIT license is that it is compatible with most other licenses. That way, you can write a new client which combines the MIT-licensed code with code that is under some other kind of license.Perhaps this will enable someone to write an open source client that combines parts of the existing implementation with existing GUI libraries, database frameworks, logging utilities, etc etc.The flexibility of the MIT license is a big help if you want to encourage the adoption of niche software.
